the same lines. I have no intention to refer to the Budget in any shape or form. I am going to address myself to two or three subjects in which I am more particularly interested. First I shall say a few words about defence, then I shall touch upon labour legislation, and afterwards I shall devote a few minutes in pointing out what the Government has done for the benefit of the farmers in New Zealand. I do not for one moment pose as an authority on defence questions, and I am not going to attempt to line out a scheme of de- fence ; my reason for speaking on the subject is that, having been for some years connected with Volunteering, I should like to lay before the House one or two ideas which I think may be of some little use in encouraging Volunteers and Volunteering if the Government choose to give effect to those ideas. First of all, I believe in a policy of decentralisation in connection with the management of Volunteering matters. At the present time a great deal too much is done from Wellington. In fact, nothing, even of the most trivial nature, can be done in connection with the management of Volunteers generally unless you appeal to Wellington and go through all the red-tape forms that are so common at Home. If the slightest request is made to the officer commanding a district it has to be referred to Wellington before it can be replied to. I made a statement in the House last session that the officer commanding a district could not even grant a railway-pass to Volunteers attending a shooting-match without the matter being re- ferred to Wellington. Well, the Premier de- nied that such was the case. Since then I have had personal experience, as I myself applied for railway-passes, and the officer commanding the district told me he had no power to issue them. I had then to telegraph to the Minister of De- fence myself. I could not apply through the post, as there was no time to do it in that way. The matter was coming off in a few days. I admit the honourable gentleman sent me a very gracious reply, and I obtained the passes. But, Sir, what I say is that the officer commanding the district is placed in a position almost ludi- crous when he cannot get such a small thing as a railway-pass without applying to Welling- ton. An Hon. MEMBER .- We protested against it one year. Mr. CARNCROSS. - Yes; I believe knocked £1 off the estimates as a protest against referring everything to Wellington, but it has not had the desired effect. Sir, I think the salaries of the officers commanding districts should be increased. It is a highly responsible position. They have to live a little beyond the ordinary style, and they get only $300 per annum. I maintain it is a small salary indeed for a gentleman who occupies such a responsible post. I know there are gentlemen in this House who are strongly opposed to any increase of salaries, but I think a moment's consideration will convince any honourable member that £300 per annum is not a fair salary for the officer who has placed upon him all the responsibility of a Mr. Carncross House, myself among the number, who believe our services are worth $300 per annum ; and, if so, I feel sure the officers who have the responsibility of a whole district are certainly worth more than they are getting at the present time. Mr. HORNSBY .- You could do it easily if you reduced the little War Office in Wellington. Mr. CARNCROSS .- Yes, I believe it is pos- sible that reductions might be made in some way, with the result that benefit would come about in other directions. Then, I contend there should be stores in each centre-stores of Volunteer equipments and ammunition. If a belt is short, or if a cleaning-rod is required, all sorts of pieces of blue paper have to be filled up and sent to Wellington, and, as a consequence, it is a long time before any little necessary of that kind is obtained. Well, this all tends to make friction ; but it could be easily removed by the establishment of stores at the various centres. There are competent men there to manage them, and I am sure it is a thing that might easily be carried out. The result would be that the work of a district would go on much better than it does at present. I am strongly of opinion that matters might be much more easily managed from centres in each district, instead of from the one centre in Wellington. There is also the question of uniforms. It is only a small question to many people, but it is an important one to Volunteers. At the present time we have Volunteers all over the colony wearing different kinds of uniforms. You can scarcely find any two companies who are dressed exactly the same. It has been laid down that there should be uniformity of uniform, and I think that is right. At all events, there should be a uniform clothing for drill purposes. There may be a dress uniform ; in fact, there should be a " swagger " uniform if you please, but for drill purposes all should be dressed alike. To enable this to be carried out I would urge the establishment of work- shops for the manufacture of suitable clothing. Indeed, we should have workshops to make uniforms not only for our Volunteers, but also for our railway - servants, gaol warders, the police, messengers, and, in fact, everybody who wears a Government uniform. By those means we could have our uniforms supplied cheaper than they are at the present moment. They would be turned out on a large scale, and we every facility would be offered to supply the uniforms at a cheaper rate than is now paid for them. We would then have uniformity of cut, of colour, and of material, and there would not be the complaints that when the Volunteers are marching out to battalion parades they are all clad in different kinds of uniforms. This is a matter that has been before the Government for a long time. Some companies have been kept up to their ears in debt for years in attempting to keep pace with the instructions from Wel- lington as to what the uniform shall be, but the whole thing has been a failure. I have had bitter experience of the matter myself. My company has not been out of debt for the past 