hood be influenced by his religious creed or conscientious convictions ? No matter what his opinions about the war might be, he was a celebrity in the world of literature, alike dis- tinguished for his intrepidity and ability. Why, then, resort to persecution? More intolerant sentiments than those expressed by the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) and the mem- ber for Riccarton he had never listened to in his life. It had been said that the Rev. Mr. Berry knew nothing about New Zealand, as it was twelve or fourteen years since he left the colony. As a matter of fact, it was only a few years since the reverend gentleman occupied a church in Wellington, and he no doubt knew just as much about the colony as the member for Riccarton himself. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said he did not care anything for the $260, or for the alleged advertisement that the article was going to give the colony in England. He understood that the Premier challenged any honourable member to produce any articles which appeared in the Review of Reviews written by Mr. Stead in favour of the Boers. Mr. SEDDON .- I said that the Australasian Review of Reviews was not pro-Boer. Mr. FISHER said he supposed, then, that if he said he had read articles in the Review of Reviews in favour of the Boers he was wrong. If that was what the Premier meant, why was it necessary for the Rev. Mr. Fitchett to disown the views of Mr. Stead in the Australasian Re- view of Reviews, and say that no more of Mr. Stead's articles should appear in the Review of Reviews? The people of Australasia, to em- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 ploy figurative language, had risen in revolt against the Review of Reviews, and it became necessary to disown Mr. Stead in order to save the circulation of the Review of Reviews. Sir J. G. WARD said the honourable mem- ber had made a statement that the Government had purchased ten thousand copies of the Re- view of Reviews, which was edited by Mr. Stead. Were members going to be stuffed with non- sense of that kind, when Mr. Stead lived twelve thousand miles from Melbourne, where this paper was published ? Because Mr. Stead's name appeared on one page of this paper the member for Riccarton said he was the editor of it. Numbers of the most highly respected men in New Zealand were advertising in the Austral- asian Review of Reviews, knowing that Mr. Stead was disassociated from it altogether. It had been said that because Mr. Stead's name appeared in this paper he was the editor of it. Probably Mr. Fitchett's name appeared in the English edition ; and could it then be said that Mr. Fitchett was the editor of the English Re- view of Reviews. There was the fact that Mr. Fitchett had given publicity to a statement that Mr. Stead had nothing to do with the Australasian Review of Reviews. An Hon. MEMBER .- Where is that state- ment ? Sir J. G. WARD would be happy to get a copy and show it to the honourable gentleman. Why, some of the leading newspapers in Auck- Mr. Hoag paper, and why did not honourable members attack the proprietors of those papers? The whole thing was a storm in a teacup. Simply because the Government believed it to be de- sirable to keep the name of the colony in the forefront by advertising in this Australasian paper, that was converted into a controversy pro-Boer versus British loyalty. It was su- premely ridiculous. They had been applied to to give the same advertisement to the English Review of Reviews, and had declined to give it. Could there be a stronger proof of their bona fides than the fact that, after giving it to the Australian Review of Reviews, they had refused it to the English one ? There were hundreds of people who had refused to take the English Review of Reviews, as he him- self had done, because of its pro-Boer advocacy, but he had never seen a single article in the Australian Review of Reviews to which, on that ground, exception could be taken. An Hon. MEMBER .- Dozens of them. Sir J. G. WARD said there were articles that had been copied from other journals ; but similar articles had been published in New Zea- land journals, and they surely could not stig- matize a journal as disloyal because it quoted opinions with which it did not sympathize. As he had said, he had never seen a single original article which was pro-Boer in the columns of the Australasian Review of Reviews, or which was not in support of the British Empire. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City) said it was not often that a discussion changed a vote he intended to give, but that was the case with him to-night. The discussion had decided him to vote against the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Wellington City. He had himself lived in South Africa, and had forgotten a great deal more about the Boer question than some of the gentlemen who had been howling jingoism that evening had ever known. He did not agree one little bit with the ideas on the Boer question that had been expressed by Mr. Stead, but at the same time there had been that evening the greatest mani- festation of un-British sentiment and feelings that he had ever witnessed. It was supposed to be a British idea to give fair-play. but there had been statements made during the discussion about Mr. Stead that no one could prove, and that had not, he believed, a single word of truth in them. There were men in Great Britain who stood head and shoulders above the gentle- men who had spoken that night who held similar views to Mr. Stead on the question of the Boer war, and they were men who had given greater attention to the subject than the gentlemen who had spoken, and were not traitors. He did not agree with those who were with Mr. Stead in this matter, because he had himself seen the conditions existing in South Africa, and believed it was impossible for the two races to live side by side without having settled once and for all which was the dominant power ; but when he heard honourable gentle- men making speeches over a paltry #260 being paid to a paper, and the editor of that paper 