supreme importance. He did not know what evidence the honourable member for Bruce had, but he was quite satisfied that that gentleman would not make such a statement as that with- out having absolute confidence in it. Mr. O'MEARA said that he should give his authority for it. Mr. HERRIES hoped that the heat which had been shown in the matter would end as soon as possible. They wanted to get on with the estimates. He himself had a good deal to say about them, and hoped that they would not be kept out of their beds till six o'clock in the morning to get through the first item. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) said that when he rose a few moments ago to move that certain words be taken down, he did so simply in connection with the episode that had occurred, and not to indicate his sentiments in any way. He knew nothing whatever of the facts of the case, nor did he know what the mo- tives of the honourable member for Bruce were. He, therefore, held his peace. He had no desire to canvas the question, but when he moved that the words be taken down, the Premier, in justi- fying their use, said that similar words had been used on occasions in the past, and that when he was assailed no one on the Opposition side of the House moved that the words be taken down. He (Mr. Hutcheson) pointed out that the Premier could hardly expect those on that side of the House to be the first to move in the matter, although the Premier must admit that at times they were prepared to stand by him as against his followers. The Premier had urged justification for the previous wrong that https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 had been done in what he (Mr. Hutcheson) conceived to be a misuse of the customs of Par- liament. The honourable gentleman thought to justify it because a similar wrong had been done. If he were to follow that line of argument he would say that the action of the right honourable gentleman had justified the statement made by the honourable member for Bruce, inasmuch as the Premier had insinuated that a certain coal-mine, in which he believed the member for Bruce was concerned, was a serious menace to human life, and that the honourable member knew it. In justification of that, the Premier read a garbled 11.30. account from the report of the Com- mission. He would point out that the honour- able gentleman was doing his Mines Depart- ment no great credit; nor did he think the honourable gentleman's colleague the Minister of Mines indorsed what he said, because the House had always been assured that the Mines Department, so far as inspection went, was the best regulated department in this or any other colony. That was where he was justified in declining the precedent the Premier pointed out -that because some injury had been done to him and allowed to pass, that was justification for what was, in his opinion, a repetition of it. Arguing on those lines, the Premier gave great provocation to the member for Bruce, putting it in the extreme way he did. The Premier wanted the country to believe that the member for Bruce Mr. Herries businesses a man could be engaged in-namely, in working a mine which, because necessary expenditure was not incurred, was a danger to life. Mr. SEDDON said he did not give the strongest portion of the Royal Commissioners' report. Mr. HUTCHESON said he would like to hear the Minister of Mines on the matter, and he would also like to hear what the departmental report said upon the mine. However, he was not there to go into details of the mine, nor vet into other statements that had been made. He thought the member for Bruce and the Premier should have settled this between themselves, and should not have dragged the whole House into this, and then charge this side of the House with a malicious design .to cause an acrimonious and bitter debate in order to stop the estimates. Surely they did not want to do this. Mr. SEDDON said he was under the impres- sion, and had since been informed, that the member for Bruce had mentioned this to some members of his own party. Mr. HUTCHESON could assure the Premier that, so far as he was concerned, he did not wish to use that or any other thing to prevent the estimates coming on. He wanted them to come on, because he had a whole lot to say on them. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said he supposed the Premier meant himself (Mr. Pirani) when the honourable gentleman said that the mem- ber for Bruce had mentioned this to some of his own party. Mr. SEDDON .- Not the charge; about the officers and men of the " Tagus." Mr. PIRANI said, in confirmation of the statement made by the member for Bruce, that he intended to mention this subject in the Financial Statement debate, but did not do so owing to the absence of the Premier-he men- tioned to the Premier, as he mentioned now to the House, that the member for Bruce told him (Mr. Pirani) the evening he spoke, that he intended to bring up a question in connection with the "Tagus." He thought it was time to drop this subject now : but before he left this rather acrimonious discussion it seemed to him a most extraordinary thing that a member of the House, or a member of the Committee, could say another member was unworthy to be called a man, or a member of this House, and yet there should be an almost unanimous desire not to take those words down ; while a mere interjection by himself, or an imitation if members liked to call it such, should be asked to be taken down almost unanimously by the same lot of members. They wanted " blood," as the Premier termed it, he supposed. One matter he wanted to direct attention to in con- nection with the estimates was the marvellous manner in which the printing and stationery vote was increasing. He noticed by the esti- mates the gross amount this year was $50,704. Now, besides that, there was a large amount of money being spent by the Government in print- 