as most things. The honourable member said that wool was a mere paltry item as compared with butter. Little he knows about it. That was one of the points he made in his so-called brilliant speech. Now, I find that butter was exported to the value of $780,000, and wool to about five millions. I have not got the exact figures. It must be remembered that wool is just at present at a very low price. Had it stood at the ordinary figure it would have reached three-fourths of the total exports of the colony-about nine or ten millions. To-day it is 25 per cent. lower than the lowest point that it has been for the past twenty-five years. And we are told by the Premier in his Budget that, in spite of the low price of wool, he sees no reason why the land- tax should not increase year by year. Sir, if anything would induce a man to reduce the land-tax, and thereby assist the farmers, it would be the terribly low prices of the produce of the country. I can assure the Government that unless they improve the roads it will not pay the settlers to cart out their wool, and the wool will be burnt or thrown away in the back blocks. Now, the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, Captain Russell, when he was speaking the other night, said that, if ever a monument was erected to Mr. Seddon, at the foot thereof would be written, " He bribed the people." He might have added, " He corrupted and intimidated the people." What have the present Government to show for all the millions expended? Not one railway finished, not one arterial road carried through. They have not created one single happy and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 prosperous settlement out of the whole of this money spent in the colony not one, from the North Cape to the Bluff. The settlers are every- where crying out for roads and bridges. As to their borrowing policy, if it had not been for several members of this House coming forward and making up their minds to put a stop to this enormous borrowing we should have had pro- posals for borrowing no less than six millions of money. I am well aware that such lines as the Main Trunk Railway, for instance, would never be completed without borrowing, and I would not for a moment oppose the borrowing of money for necessary works when the money-market is favourable. If that railway was finished it would tap the back blocks, and the timber that is now being destroyed would be cut up, and would nearly pay the whole cost of the line. Then we would have prosperous settlement. Then, the people would be able to make their farms pay, and they would be enabled to get their wool and other produce to market. Now, although the prospects of butter are most brilliant this year-and they were never better-how long will it last ? What has brought down the prices of our mutton and wool ? The Hon. the Minister of Customs, I think, mentioned to-day that the carcases were worth so much more that it balanced the low price of wool. Sir, there is only one reason for that, and that is the foot-and-mouth disease in the Argentine Republic. If it had not been VOL. CXVIII .- 9. instead of 16s. The Argentine Republic last season sent Home 3,400,000 as good or better carcases of mutton than we can send. Should the Argentine take up the butter business, then butter will drop perhaps 2d. per pound. Then, I ask, how will the settlers pay the enormous rents that Government are charging them for their dairy lands? In spite of the hard labour of their wives and families they will not be able to pay the rents, and we shall have to bring in a Fair Rent Bill that, instead of raising the rents, will reduce them. The farmers are not properly represented in this House. 4.30. There are only seventeen of us here out of the whole number of members. Now, with regard to the railways and railway freights, the Minister for Railways has made concessions to the South Island - of course, this is practically a southern Ministry-of no less a sum than £46,000 more than the concessions granted to the North Island. Why should the South Island have that extra concession ? The re- ductions which have been made in railway- fares are not of the slightest use to the farmer, or to the business man, or to any one with a home in the country. The charge for return tickets has not been reduced at all. The only reductions made have been in the single fares, and that merely benefits the tourist and com- mercial traveller. It certainly does not benefit the farmer and settler. Why should not the Minister allow excursion tickets in the winter time at a low rate? Then, we have heard a great deal about the penny postage. That con. cession has been of no use to the farmer. Yet the farmer has to find everything. The increase in departmental charges during the past ten years has been $1,200,000-that is, £10 per head increase on the population in the same time. Yet we find new departments and new officials of the right " colour " on every hand. I saw it truly stated in a paper the other day that you cannot turn round without striking an official of the right "colour." I did not come prepared to speak to-day or I should have brought some figures, but I should like to compare the cost of government in this colony with the cost of government in Ontario, Canada, which has a population of 1,650,000. The figures are as follow :- £ Governor's salary 2,000 Private Secretary and A.D.C. 240 Attorney-General 1,000 Chief Secretary and Premier .. 800 Minister of Education 800 Treasurer and Minister for Agri- 800 culture Minister for Public Works 800 £6,440 Contrast this with the cost of our Govern- ment, which is over $20,000 a year now, and still crying for increases. We are increasing our Governor's salary until it amounts to nearly £10,000 a year. Then, our Premier is receiving $2,000 a year. Why cannot a country like this be run on more business- 