On the motion of Mr. CARROLL this clause was struck out. Mr. CARROLL moved the addition of the following new clauses :-- "2. Where by deed or will any property is voluntarily conveyed, devised, bequeathed, or transferred to trustees in trust for the benefit of the public, such conveyance, devise, bequest, or transfer shall be exempt from all duties which, but for this Act, would be payable thereon. "3. The principal Act shall apply to any charitable bequest, whether or not the institu- tion in whose favour it is made is in existence at the time of the bequest. "4. This Act shall form part of and be read together with 'The Charitable Gifts Duties Exemption Act, 1885' (herein called ' the principal Act ').' New clauses added. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) moved the addition of the following new clause :- " The provisions of this Act are hereby de- clared to apply to a deed dated the tenth day of June, one thousand nine hundred and one, and made between John Logan Campbell, of Kil- bryde, near Auckland, Esquire, and certain trustees therein named, being a transfer of a certain parcel of land known as ' Cornwall Park,' for the general benefit of the people of New Zea- land, as stated in that deed.' New clause, by leave, withdrawn. Bill reported. # MORTGAGES OF LAND BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Mr. HALL (Waipawa) moved the addition of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 the following new clause :- "(1.) On the application of a mortgagee or an intending mortgagee under this Act in the form of the Fifth Schedule hereto, and on pay- ment of a fee of five shillings, the District Land Registrar in the case of land under "The Land Transfer Act, 1885," and the Registrar of Deeds in any other case, shall cause a search to be made for encumbrances or other deeds regis- tered affecting the land included or intended to be included in any mortgage under this Act, and specified in the application. " (2.) The Registrar shall enter the result of such search on the form in the said Fifth Schedule, and shall forthwith return the same to the applicant." New clause, by leave, withdrawn. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) moved the addition of the following new clause :- " As to all present and future mortgages of land, whether already made or to be made, under the Property Law Consolidation Acts, or the Land Transfer Acts, or otherwise, which mortgages have already been, or shall be, in existence for three years or upwards, the mort- gagor, his executors, administrators, or assigns shall be at liberty at any time to pay off the principal and interest then due, notwithstanding the time for payment of principal mentioned in the mortgage, or the date appointed for the redemption of the mortgage, may not have arrived, provided always that six clear months' written notice of an intention to pay the same shall be given ; and, upon payment or tender of the principal or interest then due as herein mentioned, the mortgagce, his executors, ad- ministrators, or assigns shall, at the request, cost, and charges of the mortgagor, his execu- tors, administrators, or assigns, return to him or them, or as he or they shall direct, the mortgage, having indorsed thereon or annexed thereto a receipt in the form or to the effect mentioned in section fifty of ' The Property Law Consolidation Act, 1883,' or in the form or to the effect provided by the Land Transfer Acts, in relation to the discharge or vacation of mortgages ; and such receipt shall be executed and have the effect mentioned in the provisions of the said Acts relating to the discharge or vacation of mortgages. And the powers given to the Colonial Treasurer by section one hundred and nine of 'The Land Transfer Act, 1885, shall apply to and may be exercised in respect of all such mortgages as aforesaid, notwith- standing the date appointed for the redemption of any mortgage may not have arrived." New clause, by leave, withdrawn. Schedule amended. Bill reported and read a third time. # PROMISSORY OATHS BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) moved the addition of the following new clause :-- " From and after the passing of this Act any oath prescribed by law may be duly taken without kissing the Bible or any sacred or other book." New clause negatived. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) moved the addition of the following new clause : -- "All judicial acts of any Justices of the Peace who have not heretofore taken the necessary oaths shall be as valid as if the said oaths had been duly taken." The Committee divided on the question, "That the clause be read a second time." AYES, 12. Smith, G. J. Atkinson McGowan Fowlds McNab Tellers. Millar Fraser, W. Barclay Lethbridge Rhodes Herries. Massey NOES, 23. Allen, E. G. Parata Heke Arnold Hornsby Seddon Carroll Ward Houston Colvin Wilford Lawry ElI Mckenzie, R. Willis. Fraser, A. L. D. Mills Tellers. Hall Carncross Napier Hall-Jones Palmer Field. Majority against, 11. New clause negatived. Bill reported. On the question that the Bill be read a third time -- Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- I am sorry that the Minister in charge of the Bill has not con- 