member for Wairarapa (Mr. Hornsby) ; but I do say that there was a distinct spirit of ani- mosity and unfriendliness in the speeches of the member for Nelson City (Mr. Graham), and the member for Ashley (Mr. Meredith). The member for Ashley said he hoped his friends on the Ministerial benches would not think he entertained any unfriendly feeling to- ward them, and immediately he began to tear them to pieces to the best of his ability. Cer- tainly his criticism of the Ministry was not in any sense destructive ; but he said he wondered how Ministers could demurely and placidly listen to the strong impeachment of their de- partments without reply. That he could not understand. Lord Derby, in one of his most trying periods, complained not of the taunts and charges of the Opposition proper - they were legitimate and inevitable -but of the petulant and irritating complaints of members of his own party. The two together were more than he could bear. That is the spectacle we have presented to us to-day. We have mem- bers of our own party who stand wringing their hands and looking out at the future with the most gloomy forebodings. Now, why these gloomy forebodings ? Why so suddenly ? Why did they not perceive this gloomy out- look last year, and the year before, and the year before that ? The member for Dun- edin City (Mr. Millar) told us he intended to criticize fearlessly the policy of the Govern- ment, yet he was manly enough to say that he was prepared to take his share of the blame of everything the Government had done. He said the time had come when the lavish expenditure of the past must cease. Upon that point the Government has anticipated the honourable gentleman, as I will presently show. Sir, during the time of the Crimean war a capital caricature in Punch represented one gentleman showing another how easily Cronstadt could be . captured-after dinner. The member for Ric- carton has airily shown us how the whole policy of the Government can be reversed-in the twinkling of an eye. But we need not deal too severely with the member for Riccarton. Caliban, in the "Tempest," says :- Beat him enough : after a little time, I'll beat him too. The member for Riccarton has been so vigor- ously denounced by the member for Napier that it would be quite ungenerous to accept any such suggestion from Caliban. The mem- ber for Dunedin City and the member for Wairarapa had some legitimate ground for objecting to a too close adherence to the past policy of the Government; but in the case of the honourable member for Ashley, Mr. Meredith, there must, I think, be some rankling feeling of personal disappointment. What that may be, one, of course, can never tell. As to the honourable member for Nel- son City, Mr. Graham, I am sure the laby- rinth of figures with which he deluged the House last evening cannot possibly have any intelligent meaning to members of this House or to those of the public who may read his Mr. Fisher the speech which he delivered last night and the speech which he delivered in the House two years ago, namely : that when he concluded last evening not one single official of the Trea- sury Department and not one single member of the Ministry went over to the honourable gentleman to shake hands with him and con- gratulate him. Now, Sir, all this condemna- tion that has been hurled at the Government by four members of our own party will result in no harm. No evil will come of it. In- goldsby tells us that when the Cardinal of Rheims delivered his terrible curse, Nobody seemed one penuy the worse. My objection to the Statement is its inordi- nate length. I object to its periphrastic re- dundancy, its cloudiness and complexity of diction, its contradictions in relation to sur- pluses, remissions of taxation, and of borrow- ing. The Financial Statement which the late Sir Harry Atkinson submitted to this House in 1888 was a Statement of an entirely different. character. It was a model of pithy compres- sion. It dealt with the most trying financial crisis this country has ever passed through. The whole country was in a state of despon- dency and gloom, resulting from the wretched administration of the Stout-Vogel Government from 1884 to 1887, which landed this country in a state of bankruptcy, and compelled Sir Frederick Whitaker to announce in the Upper House that if that Chamber did not consent to pass the million Loan Bill which Sir Harry Atkinson found it necessary to introduce to save the honour of the colony this country would have to file its schedule (Hansard, Volume 60, page 132). That Financial Statement, which rang out the state of the country clear as a bell, was compressed into thirteen pages. It was hard, clear, gritty, telling. This State- ment covers twenty-six pages, exactly double the length, and it is neither clear nor telling. It would be easy to find fault with some of its expressions ; but it is not the expressions, it is not the verbiage of the Statement we are here to discuss. We are here to discuss the solid financial results of the year. Here are some little faults of expression. For instance, why is it necessary in a dry, hard, matter-of-fact Financial Statement to compliment the Duke of Cornwall and York upon the amiability of his wife ? Why is it necessary for the Colonial Treasurer to congratulate his "worthy " col- league the Postmaster. General, unless for the purpose of distinguishing him from his other unworthy colleagues ? As to the Statement itself, I candidly and honestly confess I have not even to this moment read the whole of it. The exordium and the peroration were enough for me. But let us get to the complexities, and the contradictions. After stating that there was "a pleasant surprise in store" in the shape of a balance on the credit side amounting to $532,564, the honourable gentle- man, somewhat inharmoniously, immediately proceeds to assure us that "the revenue this year more than meets the expenditure, and that there will be no deficit." Now, leaving 