say, has informed me that he already has a copy of the Dunedin . tar of the 27th instant, and the better course, I think, would be to allow the Privileges Committee when it next meets to consider the matter of the publication of the evidence in the issue of the Star of the 27th instant, and if they consider they require further authority from the House - if they find the authority they at present have is insufficient -let them come to the House and ask the House for a direction. I consider that the second publication of the evidence is part and parcel of the same matter. I am desirous that the right course should be taken ; but I think it is unnecessary to raise a second ques- tion of breach of privilege, as suggested by the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty. The best course will be to allow the Committee to investigate the matter. If they find they cannot do so, they can report to the House accordingly, and the House can then direct them. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) .- Sir, this appears to me to be a case of turning our Standing Orders and our precedents into topsy- turvydom. What the Postmaster-General has just suggested is surely the very reverse of the proper order of procedure. He suggests that a Committee of the House is to instruct this House. 1 say the proper course is for the House to instruct the Committee. Sir J. G. WARD .- I did not say the Commit- tee should instruct the House. Mr. HUTCHESON. - I understood the honourable gentleman to say that if the Com- mittee thought it was desirable to investigate the further publication they were to come to the House and ask for advice. I say the power of initiative must remain with this House, and the House has a perfect right to refer the matter in a proper way to the Committee. I consider the publication of the evidence is a further breach of privilege as far as our Stand- ing Orders are concerned, and before the matter can be considered by the Committee it must be referred to the Committee by the House. The constitutional way is for the House to declare that another breach of privilege has been committed, and must refer it for the consideration of the special Committee. I do not dispute that this further publication has been made before the managers of the paper were aware that the House had declared the first publication to be a breach of privilege. But surely the publishers of this journal knew perfectly well that the first publication was a breach of privilege just as the second publication is a breach of privilege. It is playing the fool with the question to treat it in this way. The House ought to say this is a breach of privilege, and refer it to the Commit- tec already set up. The two publications are two scenes of the one act, and the House will stultify itself if it does not refer this matter to the consideration of the Committee as well as the last. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) .- I think the last speaker is wrong in his statement of the posi- tion. If the House will recollect what took Sir J. G. Ward to the Committee, it was argued that . e bad adopted a wrong course, and that we should have referred the question to the Committee before declaring it to be a breach of privilege; and I think I was singular in defending the action of the leader of the House then in submitting it to the consideration of the Committee after it had been declared a breach of privilege. Now, the point that members of the House argued comes in at this particular juncture. If the proper course on the former occasion was to refer the publication to the Committee before it was declared a breach of privilege, the proper course now is not, as the honourable gentle- man said, to declare it a breach of privilege and to send that publication to the Committee, but to send on the whole publication to the Com- mittee and let the Committee deal with it. I do not think it is a proper procedure to declare it a breach of privilege and then send it on to the Committee. But if the leader of the House moved that the paper read to the House by the member for the Bay of Plenty be referred to the Committee already set up, I think that would dispose of the whole question. Doubt- less there will then be some reference in their report to the second publication. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) .- I should like to express an opinion agreeing with the honourable member for Mataura. It seems. to me, from the statement made by the honour- able member for Ohinemuri, that the whole of this matter can be dealt with by the Committee as at present constituted. The position as I understand it is that a Committee has been set- up to deal with a breach of privilege. That Committee has power to call for persons and papers, and to examine individual members of the Goldfields Committee, and also the indi- viduals concerned in the breach of privilege. It therefore seems to me that if this particular publication be now referred to the Committee to be dealt with, together with the former matter, the whole object can be gained. We have also the statement of the honourable member for Ohinemuri that he has seen the representative of the journal in question, who assures him that the publication was after the House had decided that the first publication be referred to a Committee. An Hon. MEMBER .- Before. Mr. WILFORD .- Well, before it was aware of the wrongdoing, if wrongdoing it is. Surely if the Committee already set up is able to prove, after its examination, that a breach of privilege has been committed by some one to whom they can sheet home the offence, it can then be decided what the penalty shall be. No object can be gained by setting up two Committees and having two orders of reference while the present Committee has full power to deal with the matter. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice). - I think the whole matter would be met by moving that this paper be referred to the Committee now dealing with the other publication. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is all we contend. Mr. McGOWAN. - I understood some mem- 