his statement, and to assist in establishing a specific connection between this section and the erection of a Maori club, he would be only too glad to go into the question with him with the view of seeing what could be done. It was evi- dently a very old story. If the money was ad- vanced as far back as 1867, or even before that, and the land was made inalienable in 1877, it was quite clear that it would be very hard to set the matters right. PHYSICAL DRILL IN PUBLIC AND NATIVE SCHOOLS. The Hon. Colonel PITT .- I beg to move, That this Bill be now read the third time. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- Although this Bill has been amended by the Statutes Revision Committee, I think it ought to be further amended before it is sent to the House, to make it consistent with itself. The last three words of clause 2 appear to me to be unneces- sary. The clause reads as follows : "It shall be the duty of the Board in each district to cause physical drill to be taught to all boys and girls over the age of eight years attending the public schools in the district." Now, I think the words "in the district " are superfluous. I think the words "boys and girls" are un- necessary. These should be deleted and sub- stituted by " children," because in clause 5 we use the word "children." In clause 6 the words " boy or girl" should be deleted, and the word "child" inserted in their place. The Bill would be in line with the Act of 1877 and consistent with itself. I hope the honourable gentleman in charge of the Bill will make these https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 alterations in it. The Hon. Colonel PITT .- I think it is rather late for the honourable gentleman to call atten- tion to these points. He should have done so http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero in Committee. After all, the difference between the words pointed out is immaterial. It does not make much difference whether " boys and girls " or " children " is used, and I do not think the proposed alteration is sufficiently im- portant to necessitate the recommittal of the Bill. I move the third reading. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- I did call the honourable gentleman's attention to the matter when the Bill was in Committee. My function then was to move the amendments made by the Statutes Revision Committee. Bill read the third time. CIGARETTE - SMOKING BY YOUTHS PROHIBITION BILL. ADJOURNED DEBATE. The Hon. Mr. W. C. SMITH .-- I have much pleasure in supporting the second reading of this Bill, the principle of which is a very good one, and I am sorry it was not in force many years ago. There is no doubt that cigarette- smoking is a great drawback to the youth of the colony, and if we can make some small alteration in the Bill in Committee I think it will be a good one. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND .- I never like to vote for turning out a Bill unceremoniously. If Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker as to make it a Bill prohibiting the manufac- ture and sale of cigarettes in the colony alto- gether I should be very well pleased, and I think there might be a chance of it becoming law. I therefore will not vote for the amendment. The Hon. Mr. REEVES .- I would only point out that it is quite possible for members to make certain alterations when the Bill goes into Committee. I think that is the right thing, and I shall therefore vote for the Bill. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN .- I think much the same as the honourable gentleman who last spoke, and I shall vote for the second reading. In its present shape I do not think the Bill is workable. To my mind. a great deal more can be done by administration, than by legislation of this sort. If a little authority was given to schoolmasters and others to check this practice among children, good would result. I know it. can be checked, because I know that in my young days smoking was a very serious offence at an English public school, and it was pretty well put down. There are several ways in which it might be put down. I know how an Inspector of Police in this colony, who was a very good hand with young people, managed to throw ridicule on juvenile smoking, and without asking for legal authority often knocked the pipes out of the mouths of small boys in the streets ; the result was that they were very shy of exhibiting their newly acquired accomplish- ment when they thought he might appear on the scene, and his action had a very good effect. If some system of administration was adopted, giving power to the police to prevent young people smoking in the streets, it would be a practicable reform. In its.present shape I fear the Bill will not be very effective, but I shall vote for the second reading. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- I have heard nothing said by members during the debate on this Bill which would justify its existence. If passed it will remain on the statute-book a dead-letter. It will be one of those Biils passed in a kind of virtuous panie of trying to do what is practically impossible. Such a Bill as this could never be put into force in most places in the colony, and I think it is a mistake. Smoking by boys, as every person knows, is not a new thing ; every man in this Council knows that from his own experience as a boy. The best cure of the evil of boys smoking is for men to set a good example. If it was confined to stop the smoking of cigar- ettes, or even pipes, in public places I could see some benefit to the community in it, but to try and prevent boys smoking cigarettes all over the country is, if honourable members will only reflect, absurd. It might be operative in large towns where the police are about, but outside of such places the Bill will be .practically in- operative. But, to apply it to the colony gene- rally, I am certain it will be found that the Act will be a failure. The law would never be observed beyond the range of the police- man's eye, because it could be so easily evaded. And the effect on the boys would be bad for their moral character, as it would tend to evasion 