but that he even went so far as to eulogize him. What the Premier did was a thing which I think every member of the House ought to do : he eulogized the action of the representative of the Dunedin Star for having refused when asked to disclose the source of the information he published ; he eulogized the honourable con- duct which the representative of the Evening Star had shown by refusing to do what would have stamped him as a dishonourable man. I think the Premier did what was perfectly right in this matter. And to suppose that any other course could be taken is something which would be distasteful to any man, though he may not agree with the course proposed to be adopted by the Government. Now, in the case that has been referred to of the case of the President of the Bank of New Zealand-and it has been referred to again this evening by the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher)-I repeat, in this case the right course was taken by the House, and the right course was taken by the President of the bank. Mr. Watson, the then President of the bank, was an officer of the State, and had sworn in his official position not to disclose private and secret matters which came before him in his official capacity. A Committee of this House was set up to inquire into affairs connected with that institution, and the Com- mittee asked him to disclose certain matters, and he rightly refused to do so. The Presi- dent was reported to the House, and the House imposed a penalty of £500 on the then President, because he had committed a breach of privilege and refused to obey the Standing Orders. Who paid the $500, and what good did it do when it was paid ? The President of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 the bank did not himself pay the £500. Mr. J. ALLEN .- It does not matter. Sir J. G. WARD .- Well, I say it is a farcical procedure-it is an idiotic procedure-under any http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero circumstances to bring a man before the bar- as has been done on more than one occasion -to bring the representative of a newspaper before the bar of the House and impose a penalty upon him or confine him in the tower. What occurs? Everybody laughs at the mem- bers of Parliament for having made-I was going to say such fools of themselves; but they laugh at the proceedings necessary to enable a course to be taken that does no good what- ever, and does not in the least prevent a recur- rence of the offence. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Oh ! Sir J. G. WARD. - Does the honourable mem- ber mean to say that it does ? I say in this coun- try of ours, ever since I have been a member- during the fourteen years I have been 9.30. a member of this House I have never known a case of the publication of evidence given before a Committee made a breach of privilege excepting this particular one. Of course, it was different in the case of honour- able members themselves wilfully disclosing evidence, and, when attention was called to it, defying the House. That was done in the case I have already referred to. During all Sir J. G. Ward in the newspapers information that had been given before Committees of this House with- out, as I have already said, exception being taken in the House to it. Mr. MASSEY. - That is what we want to stop. Sir J. G. WARD .- The honourable member says he wants to stop it. I agree with him: but let us stop it in another way, and that is by amending the Standing Orders in a common- sense way, so as to allow information given before Committees to be reported if the Com- mittees have no objection to this being done. At present it percolates to the Press in various ways, and Committee work is looked upon as part of the whole machinery of Parliament. For other reasons, not so much the publication. we find in this case a hubbub made, and the whole power of Parliament invoked to get at the delinquents. This attempt is similar to others. Some desire to elevate the publisher and the reporter of a paper into the position of extraordinary persons by dragging them before the bar of the House and imposing a penaity of $25 each. The result is the paper itself pays the fine, its prestige receives a tremendous addition, and for the time being its circulation is so increased that in the course of a few days the fine is paid out of the additional receipts. The individuals concerned virtually snap their fingers at the system, and the country laughs at Parliament. Mr. MCLACHLAN .- Double the fine every time. Sir J. G. WARD .- The honourable member must know that if the House were to try to do an unfair thing public opinion would rise up against it. What is wanted is an alteration of our Standing Orders, so as to bring them into line with modern views and our present-day requirements. We can continue to have our secret Committees when they are considered necessary, but when matters not of a private nature but of public interest come beiere Committees I would ask, What have member of Parliament got to fear if they are published ' I say, alter the Standing Orders. Do not le: us continue to use the fusty-musty precedent of fifty years ago, which have been referred io by the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher). I gave members a recent case, fer surely we are more enlightened now than peopii were in 1857. Take the precedent of the case of a member of Parliament in 1895. We are coming more into line every day of our life. Mr. MASSEY .- The cases are not parallel. Sir J. G. WARD .- The only difference is that on that occasion it was an intelligent member of the Opposition, now it is an intelligent member of the Press. But I do not think there is any material difference between the in cases, for a breach of the privileges of the House was committed in each case. In the one. so far from imposing a fine, we passed a rescis. tion stating that a breach of privilege had be ?? committed, and that the matter was to es! there. In this case we have already declared that a breach of the privileges has been committed, 