colony is holding aloof from the organization pending instructions from the Government; and (3) whether it is the intention of the Go- vernment to co-operate with the rest of Aus- tralasia in this movement ? He was induced to ask this question by a newspaper report to the effect that the New Zealand Government were not combining with the other Governments in the formation of an Australasian Chamber of Commerce. He would say as to such a Cham- ber of Commerce, if established on right lines- that is to say, if it was formed with a view to furthering the interests of producers of the various colonies-that we could not have a better organization for the purpose of putting our markets on a proper basis. That should be the main object. He trusted, if it was proved to be such an organization, the New Zealand Go- vernment would cordially join with the other colonies in rendering the Chamber a real benefit to the producers of these colonies. By com- bination such as that proposed the Australasian Colonies would be of enormous assistance to one another. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he had seen something in the paper about this, and he had every confidence in the Agent-General that any course taken would be in the best interests of the colony. Pending further information, however, no action would be taken. Members were doubtless aware that both the Agent- General and 'the Produce Commissioner were very much alive to the colony's interests, and the Government were prepared to do their best to promote the commerce of the colony. # MARIA FINDT. Mr. COLVIN (Buller) asked the Government, If they will give effect to the recommendation of the Public Petitions A to L Committee of last year on the petition (No. 29) of Maria Findt -namely, "The Committee recommend the Government to place on the estimates a sum of £132 11s. 10d. to be paid to the petitioner." He would point out that the late Wilhelm Haack was known in the Buller district as a brother of Mrs. Findt's, but it seemed he was only a foster-brother, and he came out from Germany to her and lived with the family most of the time he was in the district. He worked for some time at Denniston, and met with an accident while working in the mine there, and after the accident he lived with the Findt family for some time, and this woman attended him like a mother. He had taken out a life insurance policy for $200, and after paying all his debts there was a balance of #132 11s. 10d. in the hands of the Public Trustee. The Com- mittee who inquired into the case had evidence to prove that the man had taken out the policy for the benefit of Mrs. Findt, and he hoped the Government would give a favourable reply. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the reply was as follows: Maria Findt was a foster-sister of a man named Wilhelm Haack, who was ille- gitimate, and died intestate. The sum men- tioned was paid into the Consolidated Fund in March last. It could be claimed up to 1905 Mr. Field side. After the 31st March, 1905, the money reverted to the Crown absolutely. It seemed to him, therefore, that it would not be prudent to pay it away before that date in view of the possibility of kindred making a claim. After the date mentioned, the application for pay- ment to Maria Findt might be renewed. # CHATHAM ISLANDS LOCAL GOVERN- MENT. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) asked the Premier, Whether the Government will this session introduce legislation which will provide some simple system of local government for the inhabitants of the Chatham Islands ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the answer was in the affirmative. # CARBINES FOR CADET CORPS. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) asked the Minister of Defence, Upon what terms will the Government issue carbines to the principal public schools of the colony in order to assist in the formation of cadet corps ? It was desirable to have cadet corps in connection with our public schools, and to do this carbines should be issued. Many of the cadet corps in existence had no carbines. There was a strong desire to assist the Premier in carrying out the intention he announced at the time of the Royal visit, and he hoped all cadet corps would be provided not with toy carbines, but the genuine article. with which they could learn shooting and drill. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said he did not think it was necessary to go to the expense sufficient to provide whole schools with carbines ; but it was right that a limited num- ber might be supplied. They had already in stock a number of Snider carbines, and these were being issued in limited numbers to cadet corps on their giving an undertaking to keep them in order and return them when called upon to do so. EARLY RECORDS OF THE COLONY. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) asked the 3.0. Premier, If he will negotiate with the Government of the State of New South Wales. and also the Colonial Office of the parent State. in order to make arrangements that the early records of this colony now in their possession may be collected and transferred to the custody of the New Zealand Government ? This was a matter in which he had felt much interest for many years, and in 1888, he thought it was, he pressed the Government to see to such records as were mentioned in his question. He could not find, however, that anything had been done. Many valuable records of the colony were in the archives of New South Wales, and. as it was likely that the people there did not take the interest in them that the people of this colony did, the Premier should make it his business to have every possible record of the early doings in New Zealand, and of the association between New Zealand and New South Wales in the beginning of the century, gathered together and 