2,380,000 Advances to settlers Bank of New Zealand preferred shares 500,000 .. New Zealand consols 459,389 Additions to open lines 625,000 . . District railways Dairy industries .. . . . £8,444,336 Thus nearly £8,500,000 are interest-producing investments, and, although the money has been borrowed, still the interest to be paid back to the bondholders in London comes into the Treasury from those making use of it, and not from the taxpayers. The increase of the debt during the last ten years amounts to £10,760,895, the net result being £2,316,559, after deducting the £8,444,336 of interest-bearing investments. As a business man, if I could borrow money and make use of it profitably, I think it would be right to borrow large sums-say, £5,000, £10,000, or £50,000-the more money the better so long as the investment turns out well, and I make a profit by it. The same remark applies to the colony. I do not counsel any- thing in the way of wild schemes. I think, however, we can go on safely borrowing so long as we find the money coming back to us, and that the colony is prospering. The business-men and working-people of the colony are in a better condition now than they have been for many years past, and there is little doubt successful borrowing has had a great deal to do with it. From the time of the Government taking office we heard that the colony was going backwards, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 and year after year we were told that the Go- vernment were hurling the colony to destruc- tion. Before the Financial Statement was brought down, it was almost with glee that we heard certain people saying : " At last the crash has come; at last the colony is beginning to realise what the Government has brought it to ; and what else could be expected from men who have persistently carried on the work of govern- ment in this reckless fashion " The Premier is not the man to bring on a crash, and if any one has known what he has been doing during his term of office that person is the Premier. have very great confidence in him so far as his financial operations are concerned. I believe he has, to a large extent, been responsible for the prosperity that we are enjoying. The colony is so prosperous at the present time that it is the admiration of all the surrounding colonies. Whenever it is desired to point to a prosperous and progressive country, we find New Zealand is referred to. We especially find that England and America are beginning to find out the capabilities and possibilities of this country. If during the past ten years we had been governed in such a bad way as some people en- deavour to make out, surely it would not be in the prosperous condition it is now. The Go- vernment are railed at constantly because some of the heads of the departments have been allowed to go to other colonies because their salaries were too low, and they could do better Mr. Willis by leaving New Zealand. Notwithstanding this, a cry has been raised on account of the proposal to increase the salaries of a number of officers who have done excellent work for the colony. I think there is nothing to justify the charge of extravagance on this score, and I am surprised when I hear certain members 47,000 of the House threatening to block the estimates 1,781 until the increases have been struck off. Pos- sibly there may be some cases where increases should not be given, but, speaking on the broad question, I think it is only right and fair that men who have worked well and hard for the colony should be given small increases in their salaries. But, although I am pleased to be able to compliment the Go- vernment on the successful way in which they have conducted the finances of this colony at a difficult time, there is one thing I cannot com- pliment them on : I refer to the existing troubled relations between employers and em- ployes. I think that if the Government were wise at the present time they would hold their hands more than they are doing, and would re- frain from bringing down measures calculated only to irritate and worry. I was a member of this House when the Conciliation and Arbitra- tion Act was passed, and I was warmly in ac- cord with it. Every member of the House expressed approval of the Bill, and it was passed by unanimous consent. But in the Arbitration Court there has been a good deal of what I con- sider the over-riding of Parliament. We had frequently before this House the Master and Ap- prentice Bill, and the Eight-hours Bill, and both of these Bill were, on all occasions, igno- miniously thrown out. But what do we find ? That these measures have been brought inte Arbitration Court awards - that what this Par- liament has rejected has been adopted by the Arbitration Court. The Master and Apprentice Bill, which regulated the number of apprentices for the different trades, although brought up again and again, was thrown out ; and it seems an extraordinary thing that the Arbitration Court should bring into operation measures that this House has rejected. I do not blame the Government for the trouble that is taking place ; I believe, myself, that the Arbitration Act is a good one ; but I believe the Govern- I ment do not seem to recognise the fact that they have gone far enough. We are now threatened with another Bill that will probably come before the House shortly, and which has agitated the colony until there is a ferment throughout the whole of New Zealand. It is not a question of the employers only, but I am applied to by employes as well, who beg me, by all the means in my power, to pre- vent any further irritation going on. They recognise that they are comfortable in their situations, and they are satisfied with the wages they are receiving ; but there are a num- ber of men who make it their business to go about getting a few together to create dissatis- faction and discord, and it is very unjust that workers who are satisfied with their employers should be the sufferers. The time is coming when the Government must seriously consider 