time, and it was this: that in 1890, when the Liberal party came into power under Mr. John Ballance, their late respected chief, Mr. Fisher was approached by the party in respect to fill- ing a high and honourable parliamentary posi- tion, and Mr. Fisher asked himself (Mr. Seddon) if the offer was genuine, and he gave Mr. Fisher an assurance that it was, so far as Mr. Ballance was concerned; but when the party met in caucus afterwards they refused to carry out the wishes of their chief, and consequently the Liberal party did a wrong to Mr. Fisher, Now, human nature was human nature, and all are liable to err, and naturally Mr. Fisher was annoyed at the manner in which he had been treated. At the same time, if he (Mr. Seddon) had been chief of the party, and there were those of the party who for their own ends or from spleen would place him in a false posi- tion and refuse to give effect to honourable pledges, then they would have to get another leader. ' Does it not appear clear, in regard to the Ministry which took office in January. 1891, that if there was not an actual feud, at least there was a very distinct want of harmony between myself and the Ministry, because of the inclusion in its ranks of three persons to whom I strongly objected. I say, and I say it now with greater force, that a large and powerful party such as ours ought to have been con- sulted. That is the custom in England and in every part of Australia in regard to the selection of a Ministry; and so I say in regard to all appointments to a Ministry. That is my answer to the remarks of the honourable member for https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 Franklin. Sir, I have gone over this ground time after time; and 1 am happy to say that reparation has been made to me by the Premier of this country. The honourable member for Franklin may revive this subject as often as he pleases, but he may take this assurance from me, that any time he or any other member of that attenuated party refers to this subject I shall be prepared to give them always a ready and willing answer. Mr. SEDDON. - I take this opportunity again, Sir, Captain RUSSELL. - Is the honourable gentleman replying ? Mr. SEDDON .- No; you will get a reply quite soon enough, and one not to your liking. Captain RUSSELL .- I' rise to a point of order. The right honourable gentleman has no right to speak unless he is addressing himself to the question under debate. He has no right to interfere in the ordinary course of the debate, unless he has been misrepresented and wishes to make a personal explanation. Mr. SEDDON .- That is just what I wish to do. An Hon. MEMBER .- The Premier has not been misrepresented. Mr. SEDDON .- I have been grossly mis- represented. Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER. - The Premier knows that rule full well. Captain RUSSELL. - The Premier knows that rule; but you, Sir, know the rules a great deal better than the Premier, and you have the power to enforce them. The Premier has not told you that he is rising to make a personal explanation ; and if he does, I hope you will keep him to a personal explanation, and not allow him to wander all over the debate. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - Sir, when the member for Franklin made an incorrect state- ment in his speech I said I would set the matter right when he had concluded his re- marks. The misrepresentation that not only the honourable member for Franklin but other honourable members have made, and which has appeared in public print, was to the effect that I had said to a West Coast deputation that, -- "The spending policy had been increasing at far too rapid a rate, and it was time to go slow once more, or the consequences might be such as he scarcely liked to contemplate. For this reason he was determined to cut down the expenditure, taking care that there should be a fair apportionment throughout the colony. Discussing the ordinary balance-sheet of the colony, the Premier said that this also caused him very much anxiety. For last financial year they had an excess of receipts over ex- penditure, amounting to half a million; in framing the estimates for the current year he was unable to make the receipts equal the expenditure." Sir, that is pure fabrication. I do not wish to use a stronger term ; but if any member of the House will stand up and say I made such a statement, I shall compliment him by telling him he is dreaming, or that he has a vivid and wonderful imagination, or that he has a most defective memory. Sir, another passage states this :- " And now it would be necessary to look for more revenue to meet the deficiency." That is pure invention. The statement I made was that, as the estimates of expenditure and revenue had been presented to me by the department, they caused me anxiety. I had not gone into them myself, and I said so. As regards more revenue, what I said was this : "I will not allow you or members of Parlia- ment to force me into asking for two or three millions of money for public works, because the revenue will not at present stand the payment of interest on an additional borrowing of three millions and a half." I said, too, that rather than be forced into a squandering and borrowing policy I would leave the Treasury benches. One of the members said, "Oh, well, you are from the West Coast, and while you are there we want to make good use of you." I said, "That may be your idea, but you are not going to make use of me;" and the Nelson Colonist went so far as to say my liver was out of order, and I had bordered on the dis- courteous, in fact, said I had been rather dis- courteous to the deputation. Now, no mem- ber of the deputation made notes of what was said, and there were no reporters present. If statements like this are to be made I shall really not consider myself safe to have depu- tations in my room unless I have my own 