"That the item, ' Second Clerk-Assistant, £325,' be reduced by £25." AYES, 12. Thomson, J. W. Buddo Laurenson Parata Tellers. Collins Russell, G. W. Meredith Ell Millar. Gilfedder Tanner Hornsby NOES, 41. Allen, E. G. Graham McNab Allen, J. Hall-Jones Napier Arnold Hardy Palmer Haselden Pirani Atkinson Bennet Rhodes Heke Bollard Herries Seddon Carncross Houston Symes Hutcheson Thompson, R. Carroll Colvin Kaihau Ward Wilford Duncan Lang Witheford. Field Lawry Fowlds Tellers. Massey Fraser, A. L. D. McGowan Fisher Mckenzie, R. Fraser, W. McGuire Majority against, 29. Amendment negatived. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton), replying to the arguments of the honourable member for Mataura against his proposition to reduce the salary of the Serjeant-at-Arms, said that if the only use of such an officer was to remove obstreperous members, that duty could just as well be performed by a policeman, and that would be putting no indignity upon members who would go so far as to defy the House. He had no wish to see the salaries reduced of men holding responsible positions, but, when it came https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 to dealing with sinecures, then the members, having acknowledged the necessity for retrench- ment, should begin by putting their own house in order. As for strangers being allowed to wander about the precincts of the House, they might reasonably ask the chief Messenger to see that that was prevented. As far as carrying in the mace was concerned, surely one of the mes- sengers could be trained to do that ? He moved to reduce the salary by £1, as he believed that this office of Serjeant-at-Arms was an unneces- sary one. Mr. SEDDON hoped the Committee would not agree to this. There were duties which devolved upon the Serjeant-at-Arms which it would not be in keeping with the dignity of members of Parliament to have performed by a messenger. The officer, he thought, was essential, and it was necessary to have him as between mem- bers and Mr. Speaker. The position was one which had been handed down to them from the past, and there was work to be done by this officer which would have to be done by some one, and paid for, so that the saving by the abolition of the office would not be material. This officer had to control the distribution of tickets and of the vouchers for the payment of members. There was no proposal for an in- crease ; no saving would be made by doing away with the office, and if the office were abolished they would have to recast the Standing Orders. with the motion moved by the member for Lyttelton, and would vote for it ; but, as he could not help believing it would not be carried, he suggested that when a new officer was ap- pointed some definite scheme should be laid down as to his duties. There was an over- lapping of jurisdiction between the House Com- mittee and the Serjeant-at-Arms. One or other should have definite jurisdiction over the ad- mission of strangers. As it was, the Serjeant- at-Arms was only responsible to Mr. Speaker, and not to the House Committee. Mr. TANNER (Avon) said there were at least three fairly well-paid officials - Serjeant-at- Arms, £200; messenger, £185; and custodian, £300-provided for on the estimates, and no member of the House knew where their duties began or ended; indeed, some of the officers were practically unknown to the House. The payment of money by the Government must be exceedingly costly if in other departments as much was paid for the distribution of a few vouchers and cheques as was done in this. It would be well that they should appoint a Serjeant-at-Arms, now that a vacancy had occurred, who was really capable of carrying out his duties, one who was acquainted with the duties of his office, and would carry them out in a manner so as to provoke as little friction as possible. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) thought it might interest members to know the position of the Serjeant-at-Arms by comparison with officers holding similar positions in Victoria and New South Wales. In Victoria the Ser- jeant-at-Arms was paid a salary of $426 per annum, and in New South Wales the amount was £533. The duties of the Serjeant-at-Arms were many, and he thought it would be a mis- take to either substitute a messenger or abolish the office. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) said the dignity of the House was maintained by subscribing to old forms and ceremonies handed down by the Mother Parliament, and he would be sorry to see them abolished. If they could get some one to fulfil the duties in a proper way, he should receive a salary commensurate with the position, and certainly £200 was not enough. He hoped the Government, when they made the new appointment, would choose a man able to uphold the position and add his quota to the good government of the House. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) recognised the neces- sity for economy; but it was not going the right way about it to abolish this office. He could not support the proposed reduction. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) said the excessive cost of government did not arise from excessive salaries, and he was not going to support the reduction of legitimate items, but where there were useless offices he would vote for their extinction. This office was a sinecure, and there would be no hardship in abolishing the office now. The duties appertaining to it could easily be divided amongst other officers of the House. 