Financial State- ment delivered. : Date when B .- 1 Paper presented. Year. Date. Not presented during session. 1888 May 29 June 25 1889 June 25 1890 June 2.3 1891 June 30 1892 July 5 1893 July 24 1894 1895 July 30 July 1896 14 October 12. Oct. 18:7 12 October 11. 1898 Aug. 9 1899 August 30. Aug. 1 October 3. 1900 Aug. 17 1901 Not yet presented. Aug. 16 How was it that from 1888 up to all these years they never had a B .- 1, and yet they had financial debates which would shame any- thing of late years? Yet members said they could not debate the Statement without B .- 1. They never had from Sir George Grey's time B .- 1 for the financial debate up to the year 1897. In 1897 they had the Financial State- ment, and on the same day they had B .- 1, the first time they ever had it. Do members chal- lenge that ? Mr. J. ALLEN .- Yes ; we challenge other years which have not been mentioned. Mr. SEDDON said they had heard a good deal about his late chief, Mr. John Ballance, and he was now a saint according to the Opposition ; he was far from a saint when he was here, but their views had changed, he was a saint now. Mr. Ballance should speak, and this was what he said in his Financial State- ment of the session of 1878 :- " I trust I shall be able, in a few weeks, to lay before the House detailed accounts of the transactions of the year just closed. It will be the first time that the accounts in detail have been presented to Parliament in the session fol- lowing the close of the financial year, and honourable members will thereby be enabled to obtain an intimate knowledge of the trans- actions of the year, as epitomised in the tables which I shall lay before the Committee as an Appendix to this Statement." That was taken from the Financial State- ment of the 6th August, 1878. He made the statement that up to that date they had never had B .- 1. From 1854 to 1878 they never had B .- 1 during the session; but they went on with the financial debates during that period, and managed to discuss the accounts intelli- gently-much more so than was done at the present time. He thought he had exploded the charges that had been made by the Opposition about B .- 1. The late Mr. Ballance, speaking on the 6th August, 1878, said, " I trust I shall be able, in a few weeks, to lay before the House detailed accounts of the transactions of the year just closed." If he (Mr. Seddon) had made a statement of the kind he would have been pounced upon by gentlemen opposite, and told that he was playing with the House and the country. He was quite prepared to lay on the table the document he was quoting from : members opposite might have it if they wanted it. Then, there was the question of putting returns on the table in the middle of a debate. The Government had said that as fast as the dif- ferent departments could get the returns ready, and as soon as the Printing Office could get them printed, they would be submitted to the House. That promise had been faithfully carried out .. As the reports were being completed they were laid before the House. On the previous day the- Railways Statement was completed. His col- league the Minister for Railways asked him if he would lay it on the table at once. He (Mr. Seddon) said, "If you do the Opposition will twit you with keeping it back until they had no opportunity of criticizing your administration." The report, however, was laid on the table, and, as members would see for themselves, it was marked " September 4th, 1901." It was re- ceived wet from the Printing Office on the 4th, and was laid on the table on the same day. That, surely, was proof positive that the Go- vernment were doing their best to lay the re- ports on the table as soon as they were ready. The Minister for Railways was himself anxious to take a part in the debate, but would not do so until the Railways Statement had been laid before the House. An Hon. MEMBER asked, Why have we not got it ? Mr. SEDDON said the report had been sub- mitted to members, and, now they had it, not one of them would get up and praise the Minis- ter on the results of his administration. The Lands Report was also laid on the table on the previous day, and if any honourable member would look at the bulk of that report, it must be admitted that, what with supplying returns and doing the ordinary work of the department, it had cost the department no little time in its preparation. It was a monument of work, and it was laid on the table at the earliest oppor- tunity. An Hon. MEMBER said the Railways State- ment had not been circulated. Mr. SEDDON said it had been laid on the table, and members should get it. However, it showed that the Printing Office could not have had the Statement lying printed for a number of days, if members had not got it yet. It ought to prove to members the force of his argument, that immediately these Statements were ready they were presented. He would give the statement of the public debt, and by that statement he would show the House and the country that, as regarded the public debt, our annual increase during our term of office, outside interest-bearing loans, was only half of what it had been with any previous Adminis- tration. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said this was a matter not before the House. 