North Island ought to be carried on as vigor- ously as in the South. I agree that it ought to be carried on vigorously in both parts of the colony, and it is not satisfactory to find that, while the Government was given authority to expend $500,000 for these purposes, and whereas the previous moneys that have been expended in purchasing land have been yield- ing good interest on that expenditure, there has only been about 2200,000 so expended during the past year. I hold that there is no excuse whatsoever for the Government staying their hand, and not going half as far as this House has authorised them to go. Therefore, I hold that the manner in which the policy of land for settlements is being carried out is not satisfactory to this House, inasmuch as it ought to be going on very much more ex- tensively aud rapidly than it is at the pre- sent time. And now, in connection with the North Island, I will just say, in passing, that we have had from year to year during the last quarter of a century and more I can remember for thirty years in this House-we have bad in those thirty years many honour- able gentlemen holding the position of Native Minister coming down to this House, pointing out the difficulties there were with regard to Native land tenure in the North Island, and showing how necessary it was that the large areas in the hands of the Natives that they did not require for their ow!Suse should be thrown open for European settlement, and yet what has been the result? I remember when that honourable gentleman, who used to be called "Te Makarini," Sir Donald McLean, -was https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 Native Minister; he was believed in most thoroughly by the House, and was given every- thing that he asked for. I remember, too, when he was succeeded by the late Mr. Shechan, who used to be familiarly spoken of as " Johnny Sheehan." We had him making his proposals in this House. I have seen Native Minister after Native Minister - I have seen the Hon. the Premier himself try his hand at this busi- ness ; and now we have in that position a gentleman who is himself of Maori blood, and who is supposed to more especially understand the matter, taking it in hand, and, with the greatest possible good faith, those of us who do not protess to be Maori doctors have supported those gentlemen one and all in the demands they have made for legislation to accomplish what we would all admit would be a good thing to have done-namely, the opening up of surplus Native lands for settle- ment. But only the other day the member for Napier, Mr. Fraser, who claims to know all about Native land legislation, declared that the position is worse to-day than it was before we passed the Bill of last year. I recommend the honourable gentleman, who is a strong Go- vernment supporter like myself, who has great influence in Auckland, and who has two or three times lately made interjections on the necessity for land settlement in the North Island (I refer to Mr. Witheford), I recommend him to bring pressure to bear to secure that we shall have ! Major Steward as will enable the large area of land which I believe is practically tied up at present to be thrown open for settlement in the Island in which he is so much interested. I speak with a great deal of interest in this matter of land settlement, because the portion of the colony from which I come has naturally been the theatre very largely of these operations. Sir, I say "naturally," because we have good agricultural land, open land, land that is admir- ably adapted for wheat-growing, and, indeed, for any agricultural purpose ; and it is a matter of fact that within the electorate which I have the honour to represent there are some ten or a dozen settlements under the Land for Settle- ments Act. I am glad to find that they are all prosperous settlements, and if honourable mem- bers will refer to a table appended to the Lands Report they will find that statement borne cut. In the Pareora Settlement there are twenty-five resident selectors-that does not include the families of the selectors or their employés ; Studholme Junction, 3; Kapua, 10; Otaio, 9; Waikakahi, 132 ; Pareora No 2, 25 ; Pungaroa, 10; Maerewhenua, 61; Tokarahi, 43. Those numbers do not include Nukuroa and Wai- nono, which were not taken under the Land for Settlements Act, but were obtained by exchange. The number of settlers in chose settlements is about forty, making a gross total of about 358. You may count the settlers' families and employés at not less than five in each case, so that if you multiply that number by five you have a total of 1,790 persons placed on the land in my electorate alone. As to how those settlements are progressing, I may read what appears in the Lands Report : With regard to Pareora, we find, "satisfactory, and settlers prosperous "; Studholme Junction, "satisfactory progress "; Kapua, "satisfac- tory ; floods troublesome." There a creek runs close by the settlement, and. owing to its peculiar location-the land having originally been a swamp-the settlers are liable to be flooded out at certain periods of the year. I have frequently urged upon the Minister that he should carry out certain drainage-works- not necessarily e pensive-which would enable the settlers to utilise their holdings to the greatest ad- vantage. They have for two or three years suf- fered very great loss, and, though there has been a small expenditure of $150, it has not satis- factorily coped with the difficulty; and, as I think the expenditure of another £100 would put these settlers in a comfortable position. I hope the Minister will provide that relief which is necessary for them. Then as to Otaio, the report reads, "doing well." As regards Wai- kakahi, we have "prosperous; advance con- siderable." Any honourable member who travels along the main South railway-line be- tween Studholme Junction and Glenavy will, if he looks out of the carriage windows-par- ticularly on the right-hand side . as the train is running nearly the whole distance through the Waikakahi Estate, be pleased to see the com- fortable homesteads of numbers of thriving settlers on that estate. Formerly-even in 