gallery mere advice as to the manner in which the House ought to conduct its business. I say that any member of this House who can brook such an insult ought to be compelled to stand a great deal more. But it is perfectly clear that Mr. Cohen knows the full strength of the sup- port behind him. Then, after the explanation and apology in the Chapman case, the House adopted this resolution :- "That, in the matter of breach of privilege that has arisen through the publication of the purport of certain evidence given before the Ward-Chapman Committee, the House, having considered the report of the Select Committee, accepts, as satisfactory to this House, the apology of Mr. Luckie for having been the meaus of publishing this evidence,". That is all we want. We want to find that " honourable " gentleman-whoever he is-who was the means of publishing this evidence. That is the gentleman we want to find ; and there was a witness before the Committee who can give us the name of that person, but refuses to do so. The report proceeds,- "-and the expression of regret made by Mr. Ward before the Select Committee for divulging his evidence ; and this House resolves to pro- ceed no further in the matter." It would be absurd to ask any man outside a lunatic asylum whether he could see any re- semblance between the two cases. There is the Watson case, which was before the House in 1895. (Hansard, Volume 93, page 288.) The honourable gentleman's action in that case was -as we always expect it to be in the case of any leader of the House-in the direction of protecting the privileges of the House ; and if the honourable gentleman's action in that case was so right, why in this case has he proved himself to be so wrong ? And I wish to put one other point in connection with the matter. I feel bound to say to the honourable gentleman that I think it a poor tribute to the intelligence of members of this House to ask them to listen to that farrago of nonsense, that too obvious rhodomontade, which he poured out this morn- ing to induce us to arrive at a certain con- clusion. That is a sorry compliment to us. If he wants to convey the idea that we are the reverse of intelligent, let him say so in direct language-let the idea be expressed in plain terms. Sir, I am firm in the belief that there is no precedent for this case. Ask all the oldest of parliamentarians in the House to produce a parallel case if they can. I know they cannot. 1 have quoted the case of a telegram. In another case, in the House of Commons, a letter is used. But you do not find a case in which the property of the Crown is stolen, that property being in the form of an official shorthand- writer's report, which occupies eight columns of the Dunedin Star. You can find no case where the property of the Crown, paid for by the Crown and the people, has been stolen. You will find no case in which the property of Par- liament has been stolen in such an open, bare- faced, and defiant manner. There is no parallel for it. Therefore I say to members on both regard this question as affecting members of one party or the other. I have no right to lecture members of this House. Every member understands what is expected of him in such a case as this. There need be no doubt in the minds of honourable members as to what course should be followed. I do say that the House has now reached a point where it ought, if ever it ought, to make a stand. Its rights, its powers, and its privileges have been assailed in a calm, deliberate, and defiant manner. I have no right to ask, Who are the persons behind Mr. Cohen; who are the persons advising him in the course he is adopting ? I have no right to say that Mr. Cohen had a previous assurance of the course proposed to be adopted by the Government in his case. I have no right to say that the knowledge of that assurance on the part of the Government has led him to take up this defiant attitude towards Parliament. I have no right to say these things, but appear- ances point very much in that direction ; or, suppose he has not been so advised, the appear- ances could not have been more convincing had that actually been the case. Mr. Cohen has no fear as to what this House is going to do, for he has been advised by certain persons. He has certainly been advised by the newspaper frater- nity as a whole. Yet I qualify those words, "as a whole," for there are newspapers and newspapers, there are reporters and reporters. As a Parliament we have to do this : We must pay some regard to the interests of another class of journalists, whom I may describe as the honourable journalists of the profession, and who wish to be protected from imputations of this kind. Such an honourable journalist might say, "I really wish that Parliament would step in and protect itself in the way it ought to protect itself, because I do not want to be driven to these back-door methods of obtaining information." It is the back- door system which I so much object to. It is this back-door system that has made me feel hurt over the matter, because it has been impudently described as an " honourable " method of getting information. I say the manner in which this evidence was obtained is to be condemned on all grounds. The man who gave it to the representative of the Dun- edin Evening Star has not pursued an honour- able course. If he had done so, why does he not come out into the open and show himself ? What need has he to shelter himself behind the refusal of Mr. Cohen ? Why does 12.0. he not come out as Mr. Guinness did when a member of the Public Accounts Com- mittee, when that Committee reported as to the manner in which some of its evidence had been disclosed ? Mr. Guinness frankly said, " I gave the information, not knowing it was a breach of privilege." He made that ex- planation and apologized. That gave com- plete satisfaction. I have cited the case of the telegram in the Chapman-Luckie case, and the letter in the House of Commons case. Then, we come to another class of cases- cases where a member of a Committee 