public to know really what is going on in Committees, where the subject is of a public nature. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) .- Sir, there is one remark that was made by of the country to the best of their ability. I the honourable member who has last spoken in connection with this matter which, person- ally, I decline to allow to go on record without stating what took place. The honourable mem- ber has put on record the fact that both himself and the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) were desirous, after the evidence of Mr. Cohen, the reporter of the Dunedin Evening Stir, had been taken, that we should report to the House his refusal to disclose the source from which he obtained this information. Sir, the honourable member ought to have stated so short a memory. The remark I made in my the reason why the majority of the Committee took a different opinion to both of these mem- bers on this point. At that time we had only ex imined a small section of the Goldfields and Mines Committee, and we believed it was desirable that every member of that Com- mittee should be asked whether he had person- ally disclosed the information referred to, before we put the House to the trouble and incon- venience of dealing with the matter again. That has been done now in the report of the Committee; and the majority of the Com- mittee then stated that what was now done was the right course to follow-namely, first take the evidence of the remaining members of the Goldfields and Mines Committee, and then in our final report inform the House that Mr. Cohen refused to disclose the source from which he obtained his information. Mr. HERRIES .- You have not examined them all now. Sir J. G. WARD .- The only person who has not been examined is the Premier, and in that case it was put on evidence that the Premier had never attended a meeting of the Mines Committee and had not been furnished with any information by the Committee. As the honourable member for Bay of Plenty is appa- rently very anxious to get that fact out, I put it on record with the greatest pleasure. Sir, I think the course that has been suggested by the Premier is the better one. Every member of the House ought to have an opportunity of perusing the evidence taken by the Privileges Committee; for if the evidence is simply to be in the hands of the members of the Committee and those few members of the House outside the members of the Committee who attended the sittings of the Committee during the course of the investigation, it would not be fair to other honourable members, even though the whole business is focussed in this report, to ask them to consider it in all its details without having an opportunity of perusing the whole evidence. Even though the privileges of the House have been assailed, what extra harm can arise by consideration of this being deferred from Friday till Tuesday? None give evidence is concerned, but not as regards whatever. Whenever matters of this kind arise in this House, precedent after precedent is thrown at us, and suggestions are made that the precedent of twenty or thirty years ago. We get it in every direction until it becomes absolutely nauseous to men who are trying to carry out in a common-sense way the business merely rose to say that this has been magnified to a mountain of impropriety by the honourable member for Palmerston, Mr Pirani, because of the fact that the majority of the members of the Committee thought differently to him and Mr. Fisher. We may be just as right in our judgment as those honourable members, and they should do us the credit of believing that we acted in what we believed was the best course in the circumstances. Mr. PIRANI .- I regret that the Minister has speech about the report, and the refusal of this witness to give evidence to the Committee, was in reply to an interjection by the Premier. He said that the witness ought to have been re- ported to the House directly he refused to give evidence. In reply to that I informed the Pre- mier that a motion to that effect had been moved in the Committee, and I gave the voting on it. As far as the opinions of the different members of the Committee are concerned, I did not give them, because they were not stated. They had a right to their own opinions, and I give them just the same right to freedom of thought as I claim for myself; and if the Minister thinks that I was intending to cast any reflection on him in that respect he is entirely mistaken. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) .- Until I came into the Chamber a few minutes ago I was under the impression that if the consideration of this question was adjourned it would be lost, and we would hear no more of it, and I there- fore thought that the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) was right in the stand he took up. But since we know that the question is to be put down as the first order of the day for Tuesday, that puts a different complexion on the matter. In regard to the question of the printing of the evidence, we decided when the subject was last before us that a breach of privilege had been committed. There cannot, therefore, be a suggestion that the Committee was set up to decide any ques- tion about the breach of privilege ; and if it was not set up to decide that question it must have been set up to get some information to lay before the House. If it had that object in view the proper course to adopt, always making sure that we are not going to lose hold of the matter, is to have the evidence printed. I think, therefore, we ought to have it printed before we go any further. I do not hold the view expressed by the Premier that this is a parallel case to that of Mr. Watson Mr. SEDDON .- The refusal to give evidence is. Mr. McNAB .- Yes, in so far as the refusal to the action the Committee should have taken when the refusal was given ; because honour- able members will remember on that occasion 