to set up a costly Commission to travel all over the country. So in the case of the Federation Commission. The Premier having visited the greater part of Australia in January and February last, and having publicly expressed himself on so many occasions as opposed to the federation of New Zealand with the Common- wealth of Australia, what need was there, what justification was there, for appointing a Com- mission to investigate a question which he and the Government had already deter- mined upon. Does any one believe that any opinion of a Commission would have been allowed to override the opinion the Premier had already formed ? It was not at all likely, and therefore an expenditure of £5,000 was incurred for absolutely no purpose, no reason whatever. If the opinion of the people of this country is so strong in opposition to federation, why incur an expenditure of £5,000 to ascer- tain what was already known ? It was an absolute waste of money. I need not express any opinion on the subject to-night, but I shall ask the Government on a future day whether it is their intention to allow the House to discuss that report and the whole subject of federation. Otherwise what is the use of the report ? I will also ask the Govern- ment whether it is intended to give the House an opportunity of discussing the report of the Midland Railway Commission. These are two matters in which I feel a deep interest, because they are matters which largely affect the financial and other interests of this country. With regard to the School Teachers Commis- sion, I do not so much object to that, although https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 I do think, as I have frequently said in this House when speaking on the subject of edu- cation, that if the Education Department itself were efficiently administered there would not http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero have been any necessity for the setting-up of that Commission. I do not say whether I agree or disagree with the views of the honour- able member for Ashley; but I may say that, from what I heard of his expressions in regard to the subject-matter of the Com- mission this afternoon, I dissent from those views. I agree very largely, if not entirely, with the views of the honourable member for Wallace, who, I think, with all due deference to the honourable member for Ashley, is much more qualified to speak upon that subject. Sir, I have said all I wish to say upon the subject of the Financial Statement. It is gratifying to me, as it must be to every member of the House, to find that the Government have fully realised the financial position of the country. They have been forcibly reminded of what that position is by four members of their own party, who have told them in unmistakable terms what their views of the Budget are. The Go- vernment will do well to take heed. The views of those honourable members were de- cidedly unpalatable, but it has to be remem- bered that they have the interests of their con- stituents to study. We cannot believe that in every case those disaffected members are expressing merely their personal or prejudiced ideas. I give them credit for broader and Mr. Fisher more generous views; and I therefore hope they will not be regarded, or regard themselves, as alienated in feeling from the Government or from the Government party. So also do I trust that no member of the Government or of the party will entertain any such idea. I think the Government are entitled to great credit for having recognised the position as it stands. It is better for them to have taken the stand they have now taken than to have run headlong into difficulty from which it would have been im- possible for them to retrace their steps. I hope the Government have a long and prosperous career before them. Their legislation has been beneficial to every class in the country. Their land-settlement policy, their Advances to Settlers Act, their labour legislation, their old-age pen- sions have all proved of immense benefit to the country ; but the time has come when they should hold their hand in the interests of that class of people whose claims to consideration are as great as those who have been specially guarded by special legislation. I hope the Go- vernment will perfect their laws-particularly their labour laws - so that they will not be oppressive to any class of, the community. They have gone far enough in this direction for the present, and it would be unwise to destroy, even in the smallest degree, the good they have already done. I thank the House for the patient attention it has given to my speech. I have spoken throughout as a true friend and well-wisher of the Government, and not as the "candid " friend. As a loyal and consistent supporter who has stood by the Government for a long series of years, I may claim to offer these suggestions and advice; but I wish it to be clearly understood that those suggestions and that advice are offered in the most loyal and generous spirit. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice). - Allow me to pay the highest compliment I can to the honourable gentleman who has just sat down. He is extremely clever when he wishes to pay a compliment, and equally clever when he wishes to cast a reflection. As a member of this Go- vernment, I at once say that I lay no claim to any transcendant financial ability ; I am per- fectly conscious of my own shortcomings in that respect. But I do lay claim to the desire to do that which is right without fear or favour of any individual or number of individuals. And if I thought I did not hold the confidence of the majority of the members of the party to which I belong I should have no desire to occupy a position on these benches. This debate so far as it has gone is singular. For the last two years the so-called financial debate has ended vory abruptly. On this occasion, as has been very well described by the honourable member for Napier, through the tactics of the honourable member for Hawke's Bay and the honourable member for Bruce a certain number of members were "drawn," as he termed it, and they expressed themselves to the infinite pleasure, I have no doubt, of the members of the Opposition. An Hon. MEMBER .-- And the Government. Mr. McGOWAN .- Yes, and to the infinite 