scribed by that Act, and it is expedient to remedy such defect." I do not know if there is any point at all in the words " formally made." Was the appoint- ment made in any fashion whatever ? I do not know what the reverse of " formally" would be- whether it would be " materially " or de facto, or what ? I would like to know whether it was made informally, or in any way whatever ? Was it entirely overlooked ? That is what we ought to know. Then, this Bill, though it is to give Mr. Justice Cooper proper status in the Arbitration Court, inflicts a curious indignity upon him by referring to him as " Mr. Theo- philus Cooper." I never yet heard anybody but a "bush-lawyer " refer to a Judge of the Supreme Court with simply "Mr." and then the Christian name. It appears to me that we should need another Validation Bill in order to . rectify such a gross informality. "Mr. Justice Cooper " is surely the ordinary and correct and courteous term. Mr. SEDDON .- I am advised that you must put in the full name. Mr. ATKINSON. - And omit the official title ? Mr. SEDDON .- No. Mr. ATKINSON .- What is to prevent us in- serting the word " Justice " as well as the full name ? Mr. SEDDON. - I suppose the draftsman thought that by putting in the words "his Honour " that would cover everything. Mr. ATKINSON .- The Bill draftsman pro- bably thought as much about it as did the other official, and that was nothing at all. Mr. SEDDON .- I think we should do justice in Committee by putting " Justice" in. Mr. ATKINSON .- As the honourable mem- ber for Bruce has said, it is an unfortunate position for the President of the Arbitration Court to be in at the present time, to be de- pendent upon the will of the Government for fixing part of his emolument. Section 112 of " The Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act, 1900," expressly states that the travel- ling-expenses of members of the Court, includ- ing the President, may be fixed by regulation, but that other fees shall be fixed with re- gard to all members of the Court except the President. The member for Bruce has re- ferred to the unsatisfactory position in which the President of the Court is placed in having his travelling-expenses fixed by regulation instead of by Act. To that the Premier, I understand, has made reply that the Judges of the Supreme Court are in the same position. I agree with the honourable member for Bruce that, not- withstanding the Supreme Court Judges may be in the same position, it is still a highly un- satisfactory one. But there is another respect in which the President of the Arbitration Court stands in a much more unsatisfactory position than the other Judges of the Supreme Court, and that is with regard to a matter for which we have made express provision in subsection (8) of section 112 of the Industrial Concilia- tion and Arbitration Act of last session. We there provided, or thought we provided, that VOL. CXVIII .- 39. the President's fees, apart from his travelling- expenses, should not be dependent upon the will of the Ministry of the day. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Are there other fees ? Mr. ATKINSON. - There are other fees. There are no other legal fees- that is impos- sible. No regulations for payments to the President, except those made possible by sub- section (9) of section 112, can be legal under the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act of last session. Mr. PIRANI .- They are gazetted. Mr. ATKINSON .- They are actually gazetted, and I have the Gazette here, and I propose to read the paragraph. It is in the Gazette of the 14th March last, under the heading " Regula- tions under 'The Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act, 1900,' " which repeal the regu- lations made on the 5th November, 1900, and are substituted therefor. Well, then, para- graph 49 in the new and substituted regulations reads as follows, under the heading, " Fees and Travelling-expenses " :- "The fees payable to the President and other members of the Court of Arbitration shall be as follows : For every day actually engaged on the business of the Court, or in travelling to and from the place of sitting - President, #2 2s. ; each other member present, £1 10s." Thus, express provisions is made by which subsection (8) of section 112 is not to have effect with regard to the President ; he is put on the same footing with the other members of the Court. That is absolutely illegal and ultra rires at the present time, but it is one of those viola- tions of statute which can be validated by the simple vote of the House on the supplementary estimates since we passed the Public Revenues Act last session. As the matter stands at pre- sent, these payments are absolutely illegal ; and here we have the President of one of the highest Courts in the land dependent upon a snatch vote of the House at the end of the session- dependent in the first instance upon the will of the Ministry of the day-for payment or part payment for work he will have rendered for a period terminating when that vote is taken. Then, with paragraph 49, not only are these travelling-expenses provided for, but in addition to that two guineas, which is of the nature of fees, as mentioned in subsection (s) of section 112. Travelling-expenses are dealt with as follows in the concluding part of paragraph 49 :- " In addition to the foregoing fees, the Presi- dent shall be paid all expenses actually incurred by him while absent from home on the business of the Court ; and each other member shall be paid twelve shillings for expenses for each day," et cetera. Then, paragraph 50 goes on to say,- "The fees payable to the Chairman and each member of the Board of Conciliation shall be as follows :- " For each day's sitting of the Board in the town in which he resides, £1 1s." That is a most unsatisfactory mode of fixing payments when there is added to that the fact, to which the honourable member for Bruce has referred, that partisans are not excluded from the Conciliation Board, and it seems that some 