nual and permanent appropriations have in- creased by 31 per cent. Now, when we realise that the population during that period has increased only about 6 per cent., and that our governmental expenditure has increased about five times as fast, I think it is high time for the most hopeful of us to call a halt, and to ask the Government to begin to consider whether we are not spending too much money. There are certain departments, however, where the expenditure, although largely increased, can be justified ; and in this connection I shall deal with the Statement of the Minister for Railways, which more particularly concerns my district. I find that in 1891 the Minister for Railways expended on railway services $709,000-I am leaving out the odd hun- dreds. In 1901 he spent £1,144,000; or, in other words, his expenditure has increased by £435,000 in ten years. But there is one im- portant feature to be borne in mind by those who criticize and find fault with this enhanced expen- diture, and it is this : that, while our expendi- ture has increased £435,000, our revenue has increased from ₺1,123,000 to £1,720,000; or, in other words, to put it simply so that any one can realise what it means, for every $100 by which the expenditure on the railways has been increased the revenue of the railways has been increased by €137. Now, I have not the slightest objection to any business or any financial insti- tion increasing their expenditure if they are increasing their revenue at a faster rate. Again, take the Post and Telegraph Depart- ment : This department has increased its ex- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 penditure during the past ten years from $261.000 to $416,000, an increase of €155,000, but the revenue during that period has in- creased from £631,000 to £903,000; or, in other words, that department for every $100 by which they have increased their expenditure have in- creased their receipts by £175. Now, those are satisfactory figures, and I think, whether we are on the Opposition or the Government side of the House, we ought to congratulate those two departments on those very satisfactory results : that is, that, while our expenditure on them has increased, our revenue from them is increasing at a much more rapid pace. But there are some departments in the Government service where the expenditure is increasing at a rate that none of us can justify .- where there are no extenuating circumstances-and one of the most noteworthy departments of the Go- vernment in that respect is the Defence De- partment. In 1891 the expenditure on that department amounted to $174,226; in 1901 it rose to $324,057. In other words, during those ten years we increased the expenditure on the Defence Department by 85 per cent. Now, I do not think the country is prepared for this As far as I am concerned, I am bitterly opposed to it. I think nothing can be more disastrous for any country than for it to go in for a large military expenditure. It is not only bad for the people themselves, but it is bad for the men you put into the department. You give a man the idea that he has only to march his head, and tricked out with furbelows, and it makes him not a man at all, but a sort of human doll. I believe a man is to a very large extent spoiled when he goes in for a military career in a country such as this where military people are not wanted, nor are likely to be. Late experiences have shown that we do not require an expensive military service. We want our Volunteers to be furnished with modern weapons, and they will be quite capable of giving a good account of themselves in the event of any enemy landing on our shores. We have seen in South Africa two Republics, with a total population of a little over three hundred thousand people, set at defiance the greatest nation - I believe we all admit that it is the greatest nation-on earth. That is, the case of a nation with complete com- mand of the sea, and able to attack them not from the seaboard, but from the land, yet those two small Republics have been able to hold the British armies at bay for something like two years. And, mark you, the Transvaal and the Orange Free State were only six thousand miles away from the base of their enemies' operations, whereas we are sixteen thousand miles away from any enemy likely to attack us, and we are entirely surrounded by water. I believe that no nation in Europe could attack this country with the slightest chance of per- manently establishing a footing within our borders. We have now very nearly a million inhabitants here, and I am sure if we had fifty thousand Volunteers armed with modern wea- pons we would not require any further military system to keep us free from attack. I would not grudge to see another €10,000 or £20,000 voted towards the support of the British navy, as our contribution towards keeping our trade routes clear. And then, if we keep within our borders a number of efficient Volunteers, I say we will want no further system of defence. In spite of these self-evident facts, it is now clear that our defence-system expenditure is increasing by leaps and bounds, and I believe very shortly the burden will become intolerable. There is another matter in connection with the estimates which I wish to refer to, and that is the large increase in the vote for lunacy and charitable aid. It is a remarkable thing that the number of lunatics should be increas- ing at the rate they are. The member for Wai- temata says he is not surprised at it. I am, however, surprised at it; because, after all, what is the great predisposing cause of lunacy ? It is drink ; and whatever the young colonial is, he is not a drunkard. And I do not think that it is religious mania that is turning the heads of so many colonists. What is the cause of this lunacy ? An Hon. MEMBER .-- Bad laws. Mr. LAURENSON .- No: but I think it is not improbable that our present system of educa- tion has something to do with it. There is too much cramming under it, and it is now thought that a boy or girl has not made proper progress unless he or she has passed the Sixth Standard at twelve years of age. At any rate, we see 