down were merely a quotation from a speech already delivered. Mr. J. ALLEN said, when he was asked to read his Hansard proof, he had no notion that advantage would be taken of his so doing. However, although he believed this proceeding to be against the Standing Orders, he had raised no objections; he felt he must give the Premier every advantage. Mr. SEDDON said his object in getting the honourable member to read the words was to enable the opportunity being given the honour- able member to withdraw them. If that were done, that would end the matter so far as he was concerned. Mr. J. ALLEN asked to be informed of the exact words that were objected to. [At the suggestion of Mr. SEDDON, and with the consent of the Committee, the Acting-Chair- man left the Chair, in order to permit of a Con- ference with a view to an agreement as to the words that would be withdrawn.] On resuming, Mr. SEDDON asked leave to withdraw the motion, That the words of the honourable member for Bruce be taken down, seeing the honourable member had promised to withdraw them. Mr. J. ALLEN said the words he withdrew were as follows : "Since that ship left Albany five or six of those men were dead. Who had " the responsibility ? " "The Premier was afraid to offend the people of Invercargill, even though to please them he had to sacrifice the lives of men who had been serving their country." "The honourable gentleman had taken the responsibility of the lives of these men upon his own shoulders. He had the responsibility of all the sickness and the breakdown in health of all these men in sending them by that cold route." He would modify the following words : "and he would have to answer to the House and the colony for sacrificing these men," to read as follows : "He would have to answer to the House and to the colony for declining to accept the advice forwarded from the doctor." He did not know exactly what his position was. Was he now committed to alter his Hansard proof in the direction in which he said he was going to alter it ? The ACTING-CHAIRMAN said he under- stood the honourable gentleman to be in the position of a person who had used words and who withdrew them. The honourable gentle- man had his proof before him, and he presumed he would cross the words out of his proof. Mr. SEDDON said the remarks on what had been said would have been reported in Hansard, and it might be as well that the parts relating to the words that had been withdrawn should It was only those portions of not be reported. the speeches referring to the remarks that had been withdrawn. Mr. MASSEY .- I would suggest that mem- bers be allowed to do that themselves. Mr. SEDDON said there was a precedent to guide the Committee, in which the Speaker be left to Mr. Speaker and the Chairman of Committees. That was the course he thought should be followed. Mr. McNAB said, Although the very serious charges had been withdrawn, still there was a tremendous suggestion left. He himself had gone into the question as to the cause of the death of the eight men. It was true that they might think that that should be left out. Whoever did the revising would require to be careful in regard to anything struck out, because there was a tremendous lot to answer for. Sir J. G. WARD took it that the revision of the Hansard proofs would be to see that what was struck out was anything that might be considered to be a direct or an indirect reflec- tion on the Premier. He took it that the proper sequence of members' speeches would remain. Mr. McNAB .- Will they be sent to members for revision ? Sir J. G. WARD .- I am agreeable to that. Mr. R. MCKENZIE. - I think it will be better to have no record of these proceedings at all. Mr. SEDDON said he was quite prepared to leave the matter to the Speaker and the Chairman of Committees. Each member would, of course. see the proof of his own speech. Words that 1 were withdrawn should not appear in Hansard. He was satisfied to leave the matter now in the hands of the Speaker and the Chairman of Committees. Mr. HERRIES said he objected to his speech being subjected to any one for revision. He held that every member had a right to correct his own speech. The course suggested might have been taken before, but he would not agree. He would sooner tear up the report of his speech. Mr. McNAB pointed out that the Speaker had a right to look through honourable mem- bers' speeches to see that there was nothing objectionable in them. Mr. SEDDON thought there should be no report of the words withdrawn in Hansard at all. Mr. PIRANI .- And start afresh on Tuesday. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes; but I think it would be better to leave the matter to the Speaker However, and the Chairman of Committees. in order that there might not be the slightest cause for saying that he had not acted frankly and quite openly in this matter, and to show that he had been taken by surprise, he would say that he had again gone through all the official and private memoranda, and he had ascertained that he had not sent a reply to the cable from Colonel Davies. The Com- mandant had, however, cabled to Colonel Davies as follows : "Defence Minister cannot now change port of arrival in colony." At that time he was communicating with the Imperial authorities about the "Tagus " going to the Bluff instead of to Port Chalmers, and ac- cepted the responsibility of the cable sent. The " Tagus " came to Port Chalmers. 