dared to do it. I say it must be repugnant to the good-sense and judgment of every mem- ber of this House that a Judge of the Supreme ·Court should be thus tempted to propitiate the favour of the Ministry of the day or a majority of the members of this House in his judgments. I say those who have power to reward also have power to punish, and if the Ministry of the day can by their good-will, and for no other reason whatever, put a sum upon the esti- mates to supplement the salaries of our Judges, and have it voted under the powers of the Public Revenues Act, it augurs very badly in- deed for the impartiality of the judicial Bench of New Zealand. Now, to go a little further, by reason of these fees, the President of the Arbitration Court may, and I have no doubt will, receive an annual emolument equal, per- haps, to 30 or 40 per cent. over the Chief Justice of the colony. Now, the President of this Ar- bitration Court is engaged in the solution of an exceedingly interesting social problem, but can the nature of his work or the severity of the mental strain involved in the prosecution of this work be considered then as of greater im- portance than that of a Judge presiding over the sittings of the Criminal Court? I should say not. Apart from that, I certainly take ex- ception to thus making a Judge of the Supreme ·Court dependent for any part of his emoluments upon the good - will of Ministers. The Right Hon. the Premier, on nine different occasions in these two pages of Hansard, said most emphati- cally and clearly that the system should not be longer continued ; and if this House has agreed to the permanent appointment of an extra Judge of the Supreme Court, and also allocated https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 his salary equal to the other Judges, I consider it has done all that is necessary. If in the face -of that fact the Premier, in spite of statute law, gazettes fees for a Judge of the Supreme .Court, I say the House is doing badly if it en- courages or even supports the Premier further in this matter. Mr. SEDDON .- That has nothing whatever to do with this matter. Mr. HUTCHESON .- Perhaps not ; but this is about the most appropriate time, I submit, for honourable members, whose opportunities are exceedingly limited, to raise their voices in protest against this violation of the law. From what I have heard of Mr. Justice Cooper I do not believe for one moment that he would be a party to such a thing. I do not believe it is done by his wish ; but that this is a wrong thing and a vicious principle I think every member of this House will readily agree. While reading in a newspaper the other day an account of the state of affairs in Venezuela I was struck by an incident related by one who was familiar with the inner work- ings of the politics of that country. President Castro caused a Judge of the Supreme Court to be arrested when he was leaving the judicial bench. Without any cause being assigned, he was committed to prison for fourteen days. At the end of that time, without any cause for his release being given, he was again released, and .the first person he met was Dictator Castro. Dictator Castro said, " Oh, Judge, you have been travelling ; I have not seen you about these last eleven or twelve days ? " The Judge said, caus- tically, "Yes ; I have been travelling." "I hope you have gained in health," said the Dic- tator. " Yes, I have gained in health," replied the Judge. "I hope you have gained experi- ence," said the Dictator. " Yes, I have gained experience," replied the Judge. "Do you know now who is master here? " asked the Dictator. " Yes, I know now who is master here," replied the Judge. "You can go back and sit on your bench," concluded the Dic- tator. And that is exactly on all-fours with the action of our present Premier. Mr. FISHER .- He was a dictator. Mr. HUTCHESON .- Yes ; and we have a parallel here, and not a small dictator at that. But the only difference, which is one of degree, is this: Instead of inflicting punishment it will be the withholding of rewards. And, as has been shown already, if this Judge should incur the displeasure of the right honourable gentle- man by any of his decisions he would easily be made amenable to the will of the Premier or his emoluments would be curtailed. Now, here is a principle which this House should not for one moment sanction. This Presi- dent has been given the status of a Supreme Court Judge; he is there for life, subject to good behaviour and a proper discharge of his high functions, and he is equally provided for by statute law in the matter of salary as any other of his brother Judges. Having done that, Parliament has done the right thing, and I sub- mit we ought to draw the line, and stay there. The payment of irregular fees annually on the supplementary estimates, perhaps by the good- will of Parliament, is a blow struck right at the heart of the administration of justice in this colony. I trust the House will, if no other means are open to it, should that sum come before it for review, without the slightest feel- ing or hesitation, strike it off the estimates. Positively there is no defence for the right honourable gentleman at all in violating statute law and setting the will of Parliament at defiance. His actions are due entirely to the knowledge of the powers he possesses in the Public Revenues Act. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- I would like the Premier, in reply, to explain exactly what the position is, because I do not understand it. I understand by law that, in the case of resigna- tion, clause 66 of the Act provides,- " If any member of the Court resigns by letter to the Governor, or, in the case of the President, if he ceases to be a Judge of the Supreme Court, his office as member or Presi- dent of the Court shall thereby become vacant, and the vacancy shall be deemed to be a casual vacancy." Now, provision is made in the Act for a casual vacancy by clause 68,- " Every casual vacancy in the membership of the Court shall be supplied in the same manner as in the case of the original appointment ; but every person appointed to fill a casual vacancy 