to Britain. They are practically making a house-to-house canvas, selling Canadian pro- duce, and the result has been that an enor- mous increase has taken place within the last few months in their exports, and good must result to that country. Now, Sir, at public meetings the honourable gentlemen who sit on the Opposition side of the House talk of farmers being more self-reliant. They say, " Let them depend more on their self- reliance"; but I ask, How can they maintain that position ? They cannot keep up with other countries unless they have the help of the Go- vernment. We know that other Governments are assisting their settlers. I say we cannot afford to go lone-handed, and must as a com- munity obtain the assistance of the Govern- ment if we want to maintain our export trade, if we want to keep up our good name, and if we want to keep up the annual amount pro- duced in this colony. We shall have to follow the example of other countries, and must send out agents to canvass in the same manner as Canada is doing at present. We ought to have sent Mr. Gow out long ago. He is a gentleman who is highly qualified for the mission he is on. I have known him for many years to be a representative of one of the best firms in the colony. There is too much detention in his case-he ought to have gone twelve months ago-and he will have a lot of up-hill work as compared with what he would have had if he had started away sooner. Take, for instance, our rival the Argentine Republic, which was mentioned by the honourable gentle- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 man who spoke last. What were their ship- ments in 1900? No less than 2,420,167 tons of wheat, 740,685 tons of maize, 201,093 tons of linseed, 39,626 head of live cattle, 169,514 http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero head of live sheep. But, as the honourable member who last spoke said, if it were not for the foot-and-mouth disease there would have been probably three times the number of cattle sent alive from the Argentine Re- public to European markets. But, independent of these live cattle, they sent Home of frozen mutton no less than 2,372,969 carcases, and they expect this year to ship 3,250,000 car- cases. Then, again, we find they sent Home of beef 261,365 quarters, and they expect that to be increased to 368,000 quarters this year. Why, Sir, it shows that we must be up and doing. We find also that their labour costs only about £2 a month and found. Germans, Italians, and that class of people flock there in harvest-time and do their work very cheaply. We have therefore to look about us and see that we are not run out of the British market by the Argentine and other countries. In butter the Argentine sent no less than 2,300 tons, and of tallow 25,000 tons. We know that they have a climate not nearly so good as we have in New Zealand, that their cattle are subject to diseases which we know nothing of, and that their lambing is probably brought down to about 30 per cent., while ours will run up to 80 or 90 per cent. We thus have that advantage over them, and also the advantage of I to proceed any further with this railway-line. Mr. Flatmin world; and I think we ought to push our goods and wares into the world. One can safely say the Government is perfectly right in the effort which they are making in the direction of either building or subsidising steamers. I question very much whether it is the right thing for us to erect or spend much money in cool-storage in South Africa. I believe that Britain is the place we should look to, and that we should try to deliver our stuff in the English market. The African market, no doubt, will be good for some years, but as soon as ever peace is proclaimed in South Africa they will produce their own stuff, and we must not let go our hold of the British trade. There is one other thing I would like to speak about, and that is the Midland Railway. Sir, the Opposition put great stress upon the position in which the debenture-holders find themselves. Now, I think if the debenture- holders get anything like what has been re- commended by the Commission they may con- sider themselves fairly well treated. It is all very well for us to say that as a colony we should pay these debenture-holders their de- mands. It may be right or it may not be. But at the same time that is not the question. The colony gave them no guarantee when they con- tributed their money at the call of the company. It appears that the total expenditure of the Midland Railway Company has been £1,108,628, while on construction and equipment only £654,411 was spent. The rest, #454,217, was swallowed up by commissions and salaries and in securing capital. We find the amount realised by the company from Government land was $313,000, which was nearly $50,000 in excess of that which the Crown estimated the land would yield to the company. After all is said and done it appears to me, taking 5.0. the amount raised by the land-grant to be £313,000 and the selling value according to the Commission's report to be #192,833, that the colony provided $120.000 in excess of the selling value of the line; and to that has to be added $38,000 that was found for the company by the colony at the time of construction. That means a total loss to the colony on that line of $158,000. and should the distribution be as suggested by the Commission the net loss to the colony will be $92,631. I have been over the line, and find that the earning-power of the railway now is about #4,000 a year, and I really believe it would be far better if the colony were to drop the Midland Railway and spend no further sum on its construction. It is contemplated the piercing of a tunnel near the Otira Gorge of about seven miles long ; and, after you get through that hill, what do you find? For miles and miles there is no sign of a bit of timber that is worth carrying away ; there is no sign of minerals, and no sign of any land fit for farming. There is only land that probably will carry a sheep to every three acres ; and some of it not that. And I maintain and believe it would pay the colony better now not 