them as quickly as possible. It appeared to be overlooked that Committee - work never existed in the early stages of parliamentary history, but was an adjunct which had grown up in connection with the proceedings of the House. That session twenty-six Committees had been set up, and what real work had they done or were they likely to do? Two or three sessions ago a Committee was set up for the revision of the Standing Orders ; but the Stand- ing Orders had never been revised, and, in his opinion, there was no intention of revising them. What was the use of the hundreds of petitions that came before the two Public Petitions Committees every session ? There were as many as seven hundred and seventy petitions in a single year. They were reported upon, and laid upon the table in sheaves, with recommendations to the Government, and that was the last heard of the vast majority of them. Why did the House sanction such a waste of energy with so little result ? Any member who had any knowledge 7.30. of what took place on Committees, the multitude of reports brought down and ignored, the futile recommendations made to the Government, and the very meagre manner in which effect was given to those accepted, would easily understand his meaning. It would be invidious to select any particular Commit- tee for special notice, but fully one-half of the Committees could be dispensed with without difficulty and with advantage to the House. In this connection he might repeat to the House, without any breach of trust, a scrap of information which he had received from a https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 member of the House wh ) now occupied the distinguished position of a Minister. Years ago he asked that honourable gentleman what was the use of these Committees, why did the House set up six- or seven-and-twenty Commit- tees at the commencement of a session when it had to man them only a total of seventy-four members, two or three of whom were neces- sarily non - effectives, the Speaker being ex- cluded, and others absent from illness? In reply the honourable gentleman spoke as hon- estly as probably he had ever spoken in his life-more honestly than he had done some- times since-and said, " I really do not know ; but I believe the Government do it in or- der to keep honourable members so fully em- ployed that there is no opportunity for in- triguing." Why should they be called upon day after day to attend Committees, and to sit from ten and half-past ten in the wretched rooms now used for the purpose ? He wished also to remark, in passing, that since the ac- commodation had been largely increased in the House the accommodation for Committees was worse than ever. It would sap the health and constitution of any man who put in his time conscientiously at his work under such circum- stances. And now it was alleged as a reason for doing away with the morning sittings that members should have an opportunity to attend to this work. The whole system had become so utterly artificial that it was about time the Mr. Tanner and insisted on a return to a more natural state of things. He had noticed at times a feeling of restiveness when the speeches of honourable gentlemen had been quoted in this House by other honourable gentlemen. Let him quote a speech summarising some of last session's methods, and he would give the name of the speaker later on :- "The method of conducting business in the House was susceptible of much further im- provement, there being absolutely no sense of proportion in the comparative amounts of time spent on measures of trivial or of primary importance. For instance, six hours were spent in discussing the conduct of Mr. Grat- tan Grey in writing disparaging letters to an American paper, but not one word of discus- sion on the Aid to Settlement Bill, giving au- thority to borrow a million of money. An entire afternoon would be passed in asking use- less questions, the questioners seldom getting any satisfaction in the answers ; and then large Bills would be urged . through at break-neck speed, one of the largest, the Maori Lands Administration Bill, being even read a second time at the close of the session before any member had seen it in print. No wonder that so many amending Bills were necessary under such a reprehensible system. In dis- cussing the estimates he had noted the sitting- times (irrespective of other subjects dealt with at the same sittings), as eight hours, twelve hours, eleven hours, fourteen hours and a quarter, ten hours and a half, and, finally, twenty-four hours and a half had been occupied in a final sitting in which some thirty Bilis bad been passed, a long debate on Fiji included. and half a million of money voted. At the close of the twenty-four hours and a half ninety minutes' interval followed, and another sitting of ten hours and a half ended the session." Those words were from his own speech to his constituents in May last. He wanted to call the attention of the House to the hollowness of the excuse for late sittings which had so often been made in this connection-that was, that there was no time to get through the work of the session unless the Standing Orders were so suspended as to make the Premier practically the master of the situation and able to dictate to the House what hours it should sit, and that was generally to a late period. If thirty-tive or forty men on his side of the House would honestly say that they were determined that no sitting should extend beyond a given time the Premier would be instantly converted. and would congratulate the House upon having come to a sensible decision at last. He would always put himself at the head of a movement if possible as soon as he divined the object. That had been the case already this session. Two honourable gentlemen gave notice of motico with regard to curtailing the time of the sittings. or, without curtailing the time, to prevent the unearthly hours of sitting which they had so long and viciously indulged in. The Premier anticipated both by getting the resolution passed on the 10th July which this afternoon he had 