. was raised by the member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds). I do not want to discuss the single- tax with the honourable member, or anything of that sort, as some honourable members may imagine, because I recognise that the single-tax is not at present within the scope of practical politics, and it will be quite time enough to answer the arguments with reference to the single-tax when single-taxers are able to return more than one representative to Parliament. But the point I wish to refer to is this: The honourable member discussed the position we have got into with regard to the Legislative Council. He pointed out - and I want to in- dorse what he said -- that at the commence- ment of the present session of Parliament there were forty-seven members in the Legis- lative Council. and that twenty-nine of those members were representative of the South Island, and eighteen representative of the North Island, though the recent census has shown that the population of the North Island is greater than the population of the South Island. There is another point worthy of notice. The present Government since they took office have, so far as I have been able to make out, appointed twenty-seven gentlemen to the Legislative Council, and it goes almost without saying that every one of those gentle- men was a Government supporter. No matter how good a colonist a man may have been or what service he may have rendered to the State-he may have been Premier, like Sir John Hall, or Chief Justice, like Sir James Prendergast, or leader of the Opposition, like Mr. Rolleston-if he did not support the Go- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 vernment at election-time, then the Upper House was not available for him. Personally, I am quite of opinion that the Upper House has outlasted its usefulness ; but, so long as the taxpayers have to pay for it, I think it should be fairly representative of the different districts of the colony. When I was speaking on a previous occasion - I think it was on the Address in Reply-I re- ferred to the fact that in the Cabinet at the present time there are six members from the South Island and only two from the North Island. Now I come to another fact, and it is that in the Legislative Council there are twenty - nine members from the South Island and only eighteen from the North. I really cannot understand how a sensible, level-headed man like the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds) can support a Government that is guilty of so much injustice to the dis- triet he is supposed to represent. There is one paragraph in the Financial Statement that I agree with-to the effect that the farmers of the colony are successfully endeavouring to in. crease the output of dairy produce. I tried to get the figures for last year's export of butter to Britain from the principal dairying coun- tries of the world, but without success. I have, however, taken out a comparative table show- ing the imports of butter to Britain for the years 1895 and 1899, and which I wish to place on record. It is as follows : - Mr. Massey £ £ Canada 1,113,956 153,401 .. Victoria 1,051,358 982,682 United States 271,776 704,061 Russia · 633,696 685,493 .. Argentine 100,332 17,364 . . Norway 153,937 70,239 Denmark 5,948,463 7,553,436 New Zealand 232,009 543,367 These are the latest figures I have been able to obtain, with the exception of those for New Zealand, which last year increased its exports to Great Britain to £710,105. In the matter of dairy produce, I am convinced that we can hold our own with any of those countries I have referred to, and there is nothing dis- couraging in the figures I have just quoted except on one point. What I am afraid of, however, is this: It is well known that in the Provincial Districts of Wellington and Taranaki land has been changing hands at prices far beyond its real value, owing, I presume, to the good prices which have lately been obtained for dairy produce. In many cases most of the money is allowed to remain on mortgage, the purchasers evidently being under the impres- sion that the present prices will continue. But if they do not continue, and I for one do not think that they will, then many hardworking and industrious settlers will have difficulty in making both ends meet. I notice, too, that the Government has been purchasing blocks of land at very high prices for the pur- pose of cutting them up into dairy-farms-some of them at from £20 to $25 an acre. Imagine a farmer going on to 100 or 150 acres of land at that price. It would cost him £3, £4, or $5 an acre, as the case may be, for the neces- sary buildings-residence, stock-yards, subdivi- sions, et cetera ; so that if he takes his own out- lay into account-and in most cases it will be necessary for him to do so-he will have to make by way of rental from 22s. 6d. to 27s. 6d. per acre, and I say it is too much to expect. And I say, further, that, in connection with the purchase of this high-priced land, it would be as well for both the settlers and the Govern- ment of the colony to go slow. Now, Sir, in the course of this debate we have heard 10.0. a great deal, and especially from the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier), who seems to be very fond of that sort of thing-we have heard a great deal about Liberalism, about " the principles of the great Liberal party." and "the Liberal Go- vernment." But, Sir, I do not know that the present Government or their supporters have any particular claim to be considered Liberals. Of course, if wasteful expenditure and extravagant administration are indications of Liberalism, then no one will deny them the use of the term. If taking care of themselves and their friends are indications of Liberalism, then they are equally entitled to it. If incon- sistency and opportunism are indications of Liberalism, then they are in the front rank of Liberals. But what I maintain is this-and I believe I am correct in saying it : that there 