Mr. PIRANI .- Why ? Mr. A. L. D. FRASER. - The honourable member for Palmerston, as usual, is commenc- ing his interruptions. I cannot help saying that he reminds me of a Turkish proverb. This proverb was that there are three characteristics of a human being and a donkey-they eat, they drink, and they bray at other asses. I take my share of eating and drinking, but I do not want to take my share of braying with the honourable member for Palmerston. An Hon. MEMBER .- Well, sit down. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER. - The honourable member for Bruce has his little coterie behind him, who applaud him in any assinine remark of that kind. But to proceed : We have had the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson), who has just given us a dissertation, not upon the offence supposed to have been committed by the Dunedin Evening Star, but in his mind-the legal, technical mind-a far more serious offence is the phraseology of the amendment. I venture to suggest to honour able members that when you go to a member of the legal profession, and he gives you an opinion gratis, you can take that opinion with a very large pinch of salt. The honourable gentleman has been speaking for twenty minutes giving the House an interpretation not of the offence committed, but an interpretation of the amend- ment. What have we drifted into ? An Hon. MEMBER .- A farce. Mr A. L. D. FRASER .- I quite agree with the honourable member ; we have drifted into We commence with it being held by a farce. the House that an offence has been committed ; and the House is asked to agree to that ; but https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 that does not suit some members, who say that a fine should be imposed, because they consider that the dignity and honour of the House can be assessed by "filthy lucre." I do not take that view. I ask honourable members who have been parading and pretending to defend the dignity and honour of the House-I am pleased to say I had not the pleasure (I say "pleasure " sarcastically) of listening to the debate yesterday-but I ask the honourable member who introduced the trouble. Mr. Fisher, Is it not patent to the House and the country that his grievance is not that the dig- nity of the House has been offended, but that he has a sworn vendetta against every news- paper that exists in the colony? It is known as well as that the sun will rise to-morrow that it is that which has caused him to take the action he has. Then, Sir, we find that the member for Ashburton, Mr. McLachlan, stood up this afternoon and, with dramatic voice, asked what had become of the honour and dignity of Parliament ? Has that honour- able gentleman always guarded the honour and dignity of himself and Parliament with such gracious care ? Does he always do so ? wonder what the honourable gentleman would have said supposing a newspaper published these lines : " We regard the result of the session of Parliament just concluded with loathing and disgust." What would the honourable gentle- man think of such an expression being used towards members of Parliament, whose dignity and honour he is so anxious to take into his loving care and protect, from all slander? What would he say if this was published of honour- able members : "A depth of degradation has been sounded which is unrivalled in the annals of New Zealand, and both Chambers are equally blameworthy, although the most flagrant in- stances were exhibited in the lower Chamber. Drunkenness- Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I think I must stop the honourable member. A member who reads words that are in themselves unparlia- mentary is in the same position as if he had used them himself. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- I was quoting a supposititious case. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - I thought the honourable gentleman was reading an extract from some newspaper. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER. - Perhaps I have been misunderstood. I was saying that. as honourable gentlemen were so anxious, so keen. to defend the honour and dignity of this House. I wished to put a supposititious case, and ask what they would have thought and done if they had seen it. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- I rise to a point of order. I understood you, Sir, to rule that members, in speaking to the amendment before the House, must confine their remarks to that amendment. The point of order is that the honourable member who is speaking is replying to arguments raised at an earlier stage of the debate - hours before this amendment was moved. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Speaking to the point of order, this is a continuous debate ; it is simply another portion of it. We are discussing the insertion of certain words which are to be in- serted, as I understand, with a view to the in- sertion of further words, which will mean either a diminution of the fine, or detailing how the fine is to be levied and paid. Consequently. that being the case, there is a connection, and I would say that what the honourable memiter has just quoted was on a former occasion per- mitted by the Speaker to be read. It has already been used in one of the debates this session, and is to be found in Hausa'd. Mr. J. ALLEN .- You, Mr. Deputy-Speaker. yourself ruled that the debate ought to be cue hned to the subject-matter of the amendment. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - That is so : but the amendment involves the main question further. On this point I do not think the honourable member is out of order in referring to the substance of the original motion ; but if the honourable member commences to detwie the question of the insertion of the words moved by the Minister for Public Works, then I shall certainly stop him. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER. - I regret that what I I was saying is not palatable to some bocour- able members. I will not repeat my suppr- sititious case, though these charges have been made against honourable members of this House, and have been written and circulated broadcast ; and I ask, where were those honour- 