and in turn make these the stepping-stones to the universities, so that the children of the poorest parents will have an opportunity of passing from the primary to the high schools, and thence to the university, and thus obtain a good sound education free of cost. Under such a system our best pupils would not be handi- capped by want of means on the part of their parents, as they are at the present time. Now, I come to a point of some importance -- namely, the training of teachers. As I have pointed out before, we have far too many pupil-teachers in the service of the Boards in this country. Boards do not know what to do with them. They will never have positions in the ordinary course of events for all those pupil-teachers to fill. Sometimes we find that a pupil teacher is appointed when the average attendance reaches thirty-six ; in other districts forty is the num- ber ; and in others, again, an assistant is brought in at fifty. When the attendance at a country school rises, and the school is entitled to the services of a pupil-teacher, one is generally selected from among the brightest boys or girls in the school. The pupil-teacher has to remain there for, say, four years -the ordinary pupil-teacher course. He or she ge s no training other than what the head-teacher in the school is able to impart. Possibly the head-teacher in that small country school has not been thoroughly trained himself. He may not even have gone through a pupil teacher course, and the result is that a large number of these pupil-teachers grow up without any training except what the teachers in those small country schools are able to give them. What oppor- tunity have they in after years of competing / https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 with those in more favoured districts, working under competent, trained masters, where there are training - colleges, or where they can attend lectures on school management and organization, and where they have the ad- vantage of the universities to enable them to complete their education ? It has been the object of the Commissioners to reduce as far as possible the number of pupil-teachers in the service, and to employ trained assistants in their places. In order to provide for the training of teachers I maintain that : training- colleges should be established in the four large centres of population ; that, if possible, we should have a chair of pedagogy at our university, and so enable the teachers to obtain a degree in pedagogy. In the smaller centres, such as Napier, Wanganui, Timaru, and Invercargill, we should have training- schools, as we could not well expect to have training-colleges there. They have a training- school in Napier just now, which is doing ex- cellent work, and there is no reason why the example of the Hawke's Bay Board should not be followed in the other smaller centres of the colony. Then, in the districts that will not have a training-college or a training-school a system should be adopted by which the pupil- teachers would be enabled to go for a year or two to the training-college at the termination of their apprenticeship, obtain their training, and so become efficient teachers. The system that is adopted in Wanganui, as far as the employment of pupil-teachers is concerned, I may say is a very good one ; so also is the system that prevails in Taranaki. I believe both systems are due in a large measure to the perseverance, ability, and foresight of the Inspector of Schools who is now located in New Plymouth - Mr. Spencer. Now, with regard to the uniformity of pupil- teachers' examinations, every Education Board has the privilege and the power at the pre- sent time of framing rules and regulations in connection with the employment, training, and examining of pupil-teachers. Needless to say, there is a lack of uniformity. I maintain that, in the interests of the pupil-teachers generally, we should have one uniform system for the whole colony, and that we should also adopt a uniform school-book. I consider we have too many different school-books in use in the various education districts ; consequently, a family by removing from one school district to another is put to a considerable expense in procuring new school-books. With regard to transfer and promotion of teachers, facilities should be given for the exchange and transfer of teachers not only from school to school in the same district, but also from one education district to another. There should be some understanding or arrangement between the various Education Boards by which the ex- change, the transfer, or the promotion of teachers could be satisfactorily effected. As I have pointed out, our education system is scarcely national; it is fast becoming parochial, and it is almost impossible for teachers in one district to get employment in another. The Education Boards contend that it is their bounden duty to promote the teachers in their own district-those who have been doing good work at small salaries, perhaps, in out- lying places-rather than to allow teachers from another district to come in and secure the best-paid positions. The question may be asked, Why are female teachers in the majority ? There are so few avenues open to the employ- ment of females that wherever a vacancy occurs in the teaching profession we have a large num- ber of female applicants for it. And in many cases the Boards appoint female teachers to the smaller schools on the score of economy, because they consider the salary insufficient to maintain a man. Boards differentiate more or less between the salaries paid to male and female teachers. They in no case pay them equally, although they are specially favoured in Hawke's Bay and North Canterbury, and in the latter district the salaries of female teachers are proportionately high. In South- land there is a difference of 10 per cent. between male and female salaries, and in Wanganui 25 per cent. It is considered that this disparity is too great, and the Commis- sion reduced the difference in male and female salaries as much as possible without 3.30. prejudicing the salaries of men. As I pointed out, the male teachers are not forth- coming, especially in weak districts where they have very little prospect of improving their 