accepted by your honourable House, reiterating Orders, by which the whole of the evidence of that it is not my wish to set the Parliament at the first day's meeting of the Mines Committee defiance." has been published in a newspaper to the exclusion of other papers, and we are actually informed by the delinquent that we at defiance by this letter, and by refusing to should amend the Standing Orders. Of course, give evidence. I doubt, Sir, whether Sir Maurice, had he been in the chair-I do not every one knows that it is a difficult thing to tilt up against the Press, and the Press gene- reflect on you in any way; I do not know rally get the best of Parliament in the long-run, whether you read this letter carefully before it was read to the House-but I do not know and that is probably why the Premier has backed down-he knows that in the end he whether the very issue of this letter does not would probably get the worst of it. But I do almost amount to a breach of privilege. The not know that anything so daring as this has next point I wish to raise is one which is ever been done before, and if nothing is done it entirely confused in the right honourable will probably be continued. The Premier has gentleman's motion-the refusal to give evi- dence. That is not touched upon, or in only a introduced in his speech precedents that have nothing whatever to do with the question. He confused way, in his motion. This constitutes, to my mind, a separate breach of privilege, and has introduced a case in the House of Commons, but he never gave us any dates. He said that if this is not punished, if nothing is to be done in the matter, what is the use of having Mr. Disraeli said something, but he did not say Committees and taking evidence? Every when. Mr. SEDDON .- There were telegrams about witness may refuse to give evidence, and we shall have to shut up the Committees altogether it in the papers. Mr. HERRIES .- If you look at the records and take no evidence on petitions and other of the House of Commons you will see that matters that may come before us. It is quite possible that the officials of the Government there are cases of breach of privilege coming up might be instructed to refuse to give evidence every session. And Mr. Disraeli was in power a long time, yet we were told that Mr. Disraeli on matters on which any Committee may desire to question them. It seems to me it once did something or another. There are plenty of precedents on the other side; but, then, would be introducing a more dangerous pre- the Premier says he does not care about musty cedent than any the Premier or the Minister for Railways are seeking to destroy. It would precedents in which matters of this kind are entirely destroy the whole system of parlia- raised. But we do not want to discuss that mentary Committees if you lay down the fact matter at all, because we have affirmed that a that witnesses are not obliged to give evidence ; breach of privilege has been committed. It does not matter to us what is done in England. The and how can you compel them to unless you question for us is, having affirmed a breach hold over them in terrorem the question of pri- of privilege, shall we go any further? If we vilege. But if you say to them, " If you refuso to give evidence we will bring it before the adopt the Premier's proposal we shall be having House, and you will be judged guilty of a all the evidence taken before the Committees published in the papers day by day. We could, breach of privilege and nothing more," what hold have we over them? In this very case of course, create secret Committees, but that would be equally as bad, for if no punishment there were certain witnesses to be examined is inflicted in this case evidence in any Com- with regard to these alleged mining swindles, as some gentlemen call them. They might have mittee will always be given away. It seems to me that in many cases we would not get the probably refused to give evidence if disadvan- tageous to themselves. That will be the case if evidence we do get if it was known that the this precedent is set up, and the whole system evidence was going to be published. A great deal of evidence that is given before the Public of parliamentary Committees will be thrown to the ground. And for what reason ? In the Petitions Committee would never be given by case of Mr. Watson the Premier urged strongly witnesses unless they knew that it was private, that the privileges must be maintained, and and these people ought to be protected. Then, to go back to this letter of Mr. Cohen's: It that a witness guilty of not giving answers to questions must be fined. If members look at seems to me that when honourable members Hansard they will find that the Premier argued read this carefully and study it, as I have, that he should be fined. I think the fine was they will find that it is really an aggravation of too high, but that does not affect the question. the offence, rather than a mitigation of it. I have read it carefully through and I find no Now we come to a different position. The word of apology. I only find at the end the Premier argues that when a witness refuses to give evidence nothing should happen to him. following regret :- "I regret that my bona fide endeavour, Why should he be in one case fined and in the through the medium of my paper, to assist in other case not ? The two cases are parallel : on both occasions evidence is refused, and in the the prosecution of a searching inquiry into one case it is to be treated as a heinous offence a matter of the greatest concern to the mining and in the other it is not. But in the one case industry of Otago has led me to commit a breach of privilege,"- the Premier wanted to get an answer to some questions; in this case, where the honour of the That, Sir, is all the apology that is given by House and the honour of the Mines Committee Mr. Coben. But at the same time he has set Parliament 