Fisher's amendment was put, as to whether we could not strike out the latter words of his amendment. I know, of course, that we could, but I wanted it expressed in the House openly, and the Speaker gave his ruling on that point. I think it is unfair of the Premier-and the Premier knows it . is unfair-to say that the members of the Opposition right through were supporting a penalty. I would like to point out before I sit down how the Premier has "boxed the compass " on this question from start to finish. What was the Premier's atti- tude when he proposed the original motion ? He said the object of the Opposition was to "get at " the Dunedin Star, and that all the Opposition wanted was to punish the Dunedin Star by a monetary fine. That was attitude No. 1. Attitude No. 2, after the caucus, was that the object of the Opposition was to " get at " the Chairman of the Mines Committee. Attitude No. 3 was that the object of the Oppo- sition was to "get at" the Premier himself, and that the whole of our intention was directed at giving the Premier a "slap in the face." At- titude No. 4 is what he tells us now-that we want to curry favour with the Evening Star. Who has made a farce of the thing from start to finish but the Premier, who is in such a hole that he does not know what to say of the Oppo- sition. Mr. FISHER .- I wonder if the Star is re- porting my specches. Mr. PIRANI .- I think the Star is, because the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) has said if the Premier's motion is carried he https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 will get every information in regard to the pro- ceedings of Select Committees he can get. The attitude of the Premier reminds me of a quota- tion I came across the other day ; it is very short, and I will ask members' patience while I read it :- "I impress upon you to be good. Those who are good and who obey the laws of our Creator prosper ; their health is good, and comforts come to them. If, on the other hand, you dis- obey those laws you are punished; suffering and anguish overtake you." R. J. Seddon at Aitutaki, in the South Sea Islands. Now, what could be a better replica of this attitude to the savages of the South Sea Islands than the address the right honourable gentleman has just delivered to his own sup- porters in regard to the wicked Opposition : "If you are bad, anguish will overtake you- or, if you combine with the Opposition anguish will overtake you ; if you vote with me, and go into the ' Aye' lobby when I say ' Aye,' and into the 'No' lobby when I say 'No,' you are good, and you will prosper." Sir, the Hon. the Premier told us just now that he had a good mind to take his party over to the " No" lobby and negative the amendment. Yet the honourable gentleman told us he never asked a single member of his party to vote except in the way his conscience dictates. Yet we are told that all he has to do is to tell his party to jump from the "Aye " to the " No " is it a figure of speech? I cannot believe he meant it any more than he meant what he said just now about the attitude of the Opposition. And the Premier followed up that declaration by telling us that many of his party are con- scientious ; "many of his party," not all of I do not quite know how he is them. going to divide the many from the few in this instance in the party, although a remark of the Postmaster-General struck me as a dividing- line. He, referring to the proceedings in the caucus, said, owing to a combination of the Opposition with a section of his party, the caucus decided to make the fine £15. So it must be the section of the party which com- bined with the Opposition. I did not know there was any combination ; but, if there was a combination, I suppose it would be on the part of the members of the Government party who are conscientious. I should think a member who votes against his party under our present system of party government is as conscien- tious as the one who votes with them, and I know-and I think that many members of the party know-that one of the most painful things they can do is to vote against their own party. There is no pleasure in it ; they can get no help from the Opposition for doing that sort of thing, and they will get no approbation from the Government. When they place themselves in that position they are not doing so with any pleasure, or with any desire to please them- selves. Were it not for the fact that they would have to waste the time of the House in doing so, I feel sure that every honourable member on this side of the House would state that their opposition is not to the penalty itself, but to the terms of the motion as it stands at the present time. As far as I am concerned, on every opportunity I get I will vote against any motion which expresses the opinion that the letter in exculpation of the offence that has been committed is an expression of regret, or is in any way satisfactory to the House. The House divided on the question, " That the words proposed to be added be so added." AYES, 18. Rhodes Laurenson Atkinson Russell, W. R. Lethbridge Ell Thomson, J. W. Massey Hardy Haselden Mckenzie, R. Tellers. Smith, G. J. Hogg Meredith Hutcheson Pirani Tanner. Lang NOES, 31. Seddon Allen, E. G. Hornsby Stevens Arnold Houston Steward Lawry Bennet Thompson, R. McGowan Buddo Ward McNab Carncross Willis Millar Carroll Witheford. Mills Colvin Fraser, A. L. D. Napier Tellers. O'Meara Graham Field Palmer Hall Wilford. Hall-Jones Parata 