for us to reverse this order. and I wonder what a howl there would be in this colony if, instead of making that present of half a million a year from the landless to the landowners of the colony, we collected half a million from the landowners of the colony and made it over as a present to the landless in the colony. There- fore I contend that the proposals of the Govern- ment for the coming year would have been more satisfactory if they had proposed to in- crease the land-tax by 1d. in the pound and make a reduction in the Customs duties to the amount that 1d. in the pound on the land-tax would produce. By so doing they would only add £294,583 to the taxation of those who are in possession of a very large portion of the wealth of the colony, and who would also be participating in the benefits that would come from the reduction in the Customs duties. Now, some honourable members object to any proposal to add a further tax on land-values ; but, even if we put 3d. in the pound on land- values, land as an element of wealth would not then be contributing anything like its fair share of the taxation of the colony. When I discuss this matter with honourable members and with others outside the House I generally find they say, " Land ought to pay a fair share of the taxation in proportion to other forms of wealth." Mr. MASSEY .- Hear, hear. Mr. FOWLDS .- The honourable member for Franklin, who I know disagrees with me largely in what I am saying, says " Hear, hear." Well, I want him to hold on to that "Hear, hear," and I intend to show conclusively that land as https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 an item of wealth in the country does not pay anything like its fair share in proportion to wealth in other forms. Last year the Registrar- General's estimate of the total wealth of New Zealand was £217,587,481. A return laid http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero on the table of the House, which return I have already referred to, shows that 37,391 owners were the contributors of the land- tax, and that these 37,391 owners owned land- value estimated at £96,662,493. I want here to say that this return includes land and im- provements, and I should have much preferred if it had been possible to deal with the un- improved value only, but although a return was ordered three years ago by this House, with the object of furnishing the required information, it has not been supplied, and therefore the only figures I can deal with are those that were laid on the table of the House lately, and which include improvements. Now, last year there was contributed by the holders of wealth in other forms, who owned wealth estimated at £120,923,988, the sum of £2.749,307 towards the taxation of the country, while the owners of land-value worth #96,662,493 only contri- buted $294,583. Mr. MONK .- They also contributed under the Customs revenue. Mr. FOWLDS .- If the honourable member for Waitemata will only possess his soul in patience I will deal with that question and make the matter so clear that even he will understand it. Now, if they had paid at | the local authorities. I will leave that subject Mr. Fowlds the same rate as the holders of wealth in other forms, we find that, instead of paying £294,583, they would have paid $2,172,093; in other words, they paid short of their fair share by £1,877,510. My next note is that I may be told, as I expected I would be by the honour- able member for Waitemata, that they also pay Customs duties, and I say, "Yes; but do they not also own a fair share of the other wealth that is referred to?" In addition to their land- values they are also, every one of them, the owners of a large proportion of the balance of the wealth of the colony, and, even taking into consideration that they pay Customs taxation, they only pay their fair share in proportion to what they own of wealth in other forms. I want, however, to go further, and give them credit for paying their fair share of the Customs taxation, and then see how the account stands. Their number is 37,391. Giving them the same average per head as the rest of the population, it would amount to £132,894 of Customs duties. Let us deduct that from the shortage they con- tributed in proportion to other forms of wealth, and it still leaves them short of their fair share of payment by the sum of £1,744,616. I have another calculation worked out to satisfy the honourable member. It may be said, "Oh, yes, those people who own the land spend a lot more in Customs duties than the ordinary people." I will now assume that they pay double the amount of Customs duty that the rest of the community pay. Mr. MONK .- Do they pay road-rates ? Mr. FOWLDS .- I will come to that presently if you will only take it easy. Assuming that they pay double the amount of Customs duty per head that the rest of the population pay, that would give $265,788. Deduct that from their shortage and there would still be a defi- ciency of $1,611,722 per annum. In the face of these figures, would the honourable member for Waitemata still say that only fanatics, fools, and rogues would contend that the tax on land- values should be increased ? What does the honourable member for Franklin say? He said "Hear, hear," when I made the proposition that land ought to pay a fair amount of taxes in proportion to other forms of wealth. Those who defend the present system say that land pays a lot by way of local taxation, and on this question of local taxation I would point out that English Judges have decided that the tenant who pays the rent pays the rates. Any one with the slightest knowledge of economics knows that, as far as local taxation falls on houses or other improvements, it is not paid by the landowners as landowners. But what about the balance ? Is that paid by the land- owners? Yes, it is; but they get full value and full service from the expenditure of the taxes which recoups them for anything they pay. Any local expenditure for municipal pur- poses or for roads in the country creates an equivalent in land-values, and therefore, when the landowners pay the proportion that they do of local taxation, they are receiving it back yearly in the value of services rendered by 