ship meetings at various places throughout the an injustice to the department. On such a colony was very considerable, and in recent years a loss had resulted. It had been sug- gested that some little assistance should be given by the Government for the purpose of encouraging athletics. The amount necessary for the object was £75 for rowing, £55 for figures which he formerly gave were absolutely cycling, and £120 for athletics, including $40 reliable. In the present case they had not yet for a public-school championship meeting. It would be little else than a national misfortune if the athletic championships had to be dis- justified in establishing the station or not. Later on he hoped to pay a visit to the Otago continued. No doubt it was wrong to over- do athletics, but he did not think it could be said that they had been overdone so far. As accommodation was required. the amount asked for was very small, he thought it would be a proper thing for the Go- vernment to place it on the estimates. ter for Railways, -- (1) What was the result of Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) said he had not had the pleasure of receiving the cir- cular referred to by the honourable member, but he understood the nature of it. While he was anxious to do what he could to assist railway-lines from noticing approaching trains ; athletics, he did not think the colony ought to be asked to contribute. They might just as well be asked to contribute to the funds of the Caledonian societies and the racing-clubs. If the British public wanted good sport they ought to do as he himself did, and that was, crossings this matter was one of some im- put their hands into their pockets and pay for it. # RAILWAY-SIDING, OTAGO CENTRAL RAILWAY. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether he will, in order ings which, he believed, it was necessary to have to extend a necessary convenience to settlers, put in a railway-siding at or about the 90-mile post on the Otago Central Railway? He had plantations might be valuable which had been not been successful in his application for neces- sary sidings on the Otago Central line, but he planted by the Railway Department, still there hoped that in this case the honourable gentle- ought to be a clearance made at all crossings man would see his way to accede to the request. Some time ago he tried to have a necessary an approaching train to persons when crossing siding put in at a point between Ranfurly and Wedderburn, but the department was not able to grant it. He hoped that when the Minister visited the locality himself he would see the necessity for it. He had a petition signed by obtained showing the whole of the crossings the following residents : William Beck, John White, Lachlan McLean, and others, pointing growing trees, and subsequently the District out the necessity for the railway-siding at or Engineer was instructed that all such trees on about the 90-mile post. They said that the department contended that the grade was too steep at that particular point for a siding, but down or lop the trees as might be required to they declared that there was a terrace quite close to the place which was quite suitable, and improve the view, or allow this to be done at could be used for that purpose. A siding at that point would be of considerable value to trade with Naseby and other places. Between to be specially referred for consideration. 2,000 and 3,000 tons of coal would, he was ad- vised, be despatched annually from there if the siding were established. He hoped that the very reasonable request of the residents would be complied with. They would have figures supplied by the department to capsize his He would make inquiries and let the honour- statement, but they knew how unreliable the able member know. figures regarding another siding that had been RAILWAY SUPERANNUATION SCHEME. asked for had proved to be. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said he thought the honourable member had done Minister for Railways, Whether the Govern- lovely afternoon as that was it was only natural that the honourable member, returning to that chamber after enjoying the invigorat- ing air outside, should take a somewhat exag- gerated view of things. The department's sufficient information to enable them to form a definite opinion as to whether they would be Central, and to see for himself whether the. # RAILWAY-CROSSINGS. , Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) asked the Minis- the inquiry made by him relative to the danger existing through growing trees near railway- crossings, preventing persons when crossing and (2) whether any growing timber has been removed at such crossings since a question was put by the member for Geraldine to the Minister on this subject last session ? In consequence of the large number of accidents at railway- portance. When he put the question last year the Minister said he would inquire into the matter, and if he had not done so the re- sponsibility must rest upon his shoulders. There was growing timber on some of the cross- removed, so that the travelling public might have a better chance of seeing approaching trains than they have at present. Although of anything that would prevent the view of the railway-line. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said that since the question was put last session by the member for Geraldine a return had been the view at which was in any way impaired by railway property were to be at once cut down. Where private property was affected he was to communicate with the owners, ask them to cut the expense of the department. In cases where owners claimed compensation the matter had Mr. FLATMAN asked the Minister to state specifically whether any timber had been re- moved since last session. Sir J. G. WARD would not like to say defi- nitely without having information before him. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the 