and that is with reference to the purchase of solidated revenue, the several services of the colony have necessarily increased, and the land. Perhaps we have done well in the past, but I doubt it. Times have been very pro- strictest economy is necessary ; for if ever the time arrives when increased taxation is required sperous, but if we go on purchasing land at the to meet the ordinary expenditure, so surely will present high price, or at the prices paid in the past, I fear that the result will be that we reduction in salaries eventuate." shall be left with a lot of tenants that can- not pay their rent. I give this as a warning. revenue is concerned, I am sorry to see it is increasing by leaps and bounds. I think it is I think it would be far more prudent if 4.30. we were to settle the Crown and Native increasing unnecessarily ; I think we have lands of this colony and open them up with more Government ofhcials than are required ; roads and bridges, and so make them fit for they are falling over each other in the Govern- ment Buildings ; there are too many by half. thorough settlement. We place settlers on the I do not say the men are too well paid - I land, but we give them very little facilities. I believe in having good men and paying them only mention that because I know there are in my own district settlers who would be only too well ; but I think we, as prudent men, should have as few Civil servants as possible. They pleased if the Government bought them out. I have no objection, but if a loss is made it will should be of the best class, and we should pay fall on the taxpayers. I can truthfully say that them well. Then again,- I know of no place in the whole of New Zealand so suitable for small farms as Taranaki. And why various causes well known to members, the is it suitable for small farms? Because of the fer- money-market in London continues to be un- tility of the soil. A hundred acres there have a favourable to floating loans, and we have had recourse to raising $500,000 locally on short- greater carrying capacity than a hundred acres in any other part of the colony I know. It is mostly dated debentures bearing 4 per cent. interest. Full particulars of the floating of this local small farms that are there, but there are still a loan will be given." few large holdings, and I would be glad to see them cut up. But I would again, as a prudent understand that the whole of this half-million man, warn the Government that they ought to hold for a time, at all events, to see how things has not been borrowed locally, but a great part has been borrowed in Australia. I think it is are going to "pan out." The horizon is not very bright as far as business and prices are con- a pity to borrow too much locally, as it might cerned, and signs are not wanting that we may intensify the difficulty it is intended to pre- have-not in this country perhaps-a depression, vent. I was under the impression-and I am but if anything takes place in any other country still - that, in connection with the Advances it will surely affect us, especially if it is Great to Settlers Department, we should take the Britain. Should the workers be out of em- money from the Public Trustee or the Post- ployment for a short time it will reflect very Office Savings-Bank. This, I think, would be a very prudent thing ; but it was done other- quickly on a colony like this, which supplies them with a portion of their mutton, beef, wise. I have always supported the advances butter, and cheese, and other imports. There- to settlers, and I hope the Government will fore i think we ought to be exceedingly careful keep sufficient money in hand, because if in the meantime. Well, now, I do not intend they had not sufficient money in hand, and to say much on the Budget, but while I am on money were to harden in any way, money- my feet I would like to say a few words. The lenders might take advantage of the rise. It Treasurer says :- would be prudent for the Government to keep "The eager and pressing desire for the sufficient money in hand not necessarily to advance it in large sums, but let them attend construction of public works and conveniences has forced borrowing up to a limit beyond which to the financial wants of the small settlers first. it would not be safe to go. There need be no Many good and sufficient reasons could be cited why the money-market has hardened in the curtailment of expenditure in respect to obtain- ing lands for settlement or for roading back Old Country. The South African War, for in- blocks and Crown land, which so materially stance, has absorbed a great deal of money. assists in furthering the settlement of the people Now we come to the penny postage. It may bo on the land, or in respect to advancing moneys said that the time was not opportune to inau- gurate the penny postage; but I really and to settlers, or in pushing on the North Island Main Trunk and other important railways, honestly believe it to be a step in the right and in otherwise developing, within reasonable direction, and, in a few years' time, whatever loss we may make at the present will be fully limits, the resources of our colony, for this recouped, and a great benefit will be conferred means increasing the output of products and on the people of the colony. People write a exports, and tends to promote an increased population, which the colony badly needs." great deal more now than they did in years Now I agree with these sentiments to a certain gone by, and every one has an opportunity of extent, especially with reference to roads and being educated fairly at the public schools of bridges and opening up the country. If the the colony. I therefore think it is a step in the right direction. Now, the Treasurer makes a money is spent properly it cannot be better long statement here in reference to the land. expended than in that direction. Now I pass and income-tax, and especially as to the valua- on to another matter,- "Coming to the demands upon the con- tion. He says,- VOL. CXVIII .- 15. So far as the expenditure of the consolidated " I regret again to have to state that, from It is all very well to borrow locally ; but I 