matter. He was one of those old members who still had some regard for the forms of the House which protected the rights of minori- ties. That was why the Standing Orders existed. But they were no longer a law unto the House. There were now on the Order Paper ten pages of print, containing 141 ques- tions, some of which, it was fair to assume, were of considerable interest to the public. Why should not the people of the country be afforded an opportunity of having placed before them the views of Ministers and of members upon those questions ? One could understand that in the course of the financial debate or other pressure of business- Mr. SEDDON. - Is the financial debate over ? Mr. FISHER asked if he might be allowed to address the right honourable gentleman as "My dear Sir." "My dear Sir," how many weeks have these questions been on the Order Paper ? There were also notices of motion, many of which he knew were unopposed. He was going to say, when interrupted, that he had known cases when the financial debate was in progress, or when there was some pressing matter to be brought under the imme- diate notice of the House, when previous Pre- miers had said they would prefer not to answer questions that day. That was exceptional; but now there was no attempt to conform to the Standing Orders, and what was to be done ? He was known to be a stickler for the forms of the House ; but now the forms of the House were becoming a by-word. He had seen, and heard, the Speaker of the House insist on https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 this particular Standing Order in regard to the order of business being respected and observed. Mr. SEDDON .- Let us get on with some work. Mr. FISHER said the honourable gentle- man was not in such a hurry to dispose of a motion which had been before the House for three days past. They had reached a time when members should not request, but should demand, that questions should be answered, and should assert whatever rights they had under the Standing Orders. Mr. LANG (Waikato) only wished to add his protest against the refusal of the Government to answer questions for such a prolonged period. Of the 141 questions now on the Order Paper, some of them had been left for so long that when the reply did come it was of little or no use. That was apart from the question that in many cases the answers were not satisfactory. Now, for the convenience of Ministers, the questions had been grouped on the Order Paper under the head of the different Ministerial de- partments to which they belonged. Under this rule, however, the Premier always came on top, and those members who were in the unfortu- nate position of having given notice to ask a question of some other Minister had very little chance of getting an answer at all. He would . suggest to the Premier that he should occasion- ally give his colleagues a chance of answering the questions put to them, so that those ques- tions might be answered within a reasonable time. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he wished to be fair. The honourable member for Welling- ton City (Mr. Fisher) was a stickler for the forms of the House, and he (Mr. Seddon) was a stickler for the rights and privileges of the leader of the House. It was strictly in accord- ance with precedent that questions should not be answered during the financial debate, and no one knew that better than the honourable gentleman. During the course of a financial debate questions might be put simply for the purpose of helping the opponents of the Go- vernment in connection with the debate, and it would be crass stupidity on the part of any Ministry to answer questions during the course of the debate. The debate might have been closed last week ; he had been prepared with his reply, and had been led to believe that there were no other speakers on the other side. Mr. MASSEY .- Who said that ? Mr. SEDDON said he had been so in- formed by his Whips, and they must have had, and he had no doubt they had, re- ceived an assurance that such was the case. This, however, was a warning never to be caught again. If he had his way he would not take the slightest notice of the other side, but would just go on with the business. There had been deliberate prevention of his reply and the closing of the debate. Then, who had brought up the question of privilege, over which two days had been wasted ? Was the Govern- ment responsible for that ? An Hon. MEMBER .- Yes. Mr. SEDDON said that was not so ; the Standing Orders were responsible, because they provided that questions of privilege must be proceeded with. But who had protracted the debate ? Who moved the amendment which had kept it going all the previous day. The honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher). Then, the leader of the Opposition, instead of helping, said if he were in the Speaker's chair he would make the Premier do as he liked. He need only say that that honourable gentleman had been ruled out of order on three or four occasions upon this very question, and had very nearly committed a breach of the Standing Orders, because he would dispute Mr. Speaker's ruling concerning it. Mr. Speaker had ruled that Ministers need not proceed to answer questions, and that he had no power to make them; and when he had persisted, the honourable gentleman had been told to sit down in such a manner as must have made him feel very small indeed. The honourable gentleman was rather bumptious and bouncible at the present time, when Sir Maurice O'Rorke was not in the chair. Mr. PIRANI .- I rise to a point of order : that is reflecting on the Deputy-Speaker. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I must ask the Premier to withdraw that remark. It is a similar reflection to one to which the Premier objected Mr. SEDDON said he withdrew the remark, but it was not intended as a reflection. What 