all its Committee-rooms and other buildings during the sitting of Parliament." Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) asked who it was that had wasted the time of the House ? Those who had wandered over all the earth in discussing the question of the Serjeant-at-Arms. The honourable member for Riccarton had said that we must have some one to perform the functions of Serjeant-at-Arms. Well, let the head messenger perform them. Then, the mem- ber for Kaiapoi and the member for Wairarapa had said that a Serjeant at-Arms was necessary so as to preserve the dignity of Parliament. The dignity of Parliament, forsooth ! If honour- able members were not true to themselves a hundred Serjeants-at-Arms would not maintain the dignity of Parliament. The only way to maintain the dignity of Parliament was by being dignified themselves. He had no patience with those trickeries and gewgaws which only commended themselves to ignorant and unlettered minds. The Premier, in his Financial Statement, had said that excessive expenditure must cease, and this was a most favourable opportunity of putting into practice that precept. The Committee divided on the question, "That the item, ' Serjeant-at-Arms, £200,' be reduced by £1." AYES, 10. Millar Atkinson Tellers. Pirani Hanan Herries Tanner Hutcheson Laurenson. Thomson, J. W. Meredith NOES, 42. Napier Allen, E. G. Hardy O'Meara Haselden Allen, J. Palmer Heke Arnold Parata Hogg Bennet Rhodes Carncross Hornsby Russell, G. W. Houston Carroll Kaihau Seddon Collins Colvin Lang Symes Thompson, R. Ell Lawry Field Lethbridge Ward Witheford. Fisher McGowan Tellers. McGuire Fowlds Buddo Fraser, A. L. D. Mckenzie, R. McNab Graham Massey. Hall-Jones Majority against, 32. Amendment negatived. The Committee divided on the question, "That the item, ' Reader and Clerk of Bills and Papers, $175,' be reduced by £25." AYES, 7. Tellers. Bennet Laurenson Meredith. Buddo Ell Hanan Fisher. NOES, 45. Fraser, A. L. D. Carroll Allen, E. G. Collins Graham Allen, J. Colvin Hall-Jones Arnold Field Hardy Atkinson Fowlds Haselden Bollard Mr. Massey Herries McGuire Symes Hogg Mckenzie, R. Tanner Hornsby McNab Thompson, R. Houston Millar Thomson, J. W. Hutcheson Napier Ward Kaihau Parata Witheford. Pirani Lang Tellers. Rhodes Lawry Carncross Lethbridge Russell, G. W. O'Meara. Massey Majority against, 38. Amendment negatived. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) asked for an ex- planation of the item, "Extra messengers and police during session, £1,400." Mr. SEDDON said there were seventeen mes- sengers receiving 10s. a day, and two boys re- ceiving 5s. a day. The rest was simply the ordinary allowance made to the orderlies under their regulations. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) asked how it was that the £200 additional voted respectively as sessional allowance to the Speaker and Chairman of Committees las: year was not on the estimates this year. Mr. SEDDON said he was waiting to see what the wishes of members were on this question. Was he to take it that members wished him to bring these allowances down ? Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked who was the messenger who received the salary of £185. Mr. SEDDON said it was the head messenger. Mr. Lynch. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL said that under the heading "Charwomen " a vote for $50 was taken last year, and #11 was shown as having been expended. That appeared on page 9, and on the next page it was shown that $705 had been expended under the same heading. What was the distinction between the two ? Mr. SEDDON said the £11 had been paid to the charwoman during the recess. . Vote, £4,065, agreed to. General Expenses, £13,952. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) expressed the hope that the small increase in the salaries recommended by the Library Committee would be brought down on the supplementary est :- mates. The Assistant Librarian was getting less than the temporary hands employed, and surely that was not right. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked if it was the intention of the Government to divide the duties of the custodian, so that one officer took charge of the buildings and another had charge of Bellamy's. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) moved, That the salary of the custodian be reduced by £1. He desired to state that, while the accommodation of the library had been greatly improved, there was a great lack of accommodation for persons visiting members on business. If the cus- todian was the controlling authority in the management of the rooms round and about the library, the sooner he got to work the better. So little and so poor was the accommodation 