Mr. BENNET .- The North is getting the | years. Now, although an enormous amount of money as fast as it is possible to spend it. Mr. FOWLDS .- I say you are getting twice as much money in the South as in the North. Mr. BENNET .-- You are trying to make us believe that we get the same amount spent on roads as in the North ; but I am coming to that by-and-by, and we will see what is the real position. I really think, however, that a little more attention should be given to these outside districts, even if the railway rates were kept a little higher. It would be better than cutting down the rates to bed-rock, and leaving these districts without railway communication, al- though they have contributed as much towards the promotion of the working railways as those that live convenient to them. We are in the same position as the Auckland people: we could not decide on the lines that we want ; but that now will have to be left to the depart- ment, and then probably it will be settled. That has been the bone of contention with us, as it has been in the North Island. Now I will come to the mines question, and I think honourable members will see whether there is any reason to complain :- "Gold-mining generally is steadily progres- sing, and, although many companies which were floated more for the purpose of collect- ing calls from shareholders than for the pur- pose of winning the precious metal have been and are being wiped out of existence, the yield of gold is increasing. The quantity and value exported for the half-year ended 30th June last was 217,478 oz., valued at £844,888, being an increase of 38,175 oz., valued at £150,029, over the first half of the year 1900." Well, let us see what it is for 1900. 3.30. I will give you the returns : The gold and silver produced from 1853 to end of 1900 was £57,721,648, and the production of mine- rals, including kauri - gum, was £18,383,945, giving a total wealth produced of £76,105,593. The value of machinery employed in all classes of mining was £1,736,036. In dredging, for the nine months ended the 31st December, 1900, the banks purchased gold worth $400,000 in Otago, the greater portion of this having been obtained from dredges. The total number of dredges in the colony, both in Otago and West Coast, either working, under construction, or tenders for which have been called, is 305- Otago, 240; West Coast, 65. Including the coal- miners, carters, and those actually employed in working the machinery, each dredge employs eleven men, so that the number of men em- ployed in this industry, when all dredges are completed, will be at least 3,355. The North Island quartz-mines produced in 1900, £635,053, and the South Island $123,754, making a total production from quartz of $758,807. The gold produced during the first eight months of the present year, ending 31st August, was 279,585 oz., valued at $1,079,476; and the production for same period in 1900 was 242,755 oz., valued at $938,047 ; the increase for eight months over last year being 36,830 oz., valued at $141,429. If this rate continues, the production for the present year will be the highest for twenty-eight gold has been got during this season, which has been one of the worst winters for dredging we have had for many years, yet these returns show they have done good work, and one therefore may imagine what it would be under better cir- cumstances. Now, the return goes on to show that the number of men employed in gold- mining in 1900 was 13,502, as against 13,291 in 1899 ; and in coal-mining 2,460, as against 2,153 in 1899: the total in all classes of mining being 15,962, or an increase of 518 over 1899. Now, in spite of the value of this industry to the colony, very little has been done to assist the men who are engaged in it. During last session the Premier proposed to reduce the taxation on mining machinery, and there was at once a great clamour raised against it, and all the town members voted against that. Now, I think that was very unfair, for, although there is a duty of 22 per cent. on machinery used for industrial purposes, the goods manufactured by such machinery is protected to the same extent. I think the case of the miners ought to have received a little more consideration. There is another matter that I think they have great reason to complain of, and that is in respect to this Inspection of Machinery Act. They have been urging me to get an amendment made in that. I am pleased to say that the Minister of Marine has taken in the situation, and has not forced a strict compliance of the Act. Had that been done a large portion of the dredges would have been stopped. There was no reason for that being passed. for, although dredging has been going on for thirty years, never once has there been an accident from want of efficiency of the drivers. Any accident that has taken place so far has been in connection with the machinery of the dredges. However, the Minister wisely enough recognised that the thing would be unworkable. There is not one of the managers of these dredges that would allow a man to be left in charge of the engine until he had got a good knowledge of the business. Now I come to the subject of establishing a State coal-mine. There has been a great deal said about this project of a State coal-mine, and the Government have stated that it is their intention to. go in for the pur- chase of a coal-mine, and to get steamers to carry their own coal. Now, for my own part. I have some little doubt about the advisability of doing this. Judging from circulars sent to members it is clear enough that the owners of these coal-mines have not got all the profits. and that it must be amongst the retailers of the towns that we must look for the profits. We have information from America, from Texas and other parts, that they are going in largely for using oil instead of coal as a fuel for motive- power. There are two steamers being built in Belfast which are to use oil instead of coal. and they can contract to run at a speed of twenty knots with oil-engines. If that is the case, and oil is replacing coal in this way, I think it would be unwise for the Government to srecu- late in any undertaking of this kind. We all must be perfectly well aware that the con- 