women who were not workers would travel by | he did not see how they could consistently be trains starting after eight o'clock. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said workers' tickets were issued for the purpose of inducing the working-classes to live outside the crowded cities, and, following the universal railway practice, their use on the outward journey was confined to what were known as workmen's trains-that was, trains arriving at destination before eight a.m., and which were patronised by the bulk of the workers. The department could not take up a position such as suggested by Mr. Allen. It must either maintain its present defensible position, or abandon the principle laid down when workers' tickets were inaugurated and issue such tickets to any person who chose to apply for them. If one section of passengers travelling by trains reaching towns between eight a.m. and nine a.m. were permitted to ride with 2s. tickets, while others in same trains were compelled to pay higher rates, dissatisfaction would inevitably ensue. The department would be bound to remove the cause; and, as fares could not be increased, cheap tickets would require to be issued to all passengers, resulting in serious loss of revenue. The public generally resented the imposition of restrictions, however necessary, and long railway experience had convinced him that the certificate system suggested by Mr. Allen would not only be looked upon as a nuisance by the public, but would be unworkable when a large number of persons were concerned. He was not able to give effect to its general application, and to have two sets of people travelling in the one train would necessarily bring about a great deal of dissatisfaction to those https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 paying the higher rate, with the inevitable result that the honourable member would find himself in the position of having to come to the Government and ask them to make the rates general on the trains between. Port Chalmers and Dunedin. He believed, if the proposal of the honourable gentleman were given effect to, that the issuing of certificates would be looked upon soon as a nuisance by those to whom such tickets were issued. He could assure the honourable gentleman that the whole theory of these workers' trains was based upon the fact that those who required the benefit of the 2s. tickets must arrive at their destination before a certain hour. If the department abolished that, then it would have to reduce the rate for tickets between Port Chalmers and Dunedin, and in connection with the other centres, to the lower level of the workers' tickets, and this would mean too serious a loss of revenue for him to face. They could not have two sets of fares running on the same train. He might point out that the workers' tickets were not for the workers only ; professional men or business- men, or a man occupying the highest position, had just as much right to use them as the workers, provided he travelled by the trains set aside for their use. If they agreed to the pro- posal to extend the hours between eight and nine a.m., immediately ordinary people who had no certificates entitling them to workers' tickets would demand the same privilege, and refused. Mr. E. G. ALLEN would like to point out that at the present time there were two classes of travellers in these trains ; there were workers, and those who paid the ordinary fare. Sir J. G. WARD said they could all travel at the 2s. fare if they liked. Mr. E. G. ALLEN questioned whether people who were not legitimate workers should have the privilege of travelling on workers' tickets, but by presenting certificates signed by em- ployers any abuse that could possibly creep in would be obviated. Sir J. G. WARD said he did not want to debate the matter with the honourable member, but he could assure him that if such a system was attempted to be brought into practice there would before long be a universal outcry against it. Who was to say who was a worker and who was not? The railways were State property, and the rates should be universal and available to all who wished to avail themselves of them within the prescribed hours. # SECOND-CLASS RAILWAY-CARRIAGES. Mr. HARDY (Selwyn) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will take immediate steps to have cushions put in all the second-class car- riages running between Springfield and Christ- church, Methven and Christchurch, and from White Cliffs to Darfield ? Sir J. G. WARD said the fitting of second- class cars with cushions was being proceeded with as quickly as circumstances would permit. A large number of cars had already been so fitted, and placed on the trains running on important lines where passenger traffic was heaviest. Effect would be given to the request as soon as sufficient cushions were available, it being the intention of the department to cushion all second-class cars throughout the colony. # CROWN GRANTS IN DEEDS REGISTRY OFFICES. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) asked the Co- lonial Secretary, If he will consider the desira- bility of reducing the annual charge at present made on Crown grants in the Deeds Registry Offices? In the Deeds Registry Offices of the colony, and especially at Auckland, there were many Crown grants which had been there for twenty-five or thirty years, and in some instances the charges demanded for the delivery of the Crown grants were as much as the value of the land itself, and, consequently, the land was lying idle, and could not be disposed of. In many cases these lands were overgrown with sweetbriar and gorse, and were a nuisance to the neighbouring farmers. A charge of 3s. per annum was made for storing each Crown grant. He thought there ought to be a maximum charge-say, for three years-and that no charge should be made beyond that time. In many cases these Crown grants had been issued to old soldiers, and it was not until after their death that efforts were made by the next-of-kin to sell the land. 