Speaker and construed as being an expression of regret, so as to relieve the situation and give an opportunity to the offending member to get out of the difficulty. That has been the general spirit in which these expressions of regret have been used. Mr. HERRIES .- I rise to a point of order. Is the Premier not going rather beyond the question ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The Premier is discussing the question as to whether the ex- pression of regret by Mr. Cohen is similar to expressions of regret which the Speaker usually accepts as sufficient. I think the Right Hon. the Premier is in order. Mr. SEDDON .- I have time after time to complain of interruptions that are made by the honourable gentleman and members opposite. When I am giving cogent reasons for the course which I am asking the House to accept an attempt is made to gag me by a motion that I am out of order. Well, I say my reasoning is consistent with the actions of Mr. Speaker, and with the actions of yourself, Sir, as Acting- Speaker under. similar circumstances-namely, that the House has never insisted, nor has the Speaker insisted, that the person or member offending should, in abject language, prostrate himself and apologize. An Hon. MEMBER .- Who wants it ? Mr. SEDDON .- Then, if you do not want it, accept this letter in the spirit in which I believe it was sent. The writer says in his concluding lines, I do not wish to put myself in defiance of the House or its Standing Orders. Yester- day I called attention to these words, and what more do members want consistent with dignity and respect ? The writer, in my opinion, not only intended in his explanation to the House to put the House in a position not to inflict http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero a penalty, or, if it did, of the most nominal character, but to simply accept his explanation and let him go. And, when I said this was done by the Government after careful consideration, I did so because on Friday, when the matter came up, I was of opinion-I had not read the evidence taken by the Privileges Committee- that a fine should be imposed, and I mentioned that to one or two members. However, when I got the evidence and went through it I came to the conclusion that, if a letter was sent to Mr. Speaker expressing regret, and explaining that there was no wilful defiance of the Standing Orders of the House, that would be sufficient. That was my conviction, and I moved in that direction. I came to the con- viction conscientiously ; and what am I to understand from the proceedings of to-day, and the last two days? It is not at all the re- porter or the publisher of the Dunedin Evening Star upon whom an attack has been made. There has been an attack made upon the Pre- mier in speech after speech. It is bad enough for me to have these attacks and speeches from the other side of the House, but I do say I have every reason to complain of those on my own side of the House who put these miscon- structions upon my actions and words. They Mr. Seddon been leader of the House there has never been a case before the House, even when it affected one of my own strongest supporters, in which I have not insisted upon the Standing Orders being upheld, and that order should prevail. And in this case I considered,-and I still con- sider-that my resolution of yesterday would have met the case. You have now a consensus of the opinion of the House, and if in my reso- lution I had proposed a nominal penalty it would have been carried by two-thirds of the members. An Hon. MEMBER .- Hear, hear. Mr. SEDDON .- Because I did not propose a nominal penalty of $5 we have had the business of the country stopped for two days- the Premier is to be hectored and lectured because he did not put in his resolution that there should be a nominal penalty of ₺5. Can absurdity go any further ? If payment of a five-pound note means upholding the dignity of the House, and if honourable members are satisfied with that, then all I can say is I am sorry for those members, and I further sympa- thize with the people who sent them here. There are times when one must speak plainly. I know that the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) has always upheld the Standing Orders on every occasion, so he is not incon- sistent in his action on this occasion ; but im- mediately after the recess what appeared in ibe Manawatu Standard ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I must ask the honourable member to confine himself to the question under discussion. Mr. FISHER .- I wish you would have al- lowed the honourable gentleman to go on. Mr. SEDDON .- I am only showing how in- consistent members are in these cases. In this case there must be something underlying it th .: I know not of. I have no reason to befriend either the Star reporter or the Dunedin Ete: - wg Star. Members must ask themselves the question, what could actuate me in this mat- ter ? I was only actuated by one desire. -- namely, to accept the explanation. The reso- lution was written out here on my desk. I thought members would insist on a nominal fine of £5 or $10, and that that was the general wish of members-although I myself did no: think it was at all necessary-and as leader of the House it would have been my duty to give expression to the wishes of members. But I say that there must be something underlying this matter. I do not know that there has ever been a debate which has been so bitter against myself and the Government. But. I can stand it all. I can stand another three days or three weeks, and I can hold my cw ... I am not one that you can put down ; and w ü will not improve your position and yourselves with the country by the course you are taking. I say, keep to the question of privilege, and co not make this a medium of attack for par'v purposes on the Premier. The member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson) said that the bungle of the Premier in this matter is worse than a crime. 