gentleman excused his introduction of this measure on the ground that the State had I admit already instituted the totalisator. that the totalisator is vicious in its operation, and, indeed, that that is so is admitted by a large number of persons in this colony ; but if it be vicious it is our duty to abolish it, and not to aggravate the evil by instituting other means of gambling. Another thought in connection with this measure is that it is a very dangerous thing that the State should give its imprimatur to anything wrong and detrimental to society; and that gambling is detrimental to the interests of society admits of no dispute. The excuse that a large revenue would accrue and be available for philanthropic and charitable purposes is weak in the extreme. If that theory be a correct one on which to base our action and as a test of propriety there are plenty of other vices that exist which might be licensed in order to acquire revenue for purposes of public good ; but I do not think we should do evil that good may come. The Hon. Mr. McLean mentioned that this sort of thing existed in Italy. Well, plenty of things exist there which we should not like to exist here. He said it kept money in the country. It does not seem to have kept much money in Italy ; it is one of the poorest countries in the world, and . the people are the most miserable, and I do not know any country where this sort of evil exists where the people are happy and prosperous. The honourable gentleman scarcely adduced a single argument in favour of the adoption of the Bill which was not really an argument against it. Amongst other things he said there was a chance of people getting something for their money ; but I say they would have a greater chance of get- ting nothing. I do not know from personal experience, but I have heard others say that gambling creates great unrest and disappoint- ment, and incapacitates a man from perform- ing his duties. I can quite understand honour- able gentlemen who are more or less mixed up in horse-racing advocating the totalisator as against the bookmaker. The bookmaker was a terrible curse, and ought to have been put down ; and I think that If an honest attempt had been made to get rid of the evil he would have been put down by the punishment of im- prisonment. But to say that the totalisator is an advantage to the public is to state that which cannot be based on any grounds of pro- priety, truth, or righteousness, or public policy. The totalisator is a benefit to those who embark in horse-racing. An Hon. MEMBER. - Not always. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- Well, it is supposed to be ; it is supported by the horse-racing fra- ternity. I shall oppose the Bill. The Hon. Mr. LOUISSON .- I am afraid I cannot support the second reading of the Bill. I deprecate the spirit of gambling up to a certain point, but it is impossible to eradicate it from the human constitution. I think at present the facilities in New Zealand for betting given by the totalisator are quite sufficient. I should Hon. Mr. Jones because I think, if what is considered by many an evil can be improved, the totalisator has improved, at any rate, the style of betting. It is very much better than the ordinary betting with bookmakers. At any rate, it has to be all done in open day. And I cannot agree with the remarks that have fallen from the Hon. Mr. Jones, to the effect that a little gambling is so very dreadful, and is deteriorating to those who are guilty of it. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- I did not say a little gambling ; I said gambling was a national evil. The Hon. Mr. LOUISSON. - If any one goes to any of the principal race - meetings, and sees the class of men who are not afraid or ashamed to put their pound on a race, they will come to the conclusion that they are not the worst class of men in the com- munity, but are up to the average intellec- tually, physically, and morally. But the honourable gentlemen who have spoken seem to have forgotten one very important point- that the profit derived from the totalisator goes to provide sport for the public, and to improve the breed of horses. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. The Hon. Mr. LOUISSON .- Well, that is a matter of opinion. I think it does. It encou- rages the improvement of horses, and promotes legitimate, and, as I consider, necessary, sport for that portion of the public that enjoys it. If this Bill were passed, however, and lotteries permitted to be carried on, what would become of the large profits ? They would go to private We know at present there are individuals. men in the colonies who have made enormous fortunes out of carrying on these sweeps; and why we should legalise betting in the direction of allowing fortunes to be made out of what some call the weaknesses of mankind I do not see. In regard to the lotteries referred to as taking place on the Continent, I believe they are State lotteries, and the profit goes to the Government, and there is therefore no analogy at all between them and the lotteries proposed under this Bill. I am quite certain it is impossible to stop gambling in any country, but I think the attempt to regulate it under the present law in New Zealand has been fairly successful. That, however, is no reason why we should provide further means of gambling, and what I object to particularly about these lotteries is that they are not to be carried on openly. The Hon. Mr. REEVES .- The Bill provides for it. The Hon. Mr. LOUISSON .- It cannot be car- ried on openly. The applications for tickets on the totalisator, on the contrary, are made openly, and the whole transaction is done in the light of day. With these lotteries it would be a very But the very fact that the different thing. enormous profits to be made out of these lotteries are going to private individuals is suffi- cient in itself to prevent honourable gentlemen from supporting the Bill. We do not want to provide means by which a few individuals may make a profit out of the gambling propensities of the people. I think that is quite sufficient rea- 