son in itself for opposing the Bill. Why should we legislate to provide certain individuals with means of making fabulous fortunes out of the weakness of humanity ? I do not think there is any likelihood of the Bill passing this honour- able Council. I think it goes in the wrong direction, and I shall therefore vote against the second reading. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN .- I shall oppose this Bill also, because it would introduce an addi- tional source of gambling, which would spread very quickly. It is a matter of notoriety in Italy that there is hardly a woman or a child in the country that does not put money into the public lotteries, and they often beg for money for that purpose. After all, it is very difficult to define what gambling really is. Gambling enters into almost everything - every human transaction-and we may make a great mis- take if we try to draw the line too finely. We degenerate into cant-mongers when we put a rubber of whist on the same footing as un- limited loo. The totalisator has been spoken of as the same thing practically as a public lottery. It differs very much ; and for prac- tical reasons I am prepared to support the totalisator. It has practically put an end to the bookmakers, who are a curse to any country. They entice young men and people generally to gamble secretly, and to commit themselves to engagements which they cannot fulfil if they lose. That is a very dangerous and immoral system of betting, and I am glad to think that the totalisator has pretty well put an end to it. Totalisator betting is, at any rate, straightforward business, open and above-board, and the money risked is put down at once. It is absurd to talk about putting down gambling altogether. That is an impossi- bility. There is a gambling disposition all through human nature which finds vent in one way or another, from the boy playing marbles to the purchaser of mining shares. We cannot define what is legitimate or what is illegitimate risk ; we can only judge by our own common- sense, which, after all, must be our guide as to what is really legitimate amusement and what is downright vicious gambling. I shall vote against this Bill, because I think if it were passed it would encourage a large class of people who at present do not gamble to be always in a fever of speculative excitement. The Hon. Colonel PITT .- If I thought that the effect of passing this Bill would be to promote the practice of gambling in the colony I should certainly oppose it, but I do not think that the Bill as presented to us has any tendency in that direction. Moreover, I do not think that it will alter the law in that respect at all. The totalisator is at present legalised, and so are art unions. Before an art union can be held one has to get a license from the Colonial Secretary to do so. That is all that this Bill provides. It provides that no lottery or sweepstakes shall be conducted except in pursuance of a license granted by the It also Colonial Secretary in his discretion. provides that no license shall be granted by the Colonial Secretary unless the scheme and con- ditions of the proposed lottery or sweepstakes are approved by him as fair and proper. Well, now, surely the Colonial Secretary would not grant a license for an improper object. There- fore this Bill is not introducing any new element of gambling at all. There are one or two points in the Bill that I would like to call the attention of the honourable the mover to. I do not know whether he has fully considered the effects of the Bill ; and, if the Hon. Mr. McLean takes the same view as I do of section 2 of the Bill, I am not so sure that he would support it as heartily as he has done. I do not know what "sweepstakes " means under this Bill. Does it mean that the stewards of any racing-club which advertises a sweepstake on their racing programme will have to apply for a license to do so ? If it does, then the honour- able gentleman will see that the stewards of every racing-club, in respect to every race that is to be run, will have to take out a license for it and pay $25 to the Colonial Secretary if there is a sweepstakes in the matter. If this is the correct view to be taken, then it has probably not presented itself to the mind of the honourable gentleman. Probably when this Bill goes into Committee it will be ne- cessary to consider whether the 4th subsec- tion of section 2 is one that we can enact in this Council. There is no doubt what- ever that it is practically a new Stamp Act. The member who introduced the Bill will see that it imposes taxation of 1d., 2d., and 4d. upon the tickets or receipts that are to be issued. Of course, it will be for you, Sir, or the Chair- man of Committees, to say, when this clause comes under consideration, whether this Coun- cil is in a position to enact such a law as that, being a money Bill. Of course, it may be eliminated and the rest of the Bill passed. So far as the Bill itself is concerned, I do not think, myself, that it can be fairly and honestly said that it will encourage gambling any more than the present law does ; but the point as to whether sweepstakes would be held to include a race on a racing-club's programme is a matter which the honourable gentleman will have to seriously consider. I do not see any objection to the Bill being read a second time. The Hon. Mr. REEVES .- I quite agree with what has fallen from the Hon. Colonel Pitt with regard to the word "sweepstakes. ' That is a matter that can be rectified when we get into Committee on the Bill. With regard to subsection (4) of clause 2, that is also a matter that will have to be considered in Committee. The arguments I have heard against this Bill are not very convincing to my mind. All honourable members admit that gambling has existed ever since the earliest Christian era, and even long before that. One of the oldest gam- bling institutions, and one of the most respect- able in the world, is Lloyd's, in London. Say, for instance, that I am the owner of a cargo that is to be sent to Australia. I go to Lloyd's and there take out an insurance policy on it. Those giving the policy take a certain risk. And what is a dredging boom in Otago or other places but gambling of the very worst character ? 