there the principal man of the Maori people resides - the man whom they have decided occupies a position of supremacy which en- titles him to be called by the name by which Europeans designate their head. They there- fore call him the "king." Now, the Hon. the Native Minister and the Right Hon. the Pre- mier both knew the position that he occupied and the reverence in which he was held by his people ; and he should not have been treated in the way he was in connection with the Royal visit. Sir, my belief is this: that the reason why the Hon. the Ministers treated him in this way was because they thought to themselves this man is a man whose mana is nothing-a man who has become a mere cypher ; his people have had all their land taken from them, and they have no right to be considered as having any mana. Now, I say that the Right Hon. the Premier and the Hon. the Native Minister had no right to treat that section of the Maori people in this manner; and I say that what the Ministers should have done was this: When they saw how intense was the wish of these Maori people to meet the Royal visitors in the manner they desired, and represented by the man who has always been their acknowledged head, their wishes should have been met, and the opportunity should have been afforded them of carrying out their reception of the Royal visitors in the way in which they desired. Sir, I myself explained the position to the Right Hon. the Premier and the Hon. the Native Minister. I explained to them it was a matter of impossibility that the Waikato tribes should go to Rotorua. Mr. CARROLL .- Why ? Mr. KAIHAU .- For a Maori reason. And it is within my power, because I know all about it, to explain to the House what the Maori custom is. The first resident of the country being visited by a visitor, the first person whom such visitor will meet along his line of journey must be the person to receive that visitor in his own place at his own time, and to sorrow with him over the loss we have all sustained in the death of our late lamented Queen. The position is this : Suppose an army goes to battle, and we come face to face with the enemy : I am not going to advance towards my enemy and before I reach where he is turn round and come back. No, Sir ; having set out with the intention of attacking, I must go and attack, even if killed in endeavouring to accomplish my object. The present position is something similar. If I am at home and see visitors approaching, and I, after looking to see who they are, then turn my face away from them, I am guilty of insult- ing my visitors, and misfortune is bound to follow as the direct result, and I should have no right after that to claim to be looked upon as a man of any consequence. Having turned away my face from my visitors, and let other people entertain them first, I would be guilty of something of which no true Maori would ever be guilty, and I therefore say Ministerial arrangements in connection with their Royal Highnesses' visit were not carried £1,000,000 in hard cash had been offered to be paid to myself and Mahuta to go to Rotorua we would have refused to go, for the reason that we would not depart from our principles. And we intend to stand up for our rights and hold fast to our principles come what may. We claim we are the people who can flatter ourselves we are doing that honestly and whole- heartedly. We represent people who have cer- tain rights which are protected by the King, and we are not going to surrender what we believe to be right to please anybody. Sir, I do not wish to be misunderstood. I am not blaming in the slightest degree the Maori people who did go to Rotorua, and if it had been the Maori people who had arranged that the reception be held there, and had it been they who had asked us, we would have gone ; but we would not go at the request of the Government. Maori custom, Sir, is very hard and fast in that connection, and it is universal and well known. It must be for the people of a place to extend an invitation before a visitor would have the temerity to go and visit them. If a man comes and knocks at a door and the door is not opened by those inside he cannot get in ; nor would he even knock unless he had first received an invita- tion. As I am sorry to see my time is drawing to a close, I would just like, in conclusion, to say a few words with regard to the remarks which have fallen from certain honourable members in connection with the old-age pensions. Sir, certain honourable members have expressed as their opinion that they did not think Maoris should be granted old age pensions. Why not ? Who, then, should ? Should the Europeans ? What right have the Europeans to the benefit of this pension ? The Island was ours, and it was the land which produced the money which now forms the wealth of the colony. The Europeans came to this country with nothing, and they have made their money here. Yet you come now and say that we are mere nobodies. To those honourable members who have spoken objecting to Maoris receiving old-age pensions, I say they are absolutely wrong. I know certain Europeans who have come to this country for no other reason than to find a means of livelihood, and have been successful in building up for- tunes for themselves out of Maori land. Under the law, Europeans must have resided twenty years in the colony before they are entitled to receive old-age pensions. That cannot apply to the Maoris, because we have been here for thousands of years. Where did the wealth of this country come from? It was not brought in by the Europeans. It was in the land itself, and we must look to the land to repay the money which we borrow from England. The member for Marsden said that, in his opinion, Maoris should not be allowed to receive old-age pensions; and one of his reasons, he said, was because they did not pay land-tax. I would point out that Maoris do pay land-tax, and if the honourable member will look at the statute-book he will find that the Maoris are compelled to pay taxes. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Time is up. 