Yet we sit here hour after hour trying to punish him in this extraordinary way for something he has done-as was done in the House of Commons, as was pointed out by Sir Joseph Ward, where it was thought better to pass it silently by than bring the offender before the bar of the House. An Hon. MEMBER .- It was a different thing to this. Mr. WITHEFORD .- It was a worse thing than this. It was a portion of the new plan of campaign laid down by Lord Kitchener to settle the difficulty in South Africa that was published ; and it was proposed that the pub- lisher should be brought before the bar of the House, and the leader of the House protested against that, and pointed out that no good would accrue by such a course being followed, nor would it add to the dignity and prestige of the House ; and I am satisfied that in our case no good will be gained by bringing the printer and the publisher of the Dunedin E'rening Star before the bar of this House. Considering the importance of industrial matters to the people of this colony, I would rather see my friend Mr. Vaile, of Auckland, brought before the bar of the House to give such information as he can to the Hon. Sir Joseph Ward on railway matters. At the same time, I do not think it is possible for any man to teach that honourable gentleman anything about the management of railways, for I think that he is the best man we could possibly have to hold the position of Minister for Rail- ways. In regard to the question of the punish- ment to be inflicted, when we come to consider that all that it is proposed to fine the offender is $15 or $25, and when we divide that amongst the different members of this House, we find that the dignity of honourable members will be represented by so many shillings per head. I always refrain as much as possible from taking up the time of the House by speaking, because I enjoy listening to honourable members' speeches. Therefore I never make any mem- ber jealous by speaking myself, because he knows he can speak better himself. In this case I have ventured to speak a second time, because I do not think we ought to waste the time of the House and put the country to the expense of $30 an hour threshing out a question that ought to be settled in five minutes. So far as the honourable member for Palmerston is concerned, no one regretted more than I did that he was punished at all. What did that punishment amount to ? My honour- able friend should think of this in connection with the question before us, and in dealing with the representative of the Dunedin Star. Honourable gentlemen opposite would have been perfectly satisfied if in the first instance a fine of $5 had been imposed. Now that £15 is proposed, surely that will satisfy them. That is three times the amount that was proposed by one of my respected friends on the other side. There can be only one thing that they want. They cannot get heads; but, perhaps it is money they want, and if it would meet their wishes I should be quite willing, in order to put an end to this Mr. Witheford senseless talk, that we fine the Premier £50, and this $50 is to be expended in 8.0. if coffee and tea - not champagne this House is kept sitting after twelve o'clock at night. In that way we may come to some- thing practical. But, Sir, I say, let us vote on both sides according to our convictions. and not carry on this ridiculous waste of the country's time. If our constituents sat around here now and saw what was going on we should all be hooted out of the House. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) .- After the speech of the last speaker, who has summed up the whole thing so logically and so elcquently. there is now no more to be said on either side of the House. However, before we come to a vote I wish to put on record in two or three words my reason for voting against this amendment. I have not, Sir, from the beginning of this debate deviated one hair-breadth from the subject before us. I have refused to be drawn to one side or the other. I objected to that- letter, and so long as the acceptance of that letter as an expression of regret is contained in this motion, then I say I cannot and will not vote for it-the House may do as it pleases. Had the whole of the words in the motion in reference to the letter been elimi- nated I would have voted for it, but so long as they remain there I cannot, and will not. do it. The Premier said this afternoon. did we expect Mr. Cohen to go down on his knees. clothed in sackcloth and ashes, and make an abject apology? Certainly we do not, and we have never asked him to do anything of the kind. But we do expect that, when a letter is sent purporting to be an apology for a breach of the Standing Orders of the House, that that letter shall not contain what this letter does. Why, Sir, are we to sit here and be told how ie conduct our business? Is it the function of any person who has transgressed the Standing Orders to presume to dictate to us what we are to do with these Standing Orders ? Well. other honourable members may swallow that leck if they like, but I am not prepared to do it. I have risen on this occasion merely to reiterate the views I hold in regard to this subject. and to explain why I shall record my vote against this motion. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) .- Sir, I rise now to take the opportunity of expressing my strong disapproval of the temptation which has been held out by certain members of this House to induce the continuance of this debate ; and I say that, with regard to this strong feeling in debate, the question of party is at the bottom of it. There is no doubt about that whatever, in my mind. We had it stated this afternoon by the Minister for Railways that this is not a party question. Well, I may say this: I am not going to give the name of the honourable member, but after the division which took place on the motion of the memit? for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) I was asked in the lobby why I had voted against the Go- vernment ? Now, Sir, I do not know Oppo sition and I do not know Government in this House, but I know the question which 