not consider this a satisfactory result-the in- enables any one with an elementary knowledge crease of the indebtedness by £94 1s. 7d. per of figures to see at a glance the position of the head of the increased population. With refer- accounts of the Council, and also how they com- ence to the revenue and expenditure, in 1896 pare with the previous three or four years. If a similar system was adopted with the colonial ac- the rate per head was £3 7s. 1d., and the rate counts it would very much tend to simplify then for last year was £3 19s. 6d., an increase of 12s. 5d. per head-that is, the revenue from and make them understandable by the people. Then, the condition confessed to by the honour- taxation. Taking the total revenue from all sources, the rate per head in 1896 was able senior member for Dunedin City could not £6 10s. 10d., and for 1901 £7 14s. 4d., or an exist-members saying after five, six, seven, or eight years that they had been misled regarding increase of £1 3s. 6d. per head. That is & the position of the finances. If it was desired very large increase in the amount of taxation that the people should readily understand the per head during these few years. The ex- penditure, of course, increased in like ratio. position some such simplification should take I notice from the Budget that it is proposed to. place ; but, if it is intended to confuse and make transfer another £500,000 from the consolidated it difficult to understand the finances, I do not revenue to the Public Works Fund. This makes think a better system could be inaugurated during the last ten years $2,205,000 that has than that at present in use. Sir, it is not my intention to endeavour to criticize in detail been so transferred in aid of the various classes of public works. Now, I disagree with a good the figures of the Budget ; I prefer rather to deal with general principles, taking some of many members of this House who condemn the the outstanding features of the Public Ac- reduction of the Customs duty made last year. counts. First, I should like to congratulate I say that it is very unsatisfactory for the large the colony and the Colonial Treasurer on the masses of the people who are contributing the prospect of being able to meet the abnormal bulk of this revenue that it should be taken from Customs to be spent on public works. expenditure of this year without recourse to First of all, who is it that finds this money from further taxation. At the same time I cannot which these transfers have been made ? It is help agreeing with a great deal that has fallen from previous speakers, and especially from the the landless in the community as well as the landed ; and who, I ask, gets the benefit of this honourable member who preceded me, that we have been living in something of a fool's money ? Only the landowners of the colony. This money is spent in making roads, bridges, paradise during the last few years, and unless railways, and other kinds of public works, and there is a reduction in our expenditure we shall have to face a day of reckoning before very long. every pound of it so spent creates a pound's The honourable member for Parnell, in speak- worth of land-value, in which the large majority ing last night about the amount of borrowed of those who contribute do not participate money, emphasized the fact that we had assets to the extent of one penny. Now, there was https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 created by the expenditure of that money. It a return laid on the table of this House showing is true that every pound honestly spent on that the total number of landowners in the colony is 110,805; but amongst that number public works creates a pound's worth of asset somewhere ; but I want to ask, Who is in posses- there is included a large number of wives and sion of the assets ? The largest amount of the children belonging to the one family, so that I think it would be a very liberal computation if borrowed money spent in the country, and also that taken from revenue, has gone to create land- you said there were about 73,000 families in values ; when you make roads, bridges, and this colony interested in land-values. If you railways you create land-values. Now, are multiply that number by five to get the number those land-values which have been created by of persons, you will find not more than 365,000 the expenditure of public money in the hands of people in the colony out of 772,719 are in any way interested or benefited by an increase the Government, who have to pay the interest? in land-values, leaving 407,719 people-more No; they are in the hands of some one else. But I shall probably deal with this more fully than half the population-who do not get one later on. Coming to the question of the general single penny of advantage by that expendi- prosperity of the colony, as indicated by the ture, but yet who are compelled to contribute buoyancy of our finance, I want to make one probably more than half the amount through or two comparisons, somewhat different from Customs duties and other taxation. It all those already made. I find the population of goes straight into the landlords' pockets. This this colony has increased from 1896 to 1901 means that since the year 1892 the Colonial by 58,557 ; this includes the natural increase, Treasurer has abstracted from the pockets of the landless portion of the people of this colony so that we have got comparatively few people by immigration. The public debt has also considerably over a million of money, and has handed it over to a privileged few in increased in that time by £5,508,971 ; so that the result is for every single person added to the community. This money has been as the population, including those added by natural much stolen from these people as if the Treasurer had sent round agents and taken it increase, we have added to our debt a sum of £94 1s. 7d. The amount of the public debt per out of their homes when they were absent at their business. They do not know they are head of the population in 1896 was £60 5s. 7d., paying it ; but the fact remains they have paid and in 1901 it had risen to £62 168. 9d. If I it, and it is an amount which benefits only the were owner of a large estate which I handed landlords of the colony. I contend it is time over to managers to develop and settle I should 