The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- That is not in way, when you do not know what may be the effect of what you are doing." In cigarette- the Bill. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- Oh, but we have smoking the young constitution does not feel the evil in such a way that nature can revolt, got the Bill to make it perfect, and I fail to see why that should not be put in the Bill. I hope and resent the outrage. Of course, we know that it is not natural that tobacco should be we will make improvements in it before it presented to the youthful constitution ; but gets through this Council, and, at all events, whether we are able to do that or not, I hail when presented in the form of the cigarette, the outrage becomes so minimised that this Bill with satisfaction, as an instalment of what we want. And I wish the Prohibitionists nature does not revolt ; and therefore I quite would give up their fad of prohibition, and sympathize with the object and the inten- allow moderate people to deal with the whisky, tion of this Bill. I am not quite certain and that they would turn their attention to that I agree with all the details. For in- the prohibition of smoking by youths : there stance, whipping is prescribed for the youth who is brought up for a third offence. If would be some good ground to go on then. I am quite certain they will never control the whipping is to be inflicted, I am not at all liquor traffic as they ought to do, and if they certain that that punishment should not rather left this to the moderates they would get laws be attached to the person three times convicted so to conduct the traffic that those people who of selling cigarettes to youths. But I depre- are in the business would be looked upon as cate whipping being introduced into this Bill. respectable people. There is also, Sir, a further Then, fear presents itself to my own mind that danger from this habit of smoking. If you look by making the law too drastic we may be adding additional pleasures to the forbidden up the returns of vital statistics you will find fruits. I believe, myself, my first attempt at that cigarette-smoking has a tendency to cause smoking was made at considerable personal cancer in the lips of a great many, and also sacrifice, simply because it was forbidden ; and in the tongue, and many people have died from I am not at all certain we may not be therefore cancer in the tongue and in the lips contracted giving a further degree of pleasure to juvenile from cigarette-smoking. There are many cases in which that has taken place ; and cancer is smokers. I am perfectly content to assist the very largely on the increase in New Zealand. honourable gentleman in making his Bill a Now, Sir, I hope the honourable gentleman's practicable measure. I sympathize with him Bill will receive that consideration that such an most heartily. I think it is one of the horrors of the present day that these cigarettes are in important matter deserves. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I am the mouth of every little urchin, whose parents pleased to find, of course, the fact that a ought to interfere ; and if we can do anything movement has been made in this direction. I to stop it I feel quite certain we shall be doing quite think it is time, because-without having good work. the awful abhorrence which our honourable and / https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 measure I can speak with some disinterested- worthy friend Mr. McLean shares, apparently, with James the Sixth of sacred memory-I ness, because I am not a smoker, and I never think, myself, that cigarette-smoking is the intend to be one. I derive no pleasure from it. most pernicious form of tobacco-smoking; in Now, there is no doubt tobacco-smoking has fact, it is a degradation of a worthy virtue. I been for a great number of years very prevalent do not think any man can be a judge of any- among men, and also women, in certain body else in the matter of tobacco. What suits countries. one man in the matter of tobacco may not suit when indulged in to excess, as it is a strong another; but this we may predicate without narcotic. Its effects are something similar to any fear of contradiction : that the insidious that of opium, as when a person gets into the distillation of tobacco prematurely, through habit of smoking he can never feel happy with- out it. But, Sir, I think it is a great mistake cigarettes, to young and growing constitutions to suppose that you can prevent boys from is a very vicious and abominable habit, because smoking cigarettes so long as men smoke. If it does not present itself naturally to the young constitution as to whether it is baneful or not. you want to prevent boys from smoking, you I have known cases in my own experience of must also compel men and women to cease young half-grown fellows of seventeen who smoking, because, if, as a narcotic, it is injurious smoked a great deal stronger tobacco than to boys, it is also injurious to men of certain I smoke to-day, and, apparently, it suited constitutions. There is no doubt that some persons can smoke indefinitely without any evil them. They assimilated it. But, on the effects, just as some men can drink alcohol with- other hand, how many a boy has been saved out suffering any evil consequences ; but, depend from premature abuse of tobacco - smoking because he tried a good old cutty pipe, and the upon it, there are certain constitutions, not cutty pipe was too much for him ! Now, I al- only in boys, but in men and women, which are ways say to boys-mind you, I do not think such that, if they persist in smoking, or using tobacco to any extent, they will certainly boys ought to smoke at all ; but we speak of suffer in their general health. This Bill, boys when they are getting on to seventeen, and to my mind, will be simply inoperative. leave school-and I have acted with my own It is impracticable. I disagree with the prin- boys in this way-I say, "Smoke if you like, but smoke tobacco. Try it honestly. Do not ciple, just as I disagree with the principle of prohibition in regard to alcoholic liquors. The sneak about with a cigarette in this miserable The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- Sir, upon this I believe it to be very injurious 