legislation to give effect to the numerous petitions from the Maori race favourably re- ported upon by the Native Affairs Committee during the last four sessions of Parliament ? This was practically the same question that had been asked by the member for the Eastern District, the Minister's reply to which he had heard ; but it referred more particularly to certain matters of particularly urgent im- portance which had come before the Native Affairs Committee, and which had been favour- ably reported on, but were not included in the " Washing-up Bill " of last year. The reason, therefore, he asked the question was to secure, if possible, the insertion of a clause to meet the case in the Bill to be brought down this year. He referred particularly to the Hopuhopu, Kohanga, and Moeawha Blocks, which were now in the hands of the Church Missionary Society, and he suggested that this might be adopted by the Government as a means of settling the requirements of landless Natives. These three blocks had been given for a definite purpose-namely, to be devoted to educational purposes for the benefit of the Maoris who had .originally given the endowments ; but not a single one of the conditions for which they were given had been carried out. The Native Affairs Committee, when the matter was brought before it, had decided to recommend that the lands should be handed back by the religious bodies to the descendants of the Maoris who originally gave them. He hoped the necessary legislation would be introduced this year. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) said he would give the same answer to the honourable gentleman as he had given to the member for the East Coast. But, with respect to the new feature introduced by the honourable member, affecting endowments to mission societies for educational purposes, the Special Powers and Contracts Bill, commonly referred to as the "Washing-up Bill," was not the proper one to deal with the matter. # CORONERS' INQUESTS. Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Justice, If he will cause the law relating to inquests to be amended in the direction of giv- ing full power to Coroners to order that the cost of any inquest be paid by any person on whom he considers the expense of the inquest should fall ; the order of the Coroner to be signed by him, served on such person, filed in any Court, and when so filed to have the effect of a judg- ment of such Court and be enforceable accord- ingly ? The cost to the country before the passing of the Act of 1899 was as follows: In Auckland there had been 218 inquests, at a cost of $534 13s. ; in Wellington, 161 inquests, cost- ing $377 16s. 3d. ; in Christchurch, 227, costing £526 11s. 5d .; and in Dunedin, 194, costing £363 16s. 1d : giving a total of 800 inquests, at a total cost of $1,802 17s. 2d. Since the passing of the Act the cost had been : Auckland, 227 inquests, costing €1,000 13s. 10d. ; Wellington, 132, €396 6s. 6d. ; Christchurch, 198, $629 9s. 5d .; Mr. Kaihau of 748 inquests, at a total cost of £2,672 9s. 2d. He considered the question to be an important one, because a great many inquests were held entirely at the cost of the country, and be thought it was only right, in cases where the in- quests were the result of the fault of individuals, that the cost should be borne by them, as being responsible for the expense to which the colony had been committed. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said the question was such an important one that, without further consideration, he could not give a definite reply. He would not like to recom- mend that individuals should be obliged to pay these costs, as great hardship might often result in cases where the relatives of the deceased were destitute. Mr. WILLIS asked if the Minister would make further inquiries into the matter, with the view of some system of the kind being ultimately adopted. Mr. McGOWAN said he had no objection to making inquiries, and after due consideration he would inform the honourable gentleman of the result. PAHIATUA DISTRICT COURT. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) asked the Minister of Justice, If he will cause sittings of the Dis- trict Court to be established at Pahiatua? It appeared to be the desire of the Government to concentrate the whole of the business in the large centres of population without consider- ing the trouble or expense to which country residents were put. At the present time, in connection with bankruptcies or criminal or civil actions, or the obtaining of probates, the parties had to travel to Masterton or Welling- ton, and it was as cheap for litigants to come to the Supreme Court at Wellington as to go to Masterton. He understood that Judge Kettle had offered to hold sittings at Pahiatua. They had the Courthouse and a Clerk, and he failed to see why the Government should not extend this privilege to a large community who were endeavouring to lessen the expenses of litiga- tion. The Stipendiary Magistrate"s jurisdiction was limited to £100, and those concerned in cases over that amount had to take them to either Masterton or Wellington. It was as cheap for the litigants to go to the Supreme Couri in Wellington as to go to the Masterton Court. He hoped the Minister would give a favourable reply, as by granting the request he would only be doing justice to many of those who desired to lessen the cost of litigation, aud would be commensurate with the importance of the district. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said the honourable gentleman was, of course, justi- fied in speaking strongly in favour of his own district, but at the same time he was not justified in saying that it was the desire of the department to concentrate all the business in Wellington. The ordinary course was that whenever it was found that the requirements of particular districts warranted it Courts were established there in the interests of the people. 