Court and to the House, if the Premier by a specific Act stated the fees that the President of the Arbitration Court should be allowed. Mr. J. HUTCHESON .- Why should he re- ceive any ? Mr. PIRANI .- Well, he has got a very good salary, and as he is relieved of the very heavy duties of a Judge of the Supreme Court in order to take up the duties of President of the Arbitra- tion Court, it is a question whether he should receive any fees at all. Surely, if the salary of £1,500 a year is considered sufficient for a Judge of the Supreme Court, it is sufficient for a Judge of the Arbitration Court. I do not wish to belittle the duties or the powers of the Judge of the Arbitration Court, and in regard to Mr. Justice Cooper I think every one will admit that we have the right man in the right place as the President of the Arbitration Court ; but I do not think it is right that the Judge of the Arbitration Court should be placed in the position of being dragged on to the floor of the House, as he will be, year after year, under the present circumstances. Now, it has been assumed by some honourable members that Mr. Justice Cooper has already received fees as a Judge of the Arbitration Court ; in fact, the Premier told us earlier in the session that no objection had been made by the Audit Depart- ment to the payment of those fees. Mr. SEDDON. - When did I tell you that ? He was to receive fees; but I cannot say whether he has received them. Mr. PIRANI. - Early in the session, in reply to the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson). It struck me, when I saw that a Judge had not been legally ap- pointed, that it must be a very peculiar thing for the Audit Office to pass such payments, in contravention of the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act ; and not only that, but to pass them in favour of a person who had never been legally appointed. From the tone of the Premier just now-I do not know whether the assumption he led us to make is wrong, that those fees have been drawn by Mr. Justice Cooper ; but, at all events, we had been under the impression that the fees had been paid and passed. If it is not so, then I think it does not need any further argument; but if they have been paid, despite this law, and the fact that no appointment had been legally made, I think there must be something wrong in connection with the auditing of these fees. If no fees have been paid, and if Mr. Justice Cooper has not attempted to draw any fees although he has been acting for six months as President of the Arbitration Court, he must have had some idea that there was something illegal in the regulations contained in the Government Gazette as to the fees payable to the President. I do not know whether the Government sub- mit regulations of this sort to the Crown Law Officer, but if they do, and if this is the sort of thing we get from the Solicitor-General- fees actually fixed in contravention of the law - what reliance can be placed on any legal opinion that he gives to the Government ? Of course, if these regulations have been drawn up without reference to the Crown Law Officer, that seems to be as peculiar a position as the other. But I trust the Premier will, this session, bring down some legislation to defi- nitely fix the position of the President of the Arbitration Court. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin) .- I desire to add a word or two to what has been said by my col- league (Mr. Millar) in reply to the honourable member for Bruce. The honourable member for Bruce asked whether any justice could be obtained in a Court where a person acted as a judge who was a servant of a body interested. I should like to point out to the honourable member that that is not quite a fair way of putting matters. It is a fallacy to regard a member of the Conciliation Board as a judge. Members of the Conciliation Board are not judges, they are conciliators. The Conciliation Board has no power. as the honourable member knows perfectly well, to make anything it says or does binding on the parties coming before it, without the consent of-those parties. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Their award has some effect on the Arbitration Court, has it not ? Mr. BARCLAY .- It has no more effect on the Arbitration Court than the effect it may produce by its intrinsic justice or good-sense. It is wrong to imagine that any person on a Conciliation Board is a Judge. He is simply there to conciliate, and, that being so, it is right and proper that the most representative persons should be on that Board, in order that the cases may be thoroughly threshed out and an agreement come to by persons who know what they are talking about, who have some authority, and whose action is likely to be ac- ceptable to the parties concerned. I do not see, therefore, why an officer of a union should not be a member of the Board, as, from his know- ledge and experience, he is likely to be able to afford valuable information on the questions he is dealing with. Nor do I see any reason why a president of an industrial or employers' asso- ciation should not be a member of the Board. I am sorry the honourable member for Welling- ton City (Mr. Atkinson) should think it possible that persons who are appointed to honourable positions on those Boards should be capable of endeavouring to prolong the agony in order to put another paltry guinea a day into their pockets. I can hardly believe that such a thing could be true. He might as well sug- gest that the members of this House would endeavour to curtail the length of the session in order that they might profit all the more by their honoraria. I do not believe they would. I should like to say that the Concilia- 3.30. tion Board in Dunedin has been a con- spicuous success. Of course, Mr. Millar could not say that to the House, because he himself was a member of the Board ; but the fact is so. I do not wish to compare it with other Boards in the colony ; but there is no doubt that splendid work has been done by the Dun- edin Board ; and the gentleman whose name has been mentioned, Mr. Ferguson, has been a member of that Board for the bulk of the time it has been in existence. 