seeing the House made no mistake. Mr. HERRIES .- Of course, the Premier is leader of the House and can do what he likes, and apparently he can get his followers to do what he likes. But if this Bill was introduced with the object of putting an end to a doubt- ful point, then a validating clause is a neces- sary corollary to it. In the case of Judge Cooper in the Arbitration Court there was a doubt about his appointment, and in getting that right we also validated all the acts he had done. It is the same in the case of Justices of the Peace, and their acts should be validated too, if there is any doubt about their appointment. Now, Sir, I complain about the Premier coming in and, know- ing nothing about the Bill, upsetting all that has been proposed. We trust his col- league the Minister of Justice, who knows more about it than the Premier does, and he should have been allowed to conduct the matter in the House. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City). - Sir, the Premier has just made the remark that he is within his rights in taking the very extraor- dinary course he has taken to-night. Well, it is quite possible he is within his rights. His rights, according to his own view, are commen- surate with his power. That is the only limit he recognises. But I would suggest that, out of consideration, at any rate, for the feelings of his colleagues, he might take the precaution to prevent the recurrence of such an indignity as he has inflicted on the Minister of Justice to- night. The Minister of Justice was in charge of the Bill, and he showed a firm but concilia- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 tory spirit with regard to all amendments that were proposed, and one only he agreed to accept. That was in deference not to any expression of opinion on this side of the House, but to a general desire, apparently, on the other side, http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero though the member for Christchurch City (Mr. Smith) was the only member who spoke to the point. The Minister of Justice, in reply to him, said that, owing to the general feeling of the Committee that such a validating clause should be inserted, he would insert it. Well, then, later on in comes the Premier, and he upsets and practically makes the Minister break the pro- mise he had given. I am not for a moment impeaching the honour of the Minister of Jus- tice, for whom I have great respect, and he honourably voted on behalf of Mr. Barclay's amendment when the division was taken ; but all the effective power that the Minister of Justice had in support of that amendment, and that lay behind his promise, the Premier very effectually took away by the extraordinary course he pursued. He called for a division against the motion ; he called for it with more than his usual ferocity, and he gave a very straight tip to the faithful that, notwithstand- ing the promise that the representative of the Ministry who was in charge of the Bill had given to the Committee, it was the duty of the faithful to go into the lobby against the pro- mise which the Minister had given. Now the right honourable gentleman says he is within other persons in this House who have rights. Surely his colleagues are some of those persons, and surely other members in the House are also in the same position. They also have some rights. Now, if the right honourable gentleman is not going to allow any one of his colleagues in charge of a Bill before the House relating to , the department of that particular Minister-if he is not going to allow any such colleague to give an effective promise with regard to any amendment proposed in Committee, what posi- tion does he place his colleagues in, and what position does he place the Committee in ? Simply there is, then, no force at all in any promise a Minister may make to the House or the Committee except the Premier himself. A promise so given, as honourable members know, often affects the whole course of procedure and the whole progress of the debate, because the discussion is dropped at a particular stage on the understanding that the Minister pro- mises to accept an amendment. The members who are urging this particular change stop their arguments when the Minister acquiesces, only to find, if he is some Minister other than the Premier, the whole thing probably upset by that lordly gentleman deigning to come back Well, I have no and take part in the debate. concern to speak for the Minister of Justice or any other of the Premier's colleagues; they must look after themselves. They take a con- tract, and I suppose they have to bear the burden as well as enjoy the benefit. But surely it is an indignity, which as a member of the House I am entitled to resent, that a Minister who is in charge of a Bill before the House should be insulted in the manner in which he has been insulted. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I do not think it is right to say any member has been insulted. Mr. ATKINSON .- I will withdraw, and say I regret that any Minister in charge of a Bill before the House should be subjected to the outrageous indignity which the Right Hon. the Premier inflicted upon his colleague by the course he has taken before the Committee on the Promissory Oaths Bill. Mr. SEDDON. - You are very much con- cerned when it suits yourselves ; leave us to look after ourselves, and you mind your own business. Mr. ATKINSON. - Yes ; but the point is whether or not a promise given personally by a member of the Ministry to the Committee is binding or not on the Ministry, and, as a member of the House, that is surely part of my business. This is the position I was en- deavouring to take up, as one jealous for the honour of the House, and for the proper con- duct of the business ; for how can the business go on ? What finality is there-what is the effect of any promise-if the Premier can at any time step in and say No? "I approve," were the words he used. "If any colleague of mine has given any promise to the House, I approve of keeping faith with the House, but." There is great virtue in a " but," and this is what it amounts to here: "I approve in general of 