-on the national debt. On the 31st March, 1900, the share of the burden of interest that lay on each man, woman, and child in New Zealand was £2 5s. 6d. But on the 31st March, 1901, the end of the financial year, the net debt of New Zealand had increased from £46,930,077 in 1900 to £48,577,751 in 1901, and the interest was £1,925,316-that is, exactly £2 10s. per head of the population. A man with a wife and four children, therefore, to bear his proper share of the liability, must pay £15 per annum as his family's part of the interest on the national debt. Now, the Premier has told us that every million adds 10d. per head to the burdens of the people, and, as he now holds authority to borrow five millions, there is an early chance of the head of such a family bearing as his share of the annual charge on the public debt no less a sum than £16 5s. Now, when we come to consider that 75 per cent. of the total revenue of the colony is derived from the Customs taxation, we come right close to where the working- classes live. In Customs and Excise duties alone it amounted last year-1899-1900-to £2 17s. 9d. per head, or £17 6s. 6d. actual pay- ment by the head of a family such as I have quoted. That was the extortionate amount the head of such a family paid last financial year to the revenue of New Zealand. This year -1900-1901-we were told that concessions had been made, and that everything was to be well, the masses were to be coddled and pan- dered to, and that large concessions had been made to them last year. But what is the amount they have contributed during the year https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 just past ? Not less than the sum of £2 18s. 8d. per head, or £17 12s. for such a family, being an increase in Customs taxation alone of 5s. 6d. per family. And the Premier tells us in the Budget that- " These figures conclusively prove the won- derful progress the colony has made without any undue pressure upon the taxpayer to con- tribute to its revenue." Yes, Sir, and it also proves that " Issachar is a strong ass couching down between two bur- dens," and has become a servant unto tribute. There is no doubt about it, Issachar is a patient ass as well as a strong ass, because he pays until he is no longer able to pay before he thinks of rising in revolt. And we are now told that the people are well-to-do so long as they do not rise in organized and open revolution. And we are told that the fact that the people are able to indulge in these luxuries bearing Customs duties is the best proof that they are pro- sperous. Could unreason go further than that ? Now, I have endeavoured to discover, if possible, the total amount of revenue collected by the State for which no services were rendered other than policing the people, and I took the Customs duties, the land- and income-tax, the beer duty, and registration-fees. But, of course, the stamp revenue puzzled me-that is, I was unable to discover any reliable data to guide me as to the amount of revenue from stamps for which services were rendered-that is, the value of Mr. Hutcheson By making a guess, and taking a small propor- tion of the total amount derived from stamps for revenue purposes only, I arrive at this con- clusion : that we had raised from these sources for which no services are rendered by the State other than the policing of the State no less a sum than £3,301,963, out of a total ordinary revenue of £5,582,502. Mr. TANNER .- Indirect taxation. Mr. HUTCHESON .- No, not indirect taxa- tion only ; I am including land- and income- tax. So you will see the people pay rather than rise up in revolt and therefore the Premier says that they are prosperous. I have prepared a small table showing how, simultaneously with the highly unsatisfactory rate of increase in our population, we have increased the various items I have alluded to :- Revenue used for Administrative Purposes and for which no Services (except Policing the People ) are rendered. Increase since 1900-1901. 1690-91. € € Customs duties 2,180,862 653,655 . . Stamps, other than 500,000 (say) 150,000 postage (say) Land- and income-tax 111,045 468,393 Beer duty .. 85,171 27,099 Registration-fees 26,042 67,537 £3,301,963 £967,841 The Premier says in his Statement,- " In the Budget last year I stated that there- after the aid to Public Works Fund from the surplus in the Consolidated Fund would have to be partially, if not wholly, abandoned." I make bold to say that if the Committee of Supply adopts the present year's estimates we shall, with the prospect we have before us, cer- tainly not have any surplus from the Consolidated Fund to transfer to Public Works Fund, and then we shall certainly go on and borrow, borrow, borrow as long as we can, and pass the bill on to posterity. Now let me look at another state- ment in the Budget Last year we made certain concessions in Customs duties, and the Pre- mier has been complimenting himself and his Government ever since he published this Budget on the wonderful elasticity of the Customs revenue, and he has attributed it again to the extreme prosperity of the people. Why, Sir, every one who chooses to reflect for a moment must know that for months prior to the visit of the Royal party to this colony every importing firm in the colony were bringing in goods in such quantities as was never known before, every line of which was paying duty, the im- porters, of course, anticipating extraordinary expenditure, due to the rejoicings that were about to take place in the colony. That is one means of accounting for the extreme buoy- ancy and elasticity in the revenue. Another thing is this: It may be in a less degree, but I submit that this House made a crucial error last year when it reduced the taxation on gold-mining machinery. Just a few weeks ago 