Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- | a policy of expansion and extension. The past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READINGS. Pariroa Native Reserve Bill, Old-age Pen- sions Bill. DEATH OF PRESIDENT MCKINLEY. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, I rise to move, That a respectful address be presented to His Excellency the Governor, requesting His Excel- lency to convey to His Majesty's Principal Secretary of State for the Colonies, for pre- sentation to the Government of the United States of America, the following resolution, namely : "That the House of Representatives of New Zealand expresses its sorrow at the sad and melancholy death of the President of the United States of America, William Mckinley, and sincerely sympathizes with the people of the United States, and offers heartfelt condolence with Mrs. Mckinley and the relatives of the late President, and joins with the English- speaking people throughout the world in de- ploring the calamity that by his demise has eventuated." When moving a motion in the House a few days ago expressing our con- dolence with Mrs. Mckinley and the people in the United States, there was a general feeling of pleasure amongst members, for it was thought the wounds would not prove fatal, and the sufferer would recover. But such was not to be ; death has intervened, and the United States and the rest of the civilised world are losers indeed. Sir, it was a sad and melancholy ending for the great statesman who has just passed away. He deserved a https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 better fate ; but by his death a lesson has been taught. We one and all fervently hope and pray that it may be the means of preventing a repeti- tion of such a thing in the future, and, if pos- sible, rendering it almost beyond the means of persons to form associations against organized society and to publicly express their dastardly objects. It is to be hoped the outcome of this dastardly deed may be the suppression of existing evils which are a menace to society. In the meantime a nation mourns the loss of one of her greatest sons. As soldier, finan- cier, and statesman, the late President McKin- ley attained success, and well-merited .praise from his fellow-man, and his public and private life was a glorious example to follow. He had to fight his way up from amongst his fellows, for he was not blessed with advantages that are pos- sessed by many. Entering the lower rungs as a soldier, we find that by his devotion, energy, and courage he attained a very high rank in the army. We then find that by his application and indomitable energy and de- termination he rose to a high position in the legal profession. Although many may differ from him as a financier, still his name is as- sociated with the finances of America in a more conspicuous manner than that of any We admire him most as other statesman. a far-seeing statesman, and we find that during his term of presidency there has been United States has taken its place, and a foro- most place, amongst the great nations of the . world. When it was necessary to take this new departure there was no hesitation on the part of the deceased statesman. When it came to relieving oppression in Cuba, when it came to removing a weakness at Hawaii, and also when the Philippines question had to be faced, we find that he had no hesitation in carrying out the will of the people who placed him in his high position. There may have been differences of opinion in respect to the expansion policy of the United States, but the will of the great majority has been given effect to. Sir, we deplore the calamity that has overtaken our kindred, the people of the United States, who are of the English-speaking race. We know that those in the United States are our kindred. They speak our language; they are our friends, and together we mourn and are grieved at the loss that we as a race have sus- tained. But whilst our condolence goes forth to the United States and its people, we also at the same time tender our sincere and heartfelt sympathy to that good wife, to whom the late President gave a whole - souled life - devotion that in itself is sufficient to commend him to our good wishes and to our admiration. In itself it is a trait in the character of the man as showing his great kindness and love, and a glorious example that should be followed by all men. On the other hand, we have in the suffering widow at the present time one who by her devotion and her great love and sup- port-we have, I say, a trait that we can well understand and appreciate. I think the few words that passed between them almost at the very last moment, when all hope was gone, must have struck home to the hearts of all those who read them. And, when the final end came, his last words, "God's will be done," were a fitting closing scene in the life of one of the greatest statesmen of modern times. I repeat that one and all deplore the great loss the world has sustained, and our regret is all the more seeing that the ending came in the manner it did. Sir, I feel assured, in passing now the resolution before us, and in expressing, as we do sincerely, our sympathy with the nation and with the bereaved ones in their irreparable loss, it may, and we hope will, have the effect of assuaging to some extent their grief and profound sorrow -a grief and sorrow we all share, and a loss the civilised world deplores. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin). - I rise, Sir, to second the motion, and I need hardly say that I agree with every word which has just fallen from the Premier. Sir, the British people and the people of the United States may not always see eye to eye; they may perhaps look on inter- national questions from different points of view ; there may be on occasions, perhaps, a certain amount of friction between them, but when the real trouble comes to one or the other they forget their little differences, and they remember that, though their forms of government may differ, the same blood runs in the veins of both. 