looking into, and I hope the Premier will do justice so far as he can to these people who are now suffering, and suffering severely, even if he has to put the tax on something else. I hold these people should be dealt with fairly. I do not care what it is put on, but we should do justice where an injustice is being done. Now, Sir, I should like to say a word or two in refer- ence to the working of the Old-age Pensions Act. We must not overlook the fact that during the short time this Act has been in operation the claims under it have risen from an estimated cost of £90,000 a year up to the enormous sum of £215,000, and the figures are still increasing ; and I venture to say that in another year or two the claims will amount to at least a quarter of a million. I remember, when the Bill was going through the House some years ago, I predicted they would reach a quarter of a million before the Act was long in operation, and unless the Premier finds some better means of checking the fraud which is now being carried on the sum will still continue growing. I have no desire to suggest that any person who is entitled to a pension should be deprived of that pension, but I know for a fact that large num- bers of people whom it was never intended should receive pensions from the State are by a system of fraud receiving pensions. An Hon. MEMBER .- Is that in your district ? Mr. R. THOMPSON. - No ; the people in my district compare favourably with those in any other district in the colony. There is no more honest or independent class of people in the colony than the people of the Marsden dis- trict. But it is absolutely necessary, if the Act is to be kept in existence, to put some check on the system of fraud which is now going on. I would like to draw the attention of the House back to the fact of how this Old-age Pensions Act works so far as the Natives are concerned. I do not wish to convey any impression that I desire to do anything different to the Natives than I would to the European settler; but the position is this : that the ordinary settler is deprived of a pension if he is the owner of pro- perty ; and if he is the owner of property - let it be small or great-he has to pay taxation to the State and also the local rates. The Natives, under our Native-land laws, may be possessed of a large estate under tribal custom and yet be eligible for an old-age pension. I say the thing is unfair. I hold that if the Na- tive claims a pension and receives it, and it is afterwards found that he has been possessed of plenty of land and property, the whole of the money he has received under the Old-age Pen- sions Act should be made a charge against his property; and I would apply the same principle to the European. Wherever a pension is secured by misrepresentation or fraud it should be made a lien against whatever property that person may leave behind. That is only fair. I say the present system is unfair. I remember when the Bill first came up for discussion the Native members in this House at that time objected to Natives being included under the Act lest it might ultimately become Mr. R. Thompson changed their mind; but I say the present system should be altered if we wish to do justice to all parties. In many districts Na- tives are possessed of large tracts of very valuable land, which contribute nothing to the taxation of the colony - either local or otherwise. I say that now that we have extended every right to the Natives in this colony they should have no objection whatever to be placed on an equal footing with the other settlers. I see no reason why there should be any distinction of race. We should all be treated alike. This is a very serious question in many parts of the colony. Large areas of land are held by Natives which contribute nothing to the maintenance of roads. The European settlers have to find all the money for the roads, yet under the Old-age Pensions Act the Natives receive pensions just the same as Europeans do. Now, I would like to say a word or two about the Crown Tenants' Rent Rebate Act passed last session. The working- out of that Act has been extraordinary. We find that in Canterbury, Wellington, Otago, and Southland large sums of money are being handed back to the Crown tenants who pay their rent promptly, but in the Provinces of Auckland and Taranaki nothing has been handed back. Why is this ? An Hon. MEMBER .- They did not apply. Mr. THOMPSON .- Yes, they did apply ; and they have properly complained to me that they did not get anything. I want to know why this Act is administered so differently in the various parts of the colony. There is some- thing wrong, and I claim that the farmers of Auckland have a right to a rebate when they paid their rents promptly during the last twelve months. I trust that justice will be done to these settlers. There is no place in the colony where the Crown tenants have such a struggle for existence as in the Auckland Province. The land is poor, and the roads bad, and why should they be penalised in this way? I do not know who is responsible, but, of course, the whole responsibility must come back on the Govern- ment, and I hope steps will be taken to put this matter right. In Canterbury £890 has been given back to 474 tenants; in Otago $347 has been given to 790 tenants ; in Southland £101 has been handed back to 106 tenants ; and in Wellington $879 has been handed back to 1,480 tenants ; while in Hawke's Bay, Taranaki, and Auckland not one shilling was handed back. I cannot understand why this should be so. Now, Sir, I come to a proposal which is shadowed forth in the Budget, in the Govern- ment's proposal to make concessions to bush settlers, and I thank the Government for at last coming round to the views that have been advocated by some members in this House for several years. Mr. MONK .- That clause belongs to the Farmers' Union. Mr. R. THOMPSON .- It had been advocated here long before we had the Farmers' Union. I say that the whole of our bush lands in the North Island are poor. The country is broken, 