wish the honourable gentleman was here to tell me how many of that 407,000 could say they did not derive any benefit from the land, either directly or indirectly. Take, for instance, a commission agent living in Wellington. Pro- bably he is never out of Wellington ; but as he is collecting interest on mortgages, and so on, is he not making his living out of the land ? And so the thing goes on. There is some one settled in a snug house, and he is the cus- tomer of a tradesman in town who may be lured into thinking that the man receives no benefit from the land ; but probably his money is invested in mortgages on land, or he may have a farm that is let to a tenant. I do not believe there is 1 per cent. of the population but may be traced to receiving some benefit, directly or indirectly, from the land ; so that question need not be raised in debate at all. We need not raise the question of town versus country ; it would be far better for us to work together for the benefit of the colony as a whole, and to put such questions on one side. I do not feel in the humour to continue. As many honourable members are aware, I have been laid up with a bad cold, and do not feel fit to go on ; if I did I would be very glad to do so, as there are several other matters I wished to speak on. I hope and trust that, after all that has been said by some extravagant honourable members on our side of the House, this colony will not be allowed to stop for the sake of moderate borrowing. Why, Sir, the best baro- meter we have, I believe, is the income-tax, and the income-tax has risen £35,943 since 1896; and there are none who will pay income-tax unless they are liable to pay it. That is the best barometer we can have; and I maintain that it shows the colony is in a prosperous condition, and that, though there is need for the Government to be care- ful-and that warning came from the Go- vernment benches even before we saw the Budget - the country has not to thank the Opposition, or the members on our side of the House who have spoken harshly of the Government, for the advice to "go slow." The warning was first sounded from the Go- vernment benches, and we all heard it, and we all understood it ; but those gentlemen no doubt thought they would gain kudos by sounding the warning afresh when it had already been raised, and was understood by every unbiassed person in the House and in the country. Gentlemen, I have to thank you for the way you have kindly listened to me, and only wish I was in a fit state of health to continue for my full hour. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I do not sup- pose there has ever been a debate on the Financial Statment in the history of the colony when there has been anything so lame and so impotent, so far as the Government side of the question is concerned, as the debate we have had on this occasion. Some members have twitted members of the Opposition with not taking a prominent part in this debate ; but it is, I maintain, the function of every member Mir. Fiatman of this House who does his duty to his con- stituents to criticize the finances of the colony honestly and impartially. When we find that a number of Government supporters are doing it so wisely and so well as they have during the present debate, it would be ridiculous on the part of members of the Opposition to spend too much time in the same direction. "The extraordinary part of the debate has been that-with the exception of a couple of Go- vernment supporters-every Government sup- porter who has so far spoken has attacked the policy or administration of the Government in some respect or other, and particularly is that the case with honourable members who are experts in any department of ad- ministration of the Government. Now, there was no stronger defender of the Government, and no member of the Government party who spoke so strongly on the failings of some of the Government supporters as the member for Napier, Mr. A. L. D. Fraser. That honourable member, if he poses as anything in the House, poses as an expert in Native land administra- tion. He told us the other night he did not pose as a financier. He knew very little about labour problems, but he did understand Native land legislation, and he therefore spent the remainder of the time that he had left, after dealing it out to some of the Government supporters, in condemning the (Government and all their works in regard to Native land matters. We find the member for Wanganui, Mr. Willis, the most faithful follower the Government has up to the point where he is an expert-that is, in regard to labour matters-up to that point he is an out-and-out supporter of the Govern- ment ; but when he touches on labour matters, then you get no stronger condemnation of the Government's legislation and the Govern- ment's administration and the Government's actions than you get from the honour- able member for Wanganui. And so on right down the whole of the Government tol- lowers ; and I often wonder to myself what sort of a vote would be given against the Government if every member who understood anything about a subject was only allowed to vote on the subject he understood, and had to refrain from voting on the subjects he knew nothing about. The term of office of the Govern- ment would be short. Now, up to this session, one of the strongest critics of the Government on labour matters and on educational matters also was the member for Masterton, Mr. Hogg ; and in the recess we had from him a statement, at a meeting of the Wellington Education Board, against a proposal of the Government to classify the teachers of the colony, when he spoke about the dissatisfaction amongst the classified employés of the Government in dif- ferent departments, and about the tyranny of such a scheme, and expressing the hope that the teachers would never come under a system of classification. But, hey, presto ! the Govern- ment appoint the honourable member Chair- man of the Teachers' Salaries Commission, and now we have him standing forth as one of the strongest advocates of the classification of 