a previous debate of this session, or quote what has been said in it. Mr. R. THOMPSON. - No, Sir, I am not going to refer to anything that has occurred this session. The honourable gentleman, in the strongest language, condemned the Go- vernment for their extravagant proposals in the Budget. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Not in connection with land settlement. Mr. R. THOMPSON .- You made no distinc- tion. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - Yes, I did. Mr. R. THOMPSON .- I think it would be well if in future Budgets the Treasurer would separate from the ordinary debt of the colony those sums borrowed under the Land for Settle- ments Act, and for the purpose of lending it to local bodies, and for loans under the Advances to Settlers Act. Those sums, although appa- rently increasing the national debt, do not really cost the taxpayer one farthing, as those who borrow the money pay the interest on it. I throw the suggestion out to the Colonial Trea- surer that in future years a separate table be prepared showing the whole of the sums raised for those special purposes. I hold it to be absurd to blame the Government for running up the national debt when we find that some £2,380,000 has been borrowed to be lent to settlers. Although nominally part of the national debt, that sum pays its own way, and does not cost the country one farthing. Then, Sir, under the Land for Settlements Act we have £2,122,000 borrowed for the purchase https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 of land for settlements. The tenants occupy- ing those estates pay for that money, and it therefore throws no extra burden on the tax- payer of the colony. In this connection I http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero desire to say that I think it is a great mistake for honourable members to try to force the hands of the Government with the view of having lands purchased more hurriedly under the land - for - settlement system. Speaking generally, I think the top value has been reached for land in New Zealand, and, if any change takes place at all, values will have a downward tendency. I think, therefore, that the Government, instead of being forced to purchase land, should be advised to act slowly and cautiously. If they purchased large es- tates when values are at their highest high rents will have to be paid by the tenants, and if a slump comes in the price of land or pro- duce those tenants may not be able to pay their rents. If that happens they will be found coming to this House asking for a revaluation of their land and for a reduction of rent. think, therefore, that it would be as well for the Government to be careful as to how they pro- ceed with the purchase of land. As to the money borrowed to lend to local bodies, I think the Government is perfectly safe in doing this, as no better security could be provided than the security of the local bodies. There is no fear that the Government will lose one penny in that way, or that the taxpayer will be called upon to find any of the money. I should like have been finding fault with the Government if they are prepared to suggest the stoppage of the purchasing of land for settlement. I ven- ture to suggest that the honourable member for Riccarton is not prepared to do so. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Certainly not. Mr. R. THOMPSON. - The honourable member says, "Certainly not "; and I am satisfied that no other honourable member is prepared to advocate the stopping of land- purchase. I believe that if land-purchase is carried on carefully no harm will accrue to the farmer ; in fact, I think a great deal of good will be done. I will throw out another sug- gestion to the Premier. I think he has been giving too much of his attention to Canterbury under this Act. I think it is time the Govern- ment left Canterbury alone for a while. Come up to the North Island and do something for Hawke's Bay. I could not help noticing, when looking over the census returns, that the Province of Hawke's Bay has shown no in- crease of population. The land there is held in large areas, and the result is that stagnation exists in that part of the colony so far as increase of population is concerned. I hope the Government will see the necessity of giving Canterbury a rest. They have done enough for Canterbury, and I hope they will turn their attention for some time to Hawke's Bay ; and let me add that I hope, whatever they do in the way of purchasing land in Hawke's Bay, they will go for the big estates and leave the widows alone. I do not believe in taking over small estates while there are large ones. I hope the Government will bear that in mind. So far as the question of borrowing for rail- ways is concerned, I am one of those who believe that we cannot make any mistake in borrowing money for the construction of rail- ways if those railways will pay 3 per cent. on the cost of construction, and any railway that does not give a fair prospect of doing that should be held over for some future time. My own opinion, and, I believe, the general opinion in the country, is that we are not constructing our railways fast enough. I, for one, am prepared to support any reasonable proposal for the borrowing of money for the construction of railways. Now, I think the time has arrived when we might reasonably ask the Government to give us some infor- mation as to the result of the construction of railways under the co-operative system. I think they might bring down a return or & statement showing us the cost to the State of the construction of our railways per mile under that system, and let us know whether I that system is a success or not. I say, unless we can construct our railways as cheaply under the co-operative system as we can under the tender system we should not adhere strictly to that system. I admit it is advisable for one or two railways to be carried on under that system, so as to enable work to be provided for the weaker class of men, who would not be employed by the contractor ; but I have no hesitation in saying, if it is found, after careful 