sions, and saying he was going to bring Mr. Seddon to book, that "it was a wilful waste of public money; and what earthly good could arise from it ?" Next day a telegram was sent to him asking him whether he would accept a position on a Commission, and he accepted, and he has not reviled the Premier about Com- missions since. At the same time, in justice to myself, I am bound to say that the strong terms used by the member against Commissions had not reached me at the time he was offered the position. Hon. MEMBERS .- Who was it ? Mr. SEDDON .- Oh, I never give my friends away. Now, Sir, I am going to read an extract from a public record, and I am going to show the necessity there is for Royal Commissions :- Ertract from Report of Royal Commission ap- pointed to inquire into the working of Coal- mines in New Zealand. " We visited this mine on the 20th March last. We found a prevailing feeling of ap- prehension of danger on the part of miners employed, but they declared that if they gave evidence they would lose their employment. We entered the mine by the only air-intake, and crawled along it, chiefly on our hands and knees, for a distance of between 8 and 10 chains. The whole place is creeping . In every face, air deficient. The Inspector of Mines, who was present, could not obtain any reading We were very from his anemometer. unfavourably impressed with the condition of the whole mine. There was a want of care for the lives of the men employed. The chief ground, however, for representing this now to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 Your Excellency is the apprehension of some grave catastrophe through the want of proper ventilation. Westrongly recommend that im- mediate steps be taken to compel the owners of the mine to put it in a condition of safety." Sir, the honourable gentleman, the member for Bruce, and others say there should be no Commissions ; and yet the owner of that mine, upon which that report is written, is & honourable member of this House; and, speaking of me in my absence in respect to South Africa, he said I was actuated by political motives, and that I had used our noble lads on every platform for political motives. Sir, con- trast my actions and my feelings with the gentleman who has a report against him like that I have read. And this honourable gentle- man, since the first day of the session, has not demanded an inquiry nor questioned the report. No, Sir, but the Commission has been assailed. I say we want Commissions where valuable lives are risked under conditions such as the Royal Commission on the Coal-mines of the colony have described in their report. Do not, what- ever my faults might be, and they are many, where it is a question of life and death, where there is suffering and anguish on the part of parents for the noble lads-do not say that those who to a large extent are responsible for endea- vouring to help the Empire in an emergency have been actuated by political motives. God able gentlemen-shall I call them our candid friends ? I will name them: this political triplet is composed of the member for Riccar- ton, the member for Ashley, and the member for Nelson City. Let members take their speeches and they will see that they must have been either colloguing and consulting or that there is coincidental inspiration or the hidden hand. What do they say about the public debt. The member for Nelson City says,- "The public debt has increased more than it has ever done in the colony previous to this Ministry coming in." The member for Riccarton says,- " Does the country realise the awful state of things involved in carrying on with borrowed money." The member for Ashley says,- "The public debt at the present time is truly alarming." Then we come to another question-the Mid- land Railway. The member for Nelson says,- "Now, Sir, I have very little time left, but I do want to refer to the Midland Rail- The Commissioners did way question. . not report, nor were they asked to report, nor were they even permitted by the terms of the Commission to report, as to whether the deben- ture-holders had been well treated or ill treated. It is a question for Parliament to decide how much or how little of this sum should equitably be paid to the debenture-holders." The member for Riccarton says,- "I feel ashamed of this colony taking over the Midland Railway and not paying the value for it. Do the righteous thing.' And the member for Ashley says,- " It is wrong for us as a Parliament to with- hold from those people that which they are In equity they have a entitled to. claim. The Government of this colony must be clean-handed over this Midland Railway business otherwise the people will say, 'Get you gone, and give place to more honest men.'" The one says "The treatment is question- able "; the other, "I feel ashamed ; do the righteous thing "; and the other, "Be clean- handed, or get you gone." Sir, what does this point to? Those members are raging against an increase of the public indebtedness, and in the next breath they say, inferentially if not practically, we must increase the indebtedness of the colony by giving the debenture-holders of the Midland Railway $300,000 of public money. For what? And when it is admitted by all there is no legal liability at all ! Sir, I say this colony will do justice to the debenture- holders, but not on account of what those honour- able members have urged. Our hands must not be forced. I will not do anything that is inequitable or unjust. The matter must be considered calmly and dispassionately ; threats only tend to prejudice equity. But in our pre- sent position it is not possible to deal properly with it. It is a matter that must go before a Committee. It would be wise, however, for those honourable members not to make any 