ROADS AND TRACKS. As compared with the previous year, the ex- penditure on roads and tracks shows a decrease of £5,797 15s. 8d. The amount paid as sub- sidies to local bodies was £3,264 13s. 1d., and the sum of £45,152 14s. 2d. has been expended in direct grants on roads and tracks for the de- velopment of mining districts. The total sums for the past nineteen years are £373,904 18s. 2d. and £98,446 14s. 2d. respectively. # GEOLOGICAL EXPLORATIONS. Examinations have been made in several parts of the colony with a view to the de- termination of the character and extent of mineral country hitherto unworked, and natu- rally the coal-bearing areas have received a fair share of attention. The Government Geologist (Mr. Mckay) is of opinion that the coal areas at Pakawau and Puponga, in the Collingwood district, are likely to prove satisfactory. The question of the probability of a payable coal-field at Waimangaroa has been under in- vestigation. The measures here lie at a very steep angle, and it is estimated that to reach the coal at a site convenient to the railway at Waimangaroa Station, shafts not less than 1,500 ft. deep would be required, but coal may be reached at a more moderate depth near the mouth of Ngakawau River. In regard to the alleged possibilities of an important coalfield further west than that already exploited by the mines in the Grey Valley, Mr. Mckay is not over-sanguine, but he recommended that proof should be obtained by boring. Accordingly the Greymouth Har- bour Board, with assistance from the Govern- ment, put down a bore at a site selected by that Board to a depth of about 350 ft. without reaching coal, and the bore has been discon- tinued. Mr. Mckay further expresses the opinion that prospecting for coal in the Kaiata Ranges cannot lead to any satisfactory results. Examinations were made of the coal deposits in the localities of Kokotahi and Ross. At these places the measures show signs of dis- turbance, the coal-seams are thin, somewhat crushed, and very highly inclined. From these features the probable value of the coal deposits appears to be inconsiderable. In the neighbourhood of Deep Creek, Kotuku, in the Grey Valley, indications of the existence of petroleum are such as to warrant vigorous prospecting. Petroleum has also been found in the Poverty Bay district, but further investi- gation of an operative character is required before any definite opinion can be formed as to the possibilities of this being in sufficient quantity for producing commercially. In respect to copper-ore, examinations made in the localities of Maharahara, near Wood- ville (Hawke's Bay), and in the Ruahine Range, west of Norsewood, go to show that, although the ore exists to some extent, nothing of a commercial character has so far been dis- covered. Examinations have also been made in the Kaimanawa, Kaweka, Rimutaka, and Ruahine Ranges, but no minerals were met with in sufficient quantity to pay for working. # THE MINING BUREAU. The publication of the New Zealand Mines Record, which was commenced in August, 1897, by the Mining Bureau has been con- tinued monthly since that date. Information relating to improved mining processes and machinery is compiled from various sources for the benefit of those engaged in the industry in this colony ; while the statistics and infor- mation obtained by the department from its officers must tend to afford guidance to in- vestors both inside and outside the colony. Some of the special articles which appear in the Record are printed as leaflets and judi- ciously distributed. # CONCLUSION. Generally speaking, it may be said that the mining industry is in a satisfactory condition, and, although the output of precious metals was lower for the year 1900 than was the case in the previous year, the output of other minerals more than balanced the value, and showed an advance of £46,593 on the value of the mineral production for 1899. The causes for the de- creased yield of gold and silver have already been referred to, as also has the increased returns for the first half of the year 1901. There is every indication that the mineral production of this year will show an increase over that of the year 1900. The experience of previous gambling in mining shares has been repeated in the late dredging boom, and the reaction which has set in will, I think, tend to the consolidation of a really good and profitable branch of the gold- mining industry. # SUPPLY. CLASS I .- LEGISLATIVE. House of Representatives, £4,065. 7.30. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) said the first item showing an increase was for the Second Clerk - Assistant -an increase of £25. He had nothing to say against this officer, who was thoroughly reliable and did his work satisfactorily ; but, seeing that this was the first item with an increase over £300, he desired information upon it, and to learn what increases had been received by the officer during the last three years. Mr. SEDDON (Colonial Treasurer) wished to know if answering a question was to be counted a speech. If so, that might be the means of stopping debate, because if he answered ques- tions he could not speak in reply. The ACTING-CHAIRMAN (Major Steward) said that no provision had been made for this in the Standing Orders. Mr. SEDDON wished to know if he replied to a question was that to be taken as a speech. Hon. MEMBERS .- No, no. Mr. SEDDON said, In that case he could reply to questions. Mr. Lowe had not previously bad an increase, and this increase was made upon the recommendation of Mr. Speaker. The Reader and Clerk of Bills and Papers had not previously had an increase, having been ap- 