who desires to see anything of that kind con- tinued. That, then, is the primary object of the labour legislation of the Government. As regards the Factories Bill, or any other measure that is before Parliament this session, I venture to predict that by the time those Bills come to their third reading in this House there will not be half a dozen members who will go into the lobbies against them. Mr. PIRANI .- They will not come down here. Mr. HALL-JONES .- Oh, yes, I think they will reach this House, and by the time we have finished with them we will have put them in such an improved form that the member for Palmerston himself will, I believe, congratu- late the Government on the passing of the measures. I am desirous of seeing legislation passed so that the condition of our workers will be improved. Last evening the member for Waihemo expressed surprise at the Govern- ment paying a greater rate of interest to what he called the British money-lender than is paid to the depositors in the Post-Office Savings- Bank. Well, some members who have spoken would give one the idea that we had never been borrowing money from the British money- lender, and that the amounts lent out to settlers by such organizations as the New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Company, and the National Mortgage Company, and so on, did not represent British money. Members opposite know as well as I do that scores of people, who have not got money from these and similar institutions, have gone directly to the Old World and made their financial arrangements there. Is that not British capital ? There is nothing new in what is being done, and as a matter of fact we are diminishing what https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 has taken place in the past. I believe that if one went into the matter carefully it would be found that, especially as regards private indebted- ness, there is less British capital in the colony at the present time than there was ten or fifteen years ago. But the member for Waihemo could not understand why we did not pay to depositors in the Post-Office Savings-Bank the same rate of interest as we pay for money raised on debentures. Well, I am sure it does not require a man with any great ability to recognise the position. In the one case the depositors in the Post-Office Savings-Bank have their money practically at call. Within a month every deposit in the Savings-Bank could be withdrawn by the depositors. But what about the deben- ture-holders ? Those who hold debentures lend their money for a fixed period, and they cannot withdraw it when they choose. If they want to raise money on their debentures they must sell them at the market price. The honour- able member, and also the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson), wanted to know the position of the small depositors in the Post-Office Savings-Bank at present as compared with 1890. If the honourable mem- ber will refer to the Postal Report of this year he will get all the information he requires, and he will see the enormous increase in the num- ber of small depositors. It was suggested that the greater number of depositors were those Mr. Hall-Jones with large sums to their credit. No such thing. In 1890 the number of deposits under £20 were 71,017; in 1900 they had increased to 142,368. or an increase of 71,351. In 1890 there were 12,160 deposits of from £20 to $50, and in 1900 the number had gone up to 22,333, or an in- crease of 10,173. In 1890 the number of de- posits of from £50 to $100 was 6,839, and in 1900 they were 13,704, an increase of 6,865. This shows, then, that in 1890 there were 90,016 deposits of sums up to £100, and that in 1900 the number of deposits up to the same amount was 178,405, or an in- crease of 88,389 deposits of $100 and under. The number of depositors of sums over $100 totals 19,003. This shows that the small de- positors are much more numerous, and that they are taking full advantage of the facilities offered for their savings by the Post - Office Savings-Bank. Then, the honourable member for Waihemo, referring to the arrivals and de- partures from the colony, stated that the num- ber of departures had decreased during the later years of the Atkinson Administration. What are the facts? In the last three years of the Atkinson Administration -1889-91- there were 214 more arrivals than departures in 1889, but in 1890 there was a loss of 1,782, and in 1891 a loss of 3,198. Since that year- so soon as the policy of the present Government was known-it began to have a beneficial effect, and the returns mounted up each year, and there has been an excess of arrivals over de- partures every year since that time. In one year it amounted to no less than 10,412. The member for Waihemo also stated that the trade of the colony was much more favourable, in proportion, in 1887, 1888, and 1889, than it has been during the last three years. The honourable member cannot have looked at the facts, because the figures for those three years are as follows :- € £ 13,111,684 1887 18,709,225 1888 . . 15,650,727 1889 42,471,636 18,748,555 1898 . 20,677,96S 1899 .. 23,892,257 1900 .. 63,318,780 Increase £20,847,144 Showing that from 1888 to 1900 there was an increase of ten millions in the total trade of the colony ; or, taking the two periods of three years, an increase of nearly twenty-one millions during the last three years. Then, the honour- able member for Patea, and some other mem- bers, made a statement concerning Ministers and their salaries which, if he had only taken the trouble to look into the matter, he would have seen was utterly erroneous. The honour- able member is a new member of this House. and I advise him to be careful that the state- ments he makes in this Chamber are based on solid facts, because, once it is found that he makes incorrect statements, members will thenceforth distrust him. I would, in that 