the country. Mr. HANAN (Invercargill) said he had listened with the greatest surprise and regret to the ·extraordinarily outrageous, reckless, and repre- hensible statement of the member for Bruce. The honourable gentleman's statement to-night should let members of the House and the people of the country know to what extent some mem- bers of the Opposition were prepared to go in order to hurl a charge against the present Government. He felt sure that there was hardly a member of the House who possessed the feelings of a man but must have been pained and shocked to think we had a member -80 lost to good taste, so lost to fairness, so lost to all that was manly, as to stand up in the House and say what had been said. He said any man who would stand up in the House and make the grave and foundationless charge that had been made this evening was unworthy the name of a man, and much less to be a member of this honourable House. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) moved, That these words be taken down. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, in speaking to the motion, He would ask honourable mem- bers opposite to contrast this incident with what had occurred earlier in the evening. When a member of the House had levelled a very serious charge against him, did any of the honourable gentlemen opposite rise to pro- tect him and move that the words be taken down? Members sat there and heard the charge made, and it was as much a breach of good taste and of the Standing Orders of the House by a friend on their side as it was by a member on his side. He said the applica- tion of the words of the honourable member for Invercargill was an application he had heard before in the House. Members could take an outside simile and say that any person who accused him of the charge was unworthy of the name of a man, and was unworthy of a seat in this House. He said, if the honour- able members opposite thought they were going to block the business of the country by the course taken, and thought to prevent the favourable effect of his speech in reply on the Budget, they were making a miscalculation. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) rose to a point of order. On a motion that "words be taken down " he believed there was no debate, and that it was the duty of the Chairman to ascertain the pleasure of the Committee. The ACTING-CHAIRMAN said that was the rule. Mr. HERRIES said the Premier had been allowed to speak, and if the right honourable gentleman was going to debate it they would all take a hand. The ACTING-CHAIRMAN asked, Was it the pleasure of the Committee that the words be taken down ? Hon. MEMBERS .- No, no. The ACTING CHAIRMAN said there was a majority against it, and the words would not be taken down. Mr. McNab spectator, indifferent, and speak in the polished language of novels in regard to a matter so serious as this, and otherwise deal with it as with kid gloves? The strongest words of con- demnation that a man could utter would not be out of place on an occasion like this, when such a cruel and baseless charge as was heard this evening was made against the Premier. And on what grounds ? Here was a man who posed as a would-be leader of the people of the colony levelling a terrible accusation against the Pre- mier on the flimsiest possible evidence? The honourable member sometimes talked about law and legal principles, but what legal evi- dence had he brought forward that night to support his sericus charge? It was simply hearsay evidence, and the remarks of the member for Bruce could only be attributed to an hysterical and diseased imagination. The honourable member stated that he had heard some of the statements which he had given utterance to in the House ; but before publicly mentioning them on the floor of the House he should surely, as a right-thinking and sensible man, have made inquiries into them to ascer- tain what truth there was in them. Instead of doing that, however, he had taken it upon himself to give expression to wild and reckless statements that had not a tittle of evidence to support them. Justice and common-sense demanded that such charges as had been made that evening should only be made when sup- ported by the strongest and most conclusive evidence; otherwise no man's reputation or liberty would be safe in the country. Then, reference had been made to the Premier using the visit of the contingent to Inver- cargill for political purposes. In taking a prominent and leading part in connection with the sending-away and reception of the troops the Premier had simply given effect to the wishes of the people. During the last twelve months especially the flood-gates of emotion had been opened in the colony. and the people from one end of it to the other had been swayed with a profound sentiment of admiration and delight, causing great outbursts and public demonstrations of enthusiasm, and the Hon. the Premier, as the leader of the people, had simply been doing his duty on and off the platform by giving effect to the public expression of the feelings of the people of the colony, which had been ablaze with patriotism. As far as the Premier was concerned, if he had wished to make political capital out of the visit of the troops to Inver- cargill, would the honourable gentleman not have gone to Invercargill himself to attend the ceremonies in connection with the wel- come to the men ? He had been pressed to attend ; but the reply he sent was that he could not attend as he had to remain in Wel- lington to attend to the business of the colony. Then, as far as the people of Dunedin were concerned, he would point out that a short time before the arrival of the contingent in the colony the Premier was speaking at a 