after the elections with such a large following as he now possesses. It would have been more prudent if he had said, " I have a large follow- ing behind me; it is necessary we should go slow ; you must cut down your demands and lessen your clamour for public works for your districts." If he had said that he would have placed himself in a better position. There is a danger that the candid remarks made by the Premier and by members on our side of the House will tend to shake public confidence in our financial position ; and that is the reason I am anxious to hear the reply of the Premier to the hostile criticisms of those who desire to pose as financiers. I have no doubt he will give a lucid explanation of many of those complicated issues raised by various critics, give a clear ex- position of our financial position, and vindicate the policy of his Administration. Coming to some of the questions I think we should deal with, I consider it is desirable that we should reduce our expenditure as far as consistent with efficient administration; but, on the other hand, it is necessary that assistance should be given to promote certain industries in this country. The country cannot stand still : we must progress. I very much regret to hear the cry raised in the House and out of it of town versus country. Mr. R. THOMPSON .- It is very nearly time it was raised. Mr. HANAN .- Just one moment and I will show you whether the man who has the interest of the colony at heart should raise that cry. I have no sympathy whatever with those who endeavour to raise animosity in that direc- tion. I am prepared to do anything to legiti- mately assist the farmer in any direction in which he is justly entitled, and in any way in which his interest may be promoted, consis- tently with what I believe to be right. It cannot be denied that the colony would not hold its present splendid position as far as material prosperity is concerned if it were not for the wealth and progress of our towns. do not know at this moment the amount of wages expended every week by manufacturers in paying their workmen, but it is a very large sum indeed, and I would point out that it is expended largely in purchasing farm products. We must not forget that the towns afford a splendid market for the farmers' produce, and therefore there should be a strong affinity be- tween the farmers and the townspeople. It has been well said that agriculture calls manufac- tures into existence, and manufactures support agriculture. The integration of both brings about the grandest results. The present ten- dency of humanity is to have the greatest possible variety of industries gathered in each country-in each separate region -side by side. The farmer must not forget that manufactures created a demand for agricultural produce. Truly do agriculture and manufactures work in unison, like the wings of an eagle wafting the State to the realms of prosperity. Then, when we consider the large amount of conces- sions given to farmers every year in the way of Mr. Hanan perts, fruit experts, et cetera, it shows that substantial assistance is being rendered to the country settler. Then, there is a very large amount of money allocated every year by Par- liament for roads, bridges, and railways, which directly benefits the farmer and increases the value of his land. The farmer, therefore, is not so badly treated after all by the towns- people. Then, again, there is a considerable amount of expense incurred in opening up markets for the disposal of the farmers' pro- duce to advantage, and in subsidising steamers, which goes to show that a great deal of assistance is given to the farming community by the Go- vernment, and largely at the expense of the town populations, who get little or no return for the large amount of revenue they contribute And now, forsooth, some through the Customs. of our country friends are inclined to look with disfavour upon all that legislation which has been enacted in the interests of the mechanic, the artisan, and the labouring.man. All must know that while the farmer, raising the agricul- tural produce, exporting his wool and grain, is adding to the wealth and prosperity of the country, so is the handicraftsman contributing in a large degree towards the same great end. It may be said that we city members get a. public building here and there a little more than that. Take the colony's great credit balance and what do we find ? The towns do not participate in the benefits of the surplus, but it goes to help the back settler and improve his property. Therefore I say that the person who has the welfare of this country at heart should not endeavour to set town against country ; he should do his best to promote the interests of each, because in promoting the interests of each he is helping the general interests of this colony. Closely connected with the question of the farming industry is that of agricultural colleges. I would like to see in each of the large farming centres through- out this colony agricultural colleges and experi- mental farms established. I think, Sir, it is I the duty of the Government to endeavour to give the best instruction possible to our farmers. in order to enable them to make the best pos- sible use of their land. It is necessary, if our farmers are to hold their own in regard to the quality of their produce with farmers in other countries, that they should have scientific knowledge. I admit that is being provided in many respects ; but I think we should encourage our farmers to patronise our agricultural col- leges, and to send their children there, so that they shall have a technical knowledge of agricultural work. I should like to see, as I have said, experimental farms established in the large farming centres of this colony, be- cause I recognise it is only a State institution which can carry on experiments which, when they prove successful, will be a great object- lesson to the farmers. I should like to see sites reserved for experimental farms near railway- lines, because as they progress they could be made self-supporting, and would be the means of absorbing a large amount of the labour that 