immediate steps for the exclusion of strangers from the lobbies and library during sitting- days of the House ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, on this matter he would like to make a statement to the House. Complaints had reached him of the wholesale violation of the rules in respect to this matter, and he wished to ask honourable members to support the library authorities in enforcing the rules. On sitting-days and other days there were boys in the library, and people were taken there. The library was now con- venient to the entrance, and advantage was taken of that. Of course, it had not been so easy to do this when the library was in the old building. Now that the library was more ac- cessible from the front of the building mem- bers, instead of taking their friends into the waiting-room, took them into the library. Members going in there now would find ladies and gentlemen and youths in the library on sitting-days, and he must point out that the rules could only be maintained with the assistance of members. It was unpleasant for the officers of the library to have to ask visitors for their tickets, or to appear to be officious in any way; but the rules must be enforced, and it was for members to assist the library authorities in enforcing them. He believed there was a responsibility cast upon himself. Captain RUSSELL .- No. Mr. SEDDON said, At any rate, there was a responsibility upon some one, and, as members had complained to him about it, with the leave of the House he brought the matter under the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 notice of the Deputy-Speaker, and would ask bim to give this information to the House, and request the members to support the library authorities in future. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Mr. HOGG (Masterton) had a few words to say as a country member. When any of his friends came down from the country to see him in the House on business matters there was no accommodation whatever for them. They had either to stand about in the open air or amongst the crowd of people who were usually waiting at the entrance. Only one room was provided for the whole of the members of the House when any of their friends wished to see them on important business, petitions, deputations, and so on. He had endeavoured, over and over again, to gain admittance to that room, but he generally found some people in advance of him. It was almost impossible at the present time for any member to secure a private con- versation with any of his friends or con- stituents. The accommodation provided for strangers visiting the House to interview the representatives of their districts was something shameful. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) thought the better course would be to throw the whole building open to the country generally. They threw it open already to the newspapers, and they gave up rooms for Racing Conferences and other things, and to the general public at any hour of the week. He intended to invite half davs. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER thought this dis- cussion ought not to continue. It was his duty during the absence of the Speaker, as Chairman of the Library Committee, to at once convene a meeting of that body and bring under the notice of the Committee the grievance com- plained of that afternoon, and he had no doubt the Committee would take immediate steps to see that the rules were not infringed in future. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) said there were a good many Committee-rooms in the building, but he was given to understand that Ministers used from eighteen to twenty of those rooms for the accommodation of themselves and their Secretaries. When this matter was considered by the Committee, he would ask that the question of Ministers and their Private Secretaries being shunted to the Government Buildings be also considered, so as to allow the general public and members to have reasonable accommodation in the House. COMMANDANT OF THE FORCES. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) gavo notice to ask the Hon. the Minister of Defence, Whether Colonel Henry, C.B., Northumberland Fusiliers, had accepted the position of Com- mandant of the Forces in New Zealand ; and, if not, what steps were being taken to fill the vacancy in that office which would happen in October next ? Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said he might be allowed to answer that question at once. Colonel Henry, he was sorry to say, did not see his way to accept the position which the Government had offered him. He (Mr. Seddon) had received a cable to that effect from the Agent-General, and also from the War Office, and intimating to the Government that they were endeavouring to select another fitting officer for the position. # FINANCIAL STATEMENT. INTERRUPTED DEBATE. Sir J. G. WARD .- When I was in- 3.0. terrupted last evening, I was calling at- tention to the fact that the difference between performance and utterance, as indicated by the speech of the honourable member for Franklin, was very extraordinary. The honourable mem- ber was condemning the large expenditure of the colony with one breath-irrespective of the fact, as I pointed out, that before his constituents he dilated on his success in having extracted £130,000 from the public Exchequer and be- fore he concluded his speech last night he was urging this House to provide for enormous ex- penditure for particular works in the North ; and in addition to which, that if a certain mail- service was dropped-apparently no matter how extravagant the demand of the contractor - there would be trouble for the colony. That is how the honourable gentleman, I presume, first gave us so much of his precept ; but when it comes to an ounce of practice he is quite ready to tako all he can get in the shape of the loaves and fishes. Now, Sir, the honourable member said 