State coal-mine. In America a coal-mine is | considered part of the equipment of a railway company. I believe 37 per cent. of the rail- way companies in America have coal-mines connected with their plant, because they recog- nise that so much depends on the supply of fuel, and that if they own a coal-mine there is not the same likelihood of the railways being disturbed by labour troubles or by the scarcity of coal. It is said that the railway companies work the coal-mines to the best advantage. But we have another duty to perform in regard to State-owned mines, and that is to have a due regard for the benefit of those who come after us. There is no doubt a great deal of waste going on at the present time, and it is our duty as far as possible to conserve these mines, and work them economically and to the best advantage. Adverting for a moment to the question of municipal loans consolidation, it does seem strange to me that the Government should advance loans to local bodies for the purpose of carrying out certain public works, while other bodies that have carried out many public works, and have borrowed largely for such purposes at high rates, are denied the privilege of obtaining money from the Govern- ment at a cheap rate of interest for the pur- pose of consolidating their loans, and thereby effecting a great reduction in regard to the pay- ment of the very heavy interest bills annually on their present loan indebtedness. It is in the interest of the people of this colony that the Go- vernment should assist local bodies to consolidate their loans. We know that the question of rating is an important matter not only for the owner of a house, but also to the man who rents it. If taxation is high, it means that there will be increased rent or another burden imposed on the tenants. The amounts which the local bodies have to pay in interest form a very large sum indeed. What does that mean ? That all means increased taxation, which falls on the people, and, unless something is done to enable the local bodies to secure a lower rate of in- terest, it means that ultimately the people will not be able to bear the burden. This is a ques- tion which concerns not only the merchant and landed proprietor, but also the small house- holder. I therefore would urge upon the Go- vernment that they should not only give attention to the colonial finance, but they should also seriously consider the local indebtedness. It is absolutely necessary to take a broad view of this question, which is of such paramount importance. I cannot understand why the local bodies of this colony do not persistently and consistently urge upon the Government the necessity of doing something in the direction I have indicated-in fact, it is only a question of time when the Government will be compelled to do so. I will now refer to the question of land-settlement, which I think is of the greatest importance to this colony ; and, as I have not spoken on this subject, I think it is desirable that I should say a few words now. I am a strong believer in the policy now being pursued by the Government of resuming large estates for the purposes of closer settlement. It is not right that the settlement of land should be left to the untrammelled energies of individual enterprise, or to the unrestrained grasp of the capitalist or the speculator. The Government should assume the office of settler. As a New- Zealander who ardently wishes to see the best interests of my native land conserved, I emphati- cally protest against the alienation of what is undoubtedly the birthright of the whole people -the heritage of generations yet to come. By what right, I ask, has any Parliament the power to barter away the only means of sub- sistence of the future generations of this country? If we had now in hand a great deal of the land that has been sold, we should, on account of the revenue by way of rentals that would be derived from it, be relieved of a large amount of the colonial taxation we have now to pay. One effect of refusing to further alienate the fee-simple of Crown lands would be to deprive land to a large extent of its speculative value, and, consequently, land would be made more readily available to those who wanted to use it. It may be said that you do not get the same favourable tenure under the leasehold as under the freehold, and there- fore I will deal with that phase of the land question. You want to assure a man who takes up land that he will get the benefit of his im- provements, and if he desires to leave it he can transfer it to his successor or surrender it to the Crown and receive fair and adequate com- pensation for the improvements he has effected. If you want to settle people on the land you must offer facilities to enable them to obtain money to get a start on the security of the im- provements they make. You must also provide railway communication, and see that the work of road-making is attended to. It follows that, if we dispose of all our Crown lands to-day, there will be no option for the people of to- morrow but to become leaseholders. I contend, Sir, therefore, it is better for the users of land to be leaseholders under the Crown than under Over and over again the private owners. teaching. of history has shown that where land is acquired in fee-simple, either by purchase or by conquest, the tendency has been for it to become aggregated in the hands of a few in- dividuals, a system which has led to the dis- content and misery and enslaving of the great mass of the people. Mr. MASSEY .- Quite the contrary. Mr. HANAN .- Take the Old Country, take Ireland, for example, where landlordism has been a curse. An Hon. MEMBER. - Quite right. Mr. HANAN .- I will give the honourable member for Franklin some information on this point : "England, the land of the English, does not appear to have any claims on the majority of its sons." It contains 77,000,000 acres of land, which are divided as follows: 1,000 men own 30,000 acres ; 15,000 men own 50,000,000 acres ; 180,000 men own the whole of it when lots of less than an acre are excluded. Taking Scotland, we find 300 men own two- thirds of the land of that country, 1,900 men two-thirds of the land of Ireland, and 10,000 