Barnum ! Also, Greater ' buncombe' ! Why, I have got the balance-sheet here of this new colony of ours. What is its total annual reve- nue ? #3,165 7s. 10}d. - mind, do not lose the halfpenny. Yes, Sir, our new dependency raised all that in one year; but it has recently been published that some scallywag has embezzled the half of it, and we may have to make good the defalcations out of our next year's surplus- if we have one. They appear to have three sources of revenue in our new dependency- namely, Customs duties levied on goods, princi- pally from New Zealand-which is rather an anomaly-trade and liquor licenses, and Court fines. Of course, the Premier takes care to explain in the Budget that the Customs anomaly is soon to be removed, and that the loss of revenue will be made up by " collateral advan- tages." Delightfully euphemistic and vague. Well, like the boy in the Pears' soap advertise- ment, "We wouldn't be happy till we got it," and now it is interesting to learn that with it we have got, as a going concern, a leper settle- ment, a penal settlement, and various other sundries. But shall we ever forget the historic occasion when the edict went forth-I believe that is the correct phrase-that we must outvie Australia as the great Federation of the South. Never ! And when, despite the pro-Boers and Little-Englanders, we did the " Deed that saved the Empire," and sang "God save the Queen " and "Rule Britannia," led by the patriotic member for the Suburbs, we felt that truly we were the representatives of a great people. Great is Jingo, and Seddon is his prophet ! One word more on the Budget before my time is up. The second last paragraph in the Budget https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 says, - "I advise, and that in good faith, that at the present time the good steamer ' Finance' should be steadied, and that 'Slow,' and not ' Full speed ahead,' should be the order on the dial. Reasonable care will insure the good ship riding buoyantly and safely in calm and placid waters." When the Premier says the good ship " Fi- nance " has to be steadied one wonders what he means-whether we ought to go down below and trim the ballast, or sit on the gunwale to keep her from rolling, or send a fresh hand to the wheel to steer her properly. He had better take my advice and stay ashore, and leave the steadying of good steamers alone to those who understand the business. Under what circum- stances should the finger on the dial point to "glow"? When approaching a stopping-place, or when in a fog or other danger. Are we get- ting into port at our final destination, or are we among the rocks or in a fog? Only for one of these causes can there be any reason for the finger on the dial pointing to "Slow." I leave this to the Premier to answer. My concluding word : I am no pessimist. I have great hopes in the future of New Zealand. I do not believe New Zealand can be destroyed by self-seeking, time-serving politicians, or it would have been dead by now. But I do believe it can be re- duced to such a condition - and we are fast approaching it-as would impose a serious task Mr. Hutcheson indeed upon those who may be charged with the heroic task of putting the affairs of State once more on straight lines. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I wish to make a personal explanation. The honourable gentle- man quoted a passage from Hansard. I asked him to do me justice and not to misrepresent me, and I am sure he would not do so wilfully, but by not quoting what preceded what he did quote he placed me in a false position. You will find on page 538 of Volume 103 that I spoke as follows :- - " I therefore take the number of those who could successfully claim as being one-fourth of those in the colony over sixty-five years of age -namely, five thousand ; and the payment of five thousand at £18 a year would amount to £90,000. Then, I ask, what would be a reason- able increase each year? The number of per- sons in 1891 was 14,842, and in 1896, 20,756, an increase of over six thousand. That is equal to one thousand a year. I am taking for the basis of my calculation that there would be an in- crease in the total number of persons who would be over sixty-five years of age of one thousand a year, and I am pretty well borne out in that by the other returns which have been compiled." Then Mr. Herries said, "Do you include Maoris ? " and to that I replied, --- "The Maoris are conditionally included. Then I put it, if there was a total increase of one thousand persons attaining to the age of sixty-five yearly, certainly not more than one- half would be able to claim a pension, owing to the restrictions in the Bill. I therefore make the annual increase of pensioners five hundred - that is, there would be five hundred addi- tional claims that would be admitted in every year ; and, working that out, it means that in the second year the amount to be paid would be £99,000 ; the third year, £108,000; the fourth year, £117,000; and the following year, £126,000." Therefore, when I was making my 5.0. calculations, as was stated by my col- league, and as I myself state now, it was entirely exclusive of Ma ris, because Maoris were not in the census return, and it is im- possible also to tell the aged Maori from the census return. I was quoting from the census return. Hon. MEMBERS .- NO. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) .-- I must rise to a point of order. 1 maintain all this dis- cussion is irregular. Standing Order No. 136 is perfectly clear on the point. It says, " A mem- ber who has spoken to a question "-the Right Hon. the Premier has not spoken to this ques- tion-"may again be heard to explain himself in regard to some material part of his speech, but is not to introduce any new matter." Sir, I maintain that this explanation of the Pre- mier's is a speech in itself. It is no explanation at all of any speech he has made. The other Standing Order dealing with the question says, " By the indulgence of the House a mem- ber may explain matters of a personal nature " -this question is not of a personal nature- 