member for Bruce was prepared to swallow those professed principles wholesale on that occasion ; but then it was in order to shield a member from that side of the House who had committed a breach of the privileges of this House, and who, according to the member for Palmerston to-day, admitted at the time that he had committed a breach of the privileges of this House, but said that he did it for a par- ticular purpose. Mr. PIRANI .- A very small matter. Sir J. G. WARD .- It may have been a little matter, but if it was a question of prin- ciple it was all the same. What extraordinary men these are ! There is a great principle in- volved. The smallness of the matter has no- thing to do with the question. The roof of this House is going to tumble in in consequence of the publication in the Dunedin Evening Star of some evidence given before a Committee before it came to this House; the whole heavens are going to fall unless we fine the publisher and reporter : but when a member on that side of the House committed a de- liberate breach of privilege, and did it inten- tionally, and defied the House and defied the Speaker, it is said to be a small matter. Mr. MASSEY .- What was it? You do not know. Sir J. G. WARD .- The honourable member ought to go and teach his grandmother to suck eggs. I know what it was perfectly well, and I know what I am talking about, and the House knows perfectly well what it was. Yet my honourable friend Mr. Fisher tells the House to-night that he has never known a breach of the privileges of this House being made a party question. I have never seen questions of breach of privilege raised but immediately the question of party has been introduced into it. And I should have thought that the honourable mem- ber would by this time have seen where he is being landed by one member, at any rate, of the party opposite in connection with this matter. What did the honourable member propose ? He proposed that two men should be fined #50 without being called to the bar of the House- that two penalties of $25 each should be im- posed without these mer being heard at the bar of the House. Is there any precedent for such a thing in the history of parliamentary institutions, where two men are fined without being heard at the bar of the House ? I say you cannot find anything of the kind. Mr. FISHER .- He has twice been heard, and has twice been refused. Sir J. G. WARD .- He has done perfectly right in refusing, and if the honourable mem- ber had been in his position he would have done exactly the same. If the honourable member wants the high position he speaks of to be maintained, then I say he has no right to ask any man to commit a dishonourable action in order to get at somebody else. That is the position in this case, and the more I think on this matter the more I realise that that is so, because we find that the honourable member, when he moved this double fine of $25 each Sir J. G. Ward believed evidently that two members to one in this House were going to support him. Did the honourable member believe that ? Mr. FISHER .- Yes, I did. Sir J. G. WARD .- Very well ; it should be clear to the honourable member that he is not going to get support in some quarters when the member for Bruce now says he is not going to support that resolution. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I did not say that. Sir J. G. WARD .- The member for Bruce distinctly said that he was not going to support the resolution moved by the honourable mem- ber. An Hon. MEMBER .- He said afterwards he might. Sir J. G. WARD .- The honourable member said distinctly that he was not going to support the amendment proposed by the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher). The honourable member will not vote for it, and others whom he had relied on will not do so, and therefore the honourable gentleman's amendment is doomed. Mr. FISHER. - What happened at the caucus after the adjournment ? Sir J. G. WARD .- I do not know who the honourable gentleman has consulted, but I would be able to tell him what happened at the adjournment if I knew whom the honourable member had then consulted. I think, if the proposal to impose a penalty of $50 withon giving the persons to be fined an opportunity of appearing ar the bar of the House were adopted. then it would be a most unfair and improper thing, and entirely without precedent, and I am sorry that the honourable member bas suggested it. It may have been open to ques- tion whether the course taken by the Govern- ment was the best course to take, but, because some disagreed with the resolution of the Premier, to immediately impute motives to members of the Government and to mem- bers on this side of the House of failing to do their duty is not, I say, a fair thing. And it comes back to the original positi ni. The honourable member has again asserted that because the representative of the journal in question has not disclosed the name he ought to be fined $50. Well, then, Sir. to b. logical and to be consistent, in the event of his still refusing to disclose the name, we ought to go on using the powers of the House and .... i inflict penalties until he has exhausted hes resources or until he has been compelled to disclose the source of his information. But here we have on record the case that I referred to to-day, and it is a precedent, and I repeat it to the honourable member for Wellington City - that where a breach of privilege had been de- clared by the House to have been committed by a member no fine was imposed. On the con- trary, the Right Hon. the Premier, Mr. S.ddin. from these benches, said that we had gone iar enough, and that the privileges of the House were maintained by passing the resolution de- claring that a breach of privilege had been. committed, and, an expression of regret having 