Mr. PIRANI replied that it was the casual visitors who used the baths wholesale, and he thought there could be a system of season tickets. Sir J. G. WARD said that there was a system of season tickets. Mr. HASELDEN (Patea) asked whether the subsidy to the steamers on the Wanganui River was in connection with the tourist traffic, or for mail purposes. Sir J. G. WARD .- For all purposes. Mr. HASELDEN asked if both steamers were treated in the same way. Sir J. G. WARD said that both steamers were to be treated equally from a date some time back - from the time the arrangement was made. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) wished to refer \- to the differentiating charges at the Hanmer Springs. People who stayed at the Sanatorium were allowed the free use of the swimming- baths, while other visitors had to pay for the use. He thought that was not right, and asked the Minister to take note of his objection. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) had been given to understand that the second-class accommo- dation was very limited, and that it was fre- quently taken possession of by people who went there on a pleasure-trip, while those suffering from ailments had to seek accommodation else- where, and sometimes to drive two or three miles to the springs. People suffering had to get accommodation some distance off, and he thought something should be done to provide for a certain amount of accommodation being reserved for invalids. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) said, in regard to Rotorua, the Minister for Railways might provide a car for those suffering from rheumatism. Vote, £16,147, agreed to. Miscellaneous services, £81,398. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) moved, That the item, "Copies of Review of Reviews for Australasia for January, 1901, £260," be struck out. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) said he noticed in a journal the Rev. Mr. Berry had made the statement that he had arranged with the New Zealand Government to deliver twelve lectures. He would like to know what remuneration he was receiving for that service. Sir J. G. WARD said he understood he got $100. Mr. MONK said the Premier had previously informed him, in reply to a question, that no arrangement had been made with Mr. Berry. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) asked for an ex- planation of the item referred to by the honour- able member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutche- son). Sir J. G. WARD said ten thousand copies had been obtained ; five thousand were sent to the Agent-General for distribution at Home, and five thousand were distributed through America, India, and the Australasian Colonies. Mr. PIRANI thought it was going too far to spend £260 to circulate copies of this produc- tion. If the House had been consulted as to circulating ten thousand copies of this publica- tion broadcast he felt sure it would not have con- sented. The point he wished to make was this: he did not think an expenditure of this sort ought to be made by the Government without the authority of Parliament, and that Parliament should be afterwards asked to whitewash those who authorised the expenditure. That was putting Parliament in a wrong position. If the Government wanted to spend money in circu- lating literature of this kind, they could get more useful literature to advertise the colony than ten thousand copies of a production like this issue of the Review of Reviews. If the Premier wished to advertise himself and his personal appearance, why did he not pay for the cost out of his own pocket ? Why should the ratepayers have to pay £260 for circulating a periodical of the kind, considering the small benefit that must attach to the colony from it ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) thought it was only fair to the Government that, before members condemned their action, they should have the fullest information on the matter. When that explanation was given he was sure that mem- bers would not complain of the course the Government had taken. The matter was in- troduced in this way : The Queensland Govern- ment arranged for an article, and certain illus trations were to be inserted in the Recicle of Reviews of their colony, at a cost, for ten thou- sand copies, of something like 6d. a copy, and, in a communication the New Zealand Govern- ment received from the proprietor of the maga- zine, it was intimated that the Rev. Mr. Berry was to write an article on New Zealand on lines similar to what had been written on Queens land. The Government, taking into considera- tion the nature of the article on Queensland, came to the conclusion that, at the cost to the colony, it was an opportunity that should be embraced. The Government did not inspire the article. The writer, it was well known, was a very able man, a man with a thorough knowledge of the colony and its affairs, and, gauging the article by what had appeared about Queensland, it was concluded that a similar article on New Zealand would be worth all the Government were asked to pay for it. For himself, he was still of the same opinion. The Review of Reviews reached people that no other ordinary periodical reached. It was an opportunity of bringing the colony forward, and he could only say now that the Govern- ment did not apologize in the slightest for what they had done. The colony had received good value through what the Government had done ; and, after the sanctioning of the article, the only question was whether the Government should hide the amount in " Unauthorised," as they could have done, or whether it should be brought before the House openly. Of course, to bring it before the House was the proper and constitutional way, and that was the way the Government had adopted. The transaction was a purely business one, and no member, he thought, could reasonably take ex- ception to it. He had heard several times that the Australasian Review of Reviews was an 