fear from this Act, and, when it is properly ex- plained will approve it ; and I say honourable gentlemen like the member for Patea, who has held this bogey before the farmers, are not doing justice to those farmers. He is not crediting them with the possession of humane and generous feelings. He has not read the Act, and knows nothing whatever about it. Mr. HASELDEN .- I have got a legal opinion about it. Mr. CARNCROSS .- I would not give two- pence for a legal opinion that led me to believe what the honourable member believes. It is a very poor legal opinion; I could give the honourable gentleman a better one than that myself. I once more repeat that every farmers' representative in the House can with confidence go on the platform and speak in favour of the Act I am discussing. Now, I want to say & few words about the incessant attempts made by the Opposition to make the country people believe that the Liberal Government is their natural enemy. They have done this for the last ten years. I thought they had been bowled out by the last general election, but they are never tired; they stand before the wicket again, and we have got to do a little more bowling-out. There was a meeting of the Farmers' Union in my district recently, and I read a list of those who were there, and I recognised that some of the old hide-bound Tories in the district were there to help to form the union. I only recognised the name of one man who had ever been on the Liberal side ; they were all the old extinct volcanoes who used to be great in the Tory party, and one man said : "Let it be a political organization." He did not go behind the bush ; he said in effect : "We are prepared to start it as a political organization." Notwithstanding what the honourable member for Franklin may tell us about the writing on the wall, he will find that when the elections come round again he will still have the pleasure of sitting on that side of the House and gazing across here. Now, this is the most senseless action I can conceive on the part of the Opposition to set the farmers against the Liberal Government. I ask the leaders of the party over there, What has the Conservative party ever done for the farmers ? You may search the statute-book through, and you will find they did absolutely nothing. Yes, they did one thing; they increased the railway-rates at one time for the benefit and encouragement of the farmers; that is the only thing they have done. But let us get away from those dark days, from those dismal days when those honourable gentlemen or those they represent sat on these benches, and come to later days and see what has been done for the farmers. It would take me more time than I have at my disposal to go through all the legislation that has been done by this party for the assistance and encouragement of the farmers. I am sure honourable members therefore will forgive me if I have not time to go through the whole list, but I will go through a little bit of it. When the live Government came into power, who endeavoured to assist not only the farmers but Mr. Carncross every portion of the community in New Zealand, they were particularly liberal to the farmers. What was the Agricultural Department before we took office ? I believe there was such a thing in name, but in name only. So far as the department itself was concerned, in theatri- cal parlance I should say it was "a terrible frost." It never did anything. If it did, per- haps honourable gentlemen who follow me on the other side will tell us what it was; but I never heard of it doing anything that was ever any good. Now, let us see what we have done. Look at the successful efforts we have made by the administration of the Lands Department to place people upon the land. There are hun- dreds of farmers' sons at the present moment who are gradually working their way to inde- pendence who would never have had a chance to get an acre to live upon if the honourable gentlemen opposite had remained in office. Their policy is the policy of freehold, and I say that a freehold policy is entirely for the benefit of the capitalist. Under it the capitalist is the only one who has any opportunity of getting land. He can still get land ; land is to be bought, but we have afforded opportunity to men who have no money to take up land. When the farm has grown too small for the family, we have given opportunities to the sons to leave it to the old people, and to make new homes for themselves. The other day I was up North, and I saw hundred-acre blocks, and dairy factories everywhere, and the land a picture of content. That is the outcome of the land policy of the Government. Have honourable gentlemen opposite any such record to show? I am sure they have not. Just look at the list of departments we are administering for them. Look at the assistance we have given the farmers by the appointment of experts. We have a Produce Commissioner at Home who keeps a watchful eye upon the produce of this colony and sees where it is to be distributed, and that the produce of the New Zealand farmers is fairly and squarely dealt with. When the honourable gentlemen op- posite were in office did they ever do anything of that kind? And yet they want to pose as the friends of the farmer. Then, we have appointed a Biologist and a Pomologist. Did not we hear the honourable member for Eden speak about the beautiful grape cultivations ? Did not he tell us about the lovely grapes that were grown. They would not have grown a single grape if we had not looked after the industry. All their vines would have been eaten by phylloxera ; and yet the honourable gentleman comes and tells us about the beauti- . ful grapes, and quite forgets to thank us for having helped the industry along. Then, we have a fruit Inspector, and a vine Inspector, and veterinary Inspectors, some forty of them. Possibly, some gentlemen on the other side will say we have too many Inspectors. An Hon MEMBER .- Hear, hear. Mr. CARNCROSS .- I knew they would say that. The fact remains, however, that when- ever an Inspector is appointed every district wants him. Iknow ; they telegraph to me, and 