down in constitution, and it would be dangerous for them to go South ; he wanted to know more about it. Mr. J. ALLEN asked which were the words the Premier wanted. Mr. SEDDON said he wanted that part of the speech in which he (Mr. Allen) alleged the Premier was told the men were broken down in constitution, and that he (Mr. Seddon) was responsible for sacrificing the lives of six men. Mr. J. ALLEN said that he did not say that. Sir J. G. WARD said the honourable mem- ber stated that the Premier was politically responsible for sacrificing the lives of six men. Mr. J. ALLEN said that he did not say that. He asked the question, Who was responsible ? There were no words there he felt he could withdraw, except the words he had mentioned. He would read on if the Premier wished :- " He accused the Premier of not acceding to the advice given to him by the responsible officer of the ship, who told him it was a dangerous thing to send these men by the cold southern route. The honourable gentleman had taken the responsibility of the lives of these men upon his own shoulders. He had the responsibility of all the sickness and the breakdown in health of all these men in send- ing them by that cold route." He thought these last words " responsible for the sickness and breakdown in health of all these men " were probably too strong, and he was quite willing to withdraw them. He did not know whether he said that ; he was quot- ing from his Hansard proof absolutely without alteration. Sir J. G. WARD .- You ought to withdraw https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 the whole speech. Mr. J. ALLEN said he would not. He would continue to read his speech :- " He (Mr. Allen) was certain of this from http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero knowledge that had been placed in his hands, and not from one source alone: that these men had been injured in constitution by going from Albany to Invercargill to a much greater ex- tent than if they had gone by a warmer route, and the responsibility was the Premier's. He said this was a serious matter for the Premier to face, and he would have to answer to the House and the colony for sacrificing these men, as he (Mr. Allen) said they had been sacrificed, in order to comply with political exigencies." He was prepared to modify the latter words. Mr. SEDDON moved, That the words as read by the honourable member from his proof should be taken down. He did not want to be unfair, but these words should be withdrawn. He considered he was within his rights in demanding this. According to the Standing Orders a grave reflection had been cast on him as a member of the House, and any re- flection on an honourable member by another honourable member must be withdrawn uncon- ditionally, and where the offence was serious the House was entitled to ask that the member who had cast the reflection or made the statement should express his regret. In this case he did not wish to be severe, but he would say that the honourable member had had time to think the matter over, and he should withdraw the words. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Which words ? Mr. SEDDON said he referred to the words that concerned him-from the point at which he started reading to the point at which he stopped. Mr. J. ALLEN said he was willing to with draw or modify certain words he had used. The ACTING-CHAIRMAN said it was his duty to put it to the Committee whether certain words should be withdrawn, but he could not put the question to the Committee until he had the words before him. Mr. SEDDON suggested that the words should be read over again, and the House was entitled to have them taken down by the Han- sard reporter, and so put into the possession of the Committee. If that course was not taken, then the honourable member should hand to the Acting-Chairman the portion of the speech he had read. The ACTING-CHAIRMAN asked the honour- able member for Bruce to hand his Hansard proof to the Chair, so that the question might be put from point to point, and thus the mechanical difficulty would be got over. Mr. J. ALLEN said he was willing to do so. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) rose to a point of order. Standing Order No. 146 said :- "In a Committee of the whole House, the Chairman, if it appear to be the pleasure of the Committee, will direct words objected to to be taken down, in order that the same may be reported to the House." And Standing Order No. 147 was :- "Every such objection is to be taken at the time when such words are used, and not after any other member has spoken." He understood that these words were used in the early part of the debate, and that that was the time to have brought the matter up. The ACTING-CHAIRMAN said the words had been used twice. On the first occasion when the honourable member spoke no motion was made to take down the words. But after another honourable member had spoken the Premier suggested that the words be taken down. He immediately pointed out to the honourable member that, under Standing Order No. 147, that could not be done, a member having spoken. The honourable member for Bruce then read from his place in the House the same words, and upon those words being so uttered the Premier asked that they be taken down. It then became the duty of the Chair- man to put the question to the Committee as to whether they should or should not be taken down. It was not possible for him to put it until he had got the words identified. When that had been done, it would be for the Com- mittee to say whether those words should be taken down with a view to their being re- ported to the Deputy-Speaker. Mr. SEDDON said, If the honourable mem- ber withdrew the words complained of he thought that would end the matter. Mr. PIRANI pointed out that the words must first be taken down and reported. 