portion, which called for explanation. Further- ought to know what Colonel Gudgeon's instruc- more, he would like to have particulars of the tions were when he was first appointed as Resi- expenses in connection with the Royal visit, as dent; what laws were in force there ; whether the Court of the High Commissioner had juris- the estimates did not afford these particulars. diction in the colony of New Zealand ; and by what law certain persons had been appointed as Justices of the Peace in those Islands. He also desired to see laid on the table of the House eight o'clock a.m. (Saturday). information as to mail communication with those Islands ; also the Gazette, which he thought ought to be incorporated in the New Zealand Gazette. Mr. SEDDON said the suggestion with regard to the Gazette was a very good one, and would Death of President Mckinley-The late Mr. M. J. S. have consideration. Mr. HERRIES thought the House should have full information with regard to the con- tingents at the front. Mr. SEDDON said it was not in accordance half-past two o'clock. with military etiquette to publish the full re- ports of commanding officers ; but he did not see any reason why Colonel Porter's report, which reached him a day or two ago, should not be laid on the table of the House. He promised to do that on Tuesday. He would give the fullest information possible on the various sub- jects when they came to the Defence vote. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said that he had written to the Premier, in his capacity of Minister of Defence, six weeks ago, about Trooper Robinson of the Fourth Contingent, and had not received any reply. This young fellow went away with the Fourth Contingent, and he took a horse worth £20 with him. He was seriously wounded whilst out scouting, and was invalided home, and the probabilities were that he was disabled for life. He had written https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 to the Defence Minister asking if anything could be done for this young fellow, but no reply had been received. Mr. SEDDON said letters sent to him ad- dressed to the Minister of Defence went to the http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Defence Office, and frequently did not get to him for weeks, or until such time as the De- fence Office put them before him. In the case stated by the honourable gentleman he might say that, if the horse was procured in South Africa, he would certify to the account for it as correct. If the trooper was wounded and was disabled he was entitled to the pension. If he was suffering from his wounds he would not hesitate a moment in saying that he must be paid until he was well, and if unable to do any- thing he would come under the pension list. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) said that Sergeant Love, of the Seventh Contingent, who was killed in South Africa, left a widow and three children, and, on his widow applying to the Defence Office, she received the answer that there was a possibility of her not getting a pen- Mr. SEDDON said, If any communication sion. had been made to a poor woman to that effect- he did not care who the officer was-he would be careful before he sent another like it. Mr. ATKINSON could assure the honourable gentleman that that was the answer. He had also to point out that the daily averages of ex- penses in connection with the prisons at the Vote, £1,870, agreed to. Progress reported. The House adjourned at twenty minutes to LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Tuesday, 17th September, 1901. Mackenzie and Colonel Fraser. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at PRAYERS. DEATH OF PRESIDENT MCKINLEY. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. - Sir, I desire to move the following motion, which I have no doubt honourable gentlemen will accept : That a respectful address be presented to His Excellency the Governor requesting His Excel- lency to convey to His Majesty's Principal Secretary of State for the Colonics, for presenta- tion to the Government of the United States of America, the following resolution, namely : That the Legislative Council of New Zealand ex- presses its sorrow at the sad and melancholy death of the President of the United States of America, William Mckinley, and sincerely sympathizes with the people of the United States, and offers heartfelt condolence with Mrs. Mckinley and the relatives of the late Presi- dent, and joins with the English-speaking people throughout the world in deploring the calamity that by his demise has eventuated. Sir, last week we passed a resolution expressing our abhorrence of the crime which had been, we hoped then, only attempted. During the few days that have since elapsed we know that the heartfelt prayers and aspirations of nearly the whole world have been offered up on behalf of the life that, unfortunately, has now departed. It is almost impossible to express in language that is befitting the occasion what every right-minded man must feel at such times. One knows that misguided men in some of the older countries of the world, where irresponsible government still con- tinues, and where long-felt grievances may exist-certain men may think it right to make a law unto themselves, and to take to themselves the right of striking at a ruler or any of his family. That they should strike at the elected head of a free Republic such as the United States of America is a matter not only of abhorrence, but absolutely of astonish- ment, because the people of America have got power in their own hands to elect whom they please. They have got the power of making laws to govern themselves in an intelligent and liberal manner, and there is no possibility 