colony have a right to know what is the real | amount that they have to pay to the public creditor. It is all very well to say that these departments are well able to provide the interest on their own loans ; but sup- pose that bad times come, and those depart- ments are not able to meet the demands, then where must the money come from ? From the public Treasury, of course. The honourable gentleman opposite knows per- fectly well that if the price of butter, cheese, and frozen meat should fall a great number of the farmers will find it very difficult to meet their engagements, either for rent or for in- terest upon the money they have borrowed. Of course, the difficulty would only be a tem- porary one; I know that perfectly well ; but, still, this difference would have to be made up by the public Treasury. I shall now say a word or two about the surplus. The surplus is set down at $532,564. That amount is over- stated. The total liabilities this year exceed the liabilities of last year by $69,252. You must, therefore, deduct that amount from £532,564, which thus makes the real surplus $463,312. I admit the difference is not great, but it would be just as well if that point was mentioned somewhere in the Budget. Let me here say something in regard to the rumours of financial difficulty current during the fortnight preceding the delivery of the Financial State- ment. I confess that personally I was some- what amazed at the credulity of the public and of the Press in accepting to the extent they did these rumours, especially those referring to the Consolidated Fund Account. The least con- sideration might have shown anybody who looked up the Gazettes what the position was. We had been informed by the Premier from the public platform what the surplus was. The Press and the mercantile community at least knew, or ought to have known, the amount of revenue that was coming in ; and I really do not understand why the people should have become so suddenly alarmed with regard to the financial position of the colony. Sir, I do not think any good is done by that kind of thing, and therefore I personally expressed my incredulity at the whole affair to many people and to many members of the Press. On the very afternoon when the Budget was brought down I was asked, " What further taxation do you expect "? I replied, "None." So that I was not the least surprised when the Premier brought down the Budget and when we found what the position of matters was. But, satis- factory as the position is up to a certain point, I say there has been no time since I have been in Parliament when caution was so much needed on the part of the Government as at present. Mr. HALL-JONES .- We are always cau- tious. Mr. W. FRASER .- The honourable gentle- man says they are always cautions. Let me tell the honourable gentleman this: that a grave responsibility lies upon the Government, and that a heavier responsibility will rest upon them during the next year or two than has Mr. W. Fraser rested on the shoulders of the Government for many years past. Sir J. G. WARD .- They know that. Mr. W. FRASER .- I am glad to hear the honourable gentleman say that they know that, and I hope the Government will act up to it. For a good many years past the price of produce has ruled very high. There is no doubt that the good prices obtained for butter, cheese, and frozen meat have given an impetus to this country which was never contemplated by the most sanguine. The price of land has risen owing to the satisfactory price obtained for dairy produce - a price for land which, I think, is a fictitious one. But how long is that going to last ? The member for Waihemo last night gave a very graphic description of the com- petition that we must expect, and the proba- bility of lower prices. We know that frozen meat is now not so high in price as it has been lately, still it is at a very fair and a paying price. There is one product, however, which has gone down to what is really a ruinous price, and that is wool. Let me tell the House this : that the colony has not as yet felt the effect of the fall in wool. The reclamations on last year's clip have not yet been demanded from the farmers. But when that demand is made, and when to that is superadded the reduced amount which merchants and banks will ad- vance against the coming clip, then we shail see the effect of the fall in price of wool. It will mean a reduction of two millions and a half in the spending-power of the people. Of course. that reduced spending-power will affect the Cus- toms revenue. In saying this I merely wish to emphasize the absolute necessity for extreme caution on the part of the Government in looking after the finances during the ensuing twelve months. The difficulty the Government has had to contend with so far has not been with the consolidated revenue ; it was with the Public Works Account. They have been unable to borrow the money necessary to meet their engagements as quickly and as easily as they desired. I do not think it is conducive to the credit of any country to be borrowing money in small sums of $50,000, or even $100,000. Selling debentures over the counter is a thing which I do not think is likely to raise the credit of the colony on the London market. I think, myself. it will have the reverse effect. The Govern- ment, I know, have been in a difficult position : that in consequence of the South African war it would have been impossible for them to have raised a 3 or 33-per-cent. loan at a reasonable figure in London. We have been told that they were not going to do it, but would raise the money locally. Well, Sir, I think they have found out the folly of that. They have raised a certain amount locally, but I venture to say they will find some trouble in endeavouring to repeat that operation. We have evidence of that in the fact that they have since had to go Home and raise $500,000 in London. We have no particulars about that loan vet, and I think we ought to have had them by this time. We ought to know what the loan realised, and what it cost to raise it. But we know nothing 