honourable gentleman has ever compiled. The | I proceed further what amount of reasonable cheap sneers at the merchants whom he " had " taxation the limited population of New Zea- over kerosene that never was in bond, and the land is compelled to bear. We find, beginning with the year 1890, that the net indebtedness revenue he never got ! Of his predecessor per head of the population was £60 5s. 3d. ; in it is said-and deservedly said-" He loved the people! " It has also, with equal justice, 1891-I ask honourable members to mark the been said of the right honourable gentle- significance of the date of the increase in the man, "He bribed the people "; but the indebtedness per head-£59 11s. 10d. ; in 1892, £59 2s. ; in 1893, £58 2s. 7d .; in 1894, £57 prominent feature of his public career and the real reason of his success is that he has 8s. 10d .- there it was at its lowest ebb : just successfully fooled the people. Abe Lincoln when the right honourable gentleman was com- said that "You can fool some people all the fortably and safely installed in office it begins time : you can fool all the people some of the to mount up gradually ; in 1895, £57 9s. 9d. ; time, but you cannot fool all the people all the in 1896, £60 2s. 4d .; in 1897, £60 12s. 9d. ; in time "; and the time is fast approaching when 1898, £60 4s. 11d .; in 1899, £61 14s. 4d. ; in a sufficient majority of the people of New Zea- 1900, £61 17s. 3d. ; and in 1901, £62 16s. 10d. land will decline to be any longer fooled. Now, per man, woman, and child is the burden of the debt on the people of New Zealand. And Sir. I propose, while dealing with the Budget, I maintain now, Sir, that we have arrived at to predict neither ruin nor disgrace to New Zealand. That is impossible. The very fact that stage which Mr. Ballance spoke so feel- ingly about, when he said we had reached that New Zealand has stood the strain of the prodigality of administration during the last that stage when it was sufficiently serious to compel sane men to pause. Now, the Pre- eight or nine years is sufficient proof that it cannot be ruined. If we were to-morrow on the verge of bankruptcy New Zealand would immediately, if left alone, rise, phoenix-like, from its ashes. It is not time-serving poli- ticians nor bad statecraft that can ruin it, or it would be in a much worse predicament than it is now. But we are told in the Budget that the condition of the country is prosperous. Material prosperity has been with us-there is no gainsaying that - but it is entirely traceable to causes other than either the legis- lation or administration of the present Govern- ment. They have only exercised a policy of expediency, and have been sufficiently worldly- wise to watch opportunities and grasp them. They have simply had horsc-sense enough to see that things were coming their way, and stood aside and let them come. But I em- phatically declare their policy and administra- tion has produced such a state of moral and political paralysis as will yet make itself obvious to the dullest intellect, and will take very many years of rigorous political discipline to eradicate. Now, Sir, I want to show the relationship of the prosperity of the colony to the people-I mean the common people. I want to show if possible to what extent the mass of the people -the wage-earning classes are prosperous, and what prospect they have to withstand the shock of ill times should that befall them. First of all, let me look at the indebtedness of the colony. The Premier says in the Budget,- " It is well, however, that I should, in respect to the expenditure, urge the absolute necessity for prudence and economy, for, although the revenue is buoyant and increasing, yet, owing to reductions in the Customs tariff, the conces- sion of penny postage, remissions in railway charges, and other concessions, there is this year, as compared with last year, a decrease of only £9,500 ; correspondingly there should be a jealously guarded expenditure, for a restricted population can only bear a limited and reason- able impost of taxation." Observe how seductively he preaches pru- dence and economy. But his practice squares mier has recognised that ; his Budget says that ; and his Budget, so far as professions go, realises the position, and confesses the position. But the estimates give the lie to that confession ; that is, he preaches economy and prudence in the letter, but he breaks it in the spirit-that is to say, in the estimates. The estimates are excessive ; so much so that his own most enthusiastic-of course, he says they are "pessimistic "-supporters have de- manded a reduction in no uncertain tones. Now, they are honest and sincere, and ex- ceedingly true followers of the right honour- able gentleman, and I decline to believe for one single moment that any unworthy or ulterior motive has actuated honourable mem- bers such as the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar), the member for Ashley, and others who have spoken so frankly. There is no ulterior motive that can be imputed; I decline to believe for a moment that any ques- tion of pique, jealousy, or personal slight or affront has weighed with them in their decla- rations. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is disappointment. Mr. HUTCHESON .- Of course, the honour- able gentleman is more within the inner circle, and probably knows more about it. I am basing my remarks on a knowledge of their characteristic truthfulness and earnestness ; and they have, it appears to me, told the right honourable gentleman he is walking in a dark path, at the long end of which there is a pit, and they are asking him to pause and get a light to see where he is before he falls into it. That is the impression that I have, and that, I believe, will be the impression held by the people of the colony when they come to care- fully and critically weigh their words and realise the position. I have now shown, Sir, that the public indebtedness per head of the colony has gone up to a sum hitherto unprecedented and undreamt-of - namely, to £62 12s. 6d. Now let us see what is the annual burden on the people of the colony per head 