swing at the gallows for these attempted mur- -ders as their tools, frequently weak - minded men, whom they send forth ticketed in order that they may murder innocent men whose crime is that they have attained to the highest position in the land, and ought not to be struck at at all. I rose for the purpose of putting on record these few remarks. I regret exceedingly that one word should have been uttered in con- nection with a dastardly crime, or with any- thing in connection with such a question, that might be construed into an impression that any of us think there may be some justification for it in order to solve the great social problems of the older countries, where there has been such a tendency with this object in view to commit crimes of this kind. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- I wish to make a personal explanation. I never had the slightest idea of expressing sympathy with the person who committed this crime. My sole object was to point out, as nearly as I could, one of the causes of the disease and the insanity which led to this murderous and cruel act. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- There is only one feeling now prevailing, and that is one of sym- pathy mingled with one of gladness, now that We President Mckinley is likely to recover. are all delighted that such is the case. And the few words that have been said on this mat- ter have made that evident ; although without the explanation just now given by the member for Riccarton, I was myself inclined to take the view of my colleague, that the honourable gentleman meant to suggest that the realisa- tion of these great fortunes in America by https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 multi-millionaires of late years, and the deve- lopment of their interests, had had something to do with this crime. I do not think so. Ido not think it had the slightest thing to do with http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero it. It simply shows there are certain lawless organizations in existence in different parts of the world which organized society must put down with a firm hand, and must, as stated by the leader of the Opposition in pointing out the means now being taken in America to bring the instigators of this crime to book. not merely punish the vicious tool, but all those who insti- gate and promote and assist : it is they also who should receive the most severe punishment at the hands of organized society. # PRIVILEGE. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa). - I rise 3.30. for the purpose of calling the attention of the House to a question of privilege. In doing so I understand it is my duty to move a motion in respect to this matter, and I shall do so. I move, That a gross breach of the privileges of this House has been committed in connection with the publication of an article in the Manawatu Evening Standard of Monday, the 22nd October. 1900; and I would ask that the article be read. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin). - Sir, I rise to a point of order. I wish to call your attention to a ruling of Mr. Speaker O'Rorke, on page 156 of the "Rulings of the Speakers," with regard to breaches of privilege :- " A breach of privilege must be brought for- ward at once. If twenty-four hours, or a con- siderable time, elapses, notice must be given." Sir, my point of order is this: that the publication referred to took place a consider- able time ago-I think, nearly-twelve months ago-therefore, before it is brought before this House, notice should be given by the honour- I ask for your able member concerned. ruling. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa). - Speaking to the point of order, might I be permitted to say that we have a precedent for this motion of mine being moved at this stage, and in this way. in connection with the matter of privilege that was disposed of last evening. More than twenty-four hours-much more than twenty- four hours-had elapsed before the breach of pri- vilege was brought before the House, and I say I am entitled to move this resolution to-day with- out any notice whatsoever. The House itself has created a precedent, and I submit, Sir, you should afford me an opportunity of bringing this motion forward at this stage. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- Sir, I think you will recollect that the Chairman of the Gold- fields and Mines Committee brought up the question of privilege that has been referred to on the very first occasion that it was pos- sible for him to do so. It was then delayed with your sanction, because I think a motion dealing with the death of the Hon. Mr. Kerr intervened, and therefore I take it that the cases are not on all-fours. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay). - Sir, I would like to point out a ruling of Mr. Speaker, which says, on page 155,- " In order to entitle a question of privilege to precedence it must relate to some matter which has recently arisen." Now, if my ears caught the words correctly, it was the 21st October, 1900, a period of nearly twelve months ago, when the alleged breach of privilege occurred. I shall hereafter argue the point, Sir -perhaps I am not in order in doing so at the present moment -- that it is impossible for us to consider the newspaper article a breach of privilege ; and, if we can do so, perhaps it would be right now to argue the point as to whether it is not too late to bring the question forward. The ruling of the Speaker already quoted by my honourable friend the member for Franklin, No. 5, says, - "A breach of privilege must be brought for- ward at once. If twenty-four hours, or a con- siderable time, elapses, notice must be given." " A considerable time," certainly, has elapsed. I should think that not by any stretch of imagination could it be taken to mean a period of more than ten months after the committing of the alleged offence ; or, if it was, it would be contrary to the whole spirit of dealing with privilege. I have found no rule that privilege shall be brought on at the first available oppor- tunity. I am not quite sure of a ruling to that effect ; but I am quite sure that the practice of our Parliament has been that a question of privilege must be brought on at the first avail- able opportunity. Now, this article has been 