City (Mr. Fisher) did not see. The House divided on the question, 3.0 "That the words proposed to be omitted be retained." AYES, 34. Fraser, A. L. D. Rhodes Allen, E. G. Russell, G. W. Fraser, W. Allen, J. Russell, W. R. Graham Atkinson Smith, G. J. Hall-Jones Bennet Buddo Steward Hardy Tanner Hornsby Carncross McGowan Ward Carroll Collins McGuire Willis. Meredith Duncan Millar Ell Tellers. Hall Mills Fisher Flatman Parata Stevens. NOES, 28. Palmer Arnold Kaihau Barclay Pirani Lang Bollard Laurenson Symes Thompson, R. Lethbridge Colvin Thomson, J. W. Fowlds Massey Mackenzie, T. Witheford. Gilfedder Mckenzie, R. Haselden McNab Tellers. Heke Herries Houston Monk Hutcheson Napier Lawry. Majority against, 6. Amendment negatived, and motion agreed to, and the House resolved itself into Committee of Supply. IN COMMITTEE. CLASS II .- COLONIAL SECRETARY'S DEPART- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 MENT. Office of Industries and Commerce, £3,908. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) said that this department was set up with the object of assisting the industries and commerce of the colony, yet, though it had been in existence for some years, he was not aware that a great deal had been done. He believed the department could be made very useful, but it should be galvanised into life. He wished to call atten- tion to the item, " Rent of offices, $125." If that was the Wellington office, then the worst place possible had been chosen. This office was situated up a side street, in a dingy building ; whereas the opposition office-that of Cook's Tourist Agency-was on Customhouse Quay, and in the front part of the Government Insur- ance Building. If the department was to be of any service to the colony there must be more enterprise shown, and unless that were the case the question of its abolition would have to be considered next year. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) would like some in- formation on the item, " Grain grading on be- half of the Imperial Government, #4,000." It seemed a large sum to spend on the salaries of graders, and he hoped the Minister would give them some information about it. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked who was the trade representative for whom pro- vision was made for £450-was it Mr. Gow, or Mr. Cameron ? Mr. HERRIES asked where Mr. Cameron's salary came in. Sir J. G. WARD said, Under the Agent- General's Department. Mr. HERRIKS said he also wanted informa- tion about the item, " Advertising South Afri- can steam-service, $250," and also the item, "Advertising for Secretary, £72." That seemed to be a large amount to spend in advertising for a Secretary. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) said the honourable member for Christchurch City was right in stating that until recently the depart- ment had not been very active. Now, however, the department was being organized, and there was reason to hope that in the future there would be no legitimate grounds for complaint in that respect. The object of the department was not for the purpose of being used for com- petitive purposes whatever. Its object was to assist the colony generally by bettering existing markets and obtaining fresh markets for the benefit of all classes in the country. It was not to be used as a trading or a competitive depart- ment. Regarding the premises to which the honourable member had referred, it was neces- sary that this office should be on a ground floor, and when the department first commenced they looked round to find a suitable office tem- porarily. Some time ago the Government took steps, under the Public Works Act, to acquire the land at the rear of the Post Office, known as the Levin Block. In the building there to be erected provision was to be made for the ac- commodation of the Industries and Commerce and Tourists Departments. The accommodation in the office occupied by Cook's Tourist Agency in the Government Insurance Building was not by any means adequate for the Tourist Depart- ment. Regarding the item $4,000 for grading, that expense was incurred entirely on behalf of the Imperial Government. The system was to charge so much per bag for grading, and that charge was sent forward to the Imperial Govern- ment. The Imperial Government had cabled out in every instance asking that the New Zealand Government graders should grade the cargo on their behalf ; the charge to be made on the bag rate. There was no loss to the colony in this respect. An Hon. MEMBER .- Is there any profit ? Sir J. G. WARD said there was no profit attached to it. The charge made was 2d. for With regard to the item, ten 80 1b. sacks. " Advertising for Secretary," he might say that it was not originally contemplated to appoint Mr. Donne Secretary of Industries and Commerce. It was only after the receipt of the applications that it occurred to him that it would be better to have a combined officer, and that Mr. Donne could take both offices, and the expenditure for advertising was incurred as he had explained. An Hon. MEMBER asked if the position was advertised throughout Australia. Sir J. G. WARD said it was advertised throughout New Zealand. There was a scale for Government advertisements, and that was 