been received, that was sufficient in that case. been committed, but they would seek to inflict And here we have a representative of a journal heavy penalties. They have other reasons for it. I say, if we were going to do any good by who has admitted, according to his own words, that a technical breach of privilege has been imposing a heavy penalty, I would not myself committed ; but, according to the forms of this object at all ; but we all know that it will do House, an undeniable breach of privilege has no good whatever. Now, take another case- that of the then leader of the Opposition, Mr. been committed, and we have the honourable member for Wellington City, because the jour- Bryce. A question of privilege cropped up in nalist will not go further and do something connection with him. which would stigmatize him as a dishonourable man in the eyes of the country, asserting and reasserting that we are not doing the right gentleman took exception to the Speaker calling him to order for a statement that he had made thing unless we impose a fine, with a view to compelling him to disclose the source of his about a member of the House, to the effect that information and to thereby do a dishonourable the member ought to be ashamed of himself. He was called upon to withdraw, and he refused action. Mr. FISHER. - I want to get the other to withdraw that remark, and he thereby dis- obeyed the ruling of the Chair. He had what fellow. Sir J. G. WARD .- Why does the honour- he believed to be good and sufficient reasons for able member not name the other fellow ? Why the course he took, but he did not conform to does the honourable member, if he has his the Standing Orders. But, though by his refusal to withdraw he defied the ruling of the Chair, suspicions, not say to whom they refer? Some of those honourable members talk suspiciously you did not find the members of the Opposition about another individual, but it would be running away from him and looking for reasons much more honourable and manly, instead of in order to derogate in the slightest degree from making these insinuations, and thereby casting the course the then leader of the Opposition took up. On the contrary, the members of the these innuendoes on every member of the House, to name the man, whoever he is. Opposition rallied round him, and stood by him Mr. FISHER .- Why should we name him ? throughout the whole of the trouble, although Sir J. G. WARD .- 1 say, if you have good it was admitted that he had committed a breach of the Standing Orders by his refusal to obey grounds for your suspicions you should say what they are; and the honourable member the ruling of the Chair. Every member on that side of the House who stood beside Mr. Bryce, knows that he is asking a Press representative to do a dishonourable thing, and I say we have who then occupied the position of leader of the Opposition, rallied round him and stood by no right to do that because we cannot obtain the name of the person from whom this informa- him from beginning to end. tion was obtained. Mr. FISHER .- Let him pay, then. it was a credit to them that they did. Sir J. G. WARD .- Very well, and if we did let him pay, then where would we be? Any able that they did so : and I say, in a case like nearer to finding who the man is? No. Now, that, to find those high attributes of loyalty in the case of a member of this House, where which one cannot but admire existing amongst we have declared that a breach of privilege has the following that Mr. Bryce had, redounded to been committed we did not call upon him to their credit. The rule is that the Speaker must be obeyed. He refused to obey the Speaker. pay ; and why should we put a member of the Press in a worse position than a member of this They supported him in the course he took, House who has committed a breach of the which led to his retirement from the House, privileges of the House, and which was a no and which I, with many others, very much re- worse offence than has been committed in this gretted at the time; but it is a fact that he committed a breach of the Standing Orders instance ? An Hon. MEMBER .- He did it for gain. and refused to obey the ruling of the Chair, and Sir J. G. WARD .- Who can tell what motive the whole of the party stood by him. Now, had might have actuated the members of the House one on this side of the House acted similarly, in the past in committing breaches of privi- the Opposition would have insisted on the lege ? It may have been done for the purpose Speaker being obeyed. That was surely making of notoriety, but the fact remains that where a privilege a party question. In another case, breach of privilege has been committed, and where a member on that side was guilty of a the House by resolution has said that a breach breach of privilege, they all walked out of the House rather than do anything which would de- of privilege has been committed, it did not follow it up by inflicting a fine. Yet when a rogate in the least from one of their number- representative of a paper who has obtained rather than uphold the Standing Orders they information, he says, in an honourable way, and all walked out of the House. Therefore, in the when that information has been published in three cases I have referred to, where it con- his journal and we call upon him to disclose cerned one of their own party, the dignity the name, and he, in accordance with profes- and privileges of Parliament they entirely ignored. They made it subsidiary. Now, the sional etiquette and honour, refuses to do it, honourable member for Wellington City made we would impose a fine for a breach of privilege. a statement that the Premier had not only Some honourable members are not satisfied that moved a resolution which he stated would we should affirm that a breach of privilege has Mr. PIRANI .- Oh, no. Sir J. G. WARD .- Yes; the honourable Mr. MONK .- I should think they would, and Sir J. G. WARD .- 1 admit it was very credit- 