gaged in a miller's case until now. Mr. BARCLAY .- That may be ; but I have never heard a word against his ability or suit- ableness for the position. It is generally agreed that Mr. Ferguson has always been one of the most level-headed, sensible, fair, and moderate members of the Board. I do not think that the mere fact of his being secretary of a union in any way unfits him for doing his duty as a conciliator, although possibly it might be un- desirable in one occupying the position of a Judge. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- Sir, it appears to me that we have got into a most extraordinary position with this matter, and that a stupid mistake has been made in connection with the appointment ot Mr. Justice Cooper as Judge of the Arbitration Court. Of course, it is our duty, as the Parliament of the country, to validate his appointment, because if we do not the whole of his decisions so far will be null and void. I think there will be very little op- position to the Bill before the House. It is all very well for the Premier to say that he takes the responsibility on his own shoulders. course, there is no doubt he is partly respon- sible in his capacity as Minister of Labour; but it is a divided responsibility. There is some one else responsible as well, and I think we ought to know who it is. The Act of last year, with regard to the gazetting of the appoint- ment, is quite clear. Subsection (4) of section 63 says this :- " As soon as practicable after a full Court has been appointed by the Governor, the names of the members of the Court shall be notified in https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 the Gazette, and such notification shall be final and conclusive for all purposes." That has not been done, and some one is directly responsible for it, and I hope the Pre- mier in his reply will tell the House who it is. I consider that the payment of fees to a Judge of the Supreme Court, in addition to his salary, is altogether contrary to the spirit of the Act of las year, which provides that the salary of a Judge of the Supreme Court shall be $1,500 per annum. There is not a word in that Act about fees. And not only that, I consider that it is contrary to the principle on which British Judges are appointed --- that their salaries shall in no way be dependent on the Government of the day. Mr. SEDDON .- Hear, hear. Mr. MA -SEY .- I hold strong opinions on that point. I am also strongly of opinion that there is no statutory authority for the payment of such fees, unless we get the authority from the iniquitous Public Revenues Act of last year. If that is the case-and I believe it to be the case - then members have the remedy in their own hands. The amount of the fees will have to be voted on the supplementary estimates, and I hope when the supplementary estimates come down that members will refuse to repeat the wrong of last year, but will promptly strike out the item referred to. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- It seems to me that a most awkward mistake has been proper appointment of Mr. Justice Cooper as Judge of the Arbitration Court. It is au omission which might have been fraught with the most serious consequences had the dis- covery not been made when Parliament was in session. Fortunately it was made when Par- liament is in session. The Premier is taking the whole responsibility of that omission, and he is going to correct it. I rise chiefly for the purpose of giving my opinion with regard to the payment of fees to Judges in addition to their fixed salaries. I think that is a most im- proper course to pursue. If $1,500 a year is not sufficient salary to pay Mr. Justice Cooper, then let the salary be raised to what amount may be regarded as sufficient emolumene for his services. But to have supple- mentary fees added because he may be employed for a part of his time in a special class of work is, I think, a highly repre- hensible course to take. I suppose it is quite correct that a certain Judge occupying that position received from $500 to $6 0 a year in addition to his ordinary salary as a Judge of the Of Supreme Court -making his emoluments con- siderably higher than those of the Chief Justice. My own opinion is that the Chief Justice should be better paid than be is at present ; but I do think it is wrong that a Judge, by means of fees, should receive a higher salary than the Chief Justice. Of course the Premier says that the correct place to insert such a provision is in another Act ; but will the Premier give us his promise that he will insert that provision in another Act this session. The Premier is silent. I hope that, in his reply, he will indicate the course he intends to pursue. Coming to the question of the paid secretary of a union being also a member of a Conciliation Board, I think, of course, it would be better to have a man not directly connected with a trades- union sitting on a Conciliation Board. I am glad to hear -- and I believe it is strictly true -that Mr. Ferguson is a very excellent man. and that he has been a very good member of the Board. I think it was suggested on this side of the House that conciliation is not the main end of members of those Boards The member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay) said that this gentleman was not a Judge, but a con- ciliator. But it is human nature to suppe an extra day or two would not be against thel wishes. But, as the Premier indicated some time ago, this gentleman may be one of those who are running the conciliation business tos hard, and that the colony is becoming tired of it. For my own part, I believe it would be better to have men appointed to the position who are not connected with unions or with the employers. That would clear the ground con- sideraolv. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, in introduc- ing the Bill I little thought that a long debate would follow. What has most amused me has been the assumed virtue of the member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson) and his igne- rance of the law. The member for Wellingtea City must know-if not, I will tell him now- 