Government. One of the strongest criticisms that I have heard during this debate is that of the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar). I followed his figures carefully, and although I do not say he was right in every instance, nor do I think that he would claim that himself, I believe that in the main he was perfectly correct in what he was saying. The last honourable member that spoke said that he hoped that no personal insults would be offered Ministers, and I hope. Sir, that I shall not say a single word than can be taken as a personal offence to any Minister of the Crown. Although I do not pose as a financier, I consider it to be my duty as far as I can to criticize the affairs of the colony from my position in this House. Sir, I feel the re- sponsibility of the position-I feel that I am not speaking only to the gentlemen who are listening to me now, but that my words will go forth to the country, and only as far as they are true ought they to be appreciated. Feeling that it is my duty to criticize, I have taken a consider- able amount of trouble to verify the correctness of the statements I am about to make. It will be impossible for me in the short space of one hour to review the whole financial position of the colony-to do so would take several hours. One member cannot deal with all the points, and I had hoped, and still hope, that in the course of the debate the various speakers will amongst them criticize the whole of the colony's financial position. It is my intention to confine myself to a few of the main questions that are dealt with in the Financial Statement. I shall refer to the pessimistic criticisms that the Premier mentions in the Statement ; I https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 shall refer to the surplus in the Consolidated Fund, and the liabilities against it ; to the Public Works Fund and its present position ; to the public debt and its increase during the last four quinquennial periods. I shall do that because one honourable member who preceded me spoke of the last decade, and the Treasurer said, "Why do you not deal also with the previous ten years ?" This I shall do. I shall deal with the increased payment for interest placed upon the general taxpayer, because the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) said that a good deal of this increased interest was being paid by those who borrowed the money. I will deal with the increase of population as compared with the increase of indirect taxation ; also with the inequality of sacrifice under the present direct taxation. I shall refer to the Premier's salary, compared with that of the Judges of New Zealand and Australia. I shall also refer to the salaries of the other Ministers as compared with those of Australian Ministers. I shall also refer to the Midland Railway ques- tion, to which the Premier referred in his Statement. Sir, I shall be obliged if the honour- able member for Wellington Suburbs will stop his frivolous interruptions. If he does not take any interest in what concerns the financial affairs of the colony, he need not interfere with other members who do. The Treasurer, in the opening remarks of his Statement, says,- " The pessimistic criticism of our finance during the last few weeks has almost verged on the ludicrous, and thereby a feeling has been raised in the public mind that additional taxa- tion was imperative." I want to know, Sir, who was responsible for the statement that we have heard so much about getting into the newspapers. I do not know upon whom the responsibility lies, but I do know this: I was present at the 10.30. deputation meeting when reference was made by the Premier to the estimates of revenue and the estimates of expenditure, and the Pre- mier expressed grave doubts as to his ability to make one meet the other; so much so that when I read the reported statement in the Lyttelton Times, although there was no reporter present at the moment the statement was made. I felt that what took place was most vividly brought back to my mind. I shall not say a word more about that, excepting that the Pre- mier himself almost confirmed this position later on in his Statement, where he says, " I was confronted with estimates involving what appeared to be at first sight extraordinarily large expenditure." Now, that shows that the Premier had to pare them down; but all I wish to say in connection with the matter is that I was present when the statements were made which would give rise to what was printed in the paper. I do not suppose the Premier gave the information to the newspaper him- self. He says he did not, and I believe him when he says so ; but it was remarkable how correctly the papers did get what was said at that deputation. Now, with reference to the surplus, I want to refer to this, and first of all I want to refer to the way in which it was put by a leading journal in New Zealand-namely, the Evening Post, of Wellington. I do this in justice to the Government, because the Post is a paper of a very wide circulation, and many people do not see the position stated in any other way than they see it stated by that paper, or by some other newspaper in the colony. The Eren- ing Post, after the Statement was delivered, said, " As for the surplus of the past year, the fact is that if the previous year's surplus be not brought forward there is a deficit on the year's trans- actions." The paper then proceeded to state the amounts of the revenue perfectly correctly, but excluded the balance brought forward. They also stated the expenditure; but in stating the ordinary expenditure they included the $500,000 that was transferred from the balance brought forward last year to the Public Works Fund Account, and in that way they made a deficit of $72,786. To do that is not fair to the Government. As they included the $500,000 that was tranferred to the Public Works Ac- count on the expenditure side, they ought also to have included on the revenue side of the account the balance brought forward, because the $500,000 was transferred by law from the balance brought forward last year, and had nothing to do with the actual ordinary revenue or expenditure of the year. Mr. WILFORD .- You are quite wrong in your figures. Mr. GRAHAM .- The member for the Suburbs 