ing way, and adopted the suggestion contained lowed that declaration of principle in the in my amendment. only way in which it ought to be followed, this question would have been settled in one afternoon. But, instead, as an aggravation of port it ? the original offence, we have read to us a decline to be trifled with by the honourable letter by the Speaker, which, as I said yester- day, is nothing short of an insult to the House gentleman in that way. That is not the way to and an act of impudence. I take up this atti- govern the proceedings of this House; that is not the way to govern a party ; that is not the tude upon this question regardless of who I way to retain the allegiance of members who please or displease. I am not responsible to are loyal to a political principle. I will not be those gentlemen who sit on those benches for driven into a false position. Who says that we my opinions. I am responsible to my consti- should accept the letter sent to the Speaker tuents, and to my constituents only ; and I say, as a settlement of this question ? First of all, as I have said in this House before, I will not silently stand by and see the rights of this the honourable gentleman, in his original mo- tion, asks us to agree that the letter handed House assailed as they have been assailed in to the Speaker by Mr. Cohen is satisfactory. this particular case and in this particular way. Then the words "is satisfactory" are taken Who defends the gentleman who impudently out, and we are asked to say by inference that flaunts this House as this House has been the explanation is "not satisfactory," and a flaunted on this occasion ? The Ministry. We fine of £15 is to be imposed. I need not dis- have had examples of the action taken by cuss the manner in which the fine is to be Ministries in the past, and I claim to have a imposed or how it is to be collected. It is to longer and more intimate knowledge of the me a matter of the most perfect indifference. history of this Parliament than any member sitting in it, perhaps excepting the honourable My strong objection is mainly to the man- ner in which the motion was brought before member for Hawke's Bay, Captain Russell, and I never saw an assault upon the House an- the House, and up to the present point the trifling manner in which it has been dealt swered as this attack has been answered by the with. Sir, what object have we in discus- gentlemen who sit on those benches. Let it not sing the iniquities connected with dredging be supposed, because I speak thus strongly, that works of Otago or anywhere else? Why my statement of opinion affects my position in deluge this House with testimonials as to the politics in the least degree, for I always, when the rights and privileges of this House have been ability of Mr. Cohen as a newspaper reporter ? assailed in this manner, assume the position We do not want to know whether he is an able which I have assumed to day. I asked the House reporter or not, because it has nothing whatever to do with the question before the House. If in the beginning not to treat this question as a Mr. Cohen values the testimonials, let him take party question, and I undertake to say that the House did not treat it as a party question until all that have been given him from those the honourable gentleman was guilty of what I benches, and, if he would consent to receive it, I will give him one as to his journalistic take to be an improper act. When the situation became critical, regarded from his point of view, ability, but I would give him another as to his he summoned a meeting of his party. Had he defiant flouting of this House. Sir, I say, if this House adopts the resolution which it is not summoned that meeting of his party the question would have been discussed and con- asked to adopt by the Government, it will be- sidered by this House in a dispassionate and come a laughing stock throughout the country. impartial manner. It would have been dis- Then, I am reminded that I have been outpaced cussed, I make bold to say, in a manner in tactics. Let me disclaim any desire to excel that would have reflected credit upon this in any tactics whatever in connection with this Parliament in all time to come, and it subject. I merely expressed, as best I could, an honest, upright, outspoken opinion in regard to would have been settled, as I have already said, in a very much shorter space of time. the question before the House-to me the most Then, the honourable gentleman savs that serious question that could be brought before because of this change that came o'er the spirit the notice of the House. I say this is not a of the dream, in consequence of the holding of way to deal with such a matter. The Hon. the caucus, he is entitled to say that his motion the Minister for Railways told us this after- was carried. Sir, that is not an accurate noon that the Government were not men to be statement of the circumstances of the case. booted about. I have nothing to say as to that. After the diffusive and conglomerate motion They may conceive themselves to be men of of the honourable gentleman was moved, I put boldness of character-anything they please. I have not one word to say against that ; but I as best I could, at short notice, an amendment before the House which met the position, to certainly do say that, in consequence of the my mind, with great point-" Rem acu tetigisti." strong development of opinion on this subject No member could have gone closer to the throughout the House, they have at every stage been driven from pillar to post. How comes question than I did in the amendment I that? Had there been originally one clearly proposed. Then, after the Government changed their attitude from one position to another in defined, one clean-cut resolution put before the order to meet the strongly expressed opinion of House, the course of Parliament would have members on all sides of the House, they came i been easy. There could have been no two Mr. SEDDON. - Then, why do you not sup- Mr. FISHER. - I will not support it. I 