Amendment negatived. Vote, £1,640, agreed to. Ministers' Secretaries, £800. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) pointed out that the Secretary to the Cabinet was also getting 1950 as Clerk of the Executive Council. Sir J. G. WARI) said, this was Mr. Willis, who was a very able officer. He was an elderly man, and lived out of town ; and, as not infrequently Executive Council meetings required to be held at night when he was not present, it was then that Mr. Andrews acted in his stead. Mr. PIRANI wanted to know why it was necessary to employ thirteen Private Secre- taries for Ministers. Mr. SEDDON said there really ought to be two sets of Private Secretaries if they were not to be "sweated " and overworked. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) said that arose from the fact that they had so much work to do that was entirely for the honour and glory of the Premier himself. They were em- ployed in getting out books describing the Premier's native and Island meetings. If they were confined to their proper and legitimate work, half the number of secretaries would suffice. He would support a motion to reduce this item as an instruction to the Premier to curtail and legitimise their work. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) be- lieved the Premier's suggestion to double the number of these Private Secretaries was a proper one. The Premier's work went on night and day, and members themselves would hesi- tate to face that kind of work. Sir J. G. WARD said there was a 1.0. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 misapprehension respecting these secre- taries, and he would like to place the facts be- fore honourable members, for then their sense of fairness would suggest that statements had been made that ought not to have been made. There was an impression that Ministers had an unnecessary number of Private Secretaries at. tached to them, but nothing of the kind was the case ; and no extraneous work, such as that suggested, had been imposed upon them, and even if they did do work of that sort it would not make the difference of half a secretary to the whole of the Ministry. It was a fact that not more than two or three secretaries were employed from outside the departments to which they belonged. Previously similar work was done by them, but they remained in the departmont itself, and were not brought into prominence. They had been brought into more prominence in recent years. There was an enormous amount of work which was now thrown upon the Ministers ; but the idea that men were brought in from outside to do it, and that additional expense was thereby en- tailed upon the colony, was quite erroneous. This was a feature of the position that had not been duly recognised. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) understood that there were Private Secretaries connected with the different departments of the public service and members of the Civil Service. The amount mentioned here was only what they were paid or their special services as secretaries, VOL. CXVIII .- 38. but he could not trace in the estimates where these people were employed, or what they re- ceived. Mr. SEDDON said they received from £150 to £300. Two, Mr. Hyde and another, he thought, received a little over £300 a year. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL asked if their salaries were specifically voted as clerks in the different departments to which they belonged. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes ; except those who were not attached to any department. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked whether those gentlemen were secretaries who had been doing such onerous work as that which they had undertaken on the previous Friday night in taking down the debate in shorthand. If the secretaries had to do such work as that, no wonder they had extra work. Sir J. G. WARD said that during the last fifteen years it was quite usual for check notes to be taken behind the Chair. Mr. HERRIES said, All he could say was that it was a most improper use to make of Private Secretaries, and one that the House should not pay for. Mr. SEDDON said these Private Secretaries had to work long hours, and in some instances they lost their promotions in the departments to which they belonged. He often felt he was doing wrong in keeping them such long hours, and in keeping them employed when other officers had their holidays. They did not com- plain, however, although they had to work late and early; so much so, indeed, that in two cases their health had broken down. He was not hard-hearted, and he had to say that one of two things must happen : either the work must lessen or he must increase the number of Secretaries to do it. It was not at all the class of work that had been spoken of. So far as the Island book was concerned, his Private Secretaries had never touched it ; and with regard to the Native meetings there was something extra in that. Whenever Minis- ters, and particularly His Excellency the Go- vernor, went to a . meeting of Natives and addressed them on important questions, laying down matters of policy which the Natives would keep them to, the Minister, for his own safety and that of the colony, was bound to have a shorthand note taken at the time the speeches were made ; and, as would be seen from the time taken before the book came out, the transcription had been done when his Secretary could devote the time to it. It was not that class of work that troubled him ; but the fact of the matter was that, between despatches, telegrams, letters, correspondence, and the memoranda connected with the con- tingents, defence, and matters of the different departments, the work had enormously in- creased. If a record of this was laid on the table, members would see that the number of Secretaries ought to be increased, and pro- bably they would have some little considera- tion for Ministers. They must get some relief, and the only relief he and his colleagues could get was by the employment of more Private Secretaries. Members would know how their 