would be appreciated. It is this : that we land. I would far rather see children on the broad acres than sheep ; but, Sir, it is one thing have often years of plenty in the agricul- ... to settle people on the land, and another thing tural districts, and in those years of plenty I should like to see provision made for the to see that they are happy, contented, and self- reliant when they are placed there. But, Sir, lean years. We have years of plenty. when the that is a question which, I think, does not dis- farmers are able to make good returns, and turb the honourable gentlemen on the Govern- years of dearth when hardships occur ; and at ment benches. All they care about doing is to the present time they have little or no induce- borrow money and place people on the land, ment to save money, because, when their in- feeling certain that those placed there will be vestments are placed in the Post-Office, they supporters of themselves. They know very only get 2} per cent .. and perhaps in some well that the Crown tenants support them, cases 3 per cent. The farmers, then, are in this position : If a man happens to have deposited and they know very well that the co-opera- tive workers will support them. These, and his money in the Post-Office Saving-Bank on other agencies that he has worked, keep the 2nd of the month, and takes it out during him in the position he now fills; but it will the following month, he gets no interest for the be for them later on to decide whether broken time at all, and consequently that is he has been a statesman or only a politician. a great loss. I think this is a matter which Now. Sir, if I could see through the secret should be made very clear. We are told that the recesses of that silent office outside, I would Savings-Bank is so prosperous, and the deposits there find tales that have never been told in are so large that the department does not know what to do with their accumulations ; but, Sir, this House. To my own knowledge, Sir, many of the Crown tenants are behind with their the people do not seem to realise that they are rents. What is the Government doing to alter being robbed to the extent of the broken time. this state of things ? Surely this cannot go on Well, in the years of plenty I would encourage for ever. If you ask the honourable member the tenants to make prompt payment of rent, for Ashburton, who is an active and intelligent and to pay the Government as much as they member of the Canterbury Land Board, he will can spare. I want to make myself clear. This tell you that he has more tronble from Crown will enable his rent to be reduced later on. This proposal will cause the tenant to rely tenants asking for concessions than he has from all the freeholders in Canterbury. I think more on his own energy, and to lean less on his that is correct Sir? landlord. But, Sir, in order to prevent those Mr. MCLACHLAN .- That is correct. estates reverting to the original owners, I Mr. HARDY. - From my own knowledge, would still urge on the Crown the advisa- bility of holding a percentage of the principal. Sir, of the purchases in Canterbury, they have By doing this the tenant will be almost as as been most satisfactory, at least so far good as a freeholder, and he will be able to Cheviot, Highbank, Marawhiti, and several understand what a policy of self-reliance is. 1 other settlements are concerned; but even from those settlements, which have been have not read this, Sir, and I wish to remark bought at low prices, and which, I believe, that this proposal will enable the Government have increased at least from 40 to 50 per cent. to reinvest the moneys, and to go further on in value, there are continual applications made with the land-policy, which I approve of so for reduction of rent. Now, you must know highly. Well, Sir, let the Minister of Lands go to his old home in the Emerald Isle, and he yourself, Sir, if you make yourself acquainted, as I believe you do, with the working of the will then be able to judge for himself, when he departments of the service, you must know sees how happy and contented they are there, that this state of things cannot continue - at which is best for this land-freehold or lease- least, if it is to be carried on on these lines. I hold. Now I wish to refer to " our boys at the am satisfied that some provision must be made front," whom the Minister of Defence talks to give the tenants a greater interest in their 'about, whom he palavers, and makes all sorts of holdings. Many are leaning too heavily on the promises to. I wish him to remember that landlord. I may say, Sir, if the Premier wishes when he was down at Christchurch, at a ban- to commence his speech now, I do not mind quet to the Rough Riders, he promised that he would give them their bandoliers and their giving way to him. I can assure honour- able members that my constituents are not rifles. I feel assured, Sir, that he will do that particularly anxious that I should speak. for the boys who have so distinguished them- They are quite satisfied that I am working selves in fighting the battles of the Old Country. early and late in their interests. I am almost The Premier, when coming up from the Third a beast of burden in this House. Some honour- Contingent, kindly promised me that if it was able members do not understand what the possible he would give them their rifles. He said drudgery of Parliament is. I do not pose as a they belonged to the Imperial Government ; and speaker-I never could speak in my life, and I my reply to him was, " Well, Sir, there is a way am quite prepared to give way to the Premier. of doing it, and I never knew you yet, when you Mr. SEDDON .- You had better finish. Do have made up your mind to do a thing, but you could find some way of doing it." At any rate, not let me interrupt you. Mr. HARDY .- Thank you very much, Sir. at the banquet in Christchurch, the Premier Now, speaking about these Crown tenants, promised the Rough Riders that they should I have an idea in my head which, if I get their rifles and bandoliers. I was not pre- 