and untruth. I would like to see cigarette- smoking stopped in public places when in- . dulged in by boys of fourteen years of age and under, but the attempt is, in my opinion, of an impracticable character. The Hon. Colonel PITT .- I feel very thank- ful to many members who have spoken in sup- port of this measure, and to honourable members generally for the kind reception the Bill has received. No one who has spoken upon the Bill, probably with the exception of the honour- able gentleman who moved the amendment, has condemned the principle which I contend for in the Bill. It is not a Bill put forward by me to improve the morals of boys, but it is put forward to protect the health of the boys and help their physical development. Two classes of objections have been made to the measure. One is that the Bill does not go far enough. Some honourable members would like to see the manufacture and sale of cigarettes prohibited in the colony. I have no hope myself of that being done, and I have not attempted it. On the other hand, some mem- bers say that this Bill goes too far, inasmuch as the provisions of the Bill are too drastic, and exception has been taken to a Magistrate being given discretion to order a boy to be whipped for a third offence, it being said that that is tyrannical, and something that ought not to be encouraged. When I moved the second reading of the Bill I said its provisions were merely a suggestion, and therefore liable to be altered and improved in Committee; but one honourable gentleman seemed to think that every boy convicted under this Act would be seventeen years of age, and did not appear to give a Magistrate any credit as to exercising a discretion as to the age of a boy he might order to be whipped. There was one feature of the debate I did not like. The Hon. Mr Jones, in discussing this question of whipping, said it was wrong, that it took the pride and self- dove out of the boy. Now, Sir, we ought to be fair in all these matters. I am afraid we are apt, as remarked the other day by the Hon. Mr. Bowen, to view these questions as they affect ourselves. It is provided in the Industrial Schools Act that if one of the waifs committed there runs away from an industrial school a Magistrate has power to order him to be pri- vately whipped if under the age of fifteen years. Now, Sir, why should these unfortunate child- ren be liable to be whipped, whilst a son of a member of this Council detected in surrepti- tious cigarette-smoking is not to be whipped. Sir, if birching is wrong let us eliminate it from the statute book altogether. That is the proper course to adopt. However, if the members of the Council are against the Magistrate having power to order a boy to be whipped, by all means strike it out of the Bill, and reduce the age if you like. Another objection taken to the Bill is that it will be quite impossible to enforce it. I venture to say there is no- thing whatever in that argument. If that is '50, if we cannot stop these offences by legisla- tion, what is the use of legislation at all ? You .cannot stop the crime of murder, or stealing, or any of the crimes that are legislated against in our Criminal Code. You might as well say you cannot stop Sunday trading under the Licens- ing Act, or that you cannot prevent the use of obscene or profane language. All these matters are legislated against in one form or another, and, if you cannot absolutely prevent such offences you can very materially reduce them, and I venture to say that provision for the infliction of a fine for the offence of smoking will make a parent pretty careful to see that his boys do not offend. It may be said that the lads will not do it openly, but will do it clandes- tinely. I am inclined to think, if you prevent them from doing it openly, that in itself will in a great measure prevent them doing it at all, because I think that most boys do it merely in the spirit of showing off, and if they have to go out of the way to do it all the attraction of smoking will be taken away. I do not think it necessary to occupy the time of the Council further, because. all the objections raised to the Bill are such as can be dealt with in Committee. I am prepared to accept any reasonable amend- ment, but the principle of the Bill, I think, has been very generally approved by the Council, and I trust, in Committee, we shall be able to make it a workable measure. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- I am surprised that a gentleman who can use such sound argu- ments why the principle of the Bill should be adopted, should be guilty of such an indiscre- tion as to advocate whipping in connection with the offence of juvenile smoking, and I am still more surprised that he adduced such weak arguments why a boy should be whipped for smoking. Notwithstanding this blemish, I believe the measure is a good one, and in Committee we shall be able to eliminate any of those objections which have been pointed out by members who are honestly desirous of doing good in this matter. I was also surprised at the doleful dirge uttered by the Hon. Mr. Kelly. He admitted juvenile smoking was an evil, but said it would always exist, do what we might. That was a very hopeless position to take up in regard to this question, which, it must be admitted, is not only a very serious social question, but also a physical one, involving the soundness of our future men and women. If we were not to attempt to surmount difficulties nothing good would be achieved in the world ; we should never know what existed beyond the horizon or over the hill. New Zea- land might never have been discovered, and we should not have been here, and what a loss that would have been to us, if not to the world. I am very pleased to find that so many approve of the principles of the Bill. This is social legisla- tion, and the men who vote for this are men with ideals, and unless men have ideals they are only one remove from barbarians. The Hon. Mr. LOUISSON .- I shall support the second reading of the Bill, although I hope to see it very much altered in Committee. The principle is correct, of preventing children from injuring their health by smoking. But I think when we speak about whipping boys of seven- teen for such a very slight offence-for it is a 