the honourable member draws, but I tell him that as the Bill was brought down the in- ference which he says ought to have been logi- cally drawn could not be drawn-that it said it shall not apply to Natives who are receiving a pension from the Civil List Act ; it will natu- rally follow inferentially-at least, I thought so -that it would apply to the others. But the fact is that it did not. At all events, as far as I am concerned, I called it conditional, and I said so; and all I want to put myself right with the House and the country is to say this: that in making my calculations I did not in these calculations include the Maoris. Mr. HUTCHESON .- The Premier told Mr. Heke he knew nothing when the Maoris were introduced. Mr. SEDDON .- You quoted Mr. Herries. Mr. MCLACHLAN (Ashburton) .- I intend to make a few remarks on the Budget, and I hope honourable members will bear with me, because I am suffering from a cold. Still, I could not allow this occasion to . pass without offering some comment on the Statement. In the first place, I sincerely congratulate the Premier on his Financial Statement. I admit that at the time it was delivered in this House I was lying on the broad of my back, and I can assure the Premier that probably but for the discussion that followed I might not have read it. But I was so impressed with it that none of the speeches made in the subsequent discussion, either on this side of the House or on the other, suc- ceeded in shaking my confidence in the Go- vernment's statement of our financial position, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 not even when I read the criticism of the honourable member for Nelson City, than whom there is no greater authority on finance in this country-at least, it would seem that he thinks 80. I am quite satisfied that in the judgment http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero of the honourable member for Ashley, Mr. Meredith, there is no need for being very troubled about the financial position of the colony, and I believe he sincerely wanted to come to the rescue of the Premier by giving him timely warning of the dangerous condition in which the country was placed by his extravagant expenditure. Subsequently I heard the honour- able member for Riccarton, Mr. G. W. Russell, who in no sense is a less worthy exponent than that honourable gentleman. Then, we had one other exponent in Mr. Millar, the honourable member for Dunedin City, and his criticism was terse and severe; but it was evident from the way in which he was handled by one of the Ministers that he had not a foot to stand on. In fact, I think, with the exception of my honourable friend the member for Auckland City (Mr. Witheford), who is also a great authority on finance, there was no other member of the House who tackled the financial position with any effect at all. I heard this afternoon the member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson), who I may be allowed to say is a personal friend, go vigorously over the whole financial position, and I do not think he approached by one iota the real position until he came down to the Premier's insane proposal-I do not say it of 10 per cent. to tenants last year. Under the heading "Crown Tenants' Rebate of Rents " the Budget says, - "An amendment of the Act is necessary, and at this juncture it is well to speak plainly, for from facts which have come within my own knowledge it is quite clear that a person taking up bush land, and having little or no capital, cannot pay rent until the land yields a return." What has this got to do with a rebate to Crown tenants? It has no connection what- ever. It begins by speaking of a rebate of rents to Crown tenants under the Land for Settle- ments Act. Mr. PIRANI .- Do not criticize the Budget too severely. Mr. McLACHLAN. - No ; I am doing it as a friend. But I say there is no connection between the two subjects at all. The honour- able gentleman is going to give the Crown tenants a rebate of from four to five years' rent in order to please the honourable member for Masterton, the honourable member for Pahiatua, and some other honourable members. He is going to give their constituents four or five years' rent. Could there be any safer way of securing the return of those honourable gentlemen to this House for the next four or five years? But at the end of that time what will be the result ? Speaking from some little knowledge of land-settlement, I say that the tenant who has been successful in obtaining a block of bush land at a merely nominal rental will have that country roaded for him by the Crown, and he will clear and fell the bush and erect his fences, but unless there is some limita- tion provided in the Act which would prevent that settler from selling out within a certain time-that is, transferring his section-he will transfer to some other settler, and will possibly leave him in the position of having to pay a rack rent. The first settler then may go and take up another block of land, and I get it with four or five years' rent free. feel quite satisfied that when the Premier comes to consider the question fully he will make pro- vision for some such restriction in the Act, so that, unless it may be owing to ill health, or some other good reason, a settler may not be allowed to transfer his section to some other person. Now, Sir, I cannot attempt to discuss the Financial Statement. I have already heard it discussed from every possible point of view, and I could not say a single word or make a single statement that has not been made by some other member. And what has been said in the House makes no impression upon me, and I am a pretty fair index of the general opinion of the country. I may say that I read with much regret, when I was at home ill lately, that the honourable member for Hawke's Bay made a most extraordinary statement as a farmer. He spoke in a truly pessimistic vein of what the poor farmers were suffering and enduring under the taxation imposed by the Government. In fact, he says it is reported in the Lyttelton Times that farmers' produce was low in prices. Well, I have perhaps not been 