the statement I have read, that the good ship " Finance " has already tried that port-the London Stock Exchange-for fuel, and has been quietly told that there are so many orders on hand that it cannot attend to her at the present time. Now, the Hon. the Colonial Treasurer says that the reason the loans authorised have not been raised is owing to the unsatisfactory state of the London money-market. Well, when they found that the port from which they had always been accustomed to get their supplies could not supply them at present, they went to other ports. They have gone to the Australian Continent to get sufficient leaving a net debt on the 31st March, 1891, to keep the good ship going, an evidence of which is our last half-million loan. Sir, if that is the position, is it not the duty of every member in this House to go care- fully into the whole position and see where we really stand ? I have endeavoured to do this, and any criticism I may make now is not made in any party spirit, but with a full sense of the responsibility which, I think, lies upon every member of the House. I admit that, as far as the legislation of the Govern- ment is concerned, it has been good. It has done a lot of good to the country. I admit graph stands at " Slow." The indicator says that a considerable amount of the moneys we have borrowed and expended have been ex- pended on good useful purposes, and are like- wise reproductive; but I think I shall be able to show that it is absolutely impossible for this colony to go on at the rate it has been going during the past ten years. In his Statement the Treasurer has carefully shown to honourable members the enormous increase of revenue in / https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 the different departments. He has likewise sho in the increase of expenditure. It is per- fectly true that for increased services increased expenditure is necessary ; but I think it is very doubtful if an increase is warranted to the ex- tent we are now going. Sir, the right honour- above purpose there is still #620,000 to be able gentleman in his Statement has quoted the late Hon. John Ballance, and I, too, would for another million for aid to public works, like to quote from that deceased statesman's Financial Statement of 1891. He says, -- "We have marched for twenty years at a not yet raised, in addition to half a million furious pace, too severe to last, and we have piled up obligations which should make sane men pause." Sir, if those words were applicable in 1891, able members will take together the amount when John Ballance was alive, I think that any honourable member who carefully studies the financial position to-day will admit that they are debt, they will find that the Government, since all the more applicable now. In 1891, the net debt of the colony was only some $36,000,000. It was because of this fact that we had bor- aid of €16,836,316 of borrowed money, and rowed that amount of $36,000,000 during the forty-two years of the colony's existence ; but, placed side by side with that, we have had since 1891 €12,000,000 sterling, independently able member in this House must take, - for of unraised portions of authorised loans. I say, having assisted the Government in raising Sir, that those words are more applicable to- day than they were then. Honourable mem- bers may think that I am somewhat stretching the amount when I say that this is so, but I would ask them to carefully follow my figures which we are going is more than the colony can and to compare them with the financial docu- if I am out in my estimate or not. As is shown by the Financial Statement, the net public debt on the 31st March, 1891, amounted to $37,359,157: but to be added to that are the liabilities against the different funds. Against the Public Works Fund there was an amount of $220,385; there was a liability against the Land Fund of £6,904 ; against the Consolidated Fund of $11,601 : and against outstanding deficiency bills $716,100; so that the amount has grown to £38,418,654. At the same time there were cash balances to the credit of the several accounts which amounted to $1,574,885, of $36,643,777. I would ask honourable mem- bers to compare this with the position as it was in 1901. I say, compare it after ten years of our careful and economical administration. I am sorry to have to say that on the 31st March, 1901, the public debt, according to the table, was You have to add to that public ¥48,557,751. works liabilities of $1,292,095, sundry accounts £39,146, and Treasury bills $700,000, making the net debt on the 31st March, 1901, £50,586,992, or a net increase of moneys actu- ally borrowed, from the 31st March, 1891, of £12,660,000. Notwithstanding this, the tele. that we are going " Slow." God forbid that I should be in the colony if at any time the Colonial Treasurer in a fit of absent-mindedness should ring up " Full speed ahead." In addition to the $12,636,000, the net increase to the debt, we find that the Government have authority for loans which they have not yet raised, under the Aid to Public Works Act of last year, to the extent of $800,000. The honourable member for Bruce referred to this before. Under the Land for Settlements Act there is still ₺281,000 to be raised for last year. Under the Advances to Settlers Act we are asked for another million this year. Of the three million loan for the raised ; and then this year again we are asked being a total of $3,700,000, which the Govern- ment have already authority to raise, but have a year under the Land for Settlements Con- solidation Act of last year. So that if honour- of money which has been borrowed and that which is authorised to be borrowed, along with the consols which are included in the public 1891 up to to-day, have told this country that it was impossible to carry on without the with the telegraph indicator set at " Slow." I admit, Sir, that I must take a certain share of the responsibility, - as every honour- these enormous sums. Sir, I do not desire to shirk the responsibility for one moment, but I do say that if honourable members see for themselves, and are satisfied that the rate at 