to the appointment of an expert to analyse the waters and advise the department in order to recommend the use of certain baths. Until this was done the hot springs would not pro- perly fulfil their mission. It was proposed, he noticed, to increase the doctor's salary by $100 ; he was only giving the opinions of those who had been at Rotorua, but he thought any one with a knowledge of this officer would hesi- tate to vote for an increase in his salary. The duties he performed were not very onerous, nor, according to all accounts, was his ability of a very high order. If the Government were sin- cere in their desire to make the best of our natural health resorts, why did they not adver- tise throughout Europe and secure an expert ? Mr. PIRANI .- They have done that. Mr. HUTCHESON said, Yes ; but they did not make an appointment. If any honourable member moved to reduce this officer's salary by £100, he did not know that he would be able to carry out his original promise to main- tain it on the estimates. Mr. COLVIN (Buller) wished to draw the attention of the Minister to the fact that he had presented a petition last session from the West Coast in regard to the Maruia Hot Springs. He wished to know whether the Minister would inquire into the matter . Sir J. G. WARD said, regarding the Waitomo caves it was a place he intended to have in- quiries made concerning, with a view to seeing whether an accommodation-house could be pro- vided at a place called Hangatiki. He could add nothing to the remarks he had already made https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 concerning the medical officer at Rotorua ; he had heard nothing against that officer. As he had already stated, he would endeavour through the Agent-General to see whether a http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero suitable Balnealogist could be got at a reason- able salary ; he was not prepared to pay an ex- cessive salary. They had already offered £1,000 without success. He might point out that the medical officer at Rotorua earned from £400 to £500 a year in fees, which was paid into the Public Account. He would be glad to have inquiries made into the representations made by the honourable member for the Buller, and gave an assurance that an officer would be sent to inspect and report. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said he wanted some little information about the item, "Hanmer Sanatorium - Maintenance of houses and grounds, and amusements, £800." Last year the amount under this head was £1,550. He would like to know how much of this went for amusements, and what these amusements con- sisted of. He did not object particularly to amusements, but he thought they should be distributed all round. On behalf of 7.30. the member for Bruce he wished to remind the Minister of a question asked by that honourable gentleman with regard to a subsidy of $800 for a steamer on the Wanganui River. What the member for Bruce wanted to know was, whether that amount included pay- ment for the carriage of mails, or whether there Mr. Hutcheson purpose. Sir J. G. WARD said he thought the sum included the payment for the carriage of the mails. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) said the member for Kaiapoi had spoken about the necessity of the Government providing beds at Hanmer Plains for those in poor circumstances who desired to stay there for a time for the benefit of their health. Hanmer Plains Sanatorium was in the Ashley electorate, and he wished to say the Government had already done a great deal in that direction. The accommodation at the Sanatorium, too, was excellent, and the charge was moderate-only £1 per week; and any person who was not in a position to pay for the baths could have the free use of them on apply- ing to the caretaker, who had discretionary power. The total expense was therefore re- duced to £1 per week. There were even a few free beds for people who were so impecunious that they could not afford to pay £1 a week. He would like to point out to honourable members that the total receipts from the baths last year amounted to £473 18s. 6d., being £33 18s. 6d. in excess of the expenditure. The receipts from the sanatorium amounted to £1,226 6s. 10d., while the expenditure was £1,139 15s. 5d. In other words, the revenue exceeded the ex- penditure by £110 11s. 9d. He had no doubt there were properties in the waters of Rotorua that were not similar to those in the springs at Hanmer Plains; but, as the member for Geraldine had already spoken of the value of the baths at Hanmer Plains, it was not neces- sary to say anything more on that point. During last year 2,014 persons visited the springs, and the number of baths taken was 17,964. Hanmer Plains was undoubtedly in- creasing in its attractiveness. The persons who took advantage of the springs came not only from New Zealand, but from Australia, America, India, and England. He would also like to point out that the accommodation was altogether inadequate for the number of persons who were annually attracted to Hanmer Plains, and he was glad to see that this year a vote had been put on the estimates for the purpose of increasing the accommodation. The increase in the doctor's salary was not large, but he thought the time was not far distant when it would be necessary to have a medical officer set apart for the patients, as at Rotorua. The doctor visited Hanmer Plains weekly. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked, For what reason had the salary of the medical officer at Rotorua been increased. The Minis- ter had said that the medical officer at Rotorua had paid into the Public Account $500 that he had received in fees from private practice. That seemed a large amount, and he would like to have a return showing the total amount and the account into which it was paid. With regard to the doctor there being allowed to take private practice, it was worth the consideration of the Minister whether it was not stifling private practice at Rotorua. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) wished to call 