Reefton may be looked upon as likely to be a steady producer of gold from quartz-mining operations for some years to come. Much capital and labour have been expended in de- veloping several properties in a systematic manner and in the erection of modern battery and cyanide extraction plants to deal with the ore. Quartz-mining in the Southern District has not shown any tendency to advance. In two instances-namely, the O.P.Q. Mines at Wai- pori and the Shotover Mine near Skipper's Point -active developments have been conspicuous ; but, generally speaking, quartz-mining appears to be at present declining in this part of the colony. After the expenditure of large sums of money during the last few years, operations have, unfortunately, been suspended at the Achilles Mine, Bullendale, and it is also to be regretted that no active steps have been taken to develop the mine of the Cromwell Proprie- tary (Limited) at deeper levels than have hitherto been worked. No doubt the attrac- tions of the dredging industry as a field for speculation have militated against much atten- tion being paid to reefing during the past few years ; but it is only reasonable to suppose that, if the reefs in parts of this goldfield were to be developed on comprehensive and scientific lines, similar results to those obtained in the Reefton district might be obtained. Alluvial and Hydraulic Mining. This branch of mining- work has not been developed to any appreciable extent of late, owing to the attention which has been de- voted to dredging. It is quite safe to say that in several instances hydraulic mining has been neglected in favour of dredging, and this, too, at places where the former method is better suited to local conditions. In the Marlborough portion of the West Coast Inspection District there are no claims worked on an extensive scale, the largest being those of the King Solomon Mine at Mahaki- pawa (where an alluvial gutter is worked by underground mining) and the Gorge and Yukon Claims at Wakamarina. The locality of Golden Bay affords employ- ment to quite a number of alluvial miners, the principal undertakings being those of the Para- para Hydraulic Sluicing Company and the Col- lingwood Goldfields (Limited). The develop- ment-works of the latter company (costing some £15,000) have extended over a period of about four years, active sluicing operations being com- menced in November last. It is understood that hydraulic mining is about to be adopted at the Bubu River, near Takaka. In the district around Westport a consider- able number of persons are employed in the working of alluvial deposits, but beyond the resumption of operations by a local syndicate at the claim formerly held by the General Exploration Company at Fairdown, and the practical completion of the preliminary works of the Virgin Flat Gold - mining Company (Limited), no developments of importance have operations in the Grey Valley, also at Barry- town, Kumara, and in the locality of Hokitika, continue to afford employment to a large num- ber of persons ; upwards of fifty men are also employed at and in the vicinity of Ross. The Southern Goldfield-which includes the Otago, Southland, and Fiord districts - is almost entirely dependent for its gold output on the operations of alluvial and hydraulic mining in conjunction with dredging ; and, al- though new installations of hydraulic plant of any magnitude have been few in number during the past year, the industry has been very steadily carried on at the various centres, and fairly good returns obtained. This form of mining appears in every way likely to support a con- siderable percentage of the population for many years to come. As the shallow diggings on the West Coast and Southern goldfields are becoming ex- hausted, it is found that the number of Chinese diggers is gradually decreasing. ## Dredge Mining. During the past year a large number of dredges have been under construction both in the West Coast and Southern Districts. Of these, several have got to work ; others are not yet completed. The numbers on the 31st March last were as follow: Working, 145 ; standing, 11 ; undergoing removal, 4 ; building, 122 : total, 282. In the South the practicability of dredge mining has been amply proved, but the work- ing of river-beds and flats on the West Coast by dredges is not yet so fully developed, owing to difficulties of an engineering character. No doubt these difficulties will be got over as further experience is gained, and when this has been accomplished there appears every reason to believe that dredging on the West Coast will become a steady industry. Even with the dredges now at work, evidences have not been wanting to show that gold exists in payable quantities in several parts of the West Coast district where other methods of working are, under existing conditions, largely out of the question. It is quite apparent that where the gold is fine, there is ample room for improvement in the methods adopted on dredges for saving the gold, and this applies specially to the beach deposits. During the last two or three years there has been a decided tendency to increase the lifting-capacity of dredges, but it is possible this may be overdone, inasmuch as the improve- ments in, or extensions to, appliances for saving the gold have not kept pace with the increased capabilities for the raising of the gravels. It is to be regretted, also, that old and somewhat obsolete river dredges have in some instances been adopted for dredging on flats where the conditions are very different from river-dredg- ing. Such unsuitable machines cannot be ex- pected to be unqualified successes ; and the opinion that dredges ought to be designed to efficiently work their ground, and to save the 