present on the statute-book, but it is the fear of what may possibly follow. Now, I think our duty is to perfect, if necessary, the labour legislation that is already upon our statute-book. But, at the same time, I say there should be not one step made in the direction of fresh labour legislation until that is done. The labour party have achieved during the last three or four years more than they could have expected to achieve in ten years' time. An Hon. MEMBER .- What have they got ? Mr. CARNCROSS .- Here is a labour repre- sentative who actually asks me what they have got. All the honourable gentleman has got to do is to read the daily papers, and see all the trade troubles and disputes that are keeping the Conciliation Boards and the Arbitration Court at work, and then he need not ask what they have got. An Hon. MEMBER .- There is continual war. Mr. CARNCROSS .- Yes, " There is continual war," and I wish to see that stopped. Is the Shops and Shop-assistants Act not in the in- terests of labour? Is not the fixing of the weekly half-holiday labour legislation ? An Hon. MEMBER .- That was not done during the last four years. Mr. CARNCROSS .- That does not matter ; let us say six years if you like. Is the Workers' Compensation for Accidents Act not labour legislation ? I say those two Acts alone ought to be sufficient to satisfy the labour party for some little time. There are various points that I say are producing friction in connection with our labour laws, and I think the wisest possible course for the labour leaders to pur- sue is to counsel their supporters not to agi- tate for fresh legislation at present, but to exert themselves diligently to get the labour legisla- tion we have now to work smoothly, as I be- lieve it will ultimately, and to perfect that legislation; and if they let the country see that that legislation is not going to injure them, then they may ask for more. Now, Sir, I wish it to be understood that I am not condemning any labour legislation that has been already placed on the statute-book. I do not believe there is any necessity for repealing one word of it ; but a more judicious administration is absolutely necessary. Unfortunately, Sir, there are people who are connected with labour organizations and occupying semi-official posi- tions who are doing all they can to create and foster this spirit of unrest and this serious alarm amongst employers. Now, I have good grounds for making this statement. I say that such men are doing an irreparable in- jury to their own cause; they are doing an injury to the workers. The men who wil- fully sow seeds of discontent between em- ployer and employé to further their own selfish ends are pests to society, and ought to be whipped at the cart's tail. That is my opinion of such men. I referred just now to an attempt which is being made to cause a contest between town and country. I believe that the town and country parties are working hand in hand to- Mr. Carncross House between town and country. In the past we have worked hand in hand together. For instance, the labour representatives in this House have loyally supported the country representatives in everything pertaining to legislation for the benefit of the farmers. They have helped us with respect to our land legislation, with respect to the compulsory acquisition of land, and advances to settlers. In fact, I know of no Act which is bene- ficial to the country that has not been well supported by the city members. We in our turn have supported the city members in re- gard to their legislation, and I should be sorry if we ever have reason to regret it. I say, let us present a united front to the enemy. Let us keep together in the future as we have done in the past, and do not let any scheme bring about a division between the parties. We should remember the fable of the man with the bundle of sticks; as long as the sticks were kept to- gether they could not be broken, but once they were separated they were easily snapped. An attempt is being made to separate us, but I sincerely trust that we shall not be separated. There is one more word I would like to say in connection with the labour troubles at present existing, and I think it is a sound reason why we should ease matters, and do away with the friction which at present exists. If we allow this friction to continue, without doubt a conflict will arise, and will be intensified between employers and employés. We know full well that any conflict must have a most serious effect upon the expansion of our in- dustries; and if a feeling of that sort gets abroad, and employers feel that their under- takings are not safe, the result will cause a shrinkage of our industries, and if we prevent the expansion of our industries then the time must inevitably come when there will be three men looking for one man's billet ; and, once you have that, all the unions in the world will not be able to maintain any particular rate of wages. A man may belong to a union, and that union may say that he shall not work for less than $3 a weck ; but if that man has a wife and children looking to him for bread he will say, "To Jericho with your union, I will accept #2 if I cannot get $3." That is a state of affairs that we must jealously guard against, and, if possible, prevent being brought about, and we can prevent it ; and, in order to do that, I think we should simply perfect the labour legislation we have on the statute-book. Now, Sir, at the present moment, throughout the country districts a good deal of alarm has been created amongst the farmers on account of the Workers' Compensation Act. I say that alarm is totally unfounded, but it is very hard to convince the farmers that such is the case. I desire to say a word or two in connection with this. It has been said that it is a doubtful question as to whether farmers come under the operation of the Act or not. Some maintain that they are affected by it ; others that they are not. I say, Sir, without the slightest hesi- tation, that I believe farmers should come 