the Supreme Court. Parliament is, we know, considered a party question. It is not a party the highest Court in the land, and therefore it question, but it is a question in which every member of the House is intimately concerned. would be only right if the Press of the colony Neither is it a question, in my opinion, in had the option of going in to report the pro- which personal considerations ought to enter. ceedings of the Committees set up by the So far as I am personally concerned, I consider House. I think that then many things that that I am a friend of Mr. Cohen, the repre- are now hushed up, many things that are now sentative of the Dunedin Evening Star, and, so clouded over, would have the light of day brought to bear upon them, and that it would far as that paper is concerned, I agree with the be better for Parliament and better for the Right Hon. the Premier that it is a really good paper, and one that does justice to both sides of colony. I hope the Premier will go as far as the House. But we have a duty to perform, a he has stated to-day : that he will go as far as to bring in an amendment of the Standing duty to Parliament and to the people we repre- Orders of the House, thus enabling the work sent. The position, as I understand it, is this : done by these Committees to be reported fully A breach of privilege has been committed. Parliament has already decided on that point. if the Press so desire-if they are willing to de- Then, the question was referred to the Privi- vote their space to it. Sir, if I have spoken leges Committee, a Committee specially set up with a little heat, I hope honourable members for the purpose. That Committee has inquired will overlook that, for I feel this matter very strongly, for I want to see the Press of the and has examined a number of witnesses. We have most voluminous evidence of the witnesses colony maintain its position. And I want to say, before I sit down, that Mr. Cohen has acted that have been examined, but the most import- up to the highest traditions of his profession- ant witness, Mr. Cohen, refused to give evidence on certain important points. That is the posi- yes, to the highest traditions of his profession. And it would be well if every professional man tion. Then, Sir, the Premier attempts to defend the Evening Star by saying that there was a simi- in the colony could say the same thing of every lar case in 1874, and on that occasion the House act of his life, as far, at any rate, as his pro- fessional career is concerned. I say that as decided to go no further into the charge. But, long as these gentlemen of the Press respect Sir, the case of 1874 is only parallel up to a themselves I hope we shall respect them ; and certain point with the one now before the House. I will say this: that very often the honour of First of all there is a parallel in this : that the members of this House is in the hands of the House decided that there had been a breach of gentlemen of the Press. Sometimes that power privilege. Then, the case was dealt with by a is abused, but I believe that, taking it by-and- Committee as in this instance, but in 1874 the large, the conduct of the Press of this colony is Committee was successful in finding out who were the guilty parties, one a member of the beyond reproach. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- I think, Sir, that House and another individual outside of the House. These persons were called upon to I have heard the last speaker admit that he explain and apologize for the action they had belongs to the journalistic profession, and I am inclined to think that in his capacity as a taken. They did so, and had they not done so journalist he has forgotten his position as a a fine would undoubtedly have been inflicted. However, Sir, that case, as I have shown, is not legislator. We can come to no other con- clusion when we hear him say that the paper parallel with the one now before the House. in question, the Dunedin Star, ought to be Then, the Premier told us of a case that had thanked-for what? For setting Parliament occurred before the Home Parliament during at defiance-the Parliament of which the the time of Mr. Disraeli. I suppose it is the honourable gentleman is a member by pub- one referrod to by May. This is what May lishing, in defiance of Parliament, evidence says :- taken before the Mines Committee ! Sir, I listened with regret and surprise to the two made of the publication in two newspapers of the proceedings and evidence taken before the speeches that we heard this morning from the Select Committee on Foreign Loans. The Treasury benches-from the Premier, Mr. Sed- don, and his first lieutenant, the Minister for publication was declared a breach of privilege, Railways. So far as the Right Hon. the Pre- and the printers were ordered to attend ; but as it appeared in debate that the publication had mier is concerned, I have always understood that it was the first duty of the leader of the not been unauthorised by the Committee, they House to defend, maintain, and support in were directed to report the circumstances under every possible way the rights and privileges of which the documents had been communicated Parliament. But, Sir, what position does the to the newspapers. A special report was ac- cordingly made, and no further proceedings right honourable gentleman take up on this occasion ? By way of excuse he tells us that were taken." the evidence was published on this occasion we are now dealing with, because May says in the interests of the colony. Sir, what that the publication was not unauthorised. That did the Premier mean ? Does he not know- is equal to saying that the publication was does every member not know-that, after authorised by the Committee, and therefore the every Select Committee reports to Parliament, matter was allowed to drop. Then, it was sug- the Press can publish every line of the evidence gested that we should amend our Standing taken before those Committees? I agree with others that have spoken that this should not be | Orders so as to bring them into line with the "On the 13th April, 1875, complaint was Sir, neither is that case parallel with the one 