of the purchase of land for closer settlement. The Langdale Estate, through his exertions mainly, has been cut up, and proved one of the most successful things the Government has ever done. They got the land at a reasonable price, and disposed of it to one of the best lots of settlers who ever came before the Land Board. I can assure the Government, as I assure the members of this House, that if they will only send the Land Purchase Commissioner into the Wairarapa they will not have to put the compulsory clause into operation, as there are areas of land lying there waiting to be pur- chased at a fair price, and the land is of good quality. I will give the names of some of the places where land is available, and where the owners of it are not unwilling to sell to the Crown. Take part of Brancepeth, for in- stance, and then go down to the Lower Valley to the Dry River Estate. Then, there are lands at a place called Ponatahi, outside Grey- town ; there are again in the Lower Valley some other estates, and there is a fine stretch of country available lying between Gladstone and Martinborough. I hope that the promise which was given by the Premier at a picnic which was held in my district a couple of years ago will be fulfilled, and that before very long we shall be enabled to settle the farmers' sons in that locality on some of the wide areas of land ; for I can assure the House that there are not only dozens, but hundreds of young men who have had to leave the Wairarapa -that is to say, that portion of the Wairarapa in my electorate-because there is no land available to settle them on. I can assure the House that in the whole of the Wairarapa electorate, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 in the years that have intervened between the previous taking of the census and up to the present moment, we have lost even the natural increase of our population, because we http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero are now one less in population than we were at the census before last. That will show you that the young people have had to go away. Young men, and young women, too, have had to go away because there is no land for them to settle on, and the sooner that is put a stop to the better it will be for the colony, and especially for my district. Now, Sir, I want to say a word or two about our little War Office. There has grown up in this colony a military caste ; there has grown up a system which every true democrat ought to use his best endeavours to put an end to. You can scarcely move about now without tumbling up against a 'paid officer of our little War Office. Look at the estimates and see what is intended to be expended this year, and I say this, that when the time comes I shall move that the vote be reduced by one-half. Then we shall see who the men are who are in favour of this militarism and who are against it. Why, Sir, a Commandant and a small staff here in Welling- ton would be amply sufficient to govern the Volunteer system of this colony, if the Defence forces were on a proper basis, and an adjutant in each district, responsible to the Commandant, would be sufficient to have the whole thing properly managed. An Hon. MEMBER .- We have not got them yet. Mr. HORNSBY. - No, we have not got them in that economical shape ; but we have lieutenant-colonels, majors, and feathers and cocked hats with gold lace galore, and if some of them were crushed they would pan out 4 oz. to the ton. The time has come when all this flummery and humbug should cease. We do not want that sort of thing. As long as we have in this country men capable of bearing arms, and enough of arms and ammunition to supply them, we have all that is necessary for the defence of our country, without any of the flummery and humbug that is rampant at the present time. An Hon. MEMBER .- Only in Wellington. Mr. HORNSBY .- It does not matter where it is ; the taxpayer has got to pay for it. The money has to come out of somebody's pocket, and I object to the payment of money for the keeping up of this flummery. Now, Sir, I want to say a word or two about the old-age pensions scheme, and I shall try to be very brief. The old-age pensions in this colony have cost a good deal, I admit, but they must and shall be re- tained. What I am afraid of, however, is that every time there is likely to be a shortage in the accounts you will find the Treasurer of this colony casting a longing eye on that expendi- ture. And no later than in the Budget now before us we have a very broad hint indeed from the Right Hon. the Colonial Treasurer, and it ought to make the people who believe, as I believe, in the old-age pensions system stop and think. What does he say ?- "The increased expenditure in old-age pen- sions must, however, not be treated lightly, and a careful supervision is necessary." And then a little later on he says :- "In view of the large amount now paid it will not be prudent to press for old-age pensions being made universal, or for any increase in the scale." What does that mean ? It means that there is even now a longing eye being cast at that amount of money which is going out of the Treasury. And how is this beneficent system provided for ? Is it right and proper, after you have built up this system-after you have got thousands of old people leaning on it for their very existence-is it right, I ask, to leave it in the position it is in to-day ? I say it is nothing else than criminal not to have an assured finance in regard to the old-age pension scheme of the colony. I heard one member of the House remark that the Premier had pro- mised to review the scheme on the basis of con- tribution. I say if the Premier ever did pro- mise such a thing he will never be allowed to carry it out. It would be criminal and abominable if such a thing were done. I do not believe he ever made such a promise; and if he made any promise I do not believe it partook of that nature. Now, Sir, I say the time has come when these pension payments must be secured for all time against fluctuations of the revenue. A statesmanlike proposal would be to create land endowments for the payment of 