do not come out correctly that constitute the highest claim the Star has on the Premier. What was the Dunedin Star's tip a few months ago ? It was that the Premier was likely to be ap- pointed the Governor of some constitutionally- governed colony. I hear the honourable mem- ber for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay) say " It may come out right yet." Perhaps it may, but it has not come off so far. But, once this item appears in the Dunedin paper, in due course it is of course telegraphed to the Premier's paper in Wellington, and probably passed on in one of Reuter's cables sent to London at the cost of the colony, saying that the idea is afloat in New Zealand. And this comes in due course under the notice of Mr. Chamberlain, who takes up his paper, sees the item, and, of course, it is supposed to strike him as a good idea ! But it has not come off. Then, later, there was another Dunedin Star tip -- namely, that the Premier is likely to be appointed High Commissioner of the Pacific. That appeared in the Star also, and it emanated from this same well-informed correspondent who has written this audacious letter which the Pre- mier says is "satisfactory." From time to time these splendid ideas are being published in the Star, and as they have appeared we are now paying the price for them. Had the Premier done his duty yesterday when he moved the resolution, he would have moved that the honour of Parliament required a penalty to be imposed-first, on the publisher for publishing the evidence ; and secondly, on the correspon- dent of the Star for defying the Committee-if the fine had been only $5 in each case-and the matter would have been settled in a quarter of an hour, and this waste of time and money would have been saved. It is the Premier who is responsible for it. Now, in connection with this letter that has come before the House, I venture to say a more defiant letter was never sent to any Parliament; and in the remarks the Premier made in defending the letter this afternoon, he has reduced the dignity of this Parliament to less than the dignity of a School Committee or a Road Board. I say, without hesitation, if we are to maintain the honour of Parliament and its dignity, the only form in which this can be done is by insisting on our Standing Orders being complied with. If the Standing Orders are wrong, alter them ; but while they exist maintain them. I do not wish to see any severe penalty imposed upon any man, but I say Parliament must vindicate its honour and position, and justify its Standing Orders-aye, and its existence as the highest Court of the country-by a judicial decision in this case. The Premier says that when the House yesterday passed the resolution down to the word "accepts " it accepted his position. I deny that statement, because it would be quite possible after the word "accepts " to insert these words, "the letter of the correspondent of the Star as a defiance of its Standing Orders, and determines to fine the publisher $50 and the reporter #25." The word "accepts," therefore by no means binds the House to any Mr. G. W. Russell Now, without professing to give a legal interpre- tation, I venture to say, if the House passes the resolution before it, it will be utterly impossible to say who is to pay the money. You cannot say, unless it is amended somewhat in the direction suggested by the honourable member for Bruce, that either the reporter or the publisher is liable for the sum of £15; because two offences have been committed-first, the offence by the publication of the evidence, and next the offence in connection with the refusal to give evidence -and I ask which of these two offences is dealt with in the resolution ? The answer is plainly the publication. If that is the case, only the publisher can be regarded as liable under the resolution. The reporter, who has shown con- tumacy, goes scot-free. I agree largely with what has been said by the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson), that, after such a letter has been sent to this House by the reporter of the Dunedin Star, it is difficult to see how the House can, with any dignity or sense of proportion, propose to amend the Standing Orders in the direction he suggests. He does not in his letter express regret for his action ; all he expresses regret for is that, in exercising his functions as a journalist, he has come into contact with the privileges of the House-in other words, what he says amounts to this, "I place my journalism and my duty to my journal before your laws " ; and if he had been a man of courage he would have added, "I am prepared to stand by what I have done, and take the penalty." But. no: as is the case with all wealthy journals like the Dunedin Star, they do these impudent and defiant acts to rake in the coppers ; but when it comes to paying a penalty they squeal. In my opinion there is only one thing for the House to do-to insist on a penalty. If no more can be put in than $15 I am prepared to accept that ; I should be prepared to vote for more. But I do say, unless this amount is levied upon some person or persons specifically named, the resolution will be blank cartridge, and the first man to turn round and laugh at the House for the mistake it has made will be the Hon. the Premier. I believe, if we are to stem what I believe to be one of the unfortunate tendencies of the period in which we live-the demoralisation of public life-one of the safeguards we have to support is the dignity and honour of Parliament. If we hand over that dignity and honour to the ipse dixit of the Premier, good-bye to repro sentative institutions. We shall come under the lash, and, instead of Parliament being the highest Court of the land, it will become simply a tool to carry out the wishes of the man who is paramount at the time a tool for the pur- pose of paying for favours received by him in his public or private capacity, and not for the purpose of maintaining those things that are for the benefit and well-being of the colony. While I was listening to this debate, I could not help asking myself, if the newspaper pub lished by the honourable member for Palmers- ton had committed a breach of privilege in 