£6,000 to each dredge, we find there is a total capital of £1,830,000 invested in the dredges alone. In regard to the production of gold, the yield for the year 1899 was the highest during the previous twenty-six years. In 1900 there was a slight falling-off, but in the first six months of 1901 the production was such that the year promises to be the best year "for the production of gold in the last twenty- .eight years. This is very encouraging indeed. 'The amount of gold produced in the colony in the first six months of the present year was valued at £844,886. Last year the total produc- tion was valued at £694,859, which shows an in- crease over the same period of 1900 of £150,027. Now, to show the production of gold in a more detailed form I will state the output of one or two mines. In the North Island the leading mine is the Waihi. Most people are acquainted with it ; it is an historical mine. Between 1890 and 1901 this mine has produced gold to the value of £1,710,075; the dividends paid to the shareholders amount to £708,500, and it is now paying at the rate of £160,000 per annum, or 10s. per share on the capital. Another important property is the Waitekauri Mine. The total value of the bul- lion produced from that mine up to the 31st March, 1901, was £314,437, and the dividends paid amount to £85,000. Then, there are the New Zealand Crown Mine, at Karangahake, and the Talisman Mine, which have produced bullion to the extent of £354,336 and £110,000 respectively. The Hauraki Mine, Coromandel, has paid $144,000 in dividends on a capital of £40,000; and, when any one says that gold- mining does not pay, there is an answer. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 Mr. MONK .- Give us the losses. Mr. McGOWAN .- I am afraid from that question the honourable gentleman has an im- pression in his mind that a great many people have, and that impression is that the gold costs very much more than it is worth. That is a matter I have discussed before, and I wish to inform the honourable gentleman that such is not the fact, and I defy any one to prove it is a fact. There is an altogether false impression regarding the cost of production. If honour- able members will take only the cost of the work required to obtain the gold actually obtained they will never fall into the mistake of saying that gold costs more to produce than it is worth. The difficulty is in separating what is termed the speculative from the pro- ductive element in gold-mining. For instance, thousands of pounds have been lost recently in the dredging industry ; many companies are in liquidation. Mr. R. THOMPSON .- A million of money, I hear. Mr. McGOWAN .- Very likely ; but the fact remains that when people go in for buying shares they imagine that they have spent so much money in mining or in the production of gold, when, as a matter of fact, they have spent no money at all in the production of gold. And in many cases that is where the money is lost. To ascertain the bed-rock position-to us, an old miner's expression-to find out the actual Mr. McGowan cost of the production of gold, you must take the actual amount of money expended or wealth con- sumed in actual working. It is not the money spent by Mr. Jones, Mr. Smith, or somebody else in the purchase of shares. You must con- sider the question from the State point of view in discussing the industry of a country, not from the point of view of the individual. If I have a mine I may be paying £100 a week to men for working that mine, and the amount I may be producing from that mine may not return me more that $50 per week, and under those conditions I am losing a certain sum of money more than I am gaining ; but I say, looking at this question from an industrial point of view, the State is an actual gainer, because the money I pay away in wages is not lost to the State as money thrown away in other directions would be. The money is paid away in wages, and is used for clothing, food, and so on, and distributed throughout the whole country. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is funny logic. Mr. McGOWAN .- It is logic you will not be able to upset. Now, in regard to some of the other mines in the South Island, there are several mines, for instance, in the Inangahua district which also produce a large quantity of gold. I will give one or two instances. In the Progress Mine, for instance, the output has been at the rate of between £80,000 and $90,000 per annum. And the Wealth of Nations and Golden Fleece are also what I might call good gold-producers for that district. Now, with re- gard to dredges, the dredging industry is com- paratively a new one, and the result has been what was anticipated by those who knew the different districts. Results have not, in some respects, come up to the expectations of those who engaged in the venture; but they have come fully up to the expectations of those who have had experience in this matter, and who knew what to expect. I might say that the dredging industry has come up fully to my expectations-and, indeed, more than I expected it would do when I went over the district some two years ago. The number of dredges that were working in Otago and Southland on the 31st March, 1900, was seventy- nine, and at same period of present year 125, showing an increase of forty-six; while on the latter date 101 dredges were being built, and fourteen lying idle or being removed. On the West Coast twenty dredges were working, eight were lying idle, and thirty-seven were under construction, tendered for, or ordered. The total number of dredges in the colony already at work or under construction, et cetera, is 305. Thus, taking the figures I have stated, over a million and three-quarters of money has been invested in dredges alone. Now we come to another important branch of mining, and that is the coal-mining industry, and this brings me to a subject upon which I wish to say a word or two. The coal question has agitated the mind of the public for some considerable time. Let me tell the House and the country that during the last year, although there has been an increase 