producing world, and to get from them samples to take away to other countries, and there to put them on view free of expense to the people here. He had taken away a large and repre- sentative quantity of samples of all classes of produce from this colony. After his arrival in South Africa he was to report as to the advisability of establishing State freezing-works there for the benefit of the colony as a whole. He was sorry that the honourable member for Waitemata had a somewhat poor opinion of the Trade Commissioner. Mr. Gow was an ex- perienced man, and, among other things, was a strong man ; and he could say a strong, forcible, brainy man, such as Mr. Gow was, was the sort of man to send from this colony on a mission of that kind. He was sorry he could not give the honourable gentleman any information about the quantity of grain sent to Spain. It had been sent by private firms, and not through the Government. In reply to the honourable member for Bruce, as to the quantity of grain sent to South Africa, he might say that in different shipments the Gevernment sent in all, up to date, about 27,000 tons, which represented two orders from the Imperial Government. The first order was for 5,000 tons, which was immediately increased by another 5,000. The shipments exceeded the 10,000 by nearly 2,000 tons, and that quantity of 12,000 tons was shipped in June of last year from the Bluff Harbour by three steamers. The shippers were the National Mortgage; New Zealand Loan and Mercantile; Wright Stephenson ; Tothill, Watson, and Co .; Henderson and Batger; and Nicholl Brothers. He would be glad to lay a return, which was now prepared, on the table https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 of the House. The price was 24s. per quarter of 3201b., including insurance and freight, de- livered in South Africa. The other order for 15,000 tons was received in March, and was shipped by the steamers " Croham," " Knight of St. George," and " Vienna." The whole of the shipments were made from Lyttelton, Timaru, and Oamaru, the shippers being Messrs. Fried- lander and Co., and G. G. Stead, and the price 24s. per quarter of 3201b., delivered in South Africa, including insurance and freight. Those were the only two orders shipped by the New Zea- land Government, and were made on behalf and under instructions of the Imperial Govern- ment. There had been a number of orders re- ceived in the colony completely outside the Government. English and Australian firms had been competing for the trade in South Africa; but in every case where orders had come from the Imperial authorities they had been accompanied by a request that the New Zealand Government graders should grade the shipment and certify that the quantity and quality were all right. With the exception of one complaint from South Africa that some bags by one shipment were not sufficiently well sewn, no complaints had been received. Honourable members would recognise at once that in cases such as this the Government could not give away the Imperial Government's information when they cabled out for ship- ments. It had to be remembered that quite recently it came under the notice of the Govern- ment that both Canada and Russia were com- peting very hard for this South African business, and every member of the House would agree that it was the duty of the New Zealand Go- vernment to try and keep these orders for the colony if they could. He knew, himself, that some leading firms in Victoria, if they could have kept the price down low enough, would have controlled the business with the War Office, and, had they succeeded, they would have forced down the prices to the farmers of the colony. On the whole, he thought New Zealand had had its fair proportion of the orders from the Imperial authorities. He might say that the Imperial Government had recently placed with this Government three further orders for 5,000 tons each, and in this we had acted entirely on the instructions of the War Office. The Government had not interfered with the traders at all, and had sim- ply stepped in in order to keep the trade to the colony if they possibly could do so. The orders received in the colony through the Government were, he believed, infinitesimal compared with those received by independent firms outside the Government altogether. The Government were quite prepared to receive suggestions from the business community on this or any other sub- ject, and they wished to give to every one the benefit of the Commerce Department as far as possible ; but he repeated that the Government could not, nor would they attempt to act the part of traders. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) said the Minister seemed to have missed the point of his question in connection with the publication of the prices of frozen mutton. What he desired was that the intelligence department at Home should do justice to a large number of the farming community in the colony by publishing the whole of the prices. The cable messages re- ceived in the colony gave the prices of South Island, Canterbury, and North Island mutton, but one never saw the price of the Wellington article, and that materially affected the farmers of the Wellington Province. At an annual meeting of the Wellington Meat Export Com- pany the chairman of directors pointed out that so well had the company graded their meat that on the London market their mutton brought only d. less than prime Canterbury It was never more than }d. less. mutton. Now, North Island mutton generally was some- times as much as 1d. less than Canterbury, and the farmers in the country districts were misled by the price for North Island meat being I quoted to them. When these North Island prices were quoted to the farmers they materi- ally affected the prices these farmers accepted for their sheep. Sir J. G. WARD said he would ask his col- league the Minister for Agriculture to endeavour to have the Wellington prices cabled from London. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) said, Ac- cording to the Pastoralists' Review, one of the most reliable journals published, Wellington meat did not occupy the position claimed for 