actually what occurred, without comment, I say that the parties before the Committee, at all events, cannot complain. This brings it down to the position mentioned by the member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson). He asks, " Where does the House come in ?" The House must be consistent. What has the House done in other cases where members themselves and those outside the House have done the same as Mr. Cohen has done ? Mr. ATKINSON .- What was done in the case of the Otago Daily Times and the Evening Post ? Mr. SEDDON. - In respect to either or both of those journals, they never received at the hands of this House, in my opinion, more than the best interests of the House demanded. But we are not dealing with them now, and the conditions may have been quite different at the time, and I do not remember the cases to which the honourable member refers. Hon. MEMBERS. -- Ha, ha ! Mr. SEDDON. - I hope, Mr. Speaker, these interjections will be stopped. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - I have drawn the honourable member's attention to it ; if I have to do so again I shall have to name him. Mr. SEDDON. - I was saying that we must take the present situation into consideration ; that is all that is before us. I do not know a case where a person before the House has taken the course that has been taken. I believe, myself, it was the proper course. I thought at the first blush, without having seen the evi- dence and gone into the matter, that there ought to have been a penalty imposed ; but when I saw the evidence and looked up pre- cedents I came to the conclusion that all that https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 members require, and what would meet the case, would be what I am now proposing. Now comes the question : Have you a precedent for this? Yes; there was a parallel case in the House of Commons, where the House of Com mons decided, as this House has decided, that there had been a grave breach of privi- lege, and the offender was summoned to the bar ; but public opinion was so strong in the interval in the interests of the offending party, and it had been of such material benefit to the public, that Mr. Disraeli, on the House meeting shortly afterwards, moved to discharge from the Order Paper the motion that he ap- pear at the bar of the House. In this case there is no doubt there has been good ground for bringing the matter before Parliament ; but no one could read the evidence without coming to the conclusion that it was really in the in- terests of all that it should be published, and had the Committee come to the House and asked it to allow it to be published that order would have been given. This was not done, and thereby a breach of privilege has been com- mitted. Very well ; a majority of the House could exact the last ounce of blood. They could negative this proposal of mine and call the gentleman concerned to the bar of the House. Naturally he would expect and ask to be repre- sented by counsel. Then we should have the Mr. Seddon stately bow to the Chair that is made so grace- fully by members of the legal profession. We should then have, no doubt, an elaborate speech carefully prepared, and, like drops of precious ointment, the salve would be poured into the wounds of honourable members. We should be sitting in our places and be inwardly saving, " It is all a piece of by-play ; the bringing of offending persons to the bar of the House in respect to trivial cases is all a farce." I am not mincing matters at all, and am not, perhaps, using dignified language, but it is applicable to what would be in members' minds. After that speech had been made by counsel, and after the representative of the Star had withdrawn, a mo ion similar to that I am now proposing would be made, the House would debate it for some time, and there the matter would end ; or a penalty might be inflicted. Well, I should say, in respect to this case, that the highest penalty that could be inflicted would be one of about #51. An Hon. MEMBER. - Ob, $500. Mr. SEDDON .- If we attempted to inflict a penalty of that amount, my opinion is that there would be such a feeling of revulsion in the country over the matter that any member who voted for it would have good reason to remember it. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about Mr. Wat- son ? Mr. SEDDON. - That is quite another mat- ter. I think if we called Mr. Cohen to the bar of the House, after we had gone through the proceedings of personally calling him and letting him be represented by counsel, we should have a similar resolution to this submitted. Under all the circumstances, I do not think we should inflict a penalty, and I will tell you why. In the first place, we have this letter before us; and I think no honourable member will gainsay the statement therein made as to the necessity for occasionally having the proceedings of Com- mittees made public for the benefit of honour- able members and the country. There is also another point that has weighed with me more than all others in taking the course I am now advising the House to take-namely, that when Mr. Cohen was before the Committee he could, I think, very properly have said, "I should not be asked the question as to where I obtained the evidence." He might have said, "It is unreasonable to ask me to answer that question, because my reply may incriminate me." And what would honourable members have said if he had taken up that attitude? In accordance with all past tenets, they would have said that he had rightly refused to give evidence in reply to questions that would, to all intents and pur- poses, force him to admit that he had com- mitted, as in this case, a breach of the law or of the Standing Orders. But, Sir, he did not do that, which proves that he did not wilfully defy the House or show contumacy. He did nothing of the kind. As far as he himself is concerned, he straightforwardly said, " Yes, I obtained it, and I obtained it in an honourable manner"; and I think every honourable member musi 