fusty privileges of the House. That is what we are asked to do. The member for Franklin knows that when the matter first came up in the House the members of the Government, through myself, in the absence of the Right Hon. the Premier, wanted to do what we con- sidered was the right thing. We wanted to go about it in the way we thought would be the best to ascertain where the information came from, and to avoid the farce, if possible, of bringing the publisher and the reporter before the bar of the House. This Committee was set up in order to avoid that course. Some members of the House said we ought to bring to the bar of the House the publisher and the reporter, and that the setting up of the Committee was a mistake. However, the Committee was set up, it has inquired into the matter, and has endeavoured, with- out success, to find out where the informa- tion came from. We know that the representa- tive of the Dunedin Star, if he chose to act dishonourably, could disclose the source of his information ; but as he will not disclose the name, and rightly so, then some honourable members of the House want the publisher and the reporter to be fined, and they think that will be the way in which the privileges of the House will be maintained. Personally, I regard the whole thing as an absolute farce of the first . order ; and if you brought the publisher and the reporter to the bar of the House and fined them £25 each they would be delighted. They would not personally pay ; the company they belong to would pay the money ; their paper would get a magnificent advertisement, and the privileges of the House would be maintained, and all by https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 a penalty of $50. We know that in the past members themselves have committed breaches of the privileges of the House, and the House has been satisfied with an apology from them and no fine. In one case the late member for Patea said he would do it again. Members who are now anxious to maintain the privi- leges of the House did not suggest a fine of £25 or of $50 on that occasion, when the Pre- mier asked the House to go no further than to merely put on record that a breach of privi- lege had been committed ; on the contrary, some of them looked on an ordinary resolution of the House, indicating the fact that a certain member had committed a breach of the peace, as so distasteful that they would not even stay in and vote for it. That is the way in which some members regarded the matter. Now, I wish to say that the keen criticism of the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) has done a great injustice to the repre- sentative of the Dunedin Evening Star. The honourable gentleman has asked why this in- formation was not published throughout the length and breadth of the colony. Does any honourable member mean to tell me that if any other representative of a journal in the colony had got hold of the information he would not have published it? If he had ob- tained that information in a proper way, as the representative of the Dunedin Star states he obtained it, would he not have published it ? Sir J. G. Ward Mr. W. FRASER .- What is "a proper way"? Sir J. G. WARD .- What is the use of the honourable member asking " What is ' a pro- per way '?" Does the honourable member mean to tell me that since he has been a mem- ber of the House he has not given information ? I saw an honourable member on one occasion beating a hasty retreat from the former head of a Government, after he had gone from a secret caucus. Mr. MONK .- You are accusing ; you cannot prove it. Sir J. G. WARD .- I am not accusing. I was there on the occasion. Mr. MONK .- You do not know what I said. You are now making a charge that has no foundation. Sir J. G. WARD .- I know what I am refer- ring to. The honourable member went to a caucus, which met for a particular purpose. and he was housed very carefully in the bosom of the late Premier of the country, and when the right honourable gentleman the present Pre- mier, and myself, and another, I think, who were appointed a deputation to go down to interview the Premier, went, we found we were forestalled by the honourable gentleman, who was there before us, and he says he did not disclose anything. I say, Sir, the honourable member knows that that took place; and yet we have my honourable friend saying he never did anything of the kind. An Hon. MEMBER .- Do not import any heat into the discussion. Sir J. G. WARD. - I shall not do so for the Now, Sir, all I say is this. While world. honourable members may rise to condemn the fact that a wholesale divulgence of the evi- dence has gone on in this instance, there is not a member of this House " but knows that in- formation from these Committees has fre- quently appeared in almost every journal in the colony before it has reached the House, and it has been got from honourable members, and that hitherto it has never been regarded as a crime to do so. It has never been re- garded as an improper thing to let representa- tives of journals know what is going on in connection with the public affairs of this country. I say Mr. Cohen, when he got this information, did as any other member of the Press would do : he sent it to his own journal. Now, Sir, does this resolution which is pro- posed by the Premier detract in any way from the dignity of this House ? Mr. FISHER .- What about his instance of 1874 ? Sir. J. G. WARD .- Oh, I am not going into the instance of 1874, or any old precedents : I am trying to apply a little common-sense to the whole procedure, and I say where a repre- sentative of a journal, following not only the etiquette of journalism, but is doing that which no honourable member of this House could do other than commend-refusing to give away the source of the information obtained by him -- it would not be right that we should try to force him or force his journal, by imposing a penalty of £50, to give away the name. I say 