which most concerned honourable members was that better order should be observed in all parts of the buildings. He agreed with the honourable member for Avon that, apart altogether from the illness of the late Serjeant-at-Arms, there had been a distinct falling-off in the management of the Parlia- mentary Buildings of late years. The lobby was to all intents and purposes a public thoroughfare, and the library was also largely encroached upon, and it seemed to be the duty of no one to rectify this state of affairs. He hoped that the Premier, in conjunction with the Speaker and the Committees of the House if need be, would do something to prevent the lobby and library being made public places. He objected to the abolition of the office of Serjeant-at- Arms, and he also hoped the salary would not be reduced. Mr. SEDDON said, If the House would give him complete charge for forty-eight hours, he would undertake to have a change made that would be satisfactory. But the fact was it appeared as if no one in particular was respon- sible, and if the Government interfered they would immediately be blamed. He thought it was the duty of the Library Committee, and the officers of the library, to ask any person in the library without authority who was misbehaving himself to retire. It seemed to him the officers were afraid to do their bounden duty. He thought, also, members of the House were largely to blame for the present state of affairs, because there was a freedom on the part of members that was never permitted in the days gone by. He considered that any https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 stranger who wanted to see a Minister, or to visit one of the Committees in the old library, should be made to go round outside. At pre- sent they were permitted to go through the http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero lobby, which was becoming a public thorough- fare, and this should be stopped. He thought no one should be allowed inside the House, lobby, or Committee-rooms without a permit. The duty of controlling the officers of the House lay with Mr. Speaker through the Serjeant-at- Arms, and he thought each officer in charge of the various branches should see that his work was properly performed. At the present time things were not as satisfactory as he could wish them to be. He did not blame the officers, who were capable men, and when they had their duties defined he was sure they would carry them out well. Want of system was the root of the whole trouble. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Who will they get the tickets from ? Mr. SEDDON said, from the Serjeant-at- Arms. They should adopt the system of the House of Commons, which was also that of New South Wales and Victoria. It was easy enough to lay down a system. He thought the Serjeant-at-Arms should be a real live man and a good disciplinarian. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) said they should have such a man for Serjeant-at-Arms as the late Colonel De Quincy-a man who was gentle- manly in manner and a respecter of the tradi- Premier speak in the manner he did. The Premier knew well what to do - give the Speaker full control. If that were done they would then know who to deal with ; but there had been divided authority, and from one cause or another the position of Serjeant-at- Arms had become demoralised. What was wanted was a gentleman who would practise The the dignity belonging to the office. gentleman who had moved this motion, how- ever, had made a mistake, for there were large increases on the estimates that wanted very careful attention, and in comparison with which the item under consideration was very trivial. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) said the Premier was responsible for the whole of the disorgani- zation of the House. It was well known that the Premier had taken the control of all the officers out of the Speaker's hands, and the Speaker had become disgusted and had let everything go by the run. Let the Speaker get the proper authority that was due to him, and he was equal to the occasion. So far as this vote was concerned, he should vote for the vote being retained, for a Serjeant-at-Arms was a necessity. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) said, before the new wing was built there were cer- tain conveniences enabling members to meet their constituents, but there were no such pro- visions now, because the Premier had entrenched himself on the very portals of Parliament, and had taken the whole suite of rooms there. Now, before a member could speak to a con- stituent with any degree of comfort he had to bring him into the lobby; and the only one room available other than the library was a dreary dungeon with acoustic properties of the very worst description. The Premier 9.0. had been heedless of the comfort and convenience of members. Members now were worse off in comfort, conveniences, and facilities for seeing their constituents than they were in the time of the old musty wooden building with which they had formerly to put up. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said the Premier had told them if he had charge of the buildings for forty eight hours he would effect all sorts of reforms. It was only three years since the charge was taken out of his hands, and before then things were worse than they were now. The right honourable gentleman had also given as his reason for not doing away with the Serjeant-at-Arms that to do so would neces- sitate the amending of the Standing Orders. And, of course, he would only amend them when he had a new Parliament to deal with. At present there were three officers in the House whose duties overlapped : the custodian and caretaker of the buildings; the head messenger, at £185 a year; and the Serjeant- at-Arms, at £200 a year. Before any fresh appointment was made the duties of these three officers should be defined. More than that, the House Committee during the session should have the full control of these buildings and the officers in it who were not parliamentary 