coming any one holding that position, and it was not until this matter had been brought up by himself that these costly cablegrams had ceased to be sent to the colony. He said that a man occupying the position of Agent-General should be conspicuously loyal to the Empire at all times. He claimed that in many respects the colony had been very badly represented by the Agent-General. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) would like to point out to the member for Waitemata that at the particular time when the Hon. W. P. Reeves wrote that particular telegram, even the British War Office did not understand the position in South Africa. Was it likely that the represen- tative of this colony, who was in close touch with the War Office at Home, would hold dif- ferent opinions? He could not possibly allow the idea to go forth that the Agent-General had neglected his duty. He could tell many in- stances where this gentleman had done excel- lent work for the local bodies, because it was not generally understood that not only was he Agent-General for the colony, but he also acted for the local bodies who had any orders for machinery in the Old Country. The Lyttelton Harbour Board had largely benefited by the foresight of the Agent-General, who, when the dredge " Manchester " was sent out, insured the machinery apart from the hull, and that was the means of the Board recovering £4,300 from the underwriters. Their matters were at- tended to regularly by the Agent-General, who had done valuable service for the local bodies. He said the Agent-General was just as loyal as any one else in the colony, and at the time referred to he felt that the Agent-General had been somewhat misled by the information prac- tically given out by the War Office. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) said there was no more loyal man in the British Empire than the man who had been assailed by the honourable member for Waitemata, and he ventured to say that had the Agent-General been sitting in his accustomed place in the House the honourable member for Waitemata would not have levelled such charges against him. The colony at the present time was represented by a real live Agent-General, who was able to hold his own on the platform or in the Press, and who, when New Zealand had been assailed time and again, had done extremely valuable service. The salary of £1,500 was by no means unreason- able, considering the valuable work he was continually doing for the colony. He was told that, no matter who visited England from the colony, the Agent-General received him cour- teously and tendered him the best advice, and gave him every assistance in his power. That was not the state of affairs that existed a few years ago, when only the select few were looked after. So far as the charges brought against the Agent-General were concerned, what he despatched in his cablegrams was both reliable and accurate. The Agent-General had never identified himself with either one extreme or the other ; he was neither pro-Boer nor jingo, and he was satisfied the honourable gentleman Mr. Monk without a particle of evidence to sustain his charges. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) said he had listened with very great pain to the statement of the honourable member for Waitemata. He might say that no men ever fought harder in this House than Mr. W. P. Reeves and himself, and therefore in what he was about to say he was not talking with any party or personal bias in his favour. He had three years' close per- sonal contact with Mr. Reeves in London as Agent-General, and he said at once his previous salary was insufficient for the work he was doing there. It was all very well for the honourable gentleman to make his statements, when he lived on his farm at Auckland, where £500 would go as far as £1,500 at Home. The position of this colony was not properly sus- tained by the salary previously given. It was not sufficient to keep ordinary expenditure going, let alone have a surplus to return the fetes and banquets the honourable gentle- man alluded to; and no man occupying Mr. Reeves's position could be constantly fêted without returning these kindnesses. The Agent-General must not be under any obliga- tion to any person, and giving a man no more than £1,250 to represent the colony at Home put him under the obligations he should not be under. Then, the honourable gentleman said the Agent-General was disloyal at heart. The honourable gentleman had no right to make that unjust and untrue statement, simply because the Agent-General did not go down on his kness and pander to the extreme jingo feeling prevalent at the time. The Agent- General's figures, when afterwards properly tested, were found to be more accurate than those supplied at that time. The honourable member also stated that he did not 8.0. represent this colony efficiently-that the interests of this colony were not properly represented at his hands. You could not always have a man familiar with every interest in the colony. He could say that Mr. W. P. Reeves, take him all round, had done the work of Agent-General well, and where he was not familiar with a question he took the utmost trouble to get the most reliable and up-to-date information upon such question from those who were best fitted to give it, so that he might the better be able to represent the interests of this country. It was unworthy of some speakers to cast reflections upon previous occupants of the office of Agent-General. One loud-voiced democrat, the member for Master- ton, had stated that the previous Agents- General were unapproachable, unless you happened to be connected with Club life, clearly pointing to the previous occupant of the office, Sir Dillon Bell. He (Mr. T. Mackenzie) had heard it stated that Sir Dillon Bell was unapproachable ; but he thought that one of the reasons why that gentleman did not figure so largely, perhaps, in the papers was because he did not take any trouble to make himself popular with the Press, and, therefore, his in- valuable work and doings were not made so pro- 