ber for Palmerston would only exercise a little activity and endeavour to induce the Wanganui Education Board, of which he is not a very prominent member, to pay the females at the rate at which the males are paid he would be conferring a favour and a benefit on the women teachers there, who only get 75 per cent. of the salaries paid to men in similar positions. And this even applies in Wanganui to the payment of the bonus to the females. That is to say, the bonus paid to the female on her certificate -say, on E1-is 25 per cent. less than a male teacher would get. I have the regulations on the matter before me. In Wanganui, I say, they have adopted the bonus system to supple- ment the salaries, and, instead of giving to the female teacher, who has to go through the same examination as the male, an equal bonus, they only give her 75 per cent. of what they pay to the male teacher. That is what is done on the Board of which the honourable member for Palmerston is a member, but not a very prominent one. With regard to the Wellington Board, I may point out that this system of bonuses is also in existence, and also to a small extent in Auckland. In Auckland stated certificates are required, and there is a stated salary for the position ac- cording to the rank of the teacher's certificate, especially in the case of assistantships. In Wellington they are paid on the certificates as well as on the average attendance of schools they teach, and no teacher can take charge of a school of over fifty pupils unless he holds a D certificate. These are the only Education Boards of the colony that adopt the bonus sys- tem, which by educationists is deprecated-and that also by members of Boards-because as the certificates of the teachers have become improved the greater has been the demand on the finances of the Education Boards. Until recently that was also the system in Otago, but it has been dispensed with. They found the expenditure increasing there, as many of the teachers were improving their certificates ; but now it is found that they are equally anxious to improve their educational status without the encouragement or inducement of a bonus. With regard to a colonial scale of staffs and salaries, it has been said that this is the thin end of the wedge in the direction of central- ising the teachers under the Education Depart- ment. I may say that the teachers throughout the colony are, for the most part, averse to cen- tralisation. The Boards have done good work in the past, and the teachers are satisfied to remain under them. The teachers think the Boards have done their best to promote education and to further the interests both of the pupils and the teachers. What is wanted is, in the first place, a colonial scale of staffs, so that a school of a given size will have the same number of teachers, and so that each teacher will do the same work, no matter in what part of the colony he may be located and engaged. As to the cost of living, it has been pointed out that a salary of €100 in one part of the colony is not equal to one of €100 in another place on account however, does not enter to any great extent into the question of salaries. We find that even in any one of the education districts of the colony the rents and prices of commodities must vary, yet no Board makes any allowance at all for the cost of living being higher in one part of the education district than in another. If we were to discriminate between the cost of living in the Provinces of Wellington and Canterbury, or between there and the West Coast, then much more ought the Auckland Education Board to discriminate between the salaries paid to its teachers in the City of Auckland and those paid in the outlying and remote parts of the district over which it has jurisdiction. Consequently, little weight has been attached to the question of taking into account the cost of living while the Commissioners were drawing up a scale of salaries, for it was proved that such a differentiation had never been made, and never found necessary, by any of the Boards, although such cost of living varies considerably in different localities within the same edu- cation district. Now, there is another point that has caused a great deal of anxiety to teachers, and that is the mode of appoint- ment. In two education districts of the colony, Wellington and Southland, the ap- plications are sent in to the Board. The selection Committee of the Board go carefully through them, and having selected an applicant they ask the School Committee to concur with them in the selection. If they cannot approve of the person selected by the Education Board, then to give their reasons for disapproving of the selection, and at the same time to nominate and give reasons for so nominating another candidate. That system, as I have pointed out, prevails in Wellington, and also in South- land, and I may say it is working fairly well. In other districts different systems are in vogue, which work more or less smoothly according to locality, the systems adopted, the length of time they had been in operation, and the extent to which the teachers have become accustomed to them. What is required is to better define the functions of Education Boards and the School Committees with regard to the appoint- ment of teachers, so that no matter what part of the colony a vacancy may occur in, the applications for that position will be treated in a similar manner. I maintain that members of Education Boards should be elected on a Instead of being elected more popular basis by members of School Committees, why should they not be elected by the parents -that is to say, the householders, or, even going a step further, by the electors of the colony, the same as members of the House? Then, I would advocate that the administration of the endow- ments for the purposes of education now in the hands of School Commissioners should be handed over to the Education Boards of the colony, and, failing this, I think they should go to the Land Boards. Now, with regard to In- spectors of Schools, I have advocated, as honour- able members are aware, for two or three years the centralising of the inspectorate. I consider 