of that portion. bers get up and continually try and depreciate the colony? Where is their patriotism ? bilious attack. Mr. BOLLARD .- That is only an assertion of yours that the railways of the colony are thing was evidently the matter. Then, the worth £30,000,000. honourable gentleman complains about our system of legislation, and says that we teach a Mr. CARNCROSS .- My assertion that they young man to covet his neighbour's grass pad- are worth $30,000,000 is worth much more than dock. Well, Sir, according to our laws, no the honourable gentleman's assertion that they matter what is coveted, there will be a pretty are only worth £16,000,000. Now, I do not considerable sized paddock left even after we wish to attribute motives to the honourable have taken what we want; and a man must gentleman, but for the moment I began to sus- have not a paddock, but almost half a county, pect he must be the agent of some multi- before we can touch him at all. I have no millionaire, and was trying to depreciate our sympathy with the gentlemen whose grass railways so that some one could come along paddocks he says we covet. But while in one presently and snap them up. I do not, how- breath the honourable gentleman complains ever, really think that he is that sort, and that we covet these paddocks, in the next therefore I do not make the accusation, but, breath he complains that we do not secure land really, his speech was open to that construction. in the vicinity of towns as sites for work- I was saying when interrupted that I cannot men's homes. Sir, how can we do that-how understand why honourable gentlemen in this can we carry out what the honourable gentle- House are continually harping away at state- man desires unless we covet the paddocks of ments and figures that appear to disparage our neighbours ? the country and to discount its prosperity. I believe that we have the finest little country in the world. I think there is not another like the land that is acquired is bought. We do. it. I think that things are bright and pro- not steal it, or take it without paying for it ; sperous, and that we have a gloriously grand and if it belongs to any one connected with the future before us that no pessimistic utterances opposite side of the House about double its. from the other side can prevent us enjoying. But, Sir, they make the same statements year price is given for it. after year until it becomes almost second nature below value ? to them. I do hope they will turn over another page and have a look at the brighter aspects of the colony, and that they will cease making the acquired in New Zealand at £60,000 below its miserable, dismal, disappointing pictures that value. That celebrated supposed offer for they are continually painting in this House for Hatuma was only bluff. I believe there was the whole wide world to read. The honourable a gentleman who offered £60,000 to get out of the bargain, but nobody looked upon it as gentleman is in a very pessimistic vein to-night. He referred to our dealings with the land-to a bona fide offer. Yet, Sir, the honourable the Government having purchased land-and he gentleman complained that we were not secur- drew some comparison between the condition ing homes for the working-men. The honour- of the New Zealand farmers and the tenant able gentleman is out of date; he is a back Now, the honourable farmers of Ireland. number; he is behind the times altogether. In this evening's paper there is a telegram from gentleman must know that that is an exaggera- tion-that there is absolutely no comparison Auckland which reads thus :- between them. Do we rack-rent our tenants? Mr. Hoffman a 500-acre farm in the Parish of Do we take from our tenants every improve- ment they make? Does everything they Waikumete, near the New Lynn Railway- do to improve their property increase their station, the intention being to cut the land rent, as in the case of the Irish tenantry? up in small sections for the purpose of form- Many of the Irish tenants are perfect slaves, ing workmen's homes." day and night, carrying heavy creels of mould on their shoulders to make land, and making policy the honourable gentleman is clamouring for. He really will have to come over to these land for which the landlord increases their rents. Do we do that? Every improvement benches, where he, with his portly presence and genial smile, will be made welcome. And they make, even if by carrying kail from the he will smile more than ever when he comes sea. goes to increase their rent. And yet the here, because we are carrying out the policy he honourable gentleman, who is a responsible advocates in its entirety. But, Sir, if I devote representative, stands in this House and com- much more time to the honourable gentleman's pares the condition of the tenants of the New remarks I shall have exhausted the sixty Zealand Government with that of the tenants minutes allowed me without having touched of Irish landlords ! I am sure that in his cooler the subjects upon which I intended to speak. moments, when he reflects over what he has This is called, I believe, a debate on the Finan- said, and when he is struggling with his proofs, cial Statement, but a large number of members he will, like a wise man, draw his pen through who have spoken have said nothing whatever the whole assertion comparing our tenants with about the Budget. I cannot, therefore, be the tenantry of Ireland, and that his speech VOL. OXVIIL .- 17. An Hon. MEMBER .- He must have had a Mr. CARNCROSS .- Yes, I think so. Some- Mr. BOLLARD .- Buy them. Mr. CARNCROSS .- We do buy them. All An Hon. MEMBER .- What about the £60,000 Mr. CARNCROSS .- No estate was ever "The Government has just acquired from There you are; we are carrying out exactly the 