ministration, has been the great buoyancy of our revenue. In spite of concessions granted and of reductions made in taxation, we find that we are in a good sound financial position. Now, what do we find with regard to the volume of our trade as gauged by the amount of the imports and exports ? During the last ten years our indebtedness has increased, and is increasing, but our assets have increased at the same time. The debt of the colony, both pub- lic and private, has been increasing, and we are called upon now annually to pay some three millions by way of interest, so that it is obvious that it is our duty to make the pro- duce of the colony go as far as possible towards liquidating that debt. The volume of trade in 1891 was £16,072,245; the exports then amounted to £9,811,720, whilst the imports were £6,260,525, leaving a credit in favour of this colony of £3,551,195, which went to pay our interest on our liabilities, both public and private, to the foreign money-lenders. But what do we find last year? We find that, although the total volume of trade had increased to £23,892,257, made up of exports £13,246,161, and imports £10,646,096, the cre- dit balance in our favour was only £2,600,065. Consequently it behoves the Government, if they wish to maintain a sound finance, to do all they possibly can to increase our export trade, and in order to do so it would be advisable for the Government not only to subsidise a line of steamers to South Africa and the Home-country, but to borrow one or even two millions for the purpose of equipping a fleet of ocean "tramps" to take our produce away. The subsidising of steamers for the export of our produce is, after all, but a temporary expedient, for the principle of assisting our producers will not be given a fair trial until the colony has a fleet of its own http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero to carry our products to the markets of the world. Until that is done our export trade will not increase to the extent it should, and so we shall lose our share of the Home trade, and miss our opportunity of bringing foreign money into the colony. With regard to the concessions and reductions which were made by the Govern- ment last year, a number of us then cautioned the Ministry, and advised them to proceed to the remission with due care and prudence. We pointed out to them that the day of reckoning would undoubtedly come, and that sooner or later a great deal of this revenue which was recklessly thrown away would be needed to pay the increasing expenditure of this colony. Although that day has not yet come, neverthe- less the remission of Customs taxation which was made last session has not benefited the ordinary consumer in the colony. It has, for the most part, gone into the pockets of the merchants, while it could have been better utilised in opening up the country and in de- veloping its resources in various directions. And I maintain that had the Government, instead of remitting the sum of #28,000 or $30,000 of the Customs duty on tea, expended that money in constructing necessary public works, and in encouraging industries that are already being established in our midst, a great Mr. Gilfedder deal more good would have been done to the colony than by putting this £28,000 or £30,000 in the pockets of the tea merchants of New Zealand. In this connection I will just men- tion one industry in that part of the colony I have the honour to represent-I mean the shale- works at Orepuki, which, as honourable mem- bers will remember, were started quite recently. The Government offered a bonus of some $5,000 for the first 100,000 gallons of shale- oil that could be produced in the colony. The company, being encouraged by this bonus which was offered, as well as by the prospective market for the oil they produced, expended no less than £100,000 in completing the works and providing suitable machinery for the purpose of producing oil, wax, and other products of the shale. Now, what do we find ? The Customs duty has been remitted on kerosene, which many will consider a desirable remission ; but the duty has also been diminished on paraffin wax and other products that the shale-works at Orepuki intended to turn out ; and there is not the slightest doubt that, unless the bonus is continued for two or three years, these valuable and expensive works will have to close down. We also find that the Standard Oil Company is quite prepared to take advantage of any remission on kerosene-oil ; consequently, this £41,000 or £42,000 of Customs duty on kerosene which has been remitted, instead of benefiting the consumers of this colony, is, in the first place, going to stamp out a growing industry at Orepuki, and at the same time it is going to enrich a very wealthy trust already-namely, the Standard Oil Com- pany. Now, Sir, I consider it is the duty of the Government to encourage in every possible way the establishment of industries in our midst. The Shale Company at Orepuki is already manufacturing numerous products from the shale, is providing employment and developing a valuable resource, and unless the Government will give them some little assistance in order to "get on their legs " they will be in an unfortunate position indeed. That will be a very unsatisfactory thing for this colony, because then we shall be once more at the mercy of the Standard Oil Company, and the price of the kerosene will go up. Now, there is another occupation to which I wish to allude - namely, the dairying industry. Honourable members who represent dairying districts and the back blocks of the colony are fully aware of the enormous strides that have been made in this industry in the last ten years. We find that in 1890 the output of butter amounted to $150,000, and cheese £86,000, making a total of £236,000, whereas last year the amounts were : Butter, $858,914 ; and cheese, #232,233 : making a total of ¥1,001,147, or showing an increase within the ten years of £855,000. Now, Sir, with regard to the export of dairy produce, the advisability of the Government equipping a line of steamers is again manifest. Had we a line of steamers to take our produce to the Home markets at the most advantageous time for securing the highest prices in the Home 