regard to mining companies, their obligations credit of the conduct of public companies in are confined to a very limited area. They have, sav, a battery, and mine, or dredge, and it in the future. would be perfectly easy for them-holding no stock and having no forward purchase contracts or forward selling contract, or any other com- mitments of a complicated nature, and where their money is obtained daily, weekly, and amount of work he has put into it, and on the monthly-to let the shareholders, who in the · past never could get to know anything about the finances of the company until the annual meeting-I say it would be proper and very much to the public advantage if these com- panies were compelled at short intervals to lay before the shareholders their position, and supply balance-sheets, so that from time to time, when people want to buy and sell shares, they could ascertain at a moment's notice how a company stood. Therefore I have proposed the following :- " In the case of mining companies the direc- tors shall transmit to every shareholder at his last known place of abode a half-yearly state- ment of the receipts and expenditure of the company during the preceding six months, and of the assets and liabilities of the company at the date of the account." I would prefer to make it three-monthly, but in order not to strain the matter, and to put before members of the Council something they might agree to, I have made it six months, and I hope the Council will agree to that. Then, Sir, there have been secret transactions by giving payment for land and property bought by shares, and which the shareholders have known nothing at all about until a considerable time afterwards, with the result that some people are in the secret of the operation and some are not ; and I say that is not fair. I say this : that the very basis and the very essence of the proper carrying-on of a company is that there should be no preference in any shape or form, and that there should be nothing that is not common knowledge, and a company carry- ing on its business otherwise will stand a great risk of being defrauded by directors who are not honest. Therefore I have provided that,- "Where any land or other property or any rights are acquired by a company otherwise than by cash, the deed of sale or transfer, or a true copy thereof, shall at all times be kept at the registered office of the company, and shall there be open to the inspection of any share- holder free of charge during the usual business one case. That company is in liquidation. hours." That is to say, when any company has ac- quired property, and has not paid for it in cash, a shareholder can go the office and say, "I have heard it rumoured that you have got such a property ; let me see the terms of the trans- action." The directors should throw as much light as possible on all operations, in mining companies especially. Sir, I think I have ex- hausted pretty well all I have to say. I hope the Council will give this Bill serious considera- tion, and that honourable gentlemen generally will make up their minds to, as far as it is possible, endeavour not only to put a stop to the frauds of the past, but to raise the status and this colony to a position that will be creditable The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY. - I think the honourable gentleman who has just sat down may be congratulated on the amount of atten- tion that he has given to this subject, the very conclusive and excellent manner in which he has placed the question before the Council. I think there is so much interest involved in this question that a Royal Commission ought to be appointed for the purpose of investigating these companies, and looking into these matters. So far as I can see, no Act of Parliament will meet the requirements of the case, for the reason that we set our faces always against re- trospective legislation, and it is just something retrospective that is wanted now. That is why I think a Royal Commission ought to be ap- pointed. There are two millions and a half of money invested in dredging, and that is scat- tered all over the country. There was, perhaps, never a commercial matter in which there was wider interest, and for that reason I think it is the duty of the Government to tackle the matter in a proper way. It is necessary, too, to inspire confidence in those who would willingly invest their money in dredging if they thought the thing would be conducted honestly. It is very necessary to inspire confidence now. We all know that the dredging industry might be a great and profitable industry in this colony, and it is desirable that everything should be done to develop it. I am not, of course, as well up in this matter as my honourable friend, Mr. Lee Smith. He is at the very heart of all the dredging activity ; he has access to the re- cords, and he knows all. I wish to place on record my appreciation of the efforts he has made. But I have some little experience. First of all, a broker comes with a prospectus. That prospectus shows that 16 gr. to the dish was got out at one place, and that 27 gr. to the load was got out in another place. Why, " Hartley and Riley " would be nothing to that. I saw that statement written by a responsible man in his own handwriting, and addressed to a friend of his ; and what happened? Actually, when the company was floated, and they had moneys collected from all parts of the colony, a fresh prospect was made, and it was found that there was no gold in it whatever. That is At the time of the liquidation we were told that they had £1,800 to their credit, and that the expense incurred was only £400, and that consequently there would be a good dividend returned on the money we had paid. But I received a letter demanding imperiously more money to liquidate the money. I think that wants looking into. Another company was floated with a great flourish of trumpets, and it was by great favouritism that I got some shares in it. Within two months it was pro- spected and found to be useless ; but the direc- tors had all our moneys in their possession, and what did they do? They bought a fresh claim, and they have been collecting money ever since. 