Government it would be a progressive Liberal party, and the members that compose it would be from this side of the House. The personnel of the Ministry might be changed in one or two departments, but the policy now enunciated would be carried on. Should the member for Hawke's Bay and the member for Bruce ob- tain the reins of Government, where would the chariot of finance go with the honourable mem- bers in charge? I compare the honourable member for Hawke's Bay to Phathon; I compare the Hon. the Premier to Helios, the Sun-god; I compare the honourable member for Bruce to the soft insinuating Epaphus, who suggested to Phathon (the honourable member for Hawke's Bay) that he should ask his father - his father in progressive legislation - for leave to hold the reins of the fiery chariot, if only for one day. Helios was the Sun-god who drove the chariot of fire across the heavens, and Epaphus suggested to Phæthon that he, Phæthon, should ask from Helios the right to drive that car if only for one day. He persuaded Phaethon (the honour- able member for Hawke's Bay for the time being) by his soft insinuations to pray to Helios, the Sun-god, to give him the reins of the chariot. Helios knew the trouble that would eventuate. He knew the political in- capacity of the member to whom he was asked to hand the reins, and he hesitated, and dreaded the consequences, but finally, lending himself to the expostulations and entreaties of the member for Bruce (Epaphus), he allowed the member for Hawke's Bay (Phæthon) to hold the reins. What happened ? The steeds became unmanageable ; the chariot burned the heavens and the earth, and had not a thunderbolt been hurled for the purpose of stopping Phæthon in his headlong career to destruction, the whole earth would have suffered, and the sun would probably have stood still for ever. Shall Helios, the Sun-god, hand to Phathon and Epaphus the chariot and the reins of Government ? Not for a week, not for an hour. Honourable members know, as well as I do, the Opposition policy is criti- cism. May they criticize ! but when they ask the country and ask members to help them to direct the colony in the way it should go, the country gives them their answer at the hus- tings. Now, let me turn to a point in the Statement which deals with land-settlement. A comparison table is furnished in the Budget of this year as to the amount of land taken by the Government for settlement. Every mem- ber in this House, whether on the Govern- ment or the Opposition side, admits that the Land for Settlements Act is an Act which no honourable gentleman would even suggest the repeal of. Let us have a look at the table, and allow me to quote a table in reference to the land purchased by Government during their term of office, and I will show you, as far as Wellington is concerned, the Province of Wel- lington has been left shamefully out in the cold by the Seddon Administration. I do not know why it is. Have the honourable members opposite -- Mr. Atkinson and Mr. Hutcheson- Mr. Wilford vince on the Government ? I have done so. Mr. ATKINSON .- You run your own show. Mr. WILFORD .- If you ran your own show, and Helios handed over the reins, where would you go to? But let us turn for a moment to the figures, and find what land has been pur- chased -what areas, and at what price. We find the following from the return carried to March, 1900 :- Price paid to Seller Land District. to 31st March, 1900. d. £ A. R. P. 12,955 Auckland 118,428 14 0 2 10 .. Wellington'. . 2 57,155 5 10 4,551 0 60,854 150,444 Marlborough 5 3 15 9 3,634 Westland 1 3,230 6 6 1 728,414 Canterbury 127,809 8 1 19 333,317 5 11 Otago 58,515 1 18 Southland 20,365 43,032 15 9 .. 0 9 Grand totals 324,167 1 36 £1,523.926 10 6 The necessity for acquiring land in Hawke's Bay is admitted, and the holding of large areas as in the past by a few individuals is inimical to the interests of the inhabitants of New Zealand and especially to those of the young people who wish to get on the land. Turn to the land acquired under the Act of 1894. and in another table we find in the Hawke's Bay District 45,900 acres purchased, valued at #229,593 ; in Wellington, 11,158 acres, valued at £58,944 ; in Marlborough, 3,600 acres, valued at $8,250 ; in Canterbury, 9,023 acres, valued at £50,406 ; and in Otago, 1,152 acres, valued at #3,000. Now, taking the lands actually let, the rentals pay interest at 4.8 per cent. ; 8.30. the lands unlet would bring in rentals of £3,671, which, if let, would bring in interest at the rate of 5.1 per cent., and some of the money has been borrowed at under 4 per cent. Then, I turn naturally from the land for settle- ments to roads and bridges and public expendi- ture ; and I put before the House, and I pu: these facts in Hansard for those in the country who take the trouble to read statements in re- ference to the comparisons of expenditure and works done on roads by the Department of Lands and Survey for the years ending the 31st March. 1900 and 1901, exclusive of work done for the Department of Mines : - Amount Land District. Expenditure. voted. Auckland- £ 1900 151,485 76.283 . . 1901 171,979 92,255 Hawke's Bay- 50,532 1900 33,057 . 83,459 31,336 1901 . . Taranaki- 1900 43,873 28,435 .. 1901 49,718 33.058 Wellington- 118,643 61,339 1900 .. 1901 146,575 72,039 .. 