conclusion as to the case being heard by the may keep sweet with. the Press. I will say this to the Press : that I hope they will resent Committee, by considering only the evidence brought in chief, and not having heard the this action of the Premier, and will say to the Premier that they are able to look after them- cross-examination. And, Sir, the cross-exami- selves, and do not want his protection. But it nation in this case was of great importance. I think the Chairman and every member of has come to this: that portions of the Press the Committee will . admit that, and that are to be benefited at the expense of other portions. And is not that the case to-day in what was said in the first instance was largely qualified by what was said afterwards. New Zealand-that portions of the Press are unfairly dealt with at the hands of the Premier There is only one other matter that I wish to refer to, and that is in regard to another re- and his officers ? An Hon. MEMBER .- The Conservative papers mark of the Premier. The Premier threw get the pick of the luck, anyhow. across to me and other members on this side of the House, but to me in particular, the charge Mr. J. ALLEN .- Do the Conservative papers get the departmental reports before the House of taking the action I am taking to-day because I had some grudge against the Evening Star gets them ? What papers get those reports before the House gets them ? Why, the papers newspaper. It is the first time I ever heard of that the Premier wants to smooth over. That it in my life. The Evening Star, as far as I am is one of the ways in which the Premier wishes concerned in politics, has always dealt fairly to smooth over the Press. Some papers receive with me, and it is one of those papers that those departmental reports before they are laid takes both sides. It takes the side of Sir on the table. It is well known that the Pre- Joseph G. Ward occasionally, and it very often mier wishes to smooth over the Press by such takes the side of the member for Bruce ; and means, but also by other means about which I have not the slightest reason to say one word the House does not know as well ; but returns against the Evening Star with regard to its would show what those means are. I regret that dealings with myself, politically or otherwise. the colony has to descend to this low grade of It is another of the wild accusations that the political life. It is to such means that the Premier is continually hurling across this Premier descends in order to keep himself on Chamber. It is absolutely without a tittle of the Treasury benches. I regret extremely that truth. On the contrary, I should be only too the Premier has shown himself so weak on glad to protect, if I could, the editor and this question. He is not so strong as he used the reporter of the Evening Star newspaper. to be. I hope he will regain that manly in- But, Sir, I look a little further than my own dependence which led him to do the right political exigency in this case ; the Hon. the thing-at any rate, in the Watson case-when Premier cannot. I believe we have a duty there was a breach of privilege similar to this, to perform with regard to our own House and with regard to our privileges, and if the and when the Premier got the House to im- pose a fine of £500; and in this case it is Premier does not do it he is abrogating his wiped off with nothing at all. A common re- position as leader of the House. I believe he is mark from the Premier is that the Star re- backing-down from his original intention. His porter has been particularly sharp and par- intention to whitewash the editor and reporter of the Evening Star has now been abandoned. ticularly good in getting this evidence, and that he was justified - that is the remark of I admit I do not know what the amendment is. The member for Palmerston may know, but the Premier - that he was justified in the printing of this evidence in the Star because I do not. I hope it will be an amendment that, at any rate, will uphold our privileges altogether it was for the public benefit. An Hon. MEMBER .- He did not. apart from party questions. Here, I say to you, Mr. J. ALLEN .- Yes, words to that effect, Sir, and to the House, that, so far as I am concerned-and I believe I am speaking for any way-that the Star was justified in pub- ishing this on the ground that it was for the other members on this side of the House-there public good that it was published. is not a solitary member who has any party feeling in this matter at all. We have Mr. SEDDON .- No ; I said " extenuation." Mr. J. ALLEN .- Well, perhaps I was a little never had an idea of making this a party question in the very slightest degree. We all .trong in saying "justified." I will take the honourable member's word. He said there desire to do what is right in the matter, and were extenuating circumstances, because it was we are attempting to do what is right. We good for the colony that the evidence should be are not even all of exactly the same opinion on the matter, as was evidenced by the fact that published. It might have been good for the colony to have this evidence published, but it is some went into this lobby and some into that on the last division. And there may be, even quite evident to me that the publication of the when we come to the final division, a division of evidence has enabled the honourable member opinion amongst us. There is nobody on this to come to an entirely false conclusion ; and it side whipping up the party, nor is there a desire is also evidence to me that we shall have to con- that it should be whipped up. On the contrary, sider very carefully whether we are to allow we should like to see the House depart alto- newspaper reporters to come to Committee gether from party in this matter ; we are deal- meetings to report a portion of the evidence ing with our privileges, wholly and solely. Let without having the whole of it. I can easily us have one occasion on which we can vote imagine that by publishing a portion of the evi- 