Island influence in the Ministry, in every branch of the public service, and in both branches of the Legislature, and until we get some radical reform in that direction we are not likely to get justice done to the North Island. Take the position of the Cabinet : there are six Ministers from the South Island and only two from the North Island ; in other words, each Minister from the South Island represents only 63,690 people, whereas each Minister from the North Island repre- sents 195,289 people. Now, where is the justice in such representation as that ? pass on next to the other branch of the Legis- lature. I find that the Auckland District, with a population of 175,938 people, has seven repre- sentatives in that Chamber; in other words, each representative from there represents 25,134 people. Wellington has five representatives to 141,354 people. Each representative from that district represents 28,270 people. Canterbury, with 143,041 people, has seven representatives, or one to every 20,434. But Otago, with a population of 173.145 people - less than the population of the Auckland Province-has thir- teen members, or nearly double those of the Auckland District ; and they only represent 13,318 people each. But taking all the other . districts, including the West Coast, there are 139,241 inhabitants, and they have got thirteen representatives, or an average of 10,710 to each man. Now, taking the division between the North and South Islands, we have eighteen Councillors in the North Island, representing 390,579 people, or an average of 21,698 for each Councillor. The South Island, with 382,140 inhabitants, has twenty-seven Councillors, or one for every 14,153. This is excluding the Maoris, who mostly live in the North Island. Now, I want to get these facts well empha- http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero sized and pushed home to the members of the Ministry, so that in future some- thing will be done to remedy the very grave injustice that has been perpetrated in the past. I wish to refer for a little while to the question of land for settlement. The honourable mem- bor who has just preceded me referred to the fact that at the present time land-values were at a very high point : in fact, that they had reached top prices for many years to come ; and personally I believe that a good deal of waste has taken place as far as this colony is con- cerned in devoting so much money to buy up estates that were already in cultivation to the neglect of lands that are lying ready for occu- pation, some of them lying near to railways and good roads. We have heard very much in this House from time to time about the wail of the back-blockers. I am going to point out to the Government a large tract of land, as good as any in the colony, within a very few miles of a rail- way, and with a good road running past it, and that condition of things with the road made has continued in existence for years without any result, or with no apparent attempt to open the land for settlement. With reference to the high price for land, everybody in the House and throughout the country com- plains that land-values are too high at the pre- Mr. Fowlds sent time. I notice the chairman of the Wel- lington Chamber of Commerce only yesterday, referring to one of the drawbacks of this colony in its competition for the markets of the world with its produce, said that one of the elements of the difficulty was the very high price of land. I quite agree with that statement, and I am certain that the remedy I propose with reference to taxation would do a good deal towards re- moving that difficulty ; and I say here and now that, unless something is done to put a check to the speculation now going on in land-values, I the time is not far distant when we shall have the inevitable crisis that invariably follows such speculation. In reference to the high prices of land in the colony several causes have been at work; it does not all come from one cause. In the first place, the rise in the price 9.0. of our staple products in the Home markets has undoubtedly had a good deal to do with the raising of land - values. Then, the lower rate of interest has been an important factor in increasing the selling-values of land ; but the very fact of the Government being a competitor in the speculative market, in the buying market, has also been a factor in send- ing up the price of land ; and I want to show by a few figures the amount of loss the colony has sustained through our land-for-settlements policy, which is not taken any note of, and is not mentioned in the accounts of that depart- ment. In 1892-93, when the land-value was £75,787,895, we received in land-tax the sum of £297,181. Now, there has been no reduction in the rate of the land-tax since that date; but in 1898, when the land-values had gone up to £84,401,244, an increase of £8,613,349, the total amount of land-tax collected was £267,287. Now, with that amount of land- value-eighty-four millions odd-if we had been receiving land-tax in the same ratio as we received it when there were seventy-five millions in 1892-93, instead of receiving in 1898 £267,287 we would have received £330,956. The exemption of improvements would not make an important difference. At any rate, the land-tax a year after the exemptions were made was within a few thousand pounds of what it is to-day, and therefore we were losing in 1898, by the purchase of the land and loss of land-tax on it, an amount of $63,669 a year. Last year the total amount we received in land-tax was $294,583. Now, even since 1898 there has been a very large increase in the land- values of the colony, and the amount of land- tax remains very much the same ; so that, in estimating the benefits to the colony of the land-for-settlements policy, account ought to be taken of the amount we lose in land-tax on every estate we buy. Of course, I will be told that the main object of the policy was to secure closer settlement. I submit that the same result can be obtained by increasing the tax on land-values, adding to the revenue at the same time, and would enable very large remissions to be made on Customs duties which are paid by those who are not par- ticipating in these increased values. If the land is put to its best use by the owners, whether 