Mr. MONK (Waitemata) considered that, in the interests of the public service, notice should be taken of such cases. There should be no flagrant instances of dishonesty practised by persons in the Government service without the Minister taking cognisance of it. The public could not have confidence in the service of persons who were known to be dishonest. Sir J. G. WARD said the point put by the honourable member was quite a different mat- ter. There were thousands of employés in the service of the colony, and it was for the officer immediately over the employé to see that he conducted himself in a way that would not re- flect discredit upon himself or the service, or do anything that would leave a black mark against the service. But if the Government were to interfere for every person who came along, and asked that pressure should be brought to bear upon an officer unless he paid a particular ac- count, there would be no comfort in the service and no peace for the Ministers. He might say he did not know anything about this particular case. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said that, as to the facts, no person in the land could upset the truth and the perfect accuracy of every- thing he had said. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) said there were a number of men who, when on the verge of foundering, had obtained Government employment, but who could never hope on the wages they received to pay their back debts. He knew the extreme adversity that had dogged this man's feet for years, and it would be like drawing blood from a stone to attempt to make him do what was suggested. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he did not want to prolong the debate, but as his name had been brought into it by the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), he might say that, like his colleague, he knew nothing about it. The man referred to was a temporary clerk, and if temporary employ- ment was given to any one the Government -could not be asked to interfere for creditors. If the Judge had made an order on a man who was getting 10s. a day, and who had a wife and a number of children, and was himself in ill- health, still he did not see why his (Mr. Sed- don's) name should be brought in. If the order was made, and not carried out, the man was still an undischarged bankrupt. Of course, if they said that no undischarged bankrupt should have Government employment they had a direct issue ; but he (Mr. Seddon) must refuse to be put in the position of a debt collector. Mr. FISHER said that this man had been continually employed by the Government for four years. Was that temporary employment ? Could a man who had been receiving £190 a year for that time be termed necessitous ? If the honourable gentleman would not make in- quiry, he would ask him, at any rate, to see that so long as this man was in the Registrar- General's Department he should confine himself to doing his work there, and that he should not be allowed to comment through the news- papers upon the conduct of public men. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked whe- ther much of the work connected with the preparation of the census returns had been in- jured by the recent fire ? Sir J. G. WARD said no serious damage had been done ; the census would be complete. Mr. HERRIES (Pay of Plenty) 7.30. asked the Minister to give the items of " Contingencies, £236." Sir J. G. WARD said the items were as follows :- £ s. d. Rent of offices for Registrar, Wellington 80 0 0 Clerical assistance (Cooke, Buckeridge, and De 85 10 0 Bakker Cleaning offices of Regis- 34 2 trars .. Telephones 0 8 0 .. . . Legal advice 0 5 5 .. . Fuel for Registrars 5 4 4 Cabinet-making and paint- ing 4 13 6 .. Advertising 3 6 2 .. Books and periodicals 1 14 0 1 17 Copying-bath and cloths .. Sundries (freight, cartage, lighting, gladstone bag, 6 11 &c.) .. 6 £236 0 0 Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) wished to ask the Minister a question in regard to vaccination. By an Act of the previous year, parents who had not had their children vaccinated, and who had conscientious objections to vaccina- tion, were allowed a certain time within which to apply for exemption. Unfortunately, there were a large number of parents living in the back blocks who had not had their children vaccinated, having conscientious objections to it, but, owing to living in out-of-the-way places, they had not been able to get the exemption certificates within the time allowed. He had received communications from parents who were really not aware it was possible to get these certificates until it was too late, and they wished now to know if the Minister would, in special cases, extend the time for the applica- tion for the certificate of exemption. Sir J. G. WARD said if he could legally com- ply with the request, he would do so. Mr. PIRANI remarked that it would have to be done by an amending law. Sir J. G. WARD said, Well, he had an amendment of the Public Health Act under consideration at the present time. At any rate, he considered the people the honourable member referred to were entitled to considera- tion, and he would comply with the request if he possibly could. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) asked the name of the Registrar of Births, et cetera. and Vaccination Inspector in Wellington. Sir J. G. WARD said it was Mr. Mansfield. Mr. HUTCHESON asked if £225 was all the salary he received. 