Millar Hardy Tanner Monk Thompson, R. Heke Hornsby O'Meara Ward. Tellers. Houston Pere Carncross Seddon Laurenson Mackenzie, T. Steward Lawry. McNab NOES, 12. Thomson, J. W. Allen, J. Hutcheson Bollard Lang Tellers. Massey Ell Atkinson Fisher. Haselden Rhodes Herries Majority for, 18. Words added, and motion as amended agreed to. ## SAFE ACCOMMODATION FOR PUBLIC DOCUMENTS. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) asked the Minis- ter for Public Works, If he does not think it desirable that provision should be made in Wel- lington for more suitable and safe accommoda- tion for various departments of the public ser- vice now located in various parts of the city ? In the building lately occupied by the Census Department a fire took place. He believed there was only one small safe in that building, and that there was a lot of inflammable mate- rial stored there. These papers had cost the country about £17,000, and had they been de- stroyed it would have meant a great loss to the country. In that building there were also the Valuation Department and several other im- portant departments, and it seemed to him that the accumulation of work there which had cost the country so much should be stored in some safer accommodation than at present existed. Mr. HALL -JONES (Minister for Public Works) said, If the honourable member would take a walk as far as the back of the Govern- ment Buildings he would see there was in course of erection a large building for the ac- commodation of the Railway Department, which would be' equipped with up - to-date strong . room accommodation. When he told the honourable member that the Railway De- partment occupied about one - fourth of the large wooden building, he would recognise that when that department occupied its own building there would be accommodation down below for pretty well the whole of the depart- ments which now had to be housed outside the big buildings. That would relieve the pressure that had been caused by limited space up to the present time. RAILWAY FOR KAIKORAI VALLEY. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) asked the Government, If they will place a sum on the estimates for the construction of a railway-line from a suitable point on the main trunk (Hurunui-Bluff) line up the Kaikorai Valley ? This question, which was of considerable im- portance to the locality he came from, had, he believed, been brought under the notice of the Minister before, but he understood nothing so far had been done. This . Kaikorai Valley, which was growing in importance, was sepa- rated from Dunedin by a hill, and the sug- gestion was that a light line should be run up from somewhere near Green Island. Manu- factories were being established in this locality, and in the course of time it would carry a large population. He had been given to under- stand by business people who had gone carefully into the matter that a railway of that sort would pay handsomely. He trusted the Minister would favourably consider the matter. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) said the first time this railway was brought under his personal notice was when he was in Otago in January last. A large and in- fluential deputation then waited upon him in reference to the work ; but, while there might be some reason for its being put in hand at an early date, he very much regretted that, there being so much work in the shape of railway- construction in hand at the present time, he could not recommend his colleagues to place a vote on the estimates for this year. However, the matter would be kept steadily in view. # LIGHTHOUSE, CAPE BRETT. Mr. HOUSTON (Bay of Islands) asked the Minister of Marine, If he will, in the interests of shipping and commerce, erect a lighthouse at Cape Brett, at the entrance to the Bay of Islands Harbour? This was a matter of colonial importance, and, in fact, he considered this was about the most important question on the Order Paper. Cape Brett stood at the southern end of the Bay of Islands Harbour, and it was one of the first points sighted by occan-going vessels, more especially those coming from America. Seafaring men had very often com- plained of the difficulty of picking up this point before entering the Hauraki Gulf. The Bay of Islands Harbour was one of the finest harbours in the colony, or, in fact, south of the line, and he thought it was very important. in the interests of shipping, that there should be a lighthouse erected at that point. He had brought the matter before the Government on more than one occasion, and the reply was that it would be kept in view. He wished to know now whether the Minister had yet arrived at the conclusion that this important work should be undertaken. This was a matter which con- cerned not only the northern part of the pro- vince, but the whole of the East Coast. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister of Marine) said, If it were only a question of erecting one light- house he would be very pleased to comply with the wishes of the honourable gentleman ; but in that part of the colony there was a difference of opinion as to which was the most urgently needed work-for instance, a lighthouse a: Cape Brett or at the North Cape. Some people even went so far as to say that it was more necessary to have a lighthouse at Cape Kid- nappers. There was no doubt, however, tha: a lighthouse should be erected at Cape Brett. and he hoped in the near future one would be erected there, but he was very doubtful if i: could be put in hand for some little time. 