articles of every-day use by all classes of the community. The regulations have been drawn up and are interpreted on a more liberal basis than heretofore ; and the results of the year's working show conclusively that the people of the colony recognise and appreciate the efforts that have been made to induce traffic and to popularise and make the railways the principal and indispensable medium of intercommuni- cation between the various portions of the colony. In continuation, therefore, of the policy enunciated in 1896-viz., that a 3-per- cent. return having been secured from the railways reductions should be made in freights on New Zealand products-the Go- vernment has determined to make further concessions. These will embrace reduction of passenger-fares on Kaibu Section, rates for small lots of dairy produce, butter, poultry, eggs, bacon, cheese, manures, and wool, the abolition of the charge as for an additional five miles on all traffic passing over the Rimutaka Incline, and continuation of free carriage of lime for manuring farm lands. The value of the proposed concessions is estimated to be £30,000. It is considered that the time has now arrived when a daily mail-train service should be inaugurated between Wellington and New Ply- mouth, and, with this end in view, I have given instructions that, commencing on the Ist November, mail trains shall run daily between Wanganui and New Plymouth, thus securing a through daily connection between Wellington and New Plymouth ; the speeds of the mail trains will at the same time be accele- rated, so as to very materially shorten the journey-time between the stations named. The railway traffic has increased so rapidly and enormously during the last six years that it has in many places practically outgrown the carrying-capacity of our lines, which were http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero originally intended as the pioneers of settle- ment, and were not built to successfully cope with a business such as now exists in many parts of the colony. There is every indication that the business of the railways will still con- tinue to increase very largely, and it is, there- fore, imperatively necessary that steps be at once taken to make provision for dealing with the trade of the colony in an efficient manner. This can only be successfully and economically accomplished by equipping the lines with the latest safety-appliances, and practically recon- structing, and in some cases duplicating, the lines. A considerable portion of the rails in different parts of the colony require replacing with heavier metals, to admit of the use of engines of the most powerful type. In my last year's Statement I indicated the lines that would first require to be duplicated, and also the amount of funds necessary to enable the work of improving and strengthening the lines and structures being undertaken and carried out in a comprehensive and satisfactory man- ner, and I would again urge that serious con- sideration be given to the question of providing funds for the works indicated, which are matters of vital importance to the colony and its rail- ways. VOL. CXVIII .- 37. Notwithstanding the fact that the workshops are kept busily engaged in building rolling- stock, and that a very large number of opera- tives are employed at the work, the capacity of our workshops is not equal to the requirements of the business of the railways, and it has become abundantly evident that the workshops must be considerably enlarged in order that the building of rolling-stock may be retained in the colony, and the stock itself be turned out with greater expedition. The fact that the New Zealand railways are composed of so many small and isolated sections renders their success- ful management a matter of some difficulty, and adds very materially to the working- expenses, and thereby affects the result of the working of the railways as a whole. It is therefore very desirable, in the interests of the colony, that where possible these small sections should be joined up and made into con- tinuous lines. The Kawakawa, Whangarei, Picton, and Nelson Sections are cases in point. Each of these sections has its own resident officer in charge, and in addition special officers are required to make frequent visits at very considerable cost. The possible distance traffic can be carried on such sections is also so very short that high rates must of necessity be charged, and even then some of the lines cannot be made to pay more than bare working-ex- penses with the exercise of the most rigid economy. The increase in the cost of railway materials and of labour has had a very considerable effect upon the working-expenses for the past year, the increased expenditure under this head for the Maintenance Branch alone being £20,048 over last year. I am frequently urged to confine the im- portation of Australian hardwood sleepers to the narrowest limits, and, in some instances, to altogether discontinue the importation of such sleepers, in order that a larger number of New- Zealand-grown sleepers may be used ; and at the same time I am urged to relax the conditions under which New Zealand sleepers are accepted with a view to the acceptance of numbers of such sleepers which are now condemned by the Inspectors appointed for the purpose. I may say in regard to this matter, that the heavy engines now running in various parts of the colony, some of them weighing up to 64 tons, make it absolutely necessary that only the very strongest timber obtainable should be used for sleepers, as the stability of the line, the safety of the trains, and the lives of passengers carried daily are very largely dependent on the strength of the sleepers used in the track. While the Government is most anxious to obtain a regular supply of sleepers of suitable New Zealand timber, it is at the same time absolutely neces- sary that a proper margin of safety should exist in our lines, and this can only be ob- tained by the use of the very best class of material available. It is, moreover, an in- controvertible fact that, notwithstanding the efforts of the Government to obtain, and its willingness to pay an enhanced price for. a regular supply of suitable New Zealand 