been shown, and he was sorry to hear members saying anything to the contrary. No com- munications had been received from the fami- lies of members of contingents, or from the members themselves, complaining of careless- ness, and if there had been any warrant for the stories of the honourable member it would have been found in the Press of the colony long ago. They would have had charges from other sources, quite apart from the unjustifiable one that the honourable member for Bruce had just made. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) said that, as some of the information he had supplied had been challenged, he desired to say a few more words on the matter. As he understood the Pre- mier's speeches had been exhausted, he would move, That the item under discussion be re- duced by #1. The ACTING-CHAIRMAN said that, if the honourable member moved to reduce the item by £1, debate would be confined to the ques- tion that the particular vote be reduced. The honourable gentleman would achieve his object by moving to report progress. Mr. McNAB said, In that case he would move, That progress be reported. He wished to say that he was particularly interested in contingent matters, as fifteen men had gone from his district, every one of whom had re- turned by the "Tagus." He was particular to watch what was being done in connection with the men, and, as deaths occurred from time to time, he had taken a record of them. So far as he knew, he had a complete record of them, which he would be glad to let the honourable https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 gentleman see if he desired it. He had also available at five minutes' notice the newspaper records with the information as to ailments of those men, and as to whether they took ill after landing in the colony or before that. For instance, there was the information, which was common property to all southern mem- bers about a trooper who died before reaching Albany. The honourable member for Bruce knew that one of the men had been left behind at Albany in a dying condition, and he must also have known that a North Island man had died in sight of the colony. He also knew that the honourable member for Napier had referred to the case of another man belonging to Napier who had died before the vessel reached New Zealand. Two men were sent to the Dunedin Hospital in practically a dying condition. One of them had died from the result of an operation. When men died under operations medical men never admitted it. The person always died from the cause that brought the operation into existence. You could not trace in these cases of death anything at all, and you could not suggest anything that the Premier could have averted, because every one of them would have come through the same class of weather that the steamer experienced since leaving Cape Colony; and every one con- nected with the steamer said that there was not a single day on the voyage that they could get about without wearing their over- on their arrival was due to the fact of their mobilising where and when they did, and to the bad weather experienced on the voyage. In ad- dition to that there were more than six hundred men on the steamer, and every one knew that pneumonia was mostly caused by people being cooped up in insufficient quarters and not being able to get proper exercise. When the steamer arrived in the colony there were as many as forty men in the hospital ; and was the Premier to be blamed for that ? Why, honourable mem- bers who went south to meet the men had also caught colds, and some of them had not yet properly recovered ; but were they going to blame the Premier for their discomforts? He did not believe that any human being could have anticipated what had taken place, and that there were going to be deaths. An Hon. MEMBER asked, What about the doctor's recommendation ? Mr. McNAB said that, supposing the men had come to Wellington, they would not have been sent on to Rotorua, but to their homes in the South. And, then, if the doctor said that these men should come to the North, why did he not send them to the North when the vessel was just on the point of sailing, instead of send- ing them into the hospital at Dunedin. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he had sent for his telegrams in this connection, and he was going to put them on record. This matter had cropped up rather suddenly, and, as there were three departments to which his communications were sent, members would understand the diffi -. culty he had laboured under to-night when this charge was brought up without the slightest warning. Here was the first communication be was going to read. It was a cable from Colonel Davies, from Capetown :- "Fourth and Fifth sail to-day in ' Tagus,' bringing captured Krupp and Pompom. All " Colonel DAVIES." well. Then he received this from Surgeon-General De Lautour from Dunedin :- "I took measures to-day to unload ship hospital. Consider pneumonia due to over- crowding. Quite unavoidable under circum- stances. 2437, Sergeant W. F. Bell, Marton. and 2394, Private J. Nicholas, Auckland, too ill to be moved. They belong to North Island, and are under care Surgeon-Captain Watt and Nursing Sisters De Montmorency and Frank- land, whose untiring energy, skill, and kindness cannot be too highly praised. 2692, Private McKechnie, enteric, severe ; 1015, Private J. P. Heenan, abscess, severe ; 1402, Sergeant J. L. Long, Awamutu, pneumonia, severe ; 1091, Bugler W. Cheeseman, pneumonia (?), are in Dunedin Hospital. 1108, Sergeant Major L. Murphy, Invercargill, and 1121, Private H. W. Campbell, Invercargill, are at Miss Stronach's private hospital ; both improving. 2601, Private P. A. Hardy, rheumatism, convalescent ; and 2266, Private F. C. Long, malaria, not severe, are in Miss Church's hospital, and under my immediate care. 1252, Corporal W. F. Bell. Wellington, pneumonia, severe; 2630, Saddler W. Murphy, malaria, convalescent, are in Miss. 