of $7,834 for additions and improvements to the lines and structures, which would have been a fair charge against capital. Head Office expenditure for the year was £1,707, and departmental offices £2,165, greater than in the preceding year, but the ratio of expenses to revenue in regard to these two offices was approximately the same as for the previous year. The increased expenditure under these two heads was to be expected in view of the heavy and continued increase of traffic. # 4\. EXPENDITURE FOR ADDITIONS TO OPEN LINES. £325,032 has been expended under this head and charged to Capital Account in respect of additions to rolling-stock, and improvements to station-buildings and accommodation, per- manent-way, and structures. Of this amount £108,037 has been expended on improvements to sidings, station-buildings, water-services, safety and interlocking appliances, signals, stock-yards, strengthening bridges, respacing sleepers, provision of additional telephone and telegraph facilities, relaying line, and improving wharves. £216,995 has been expended on the provision of new rolling-stock and the conver- sion of obsolete types of engines and carriages into up-to-date stock; also for provision of turn- tables, fitting stock on Wellington-Napier-New Plymouth Section with Westinghouse brake, providing cushions for second-class cars, fitting additional cars with Pintsch gas, lighting Petone Workshops by electricity, and providing addi- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 tional machinery for workshops. The rolling- stock in respect of which the charges are made consist of 4 locomotives, 29 carriages, 22 brake- vans, 56 bogie wagons, 376 four-wheel wagons, and 600 tarpaulins, all completed on the 31st http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero March last ; and 17 locomotives, 151 carriages, 27 brake-vans, 48 bogie wagons, 1,002 four- wheel wagons, and 800 tarpaulins incomplete, but in hand on that date. The following figures show the additions to rolling-stock since 31st March, 1895 : 36 loco- motives, 105 carriages, 37 brake-vans, 2,363 wagons, and 2,644 tarpaulins. # 5\. MIDLAND RAILWAY. The revenue from the Midland Railway from the 1st April to the 21st July, 1900, the date up to which the line was in trust, was £7,096, and the expenditure £6,573, leaving a credit balance of £523. The sum of £1,263 was paid for additional rolling-stock and signals. On the 23rd July, 1900, the whole of the Midland Railways-comprising the lines from Brunner to Jackson, 31 miles 34 chains ; Still- water to Reefton, 37 miles 13 chains ; Belgrove to Motupiko, 9 miles 44 chains ; and Springfield to Otarama, 4 miles 57 chains-were formally taken possession of by the Government and incorporated with the State railways of the colony. The Midland Company's rates and charges. which had been in operation on such of the lines as were open for traffic, were there- upon abolished, and the whole of the charges the Government lines from or to stations on the Midland lines were very materially reduced, one through charge at Government rates only being made, instead of the two separate charges levied under the old system. The principal portion of the traffic between stations on the Midland Railway and Government lines was conveyed between stations on the Hokitika- Brunner system of Government railways and the Jackson-Reefton-Brunner portion of the Midland lines, and the users of these lines are therefore now receiving very substantial con- cessions in the matter of rates as a consequence of the acquisition of the Midland lines by the Government. The receipts from the lines formerly belong- ing to the Midland Railway Company for the period 22nd July, 1900, to the 31st March, 1901, have been merged into and are included in the earnings of the Government lines for the year. In this connection the question, what effect has the inclusion of such receipts had on the net result of the year's working of the Govern- ment lines, seeing that no addition to the capital cost was made in respect to the Midland Railways, will probably arise. For answer, 1 would point out that during the time the Mid- land Railway was worked by the Government as a trust the net revenue per annum, with a higher scale of charges than is now in opera- tion, barely exceeded £5,000 in any one year. The conditions of working have varied very little. Up to the present the traffic has not increased to any appreciable extent, while the freight charges have been very materially reduced ; and it may therefore be assumed that the net result of the working of the Mid- land Railways for the nine months they have been in the hands of the Government would not add more than £4,000 to the revenue of the Government railways. This amount is so small as to have no appreciable effect on the interest earned on the capital cost of our lines (£17,207,328). I direct special attention to this matter in order to dispel any feeling that the inclusion of the earnings of the Midland lines have inflated the net revenue of the Government lines, and largely affected the result of the year's working. 6\. CONCLUDING REMARKS AND FORECAST. The value of freight concessions made by the Government since resumption of control of the railways in the colony in 1895 is estimated to be approximately £420,239 up to 31st March, 1901. The concessions previously granted have embraced passenger and season-ticket rates, workers' suburban tickets, holiday and school excursion fares, rates for live-stock, chaff, lime, butter, cheese, lime for manuring farm lands, agricultural produce, empty butter and fish packages, manures, bricks, clay, coal, scrap- iron, racehorses, hunters, polo ponies, and hounds, abolition of extra charge for goods con- veyed on certain branch lines, and lower rates for conveyance over port lines of goods from centres to ports. The concessions have included many 