and will wipe some of this proposed legislation off the Order Paper, and not waste the time of the House in discussing it. # ADJOURNMENT. Mr. HEKE (Northern Maori District) moved the adjournment of the debate till half-past two p.m. to-morrow. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) wished to enter his protest against the evident intention not to have the questions on the Order Paper answered. Questions had not been answered now for a fortnight or three weeks, and now they were going to start with the orders of the He supposed, day at half-past two to-morrow. therefore, the first business to-morrow would be for the member for the Northern Maori District to continue the debate on the Financial State- ment, and the Premier would follow : and then after that debate was over they would have the estimates to deal with, when there would be no chance of answering questions. He maintained that members should insist on getting their questions answered. They had not had any answered this week, nor the week before, nor , had they had any unopposed motions granted them. He thought an amendment should be moved that the debate should be adjourned until He could not half-past seven p.m. to-morrow. move that himself, because he had already spoken. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the honourable member apparently did not know what the usual procedure was. He ought to know that no notice of motion or other question could come before the question of privilege that was set down on the Order Paper. It took precedence of everything. Besides, he had always understood that during the course of the debate on the Financial Statement questions were never answered. The financial debate must, after privilege, be out of the way. He would be very glad to please the honourable gentlemen, but he was sure, after he had had a good night's rest, he would be very glad indeed that they had fixed the business in the way they had done. Debate adjourned. The House adjourned at twenty-five minutes past twelve o'clock p.m. LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Friday, 13th September, 1901. Hospital and Charitable Aid Boards-Companies Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. HOSPITAL AND CHARITABLE AID BOARDS. On the motion of the Hon. Mr. JENKINSON, it was ordered, That the petition (No. 98) of the | night that I was of opinion that the clause pro- Mr. Houston that provision be made for the direct election by the electors of the colony of members of Hos- pital and Charitable Aid Boards, be referred to the Government for consideration. # COMPANIES BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, I beg to move the third reading of this Bill. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- Sir, I move, That the Bill be recommitted for the purpose of iuser :- ing a new clause. I explained, Sir, last night my reason for taking this course, and, as it is a delicate matter, I think honourable gentlemen will not expect me to say much on the subject. It is, indeed, with great regret that I should ever question any ruling of the Chair, but I am under the impression that in this matter a mis- take has been made ; and, as "to err is human." I do not think any honourable gentleman ought to think it infra dig. to make a mistake. I wished to insert two clauses in the Bill dealing with mining, and I was told that clauses dealing with mining could not be put into a Companies Bill. Now, the reason I thought this was wrong was this : Here is a clause which we had passed a few minutes before that, and which reads as follows :- " 15A. (1.) In the case of mining companies the directors shall cause to be transmitted to every shareholder, at his last known place of abode, a half-yearly statement of the receipts and expenditure of the company during the preceding six months, and of the assets and liabilities of the company at the date of the account." It is not necessary for me to read any more of it. You will see, Sir, that it deals specially with mining. Now, again, there was not only that, but two clauses, 36A and 36B, which are as follow :- "The Fourth Schedule to ' The Mining Com- panies Act, 1894,' is hereby amended by the addition of the following words under the head- ing ' Debts,' at the end of the said Schedule : ' The amount of debts owing by the com- pany.' " The Companies Act Amendment Act. 1900,' and this Act shall apply to all companies, whe- ther registered under the principal Act or ' The Mining Companies Act, 1894.' " Thus, you will see, Sir, that the Mining Acts are incorporated practically with this. And there is another reason why I thought that my amend. ment, if adopted by the Council, should be in- corporated in a Companies Act, and it is this: that all these mining companies are registered. I believe, with scarcely an exception, under the Companies Act, and that the Mining Companies Act is almost a dead-letter with them. I think that it is in the Act which is in active opera- tion that this should appear, instead of in an Act which is practically a dead-letter. I move that the Bill be recommitted with the view of getting your ruling on the point as to whether it was proper that I should not have been allowed to move the clauses I have referred to. The Hon. Captain BAILLIE .- I ruled last 