been to place the Premier in a difficult position. I do not believe any member of the House has had for his object the placing the Premier in a difficult position. But if the Premier feels himself-I do not believe he does-but if the Minister of Justice feels that the Premier is in a difficult position, he must recognise the fact that it is very largely the Premier's own fault ; for I believe that yesterday morning the Pre- mier had every opportunity of giving a lead to the House which would have extricated the House from the difficulty it has found itself in since that time, and would have obviated the necessity for amendment after amendment, which has been the result of the want of proper guidance from the Premier at an earlier stage of the debate. What I fail to understand is how the Minister of Justice can reply to the member for the Bay of Plenty in the way he has. He says that when the honourable member for Bay of Plenty pointed out that he, as a member of the Committee, felt himself resting under a stigma, the very fact of his doing so causes himself to be sus- pected. It is quite possible for a gentleman to feel that he is resting under suspicion, and yet he may be the only one that knows how unjust that suspicion is. I say, Sir, that every member of a Committee from which evidence has been obtained must necessarily lie under a stigma, and know that this is so until the source of that information has been brought to light. Now, Sir, the Minister of Justice has also said that the House during the course of this debate has generally admitted that it is the duty of a reporter to obtain evidence in the best way he could. As the honourable member for https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 Wellington City, Mr. Fisher, interrupted, " Yes, in the very best way, and not in the worst way." Let it be done openly, and not done by a back- stairs method. I am astonished that the Hon. / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero the Minister of Justice, above all persons, should apparently attempt to justify the obtaining of evidence in any way possible, so long as it can be obtained. In effect he says, " Obtain evi- dence, my son, honestly if you can, but obtain evidence." That is surprising, coming as it does from the Minister of Justice. Then, in reply to the statement that the fine will not fall upon the right persons, the Minister of Justice further says that it does not matter whom you fine in this case, because whoever is fined the proprietors will have to pay. I would ask the Hon. the Minister again if he would allow a matter of this kind to influence him if he were presiding over a Court of justice, and at the present time we are a Court of justice ? know that it is an extreme stretch of the ima- gination to speak of this place as being a Court of justice, because had this been an ordinary Magistrate's Court, and had an ordinary per- son been on trial before Justices of the Peace, a fine of £10 would have been imposed be- fore now, and the whole matter would have been settled, and the prisoner told to stand down. I am surprised that the Hon. the Minis- ter of Justice should have said that it does not matter who pays the fine, and should have Mr. Collins to point out that nearly every Minister who bas spoken has referred to the frequent references made to precedents, and to the Standing Orders affecting questions of privilege, and have almost invariably made this their cry : " Why those musty-fusty precedents ; why this continuous and continual reference to those musty and fusty Standing Orders ?" I would point out that our Standing Orders are not so musty and fusty, after all. It is only some six years ago since the whole of our Standing Orders were amended and brought up to date by a Com- mittee appointed for the purpose. These are the Standing Orders upon which we are acting now, and which, under the leadership of the Premier, were passed by the House only six years ago. It is all very well to speak of the rules which have been set up for the guidance of this House as "musty and fusty prece- dents," but I would again point out that they were enacted only some six years ago, under the guidance of the Right Hon. the Premier himself. Now, Sir, I think it was in 1894 that these Standing Orders were amended. Then again, Sir, there has been a continued series of surprises during the progress of this debate. The honourable gentle- men on the Ministerial benches have con- tinuously, in the course of this debate, accused honourable members opposite of acting incon- sistently in this matter, because some of them have not taken up the same attitude as they took in 1895 when the Hutchison case was before the House. But I would ask. cannot the Ministers see that honourable Ministers themselves can as justly be accused of benx inconsistent by their not taking up the same attitude as they did in the Hutchison case ! They must be quite inconsistent, inasmuch a- they have altered their attitude. If this atd the Hutchison case be parallel, then it must be true that honourable members who are acting differently now from what they did then are inconsistent, and if they be parallel cases, why do Ministers give us a different lead from what they did then ? Mr. SEDDON,-Did we fine Mr. Hutchison ? Mr. COLLINS .- Do not misunderstand me. I am not asking now that any one shall b fined. I am simply asking that we should take exactly the same course as was taken in lat5. Up to the present time-I do not say now-th' Premier has refused to take the course then taken. It is quite true he is coming round to the proper course, but that is because his hani, have been forced. I regret to see this kind of thing ; it is humiliating to members on this I side of the House to feel that the leader's hands can be and are being forced, because the rieti action was not taken from the first. I regret that our own leaders should have placed them- selves in this unfortunate position. It appear- to me to be humiliating for our leaders to bat to recede from the position formerly taken ap They have been forced, step by step. to ami their attitude owing to the action of honouranie members on both sides of the House. A much greater amount of time has been given to this 