mier's denial. I do not know whether he was in the House when the Premier made it, and said he did not make that charge against Mr. Cook. Mr. ATKINSON .- Yes, I was here. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Then it is your duty to accept that denial and withdraw the statement. Mr. ATKINSON .- I accept the denial, and withdraw the statement, and I say that the Premier did nothing so straightforward as to make the statement I have just made, but the whole of his argument was to imply and insinuate that Mr. Cook communicated the report, and there was no point at all to about ten minutes . of his speech except leading up to that as a climax. I do not say that he deliberately, openly, expressly, and frankly stated that Mr. Cook had made the communication, but he certainly led us to infer it, and that was the point of the argument he used. These were the two points centred round the introduction of Mr. Cook. I do not know anything about Mr. Cook. I do not know him by sight. I know nothing about his character. If he is extensively concerned in mining he is engaged in a very dangerous pursuit for an honest man. He may be the clean potato, or no; he may be better than a director of the Anglo-German Syndicate, who at the same time holds a paid office under the Government. I really do not know what manner of man he is ; but what on earth has Mr. Cook's character, or anything that Mr. Cook may have done, got to do with the motion that is before us at the present time? Absolutely nothing. Mr. Cook may have communicated that report to the reporter of the Dunedin Star. That does not affect the matter. The Dunedin Star must answer for its own sins. We are here to-day to con- sider what answer we shall call upon the Star to make. It may have been a member of the Goldfields Committee, it may have been one of the witnesses, it may have been Mr. Cook him- self ; but none of these hypotheses shifts for a moment the responsibility that rests upon the shoulders of the Dunedin Star. So why the right honourable gentleman should introduce that matter, except to confuse the issues, I fail to see ; and I do not think any other explanation can be given. Now, the right honourable gentle- man told us, in introducing his motion, that it had been carefully considered by the Cabinet. Well, I am sorry to hear it, for the sake of the Cabinet ; but I am glad, indeed, to think that the caucus of the Ministerial party, which has been held this afternoon, is more jealous of the honour of this House than the Cabinet which is controlled by the right honourable gentleman, and that the result of its deliberations is the amendment which we are presently to have from the Minister of Justice, but which at present, for the greater gratification of the right honourable gentleman's character for ! diplomacy, is kept up the sleeve of the Minister who is presently to move it. Now, the Right Hon. the Premier has we also can make it the most contemptible Court in the land if we are going to assert our dignity in the way he invites us to do. The first two speeches which we listened to from the Government side on this question were speeches abounding in eulogy of the enterprise of the reporter and the enterprise of the newspaper which had been the means of publishing these proceedings, and, really, if such speeches had been made proposing the toast of " The Press " at a banquet, and had closed with " For he's a jolly good fellow," they would have been ap- propriate enough. But surely they were abso- lutely out of place from the custodians of the honour and dignity of this House. They would properly have concluded with a vote of thanks. As I suggested to the Right Hon. the Premier- and he was very angry-his speech would pro- perly have concluded with a vote of thanks to the Dunedin Star for having 10.0. been the means of this publication. The Postmaster-General went so far as to say that the correspondent of the Dunedin Evening Star should have £100 increase of salary on account of the enterprise he displayed ; and a private member of the Government party ex- pressed his high admiration of the "cleverness and dexterity " of this correspondent in obtain- ing this report, and publishing it-possibly in an honourable manner, possibly with the same dexterity and cleverness with which the reporter of that paper manages to get hold of a number of departmental reports before they are pre- sented to the members of this House. Now, the Postmaster-General informed us this afternoon -and his speech this evening did not differ in' that respect-that in asserting the rights and privileges of this House at the expense of Mr. Cohen we shall be asking him to be guilty of a dishonourable action. An extraordinary argu- ment ! Is the honour of journalists to pui journalists above the law ? Is the honour of a journalist to enable him to flout the dignity of Parliament ? The journalist knew he was doing wrong ; he knew he was com- mitting a breach of the privilege of Parla- ment. He must have known there was a pos- sible or probable penalty, and, as one honour- able member said, he must have reckoned it as a fair business risk to incur. We are now asked to say that, because he does not disclose the name of his informant, therefore he should be exempt from obedience to the Standing Orders of the House. The Postmaster-General said-and it has also been said by several other speakers-that the information was obtained in an honourable way. I am not so sure about that. I am quite prepared to accept the ex- planation of Mr. Cohen that he did not steal er otherwise feloniously annex this document him- self ; but he knew that this was a confidential document, and he knew that a document of that kind should not have been communi- cated to him, and I therefore do not think the conduct of a man who accepts anything of that kind is on a much higher level than that of the sneak who communicated the report knowing 