reaching, and the amount of capital required would be so enormous if the Government took control of the produce trade, that it is doubtful whether this colony would ultimately agree to the outlay and the other conditions necessary to secure success. Early in my experiences in London I came to the conclusion that we ought to establish a market there for our produce. I went to a good deal of trouble in connection with it, and I found a piece of land for a site close to Smithfield, which contained an acre of land, and was connected with the wharves by rail. The site was placed under offer to me, and plans of building and market were prepared. At that time many farmers sending meat to the Old Country did not obtain adequate returns. I know of one instance of a man who sent Home a consignment of lamb, which, after it had been stored for some time, was sold at 2}d. per pound. The charges at the other end, outside cost of insurance, freezing, freight, et cetera, amounted to 23 per cent. The farmer got nothing out of his lambs practically. It was that which caused me to see if I could not devise some means by which we could have the whole control of our produce. I submitted pro- posals to the leading colonists in London, but they did not approve my policy. I would sug- gest that, if such a thing is contemplated, it should be worked very much on the lines adopted by the Colonial Consignment Company. You would require to have cool-stores in London, stalls in Smithfield, agents appointed and competent travellers throughout Great Britain ; and over it all you would require a man of no small ability to control the whole. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 Unless the Government are prepared for a vast undertaking of that sort they will find, so far as the erection of cool-stores is concerned, the result will be very fragmentary, and will lead to practically little good. I should like to say in that connection that the work done by the Colonial Consignment Company for the exten- sion of the New Zealand meat trade, and for the proper and honest handling of the produce sent out of New Zealand, is beyond all praise. Now, Sir, I will pass on to some other questions in connection with farming. We have, as honourable members will have noticed, the establishment of a Farmers' Union going on in the colony. I congratulate that body on the efforts it is putting forth to or- ganize the farmers of New Zealand. Let me at this point say I sincerely hope that it will be a non-political organization. If it is a non- political organization, and if it keeps steadily before it certain planks of a platform that it will require the Government to carry out, it will do a great good ; but immediately it be- comes a strong party organization its power for influence will be greatly nullified. If that organization had been in existence it would have opposed the mortgage-tax, as a special tax on money advanced on one form of secu- rity that is not balanced by a tax on other forms of industry or security, a fact which must raise the rate of interest on moneys specially raised for one particular industry. It Mr. T. Mackenzie that when a property was taken from a man, if the landowner had grown-up sons, and if these sons were going to live on the soil, the young men would have the right to choose, at any rate, 200- acre farms from their father's own property. from the land they themselves had redeemed from the primeval forest or reclaimed from swamps, and would have urged that these sons ought to have a prior right over a stranger who had only just landed in New Zealand. If the Farmers' Union had been in existence when I moved that motion it would have wired to the Premier; and how would the Premier have acted ? The member for Wellington City said the other night that a member had spent his life in fighting the cause of the strong. Sir, no man has spent his life more devotedly in fighting for the strong than the Right Hon. the Pre- mier. If a strong Farmers' Union had sent up word to him that in the case of a farm being taken by the Government for settlement pur- poses the sons of the land-owner should have a prior claim to select small farms for them- selves, the request, I am sure, would have been granted. Then, it would have sent word to him to say that there is to be no income-tax on any farming industry until $300 a year has been realised to each partner, and it would also have insisted that until £300 a year had gone to each partner in a farm no tax should be placed on the farmer. The farming industry should be placed on the same equitable basis as all the other industries of the colony. Sir, I am sure the honourable gentleman would have possessed the political diplomacy and seen fit to comply with a request of this nature from that union. As another result of the existence of the Farmers' Union we would not have an increased cost put on so many articles used by the farmers. Sir, where is the farmer to go with every article he produces in this country ? He has to fight the markets of the world. He has to fight cheap land, and to meet other forms of competition : competitors. I might say, who are in some instances within a couple of hours' sail of the markets in which he has to compete. Sir, I must now pass over a good deal of matter which I intended to say. I want to refer for a brief time to the San Francisco mail-service. I think we should dis- continue that service, because it is an unreliable service that brings no good to this country. It is a service that belongs to a nation that im- poses a prohibitive tariff on the produce of this country, and which precludes our goods from entering it, although in return we have given that nation every facility for sending their goods here. Their goods are practically al- lowed in free of duty. Our imports from that country are increasing, while our exports to it are decreasing. They will not allow British ships to travel two thousand miles on the Pacific with British goods and British seamen. They send armed cruisers, which might be used against us in time of war ; and I say, Sir, it is the duty of this country to expend its revenues in main- taining a service with countries that are com- mercially friendly, and with countries that have 