does not want to find out anything in this case. Now he chucks away the honour of the Com- mittee and the honour of the House, and all our privileges, and simply says to the gentleman who refused to give evidence, "You are a good boy " ; and probably he will be thanked for his courageous efforts in defence of the liberties of the Press. Yet the honourable gentleman gags the Press by not allowing the Libel Bill of the member for Taieri to become law. But the position of the Goldfields and Mines Committee is this : We are there with a stigma which the Premier refuses to take off. I do not suppose Mr. Cohen would deliver up the name of the person who gave him the information. I should not think him an honourable man if he were to do so. But the point is this: If the fine had been inflicted at once, the member who gave the evidence would probably, if he had any honour- able feeling left, have given up his name to save the reporter being fined. That, I think, would have taken place; and the proper course from the beginning would have been to call Mr. Cohen to the bar of the House and deal with him, without setting up a Committee. If this course had been pursued, and he had refused to give evidence, and a fine had been inflicted, then, I think, if done before any members of the Committee or any other witnesses had been examined, the real offender would have been found out. But, meanwhile, all the members of that Committee lie under a ban of suspicion as being dishonourable men, who had divulged evidence which they ought not to have given up. I think one honourable gentleman mentioned that there might have been a consideration ; so we also lie under the stigma of having sold the evidence, or given it for some consideration which we had no right to receive. Sir J. G. WARD. - I never made such a statement about any member. Mr. HERRIES .- Then, I beg the honourable gentleman's pardon. Some one on the honour- able gentleman's sido made the statement that there might be some consideration. I do not think he meant it to be monetary consideration, but -- Mr. SEDDON .- " You claw my back and I'll claw yours." Mr. HERRIES .- Well, perhaps it was the Premier who insinuated that consideration was given. We lie, at any rate, under that stigma, and that is what, to my mind, is the gravamen of Mr. Cohen's offence. He did not consider the effect that his refusing to give evidence would have on the members of the Committee -that it put them under a ban, making them & sort of pariahs among their fellow-members, because they may have possibly done what would be considered a dishonourable act : and the Premier refuses to take any steps in the Sir, I hope honourable members matter. will consider the matter carefully, and consider the effect of carrying the Premier's resolution. From a journalistic point of view this way of getting information may seem honourable ; but that is not borne out even in Mr. Cohen's letter. He acknowledges that it is not altogether Mr. Herrics members of the Press gallery are placed in a difficulty by having to accept information in a manner not altogether to their liking." They have to accept information ! It sounds as if everybody was rushing to give information. I do not know ; I do not rush to give information : I do not think any member would unless he were asked. Generally the Press representative, very properly, in the interests of his calling, asks for information. But Mr. Cohen, in his letter, says it is not to their liking. Therefore it must be an unpleasant way of getting information, and that is his reason for proposing that Com- mittees should be open. If it is not to the liking of the Press reporter, what must it be for these that give the information ? Of course, what is frequently done is that a reporter is given the general effect of such-and-such a meeting ; but where it is a case of the whole evidence - and this is what constitutes the difference between this case and others-several columns of matter deliberately taken from the Committee-room itself, not a precis, but the uncorrected short- hand reporters' notes are sent to the Press. Mr. FISHER .- Property that is bought and paid for. Mr. HERRIES .- Yes; and the whole Com- mittee lies under a ban of suspicion amongst their fellow-members. That is what induces me more than anything to vote, as I shall vote, for the honourable member for Wellington City's motion. I object to being subject to this stigma because some newspaper wants to get ahead of another, when the same evidence could be published by every paper in the colony as soon as the Committee's report and the evidence is laid on the table of the House. I trust members will assist the Goldfields Com- mittee, and support them against the insidious wiles of the Premier. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) .- Sir. 3.0. I will not detain the House for more than a few minutes. The principle underlying this question has been so thoroughly and so ably expounded by the honourable member for Bruce and the honourable member for Welling- ton City (Mr. Fisher) that I am not going to repeat the arguments of those honourable gentlemen. But, Sir, I wish to say this : that when I heard you read that letter at the commencement of this debate I was filled with indignation, and when later on the Premier. the leader of the House-the person upon whom devolves the duty of maintaining the dignity of this House- rose from his seat I certainly expected a totally different motion from the one he gave notice of. I was amazed when he said that, in consequence of this letter which you had read, and which he termed "an expression of regret on the part of the reporter of the Evening Star," this House should proceed no further in the matter. Well, Sir, I was not only amazed at it. i.t .: I regretted exceedingly that such a motion should have been tabled by the leader of the House. Sir, we have been told in the course of this debate that the effect of the amendment is to endeavour to force the reporter of the Event 