I hope we shall have no depression for a long time to come. If I were to show that we might have depression again I should be spoken of as a pessimist. I am not to do that ; but it is generally admitted that things are not look- ing quite so well as they did. The honourable gentleman himself admits this, towards the close of the Financial Statement. I shall read the passage. I am sorry I have not committed it to memory : "I advise, and that in good faith, that at the present time the good steamer ' Finance ' should be steadied, and that ' Slow,' and not ' Full speed ahead,' should be the order on the dial." This means that at pre- sent we are rather in troubled waters. If so, it is desirable we should go slow. I am, how- ever, rather astonished that the Premier, who is so progressive, should have used the word " slow." I notice- and it has been referred to by others -that there is a good deal in the Statement about prudence and economy. I have paid a little attention to this expression, and I notice he never speaks of himself as having been prudent. The words have a general applica- tion. He has so framed his phraseology that we cannot say that he lays claim to having been prudent and economical. Well, the case against the Government, as I understand it, is that their expenditure is increasing too fast. I have noticed that not one member 12.0. who has spoken, even on the Govern- ment side, has attempted to justify the Go- vernment in their excessive expenditure. Of course, in a debate of this kind one can speak of anything and everything-at all events, anything and everything that has https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 & bearing upon the prosperity or otherwise of the country-and many have acted on these lines. We have had a very interesting address on the subject of education by a member who http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero was well fitted to give us an address of that kind. Another member devoted a large portion of his speech to a history of the labour legisla- tion, which was so far good. I have noticed that those who have spoken in favour of the Government have been very general in their remarks. One member, in speaking of the co- operative labourers, said that in the near future they must be dispensed with. What does that mean? It means that as regards this public works expenditure the Ministry must take in sail, and the doing of that will throw a number of men out of employment. The honourable gentleman who made that speech was a strong Government supporter. I shall not say any more, but I must say in regard to the prudence and economy that figure so much in the Finan- cial Statement, not much of it can be seen in the management of our public affairs. Mr. E. G. ALLEN (Waikouaiti) .- Sir, it is quite refreshing to listen to the criticisms of the honourable gentleman who last spoke. Comparing the criticisms of that honourable gentleman with the remarks of one or two of the honourable members on this side of the House I think the contrast is very distinct. And he is a gentleman whose ideas on public matters are well known all over this colony. Mr. J. W. Thomson respected member. He has dealt with the Financial Statement, and with the remarks of other honourable members, in a fair and reasonable way from the point of view of an Opposition member, and I am sure that we must all feel that there is, after all, some fairness on the other side of the House when a man expresses his convictions without bitter- ness, and without misconetruing and dis- torting the facts, as the honourable gentle- man has done. Sir, I would like to say a few words in this debate, and I at once say that the country has cause to be satis- fied with the condition of the colony's finance, for in spite of the heavy expenditure that has taken place during last year the Treasurer is again able to show a substantial surplus. Con- sidering the large sums paid in old-age pensions, paid for our public works, and paid in con- nection with the war in South Africa, and with the loss of revenue caused by the reduction of Customs duties, by the concessions made in our railway tariff, the strong financial position that we are now in speaks well for the colony's resources. Sir, the Treasurer in his Statement for 1900 said, "In regard to last year's opera- tions, I expect a surplus, but, as far as I can forecast, it will be the smallest I have ever had." Now, it must be exceedingly gratifying to the Right Hon. the Premier, and also an agreeable surprise to him and to the members of the House and to the country generally, to find that the surplus was over half a million of money. There is a paragraph in the Statement under discussion that says,- "The revenue being estimated at £5,896,000 and the expenditure at £5,763,814, there re- mains a balance of £132,186, to which may be added the balance (£32,564) of the surplus brought forward from last year after allowing for £500,000 to be transferred to the Public Works Fund. These figures produce a balance of £164,750, out of which provision for the supplementary estimates has to be made." This referred to the estimated results at the close of 1901-2. Now, Sir, last year the balance available for supplementary estimates was only £126,828; that was the total amount that was left for supplementary estimates and contingencies. This year we have an amount exceeding that by £37,922, notwithstanding all that has been said about the condition of the finances ; and it must be remembered that the amount of loan-money authorised was the same last year as the amount intended to be raised this year. Sir, a good deal has been said during this discussion on the self-reliant policy of the late Mr. Ballance. I do not know why the name of that statesman should be trotted out on the floor of this House as much as it is. Sir, the conditions now are altogether different from what they were in Mr. Ballance's time. When that gentleman came into office the country was suffering from the reaction of a very large expenditure of loan-money. No provision was made An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. Mr. E. G. ALLEN .- The honourable gentle- 