the House? Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER .- You can read a newspaper extract, but not commenting on the proceedings of the House. Mr. SEDDON wished to call the attention of members on the Government side of the House to the example of how honourable members op- posite supported each other. It was a lesson to members on the Government side. The letter read as follows :- "SIR,-Can you tell us, the electors of Sel- wyn, what has become of Mr. C. A. C. Hardy, M.H.R., as we are getting very little for our money ? " No deeds, nor no words. I do not see of his having taken any part in the talk of the House, and as we overlooked his being a new-chum last session we cannot do so again. The electors want something for their £280, if only words. Perhaps Mr. Hardy is not in Wellington, but staying at sleepy Rakaia." An Hon. MEMBER .- Signed " Edwards, organ- izing secretary." Mr. SEDDON said the letter was signed "A Selwyn Elector," and it appeared in the Lyttelton Times. If he had read the letter on Friday he would not have felt so disap- pointed as he did, because he would have seen that the honourable member really wanted to show that he was able to speak, and he wanted to give the electors something for their money. The member for Nelson City, no doubt in his de- sire to further the business of the House, had proposed an amendment. Of course, the honour- able member had not had very long experience in the House. He was one of those who did not https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 take kindly to burning the midnight oil. It would appear to him as if the honourable mem- ber did not care very much whether the busi- ness proceeded or not. If he did, he felt sure that the honourable member would wish to help the Government in getting on with the business of the country, and would have supported this motion. It could not be said of the honourable member for 8.30. Ashley that he was not one who did his work, or that he did not stop late at night. But the fact remained-and members opposite would admit it-that if an hour was fixed for adjournment it was putting a temptation in the way of members, and sometimes, though they regretted it themselves, they would talk up to the time, and so block the business. Ten minutes afterwards they might regret it, but, of course, it could not be helped, for the day had gone. The motion before the House he had moved at four o'clock. An Hon. MEMBER said they should now come to a vote on it. Mr. SEDDON said, although he was taking up time himself, he hoped he was submitting good reasons why members should not support the amendment proposed by the member for Nelson City. The member for Nelson City himself would know that time after time the business of the House had been blocked by the fact that an hour had been fixed for adjourn- ment. ment in the interests of his own health and in the interests of the health of the Premier. Mr. SEDDON admitted he was not so young as he used to be. Time was doing its work, and it was certainly not conducive to his health, or to the health of any other member, to sit in the House at all hours of the night. It was not expected by the country that they should do so. At the same time, the country expected them to get the work through. Any member was very much mistaken who thought he (Mr. Seddon) was so much in love with the work of the House that he would stop there night after night and force the work through simply for the sake of getting something done and to get members away to their homes in a reasonable time. He would like members to remember that, as far as the work of Ministers was con- cerned, they were not free when the House arose in the afternoon. Many a time they had to receive deputations. It must be borne in mind, too, that on Saturdays they also had their time occupied. He did not keep mem- bers in the House for the love of it, but with the view of trying to get the business done. It was not his desire to keep the House for long hours, and if members would only do a fair day's work and then say, "Mr. Premier, we have done a good day's work ; let us go home now," he would not be against it. An Hon. MEMBER asked, How many times has that been said ? Mr. SEDDON said that might be so; but the fact remained that work had not been done. This week, for instance, they had done nothing, and it was the fault of the gentlemen opposite. When he did make a proposal to further the work it was not his side of the House that took up time discussing it. He would give the House an assurance that he would do his best to get them away at reasonable hours for the rest of the session. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) said the Premier was right in saying his duties were manifold; but when the honourable gentleman had got the members of the House into a state of exhaustion at the end of a session he and the Minister for Railways took watch and watch about, and on one occasion, at the end of last session, while they did that the jaded members had to sit from eleven on Friday morning for twenty-four hours and a half-not legislating, but simply enduring. He did not think the morning sittings had been productive of the amount of good that had been wished. They had interfered with Committee-work. But there was one Committee of which he had been a member which was considered an im- portant one, and the work of that Committee was an object of ridicule. Last session after that Committee had, after three months' work, licked into shape the consolidation of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, immediately they produced it a supplementary Order Paper appeared traversing the whole of the essential provisions of the Bill, moved by the Premier, who was himself a member of the Committee : and what was the result ? This year an amend- 