of the Parliament. It is a matter of regret that these differences on matters have lasted so long, and I had hoped the time had now arrived when no one would stand up and say that there was one section of the Native people in the colony that stood out and isolated them- selves, as Mahuta and his people are doing. I should have thought that by this time they would have sufficient confidence - I do not say in the Government, but in the Legislature of this country - to expect justice being done them. I must now bring my remarks to a close, so as not to prolong the debate. I have introduced a Bill this session proposing to amend the Native Land Act; and, when the second reading of it is on, we shall be able to deal at greater length and more minutely with the Native question and its various phases. Mr. SEDDON (Colonial Treasurer) .- I hope the moment or two that I will take up by way of preface will not be counted in my time. As forty odd speeches have to be replied to, and as each member has an hour, I desire to ask honourable members if they will agree to the suspension of the Standing Orders by giving me an extra half-hour, making an hour and a half in which to reply. Sir, I move, That the Standing Orders be suspended accordingly. Hon. MEMBERS .- No, no. Mr. SEDDON. - Then, Sir, I hope that honourable members and the people of the colony will note that this debate has been proceeding for three weeks, and that over forty speeches have to be replied to; and when I ask for an extra half-hour it is refused. thought those honourable members opposite https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 who opposed the half-hour extension would have been fair to me, and would have given me the opportunity of replying fully, and placing before the people our true financial position, and showing the absurdity of the adverse criticisms that have been made. That op- portunity has been denied me, and, as the gentlemen opposite are responsible for this, we must conclude that they are afraid of the reply that I have to make. I do hope, Sir, that you will protect me from inter- ruptions during the short time at my dis- posal. Before commencing my reply I desire to make a statement of policy. There shall be no material change from the policy that has obtained for ten years. We have stood by the workers and the struggling farmers of the colony, and we intend to continue doing so. We have done our best to develop the resources of the colony, and to look after the well-being of all classes. This we shall continue to do. Moderate borrowing is essential, so long as moneys are available in the colony and can be spared without detriment to our commerce and general requirements. Reasonable expenditure on public works is also necessary. If the country is to progress, conveniences must be given to the people. You must, therefore, have expenditure at a moderate pace, prefer- ence being given to our main trunk railways and to the roads to the back blocks. We must also have our railways fully equipped, so that Mr. Carroll a reasonable time. We must continue to settle the people on the land ; we must also con- tinue advancing cheap money to our settlers ; and we must further promote settlement by the purchase of large estates and the acquirement of lands for workmen's homes; and we must also extend our markets. Sir, I say that low steamer freights are essential, as are also the lowest possible rates on our railways. Without these, owing to the distance from the markets of the world and to other disadvantages, the people of this country will not be able to suc- cessfully compete with their more favour- ably situated competitors. Then, as to labour legislation, it is as well that there should be a declaration made. As far as the women and children are concerned, I must ask Parliament to confirm the provision in the original legisla- tion that they shall not be called upon to work more than forty-five hours per week. I ask that this shall be done for the health and protection of women and children. In regard to the proposed forty-five hours for 8.0. men to work, I have come to the con- clusion that we shall be going too far, and I therefore think we should insist that the maximum hours shall not exceed forty-eight ; and if there is to be any alteration by way of reduction, or fixing pay for overtime, that should be fixed by the Arbitration Courts. or by arrangement between the employers and employed. But we must fix the maximum at forty-eight hours. Now I wish to refer to another matter that has been a source of trouble, and that is in respect to the payment I for holidays. I think we have had proof put before us that to give thirty-two days of holi- days is more than is reasonable, and 1 am of opinion it would have a detrimental effect. and therefore, that will not be proceeded with, leaving it, of course, as I have said, as far as the women and children are concerned. Then, there is an ambiguity to be cleared up in con. nection with the legislation as to compensation to workmen for accidents. I make these an- nouncements simply to clear the way. And now, Sir, I will proceed with my speech in reply. A great deal has been said this ses- sion about my old chief, the late John Bal- lance, and the policy which he foreshadowed. and which he carried out as long as he was here with us. Sir, member after member on the opposite side of the House, and our candid friends on this side of the House, have made these statements. But what have they been doing? They have been doing an injustice to the memory of the late John Ballance, because they have kept back from the House and the country the real facts in respect to the policy of Mr. Ballance and his Ministers of 1891 and 1892. They kept themselves to what was pnt forward in the Financial Statement of 1891, but they overlooked all that he said in the State- ment of 1892. What does Mr. Ballance say there ? He says this :- "Can the colony afford to bring to a termina- tion the construction of roads and bridges. which alone would enable settlement to pro- 