before the plague scare. He knew of districts in which there had been no inspection since that scare. Surely the fact of this neglect of regular inspection should prove to members that the central authority should be clothed with the power which had been given to it. Looking at the size of the districts, it was im- possible for the Health Officer to do all the work he had in hand unless he had the heartiest support of the district authority. The eight Sanitary Inspectors would be paid out of the consolidated revenue, and it therefore practi- cally amounted to this : that the whole of this work was being shunted on to the shoulders of the general taxpayers of the colony. With regard to the Sanitary Inspectors, he suggested when the Bill was under consideration last year that there ought to be some system of exami- nation set up for these Sanitary Inspectors. They should be compelled to hold a certain diploma and pass a certain examination, in which case they would be more fit for their work than they were at present. Then, he might point out that in some districts sanitary inspection was properly carried out, whereas in adjoining districts sanitary inspection was neglected. The central department ought to be clothed with the power of seeing that the different districts discharged their duties pro- perly. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) said the colony had felt that it could not trust the local bodies to carry out the necessary sanitary work, and the Act was passed last year in order that the Government should take the responsibility of seeing that the sanitary con- ditions were observed in the various districts. He quite approved of the expenditure for this department ; but, whilst he approved of that expenditure, the department must see that the officers did not use their position in the dif- ferent districts as sinecures. If they were not themselves able to overtake the work, they must have Inspectors to go round and see that the conditions under which the people lived were absolutely healthy. It was evident that local authorities would not do so. There were some towns in the colony that were, before the plague scare, a perfect disgrace to civilisation, and at his reference to Dunedin in that time regarding certain nuisances in the Water of Leith a member of the House rose and said that his remarks ought to be ignored, for- getting that it was at his (Mr. Mackenzie's) instigation that the Government stopped some of the nuisances which had been done away with. Great improvements had been made, and that city would become, he had no doubt, the healthiest and loveliest city in New Zealand. An extended power should also, he thought, be given to this department to deal with offensive trades which were already established in locali- ties that had become more densely populated. Some of these industries were established years ago, when there was very little population in their neighbourhood ; but these industries had now become offensive to the people in the neighbourhood, and they had become a serious drawback to the people, and especially to the children there. He had one case in his mind where it was absolutely impossible to get expert evidence sufficiently strong to justify the local body in going to the extreme length allowed by the law in connection with these cases. Even if these works happened to be burnt down they could not prevent them being rebuilt and the same industry carried on. He maintained, in connection with offensive industries, that no company or individual had a right by his works to become a public nuisance to a neighbourhood comprising thousands of families. He was quite sure that the department should have these extended powers in order to do the best work. It seemed to him that sufficient care was not taken in the matter of isolation in cases of measles and influenza. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) wished to ask the Minister what was intended to be done with respect to the eight Sanitary Inspectors. He wanted this department to be a real live de- partment, and that the officers should not simply supply a report to be placed in the blue - books. He thought there should be periodical visits paid by these officers. Vote, £12,784, agreed to. Progress reported. The House adjourned at ten minutes to twelve o'clock p.m. # LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Wednesday, 25th September, 1901. Third Reading-Miners' Rights Fees-Library Ac- commodation-Law Amendment Bill-Counties Act Amendment Bill-Statutes Compilation Bill -Miners' Rights Fee Reduction Bill-Shops and Shop - assis ants Bill - Cigarette - smoking by Youths Prohibition Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. THIRD READING. Invercargill Reserve Leasing Bill. MINERS' RIGHTS FEES. On the motion of the Hon. Mr. BOLT, it was ordered, That there be laid on the table of the Council a return showing the amount of fees paid in respect of miners' rights during the years 1898, 1899, and 1900, the amount for each year to be stated separately. LIBRARY ACCOMMODATION. The Hon. Mr. RIGG moved, That the report of the Joint Library Committee of the 19th September, 1501. be agreed to, namely : "That all the accommodation within the outside library doors be devoted to library business." The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER only wished to say that he was quite certain every member of Parliament must feel very much pleased at the management of the new library. It was true that certain old associations had been destroyed by removal from places that were 