gents to South Africa, amounting to £96,000, which is an exceptional item, we have a balance of £191,534 which we propose spending on the maintenance of the Defence Force of this colony. To spend money on fortifications and guns in the colony, which guns will become obsolete in the course of a few years on account of the pro- gress of inventions, and which will have to be broken up into old iron and sold for a mere nothing, is, I consider, one of the greatest blunders any Government could possibly inflict on the people of this young country. What we want to do in this colony is to encourage our citizen soldiers, our Volunteers, as much as possible. The young men in our country districts have taken a deep interest in Volunteering. As a rule, in the country districts they are all mounted. They have to buy their own horses, and go to a great deal of expense and trouble, outside any capitation allowance they receive from the Government. Our Volunteer system should be encouraged as much as possible ; but to have a standing army in this colony, as is proposed by the present Government, and to have it carried out to such an extent as is set forth in the Statement, is a mistake, and I de- clare war against it. If we want to secure our position we should do so by increasing our grant towards the Imperial fleet. We are paying at the present time a sum of £21,000 a year towards the fleet, and I would be in favour of increasing that to £60,000, which would give a guarantee of 3 per cent. on two millions of money for the construction of men-of-war, so as to add to the fleet in the Southern Hemisphere. I would favour that, and I believe the House would fall in with the suggestion I have made. We have heard during the past year a great deal of Imperial jingoism on the floor of this House, until one is sick and tired of it. It may be very pleasant to the Premier and the Right Hon. Joseph Chamberlain, but it is not pleasant to the people of this colony, because they have to pay the piper, no matter who dances. It is a serious question, involving increased taxation. Sir, I regtet to say that ever since the Right Hon. the Premier returned from his trip to the Old Country as the ambassador of this colony at the time of the celebration of Her late Majesty's record reign, the colony at large has noticed a great change in the Premier. The once broad- shouldered democratic Hon. R. J. Seddon has now become an inflated Imperialist. I hope the honourable gentleman will mend his ways, as already he must see the handwriting on the wall. Sir, I dislike to meet a man in military costume on the streets of Christchurch -not that I dislike a soldier, but that he is the ombodi- ment of the parasite, a man who is not a wealth producer, a man who is doing nothing to build up this colony, but who is a burden on the taxation of the country. Let our young men be trained to work during the week and knock off for an afternoon to be drilled ; but to see these men strut about the street is a reflection on us as colonists ; and we ought to devote our energies to the formation of roads and the building of bridges, and building up the institutions of this country, instead of wasting our resources, as proposed in the Statement, on a standing army, which can only be a menace to the people of the colony. Sir, to show members the ex- penses connected with the administration at the present time, compared with the expenses connected with the representation of the people of this colony in this House, I give the following figures :- Ministerial Expenses, 1900. allowances. Travelling- Travelling- expenses. Salaries. Total. 8. d. £ £ 8. 8. d. Premier 1,600 2 8 330 17 8. 485 2,416 Hon. J. G. Ward 1,300 230 10\| 276 17 6 1,827 7 6 Hon. Walker 1,000 149 87 7 3 1,236 12 3 ... Hon. Hall-Jones 1,000 161 7 6: 1,347 7 186 0 6 Hon. Carroll 1,000 294 15 233 0 1,528 3 8 0 ... Hon. McGowan 1,000 81 0 119 14 9, 1,200 14 Hon. Mills 1,000 0 23 75 9 0: 1,098 14 5 Hon. Duncan 1,000 54 0 79 0 1,134 9 9 0 ... Hoo. Cadman 61 5 6 67 6. 4 9 6 Hon. J.Mckenzie 177 0 22 15 0 199 15 0 8,9001,762 5 1,393 10 2 12,056 15 2 House allowance, eight Ministers, each 1,600 £200 0 0 ... Thirteen Secretaries for Ministers, at £500 each, including travelling allow- 6,500 0 ances and expenses 0 ... ... ... £20,156 15 2 The above does not include the expenses of the Premier to the Cook Islands, nor the cost of messengers and orderlies serving Ministers. Salaries and Allowances of Seventy-four Mem- bers of the House of Representatives, less Eight Ministers. d. B. 0 Mr. Speaker (Sir G. M. O'Rorke) 600 0 The Chairman of Committees (Mr. Guinness) 0 400 0 Sixty-four members at £240 each 15,360 0 0 Sixty-six members' passages 200 6 5 .. Sixty-six members' expenses 169 5 6 Sixty-six members' sessional allowance, each £40 2,640 0 0 . £19,369 11 0 As the sessional allowance of £40 for last session is not likely to become a recurring item, and deducting £2,640 from £19,369 11s. leaves £16,729 9s. to cover members' salaries and allowances, as against £20,156 15s. 2d., the salaries and allowances and expenses of eight Ministers. Sir, when the late Mr. Ballance introduced his Bill dealing with the constitu- tion of the Legislative Council, abolishing life- membership and giving a seven-years tenure of office, we thought that in practice it would be a good and useful measure ; but I question if any honourable member, after nine years' experience, holds the same opinion now. As a result of my own experience and close observa- tion, I honestly confess I would rather have the hereditary House of Lords of the British Parliament as the second Chamber in our - New Zealand Parliament than have the Legis- 