regard to traffic, but the carriage of goods, the Government must continue to assist them with regard to bridges, so that they may have open traffic from one part of the colony to the other. I say with regard to our railways, the Govern- ment must continue the formation of those railways, if it can be shown that when completed they will pay. We were told by the honourable member for Geraldine this afternoon that the Midland Railway should stop where it is. I presume that is . because . he believed it would not pay if it were continued. But as of the Catlin's River Railway. Last session far as the North Island Trunk Railway, the Otago Central, and other lines are concerned, the Government must push them on as fast as they possibly can. A few nights ago we had the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds) making a comparison which I think it would be well if members of this House did not make. He drew a comparison between the North and the South Islands. He told us the number of Ministers that belonged to the South Island, the amount of money that was being spent in each place, and the number of acres that were being opened up, and so on. Now, what do we find with regard to the railways? I wish to call the attention of the Minister for Public Works to this one fact: Twelve months ago, in this House, we voted #130,000 for the continua- tion of the North Island Main Trunk Railway. The Southern members were very pleased to vote that amount on the estimates, and, as far as I remember, they made no com- plaint whatever. We placed on the estimates for the Otago Central Railway £30,000 less, or the amount of £100,000; and we were quite satisfied, recognising that our railway had been pushed on to a certain extent, and that the North Island Trunk Railway should be pushed on, because we considered there should be through traffic from Auckland to Wellington. But. Sir, let us look at the expenditure on the North Island Trunk line. There has been ing for six or seven years past to have a rail- $116,591 expended; and upon the Otago Cen- tral, out of the £100,000 voted, there was only $67,753 expended. Now, coming to the number have been asking that this and other works of hands employed upon those two lines: Upon the North Island Trunk line there are at the present time 1,143 men employed. Upon the Otago Central there are only 520 ; upon the Midland Railway there are 422. Upon the Midland Railway and the Otago Central to- gether the aggregate number is 942,or some 200 less than upon the North Island Trunk line. Further, the number of hands employed on all the lines in New Zealand, with the exception of the North Island Trunk Railway is only 1,885. The North Island Trunk Railway has 1,143, so that, I think, shows that the North Island, so far as public works are concerned, has not only got its share, but more than its share. I do not complain that it should have its 9.0. public works pushed on, but I do con sider that the amount passed upon the esti- mates for the twelve months for any line should be expended, if it is possible to expend it. Mr. HALL-JONES .- The line is fully manned down there. VOL. CXVIII .- 10. Mr. ARNOLD .- Fully manned! How can the Minister say such a thing as that? I say that the Minister must see to it that the line is continued with greater rapidity than it has been in the past : that if £100,000, £60,000, or £30,000 is placed upon the estimates this ses- sion that amount shall be expended, or else we will know the reason why, just as the Northern people do. Mr. SEDDON .- This is reducing public- works expenditure. Mr. ARNOLD .- Then, there is the question £12,000 was placed on the estimates for that railway, and the whole expenditure was £7,400. Now, the Catlin's River Railway is a very dif- ferent railway from the Otago Central, and some other railways in New Zealand. Some members have spoken with regard to the im- portation and cultivation of certain trees. Now, let us look at the country around Catlin's River. We find here 250,000 acres under best sawmilling timber-red-pine, finest black-pine, totara, and various other good timbers. The settlers there are compelled to clear a certain area during the term of their lease, and they have to cut these trees down and burn them simply because there is no means of getting them to sawmills, and from the sawmills to the city. Is it not right that we should use these trees to the best possible advantage? If these trees are destroyed they are lost to the colony. It is the duty of the Government to push on its pub- lic works as fast as possible, so that the settlers in those settlements may be assisted not only in regard to railways but also in regard to roads and bridges and that this beautiful timber may be saved ; and that, when the timber is removed, some of the most beautiful land in Otago, both for grazing and cultivation, may be properly utilised. I am glad to see the honour- able member for Waihemo in his place, because I am sure I shall have his assistance in this matter. There are those who have been agitat- way-station placed in the City of Dunedin-the beautiful city of the south ; there are those who should be continued, and I ask them if they are prepared to cease the whole of the public works in New Zealand for twelve months. I contend they are not. I ask them if they are willing that only one-half the amount placed on the estimates last year be expended for the various public works in their districts- say, the North Island Trunk Railway, the Otago Central Railway, the Midland Railway, and various others. I say that those members, although they have spoken as they have done, and have had their words and figures scattered broadcast, to the delight of those on the Opposi- tion benches, when those honourable members have to go into the lobby to decide as to whether the votes shall decrease or not, every one of them will be found voting in favour of the estimates being passed. They will take care that the various votes, if not larger than those of last year, will at any rate be as large. That is precisely my position. I do not wish to be 