the defects now existing, and the Courts of the colony can give redress. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I admit there is a great deal of useful work in this Bill. The Bill has been virtually approved by the Council on a previous occasion, but it is not a good thing to deal piecemeal with law. I do not think there is much to say, except in Com. mittee, when each clause can be dealt with on its merits. There is a great deal of absurdity in the law that has come down to us. I do not mean the law that we make, because the law we make is up to date; but I mean the law that has been handed down to us, and which an ancient authority described as "being a hass." There is plenty of that in the old law, and there are plenty of reasons why much of it should be altered or eliminated. But it is a very difficult thing to deal with a Bill of this nature as a matter of principle, be- cause it is an agglomeration of all sorts of eccentricities which, in the experience of one able practitioner, is reason for the law being amended or repealed. This is my opinion, deliberately speaking, on this Bill. Now, I am quite prepared to deal with each clause seriatim, but I cannot say more than that we should be very careful in dealing with the law in this disjointed way. And I do not think it is exactly fair to bring down upon us the opinions of one who introduced this Bill three years ago, because, for all we know, that same gentleman, with three years' more practice and experience, might have changed his mind com- pletely as to the theoretical force and efficacy https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 of many of the clauses we are now dealing with. It is a very difficult question indeed, speaking with a sense of responsibility, and I feel certain that the Council will give the honourable gentle- man in charge of the Bill every consideration and every help ; but, nevertheless, the Council ought to be very careful in dealing even with old law in this sort of hotchpotch way. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- It is quite true that this is a sort of Special Powers and Contracts Bill, but I do not know that the honourable gentleman should have any objection to the Bill on that account, especially as he is a Minis- ter of the Crown, because it has been our custom to have such a measure before us year after year, and the Special Powers and Con- tracts Bills which we have had before us have been much more hotchpotch than this Bill is, whilst, I think I may say, they often did not possess the virtues of this measure. It is no detriment to this measure that it should have been introduced by Mr. MacGregor. He was a very useful man as a Councillor, and I much regret he is not in the Council now. I think we are indebted to him for intro- ducing this measure. The Statutes Re- vision Committee, which has considered it on several occasions, generally approved of it. It seems to me that it is not right that the representative of the Government should say that possibly the author of this Bill, if he were in the Council now, might not approve of some of the clauses of the Bill in consequence of his Hon. Mr. T. Kelly lengthened experience would have inclined him to introduce more clauses into it where he saw there were anachronisms in the law that de- manded amendment. As to the manner in which the Hon. Mr. Bolt introduced the Bill, I think he performed his duties very well indeed. It is not given to all to understand the mazy depths of legal phraseology. I confess that very often I do not understand it myseli, but I must say the honourable gentleman in- troduced the Bill in a very creditable way. The Hon. Mr. BOLT .- I have to reply to a few remarks made by the honourable gentle- man. I do not know on what grounds he said I was following the lead of the Hon. Mr. Mac- Gregor in introducing this Bill. I introduced it because I thought it was a measure that should be passed by Parliament ; and it has nothing to do with the question whether Mr. MacGregor has or has not changed his opinion regarding these clauses. They have been before the Council and before the Statutes Revision Committee, and I think we are able to bring the same judgment to bear on this measure as if Mr. MacGregor was with us. The Bill is a technical one no doubt, and one clause is cer- tainly of a recondite character, but, with regard to the other clauses, I claim to have laid them fairly before the Council. Bill committed, and progress reported. THE LATE PRESIDENT MCKINLEY. The Hon. Mr W. C. WALKER, in moving the adjournment of the Council, desired to say that it was thought proper that Parliament should adjourn to-morrow afternoon to enable those honourable members desirous of attending the commemorative funeral ceremony of the late President Mckinley to do so. As it had been said that it would probably be more con- venient for the Council to adjourn until Friday, he begged to move the adjournment until Friday afternoon. Motion agreed to. The Council adjourned at thirteen minutes to five o'clock p.m. # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Wednesday, 18th September, 1901. First Reading - Third Readings - Christchurch- Lyttelton Railway-Earnscleugh Run-Foreign Companies: Payment of Stamp-tax - Income- tax. 1901 Stud Animals imported from Britain- Wellington Gaols: Escaped Prisoners - Arbi- tration Court President Validation Bill- Old- age Pensions - Unopposed Returns - Dunedin Erening Star - "General Orders," New Zea- land Forces-Orderhies at Parliament Hon- -Mangonui Mounted Infantry-Storage Accom- modation for Magazine Rifles and Carbires -Military Pensions Act - Workers' Compen-a- tion for Accidents Act-Members' Election Ex- penses-"Shorthand Reporters Act. 190J "-Judg- ments of High Court of Rarotonga-Government Loans to Local Bodies Act-Old-age Pensions- Commandant of the Forces-Married Men in Permanent Forces - Auckland-Manukau Canal - Ministers' Travelling - allowances - Liquor Licenses in King-country - Fiji - Co-operative 