that there are a number of honourable mem- bers who do not care what burden they place on the taxpayer so long as they can make poli- tical capital and secure votes. I hope the day is not far distant when members will be re- turned who will consider it their first duty to zealously guard the interests of the State, and then maladministration will be looked upon as a bad dream. Sir, I have known really good men come to Wellington and ask me for my influence to get them a job on the co operative works. I asked them " Why do you want to leave the work you are engaged on now ; you are making 8s., 9s., or 10s. a day on a small contract ? " They said, " I shall have less work, and I shall make as much money." Unfortunately, some of those hard-working men have not succeeded, and a few of them are in this city, and some of their wives and families are now receiving charitable aid, and the men have lost that self- reliance which cannot be estimated in £ s. d. If they had taken my advice they would pro- bably now have been settled on small farms inland of Stratford, and have a balance to their credit in the bank. I think we have done wrong in encouraging our young men to become co-operative workers and do the "Government stroke." The co-operative work should have only been relief-works, where particularly the old and inefficient workman could get employ- ment. Settlers who have become Crown ten- ants should get the first offer of work in the neighbourhood of their land, to enable them to make a cheque in order to fell bush on their properties. But some people are not content with any work unless it is under Government. Latterly it has been very difficult indeed to get men to do any kind of farm work, and there- fore the exports have not increased as they would have done, owing to Government com- peting in the labour - market against the farmers. Any interference with the exports is hurtful and damaging to our country. It is the duty of this House and the Executive to aid and assist in increasing our exports. Our public works, I am satisfied, could be carried out more efficiently, with greater rapidity, and more economically under the contract system. But that would not suit the Government and many honourable gentlemen, because they de- pend in a great measure on the votes of the co-operative workers to be returned to this House. I may here say that I have always recommended co-operative workers to take up land, and when they cannot find employment on public works to improve their sections. I think it is unjust to bring men from other parts of the colony to compete with those who are endeavouring to make a home for themselves and their families. I again say that we cannot carry on the work of railway construction satis- factorily under this system. Mr. HALL-JONES .- What about Stratford ? Mr. McGUIRE .- If that work had been done by contract it would have been finished now, and according to your time it will not be finished till Christmas. What about the Mako- Mir. McGuire contract it would have been completed at a much earlier period than it will be finished now, and thousands of pounds would have been saved to the colony. The honourable member for Pahiatua referred to the Farmers' Union. He seems opposed to that, as also was the member for Wairarapa; but Ministers of the Crown are very cautious now in saying anything disrespectful with reference to the Farmers' Union, because they know it will become a power in the land. The farmers have slept on their rights long enough ; it was high time that they should be up and doing. Sir, it is absolutely necessary for their interest that they should unite on a common platform and co-operate, by joining together as other classes in the community have done, for their mutual benefit, for unity is strength. There- fore prudent members, like Ministers, say nothing, although they dislike the movement. We find only members who have hopelessly committed themselves attacking it now. They think they are playing the game of their party by their denunciation ; but they never made a greater mistake in their lives, for the farmers have no party. The Farmers' Union has come to stay, and denunciations will have only one effect-namely, to cement it the more closely together. The bulk of the experts of the colony come from the farmers. It is only right and proper that they should organize in their own interests. They do not desire to in- terfere with other unions, which have no doubt done good service ; but the farmers want to look after their own interests, and a few self-seekers want to deny them that right. You all know that the farmers have been from the begin- ning of modern civilisation the foundation- stone of prosperity, and without them it would be impossible to get on. True states- men have done much to assist, and warriors have fought and bled in order to extend boundaries and annex territories, but their victories would have been barren had not the tillers of the soil and the breeders of stock made the earth pay tribute to labour. The farmer prepares the way, and supplies the sinews of war to support the armies and the navies. The farmers are the real backbone of this country, and they have a perfect right to organize in their own interest. They should also organize in order to procure the best price for their produce in the markets of the world. They can very well do all those things, and I believe they can do more and do it effectually and well. I sincerely trust that they will endeavour to do away with party government, and I trust they will be successful. Some other and better system of government is badly wanted. I would like to see the elective Executive established. I am convinced it would give more satisfaction than government by party. The present Government are by no means a happy family. I have no desire, how- ever, to enter into their quarrels ; but it would have been better for them and the country if there was a strong Opposition party in this House. There is one thing I should mention, 