changes of uniform. Sir, it is a matter that should be grappled with at once and settled. We often hear it stated that some more en- couragement ought to be given to the Volunteers. Well, here are some small ways in which the Volunteer movement may be encouraged. It has had some little life infused into it lately, but it is not going to continue so. There has merely been a little fillip given to matters by the Transvaal war, and when that dies out Volunteering will sink back to the old groove. Now that the revival is on is the time to make some little change to keep it lively. I will suggest one change, and it is this : I think it would be a fair thing to offer encouragement to the sergeants of Volunteer companies by asking them to drill the various schools on Saturday afternoons. There are plenty of smart young sergeants who would be only too proud to do this. It would add to their own dignity, and a very small amount of pay would suffice. They would by this means improve themselves by drilling the boys in our schools, and in time to come they would be able to drill adults in the Volunteer corps. This would cost the Government very little, and I am perfectly satisfied it would have a good effect on Volun- teers, and there are plenty of sergeants well fitted to carry out these duties. We should thus be rearing our own drill - instructors. Then, in regard to the medals for long service I would like to see a change. There may be military men who differ with me on this question, but still we can agree to differ. I am of opinion that a considerable amount of good will be done by reducing the term of ser- vice that is now fixed to enable Volunteers to earn the medal. It is a very small reward-I do not suppose the long-service medal is worth 1s. 6d. - and yet Volunteers have to serve sixteen http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero years continuously or twenty-five years broken service before they can receive that medal. I do not know what the custom is at Home. I am not going to ask what the custom is at Home, because I think we ought to be able to strike out for ourselves. I say that sixteen years is too long a service to ask of Volunteers to earn these medals. I believe that if that service is reduced to twelve years' consecutive service it would have a very good effect. There are plenty of men in the Volunteers who have been seven or eight years in, and then they are inclined to retire. They cannot be induced to continue in for another eight years; but if the term was reduced by four years you would have a far larger number of Volun- teers continuing in the force in order to obtain that little reward for long service. I think it would be a good thing if we were to reduce the time of service to obtain the medal, and it would be some encouragement to the Volunteers; and I think the House must admit that, after a man has gone through all the drudgery connected with Volunteering for, say, twelve years, he has done good service to earn that little bit of a medal to stick upon his breast. Then, there is another feature I also think will be a help to Volunteers. There is teering service than to have a good band attached to it. When Volunteers go to Church parades it is no parade at all unless a band takes part. When a company is out marching the marching becomes tiresome and dreary unless there is some music to help the men along. Now, a very small subsidy given to company bands would induce them to attach themselves to Volunteers. In the cities they have Volunteer bands by which a certain number of men can earn capitation ; but I am speaking now of the country. I say, in many country districts where there are no Volun- teer corps, if they could get a band formed which would turn out to a certain number of parades in connection with the Volunteer corps, and give them £12 or £15 a year to help them to pay their bandmaster, it would be a great encouragement to Volunteer companies. I also say it would help the moral and social life of the country districts, because there is nothing helps a young man so much as to instil in his heart the love of music, and I always like to see a young man going with his cornet or his trombone to practice. I think if bands could bo helped in this way it would encourage the musical talent of the country districts, and would be a great help to Volunteering. These are two small items which a long practical ex- perience leads me to believe would give some little encouragement to the Volunteer move- ment. Now, I want to say a few words about labour legislation, and my reason for touching labour legislation is that I think it has been fought rather shy of in the course of this debate. I expected to have heard more on 12.0. this question from the men who are better recognised in this House as the labour representatives. I cannot claim to be distinctly a labour representative myself. I am a sup- porter of labour legislation, and I consider myself an all-round representative, but I admit that I am not an authority on labour legisla- tion. At the same time I wish to give expres- sion to a few ideas that I have on this subject. A strong, vigorous, and I must add a vicious attempt is at the present moment being made throughout New Zealand to create a contest- town versus country-and it is our duty, as members of this House, to do all we can to combat that cry and to show and prove there is no necessity for it. The agitation against the labour laws is going to be made use of as a lever to split up the forces of the Liberal party at the coming election. The attempt has been made early, and it is just as well for us that it has, because we shall be all the better prepared to meet it. Now, Sir, I think we should have a rest, so far as labour legislation is concerned. I think it would be in the best and truest interests of the country, and it would be in the best and truest interests of those who consider themselves the labour party that we should have a rest, so far as labour legislation is concerned. I know, and the whole House knows, and the country knows, there is at present a considerable amount of unrest in reference to labour matters, not so much as 