Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) .- Very pro- bably it would be in my own political and material interest if, in rising to speak on this occasion, I were to raise my voice in favour of entirely exculpating the newspaper and the reporter who are concerned in this matter of privilege. The paper is a newspaper published as far as it can its privileges. I also think the in my own town, and has a considerable cir- culation, and, I may add, it is a newspaper of which the officials, the editor and the reporter in question, are personal friends of my own. reporter himself will have to pay the fine. It is also a paper which has had occasion to differ from my views and to criticize my utter- ances and actions. That, however, is passed, and I wish it to be distinctly understood that defiance or not. From time to time you will in what I propose to say I shall speak as far as possible without bias or prejudice of any kind. abusive statements concerning this House, I should like to call to the minds of honourable members what these privileges mean to the House. Of course, they do not mean any again, I fail entirely to discover any particular great personal advantage or privilege to mem- bers. Those privileges mean the rights and expression of regret on the part of Mr. Cohen. powers which have been secured to the House honourable members who have in mind the after years and even centuries of struggle. Anybody who chooses to go into the history of the House of Commons, and how those privileges were obtained, must be impressed with their immense value and what it cost to secure them. Honourable members can never desire to make this House its counterpart in forget the story of how King Charles the First New Zealand, ought not to allow this breach came down to the House of Commons with the of its Standing Orders, this infringement of its intention of seizing five members, and was met by the cries of " Privilege, privilege " that were heard from all sides of the House. It was in to say a few words on this question of privilege days like those that the true value of these at one remark which fell from the last speaker. privileges could be appreciated, and I would now ask members to bear in mind how important He attributed the publication of this matter to they are, and what the real object and aim of these privileges are. Now, it has been said money out of it. Sir, any one who knows any- that it is not right of us to ask a representative of the Press to do something dishonourable- well that the sale of a few hundred copies extra to answer the question as to who gave him this of a newspaper at 1d. each is not a thing information. Well, nobody ever dreamed that that a newspaper - proprietor hankers after. There was, to my mind, a very much higher Mr. Cohen would reply to that question if he thought that it would bring any harm to the ideal-they were actuated by very much higher person from whom he got the information in motives than any one in this House has given question. But it must have been well known them credit for. As to the question of the leader of the House defending the rights and to him and to the paper he represents that privileges of the House, he has been taunted it was committing a breach of privilege. In with having thrown away the honour of the all probability the proprietor said, "I see House-that he has been actuated by political an opportunity of making money out of the publication. It will be a journalistic scoop, exigency. I think that was the remark made by the honourable member for Bruce. Now, sup- and I shall be able to make the name of the paper known throughout New Zealand. posing it were asked whether any one in this House holds a brief for the mining swindlers of There is money in it for the paper. As to the rights and privileges of the House they are no Dunedin ; one question has as much right to concern of mine." Now, are we going to allow be asked as the other. As a matter of fact, an attitude of that kind to go absolutely un- there have been things said in the House to-day which lead me to suppose that there is a desire criticized and unpunished - hardly protested against ? Unless the House intends to resign on the part of certain members to act as special pleaders on behalf of the gentleman who con- its dignity and honour, to become a by-word and reproach in the future, and to render itself siders himself so much injured by the publica- tion of the evidence in the Dunedin paper. despicable, we ought to do something to mark We have heard a good deal to-day about the our disapproval of the conduct of the persons concerned and to punish the offenders. The honour of Parliament. Sir, if we want to up- hold the honour of this House, it is for every Minister for Railways spoke of the high tradi- individual member in it to be jealous of the tions of journalism, and how honourable it was honour of the House and of its dignity in his of Mr. Cohen to uphold those traditions by re- own person. That is one of the things that fusing to give up the name of his informant. No VOL. CXVIII .- 24. doubt that is true; but what about the honour and dignity of this House ? What about uphold- ing them ? That is for us to do. My impression is that there ought to be some fine imposed-I do not say that it should be a heavy one --- to mark the determination of the House to guard publisher should be brought before the bar of the House, and something should be done in connection with him. Nobody expects that the Every one knows the Star is a wealthy organ, and the question is whether a wealthy news- paper is to be allowed to set this House at see published in the newspapers of the colony ridiculing and attacking it in every possible way ; and now they actually go the length of refusing to obey the Standing Orders. Then, He seems rather to justify his action. I say traditions of the House of Commons, who have a high idea of its dignity and of the privileges it is absolutely essential it should have for the proper carrying-out of its functions, and who privileges, to go practically unnoticed. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) .- I should like before we go to a vote. I was rather surprised the fact that the proprietors wanted to make thing about newspapers must know perfectly 