cuss the motion, but what he did object to was the postponement of nearly a dozen pages of questions that had been on the Order Paper for three or four weeks. It was provided in the Standing Orders that questions should be answered on certain days of the week, and to put off the answering of the many questions now on the Order Paper was unfair to those members who had been waiting for weeks to have replies to their questions. He had some questions on the Order Paper himself that were of great importance to people who were actually suffering an injustice at the present time. There were other members in the same position. It was really treating the Standing Orders and the privileges of members almost with con- tempt to allow such a state of things to go on any longer, and he trusted members would not agree to the motion unless there was some more cogent reason advanced by the Premier than the one he had already brought forward. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) hoped the House would not consent to the postponement of the questions. Mr. SEDDON said it might not be the wish of the Government to answer questions. Captain RUSSELL said, If he were the Speaker the Government would be obliged to answer questions in accordance with the Stand- ing Orders. If he were the Speaker he would undertake to make the Premier "sit up." As matters were now going on the Standing Orders . of the House seemed to be a farce. Why was that ? Because, on a previous occasion, when the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) upbraided the Opposition for not making the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 Government do their duty, and said that the Opposition formed the fulcrum, he (Captain Russell) replied that the Opposition was the lever only-the Government supporters the ful- crum-and that the fulcrum was only jelly-fish, and so useless. If members insisted on having questions answered they would be answered ; but if there was a majority to follow the Go- vernment on every occasion, though they knew they were wrong, the Government would get their own way. He hoped that by degrees members would come to realise that i any setting - aside of the Standing Orders members had only themselves to blame. He could not help admiring the Premier's autocratic way. All people wished to be autocratic, and people were only autocratic be- cause there were subservient people who allowed them to be so. On the Opposition side the members were free to act as they liked, but on the Government side there were members who could no longer be said to be in a position to call their souls their own, and who, as an elected body, had not the courage of their con- victions. He believed that all the members who were listening to him wished to have the I questions replied to that day. The practice of postponing the answering of questions was a wrong one, and was never contemplated under any Standing Order. There was no profession now that it was dangerous to the public safety to answer the questions on the Order Paper. whether questions should be answered or not was the Premier, who on different occasions merely said he did not choose to reply to them If members were to allow the control of the House to go into the hands of Ministers, what was the use of attending the House at all? Why should they not stay at home and allow the business to be done by the occupants of the Treasury benches ? When he looked across the floor he saw the Hon. the Premier and the Minister for Railways in their places. He admitted that the Minister of 4.0. Justice was sometimes there, but not so frequently as the Minister for Railways. The question was, were they going to tolerate this refusal any longer? They had lately seen the cloud arising which, though it might be no larger than a man's hand, indicated that there was a storm brewing, and that in the House and in the country the autocracy of the Pre- mier was to be no longer tolerated. When he (Captain Russell) travelled through the country he was constantly asked, "How much longer are you men in Parliament going to allow the Premier to do what he chooses? " He had always answered, that he had done his best to try and get that state of things altered, bat that he had not been backed by the Government side of the House as he should have been. Now, here was an opportunity, if members would only vote as they genuinely believed -that questions should be answered before any other business was dealt with-they could insist upon the Premier doing it. The time had come when members, whether they sup- ported the Government or not, should feel it their duty to support the principles of parlia- mentary government which were embodied in our Standing Orders, and it was there laid down that questions should be answered periodically and regularly. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) said it ap- peared to him that the Opposition were about to adopt their old stonewall tactics. He could see as soon as the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, the ex-leader of the Opposition. commenced to look over the Ministerial benches, and to inquire for the three or four absent Ministers, that he was out on a stonewalling expedition. He wondered he could not realise that he drove them out of the Chamber : for had they remained here he would, as he in. variably did, assuredly have sent them to sleep. He was always dull and prosy when engaged on a time-killing speech. He (Mr. Mckenzie) could see perfectly clear that there was some mischief brewing. Had the honourable mem- ber and his supporters not obstructed the motion would have been passed, the business of the country would have proceeded, and no harm would be done. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) thought he was at liberty to speak on behalf of the verte- brate. He took a very serious view of this question, and, in fact, he had told the honour- abie member for Hawke's Bay a few days ago, in quite an informal and unofficial way, that he ! and others intended to mend their ways in thi 