was not my intention to have spoken at this stage in the debate on the Financial Statement ; but, lest this important discussion should ter- minate before the arrival of the Premier, whose reply to the criticisms of honourable members we would all like to hear, I think it is desirable that I should say a few words on the subject. I shall not devote a great deal of my allotted time in discussing the financial position, be- cause we have not before us the necessary papers to enable us to come to a satisfactory and definite conclusion on the subject. I have listened with some degree of astonishment to the speeches delivered by several gentlemen on this side of the House, who have adversely criti- cized the Financial Statement, who have been loud in their denunciation of the Government policy, and severe in their condemnation of the financial position and proposals. I should have expected those gentlemen to have raised their voices sooner than they have done. I should have expected them to have taken exception to the proposals contained in the Financial State- ment that we had before us last year. They did not do so. They remained silent on that occasion, and tacitly approved of a policy of borrowing on one hand, and throwing away revenue on the other-a policy which they must have foreseen would prejudicially affect the future financial position of the colony. Sir, if there is just cause for condemning the finances of the colony at this stage, there was also cause, I submit, for doing so twelve months ago. But it was not done. Hence one natu- rally asks, What can be the motive of these candid friends ? Why this change of front ? Why this approval of the policy twelve months ago and this disapproval of the same financial policy this session ? And, again, I find that some of the honourable gentlemen who are condemning borrowing and the increase of the national debt have, according to Hansard, been for years knocking at the door of the Treasury, and a glance at the public works estimates will show that they have obtained very large votes indeed for their respective districts. And it seems to me quite clear that as long as members will clamour-and each of us does clamour- for votes for our districts we must expect to have a heavy public expenditure in this colony. As far as my district is concerned, for the last nine years it has received very little benefit from the public expenditure, whilst in the case of other more favoured districts I see large amounts have been voted to promote the welfare and comforts of the people. I hope the Govern- ment will in the future pay more attention to the wants of my district, so that justice may be done to the claims and rights of the taxpayers in that part of the colony. As I have said before, it is not my intention to discuss the financial position of the country, because we have not the necessary papers here, without which it is impossible, especially for a young member, to get a grasp of the public finance. { our industries. The fact that we were right It is only after he has been here, and has had the experience of several years, that he gets a fair knowledge-in fact, even then he obtains When he gets a seat on the Ministerial benches, and not till then, can he get that knowledge and obtain that insight which will justify him in speaking with confidence and ac- curacy on these questions. But I have listened with interest to members who have spoken on the question of finance. The honourable mem- ber for Riccarton delivered a very fiery speech in connection with financial matters, and I found out afterwards that he was entirely wrong in his figures. So, consequently, it is obvious that a new member is placed at some disadvantage in having to rely on the accuracy of the speeches delivered, instead of having the requisite explanatory documents and reports laid on the table of the House. I would not be surprised to find that after Ministers have replied to the criticisms that have been made quite a different complexion will be put on the face of matters. Mr. PIRANI .- That is what we are waiting for. Mr. HANAN .- Why does not the honourable member speak ? It is the duty of the Opposi- tion to criticize the Financial Statement of the Government. I, as a representative, welcome criticism from either side, and I congratulate, to a certain extent, those members on our side who have had the courage to criticize the Budget in a candid or even hostile manner. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about the Minis- ters ? Mr. HANAN .- There has been no occasion for them to reply. We have had members on our side supporting the Budget and also criticiz- ing it, but I do say this: it is the duty of the Government members in the interest of their party to exercise a healthy supervision over the affairs of the Government. I do not care what Government is in power, if it is given a long reign without a check it would fall into mistakes, and also perhaps commit grave errors. So I therefore say it is the duty of the Opposition to exhaustively criticize the Financial Statement, and I strongly condemn them for not performing that duty which they owe to their constitutents and to their party in the country. They sat silent and did not say one word against the financial proposals of last session, and allowed them to be carried into effect without any complaint or protest what- ever. 1 heard a lot about "dumb dogs " before I came into the House, but I do not think there is much ground for applying that epithet to members on this side. I find here that some members do exercise a certain amount of inde- pendence and judgment. I have not always voted for the Government. Strong exception was taken to some Ministerialists who did not see eye to eye with the Government in connec- tion with the tariff proposals. We strongly opposed many items of expenditure, and also opposed certain remissions of taxation which we thought went in the direction of crippling in our opposition has been confirmed by the remarks of the Premier now in advising that we should go slow. It is a pity he did not 