photograph, and one is to be marked with the am glad to find that the penny postage has official stamp of the Registrar and a number, been a success. It has been a colonial success, but I still adhere to the opinion expressed which is to be the roll-number of the applicant, that the Postmaster-General went too fast in and given back to the elector, while the other is applying it to oversea mails. And I express to be kept by the Registrar for reference if at any time fraud should be suspected. When elections my most sincere regret that he has put that figure on the penny stamp. Is it the figure of take place the photograph of the elector is to be sent, under registered cover-record of which some courtesan in the street ? Is it the figure of an Aspasia, who is the embodiment of evil will be kept by the Postmaster-to the Return. and the genius of ruin wherever she goes? Did ing Officer, to be opened by him on the day of election before the scrutineers appointed by the I not ask him to have the profile of our late candidates. No one but members of the family illustrious Queen ? We did not know her end was so near; but had he put her head on the may apply to a Postmaster for an electoral right to be registered for transmission to the Return- stamp, or represented her as seated on the ing Officer, and it shall be deemed an offence throne with an overflowing cornucopia on her lap held by one hand, and with the other offer- under the Corrupt Practices Act for any person to canvass for or collect electoral rights for ing the penny post to our planet. it would have been a memorable figure, which would have transmission to a Returning Officer. I will put lasted for all time, and never would be forgotten. 9.0. Everybody knows her figure; no living person of the British race would ever forget it, and it afford facilities or has an aspiration for a suc- would have been a familiar form in every post- cessful election system for the outside country districts-and not only country districts, but for office in the world : it would have been an enduring laurel on the brow of the Postmaster- everywhere-he may find it in this suggestion General. He did not do it. that I now record. Sir J. G. WARD .- England herself did not Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City). - Like do it. the honourable gentleman who has just sat down, Mr. MONK .- The parent can do as she likes ; I too, owing to somewhat indifferent health, but the children should feel a pride in their have had to refrain from speaking during the ancestry, and do everything possible to foster course of this debate, and I am quite sure that it. I do not believe in a State coal-mine. Let honourable members will agree that at this them try a little more of this socialistic busi- stage of the debate I will be consulting both ness and they will find that they will have to the wishes of the House as I am sure I will be pay more for coal than they do now ; these consulting my own physical interests if I do not men will become the masters of the Govern- attempt anything like a lengthy speech. More- ment, just as the co-operative service is at the over, everything has been said that can well be present time. And talking about Cook Islands said on the Financial Statement that has been as "Greater New Zealand " is pure bosh-un- submitted to this House, and I feel it will be mitigated bosh. I want the British flag to trespassing unduly on the patience and good- wave on every unclaimed nugget of land in nature of the House if I were to go once again the world. But the idea of talking in that over the ground that has been so well and way about our connection with those islands ! thoroughly threshed out. I have listened to I only wish they had put Mr. Percy Smith on this debate during the last eight or nine days Rarotonga at the first. What was wanted was with anything but jubilant feelings, inasmuch some man that could exercise an elevating as I have had to recognise the fact that the influence on the minds of the natives, and strongest adverse criticisms have come from whose blameless life would lead them to better members on the side of the House to which I methods of living. There was a point in which belong. But I cannot follow in the wake of the Premier might have been successful. I am some honourable members, who, from their own sorry my time is up and I must close, but I initiative or from the fact that they were care. shall claim the indulgence of the House for the fully schooled to perform the part they took on two or three minutes left me to place on themselves to play-I say I cannot follow them record a proposition I have for electoral rights. in abusing those who have assumed a posi- As I have made several political suggestions tion which, I think, is scarcely justified or which afterwards the Government have brought warranted by the financial position of the into vogue, but in which, like the penny post- colony. I think in the main they have the age, I have been denied any credit, I now take right to be credited with an honesty and sin- the liberty of placing on record my appeal cerity of conviction in the utterance of their to the Government for electoral rights to be criticism ; and what I resent is that, when a granted for the convenience of women and member on this side of the House ventures to men living in the country. The Premier has give vent to any opinion adversely criticizing objected to give such relief, on the plea that it the proposals or administration of the Govern- will facilitate corruption ; but it will come, and, ment, the Government find it quite an easy instead of evil, it will improve the quality of matter to get member after member who is election results. The method will be simple : quite willing to rise in his seat in the House Every person desiring electoral rights shall for the express purpose of pouring out some- provide two photographs precisely alike, 3 in. times most unwarrantable, most unseemly, and by 2 in. in dimension ; and the signature of the | most undignified abuse on those who have had that on record as an outline of a method that, if the Premier wishes to 