ture." This Act ;was passed as a whip or spur over the local bodies who failed to do their work. When a thorough inspection of the colony was made for the first time, during the bubonic plague scare, it was discovered that the colony was in a horrible condition so far as sanitation was concerned, and, if these matters were left in the hands of the local authorities, he believed in another twelve months things would be just as bad as ever. He thought the Government, through their Inspectors, should insist on the work being done, and, if necessary, the local authorities should be charged with the cost. He was the last one to advocate economy in connection with the Public Health Department. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) thought that, pro- perly administered, this was one of the most useful departments of the State ; but during the past year there had been very little result of a beneficial character from the establishment of such a department. Possibly that might be due to the fact that the machinery had not yet been brought into operation. During the past few months there had been epidemics raging throughout the colony. There had been typhoid fever, scarlet fever, measles, and what was called influenza, but which he believed was really malaria, introduced into the colony from South Africa by the Fifth Contingent. He thought if the Health Department was properly adminis- tered such diseases could be kept out of the colony ; and the people had a right to know what this plague called "influenza " really was. There were thousands of men and women suf- fering from that disease, and he had only quite recently sent to the Premier a letter he had received from a member of the Fifth Contin- gent stating that he had had this disease twice since he had returned to New Zealand. He would like to know if the department 11.0. was going to do its duty. This was a fine progressive country, and there was every- thing to conduce to the health of the people ; but, if a department of the kind was to be maintained, the officers should try not only to stamp out disease, but to prevent it finding its way into the colony at all. Mr. TANNER (Avon) said the Public Health Act was passed last year in fulfilment of a long- standing want, and he recognised that in bring- ing the measure into operation the Govern- ment must experience a great deal of difficulty. They should, of course, be allowed time. He must say, however, that up to the present the state of the public health in the colony was such as to call for the most serious attention of the department, and to need the greatest wisdom and knowldge on the part of the Ministry in making the appointment of capable and competent men. With regard to the appointment of Dr. Symes in Christchurch, he held when the Act was passed that the Go- vernment would do well to give the appoint- ments to men who were absolutely free of all private practice. He believed any system that al- lowed a practitioner to engage in private practice while at the same time he was called on to per- form public functions would be hampered in its operation and unsatisfactory in its results. He did not know Dr. Symes, but he wished to tell the House this fact : Twelve or eighteen months ago, when the bubonic plague scare was ram- pant in the colony, and when every local au- thority was receiving circulars urging them to make efforts to preserve the public health, it was resolved by the Woolston Borough Council, of which he (Mr. Tanner) was then a member, to institute an independent inquiry into the sanitary state of the borough. This was done, and he (Mr. Tanner) was appointed to receive the Inspector's reports, and to draw up from them a report for publication. The nature of the reports that reached him from the In- spector was really such as to necessitate some very careful toning-down; and had the naked truth been published it would have created nothing short of a horror in the community. In the reports there was one property men- tioned, tenanted by Chinamen, that took the palm for its insanitary state, and the details were the most revolting, he thought, that had ever been penned by a Sanitary Inspector. He was unwilling to trust to the gossip of the Council table as to the name of the owner of the property, and he therefore ascertained the name of the owner from the rate roll, and the owner of that property was Dr. Symes. An Hon. MEMBER. - He was not responsible for his tenant, was he ? Mr. TANNER said the owner should be made primarily responsible, and it was no use looking to tenants who were Chinamen to keep premises in a condition that would please Europeans. He would like to say, too, that the rental de- rived from this property was perhaps the largest obtained from any property in the locality, and Dr. Symes at that time was holding the posi- tion of Health Officer in Christchurch for the Government. He would like to add that his attempt to assist in the work of cleaning the borough met with its due reward at the hands of the burgesses, for at the next election he was "fired out " of the Council. Sir J. G. WARD said he had been interested in listening to the speeches of the honourable member for Riccarton and the honourable member for Masterton, but he would like to say at once that neither of those honourable members had any knowledge of what had been done by the department or they would not have made the statements they did. He would deal first of all with the member for Masterton. That honourable gentleman did not appear to be aware that some months ago Masterton had a visitation of diphtheria. It was the Public Health Department that stepped in on that occasion and closed the school, and employed a local doctor to make an examination of the houses and to put the law into operation, with the view of preventing the fell disease from spreading, whereby much good was done. Then, shortly after the close of the last session the Chief Health Officer (Dr. Mason) visited every part of the colony. It was neces- sary that he should do so, to inquire into certain matters, so that the Act might be pro- perly carried out. Four Health Officers were 