An Hon. MEMBER .- He said it. Mr. BOLLARD .- Well, he could not have meant it. All that he could have meant was that che Premier was morally responsible for not altering the course of the vessel to a warmer climate. If they compared that statement with the one the Premier had made concerning the Hon. Mr. Rolleston, they would see that the \- Premier's charge was far more serious, for in the latter case men, women, and children had been slaughtered. He did not think the Pre- mier should be so thin-skinned over this. Mr. SEDDON .- Probably if I had not been able to command myself, notwithstanding the unprovoked attack, Goodness knows what might have happened. Mr. BOLLARD said he was not apologizing for the honourable member for Bruce, but he was sure the accusation could not have been that the Premier had deliberately caused the death of these men. He was sure nothing of the sort could be meant. An Hon. MEMBER. - But it was said. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) said he did not wish the House to misunderstand what he had said, and he was quite prepared to read his uncor- rected Hansard proof. He had said :- " He understood that on the first 1.30. item they could discuss the estimates generally. He wished to discuss the portion of the estimates dealing with the troopers sent to South Africa. He would have made these re- marks in his speech on the Financial State- ment, but the Right Hon. the Premier was not present, and he wished him to hear, because what he wanted to say he desired to say to his https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 face. He (Mr. Allen) had said that the Premier had utilised the troopers from South Africa and the patriotic movement for political pur- poses, and he intended to prove it absolutely. The Fourth and Fifth Contingents had lately returned from the South African campaign by the 'Tagus.' Those men had gone through the very hardest of the South African cam- paign. They had gone through Beira, and the wretched climatic influences had affected them, and affected them seriously, and the result had been that nearly every trooper had broken down in his constitution. They were on their road home. They came as far as Albany broken down in constitution completely. When they got to Albany they were ill, nearly every one of them suffering from enteric-from typhoid, which he believed was the same thing. And at Albany the medical officer of the ' Tagus' reported this sickness, and that report was sent to the Premier, as Defence Minister, to this effect : that owing to the constitutions of these men being broken down it would be disastrous to send them by the colder route to Invercargill, and the Defence Minister was asked to authorise that the ship should come by the warmer route." He would stop here to say this was absolutely correct, except the word " disastrous." An Hon. MEMBER .- And " warmer route." Mr. J. ALLEN had said " warmer route." Sir J. G. WARD said the honourable gentle- man said now that that report was sent to the Premier. Mr. J. ALLEN had said the medical officer reported there was sickness, and that that report was sent to the Premier as Defence Minister. Mr. SEDDON said the honourable gentle- man stated that it was reported to him (Mr. Seddon) that the men's constitutions had broken down, and it would be disastrous to send them by the colder route. This was absolutely in- correct. No such report had ever reached him, and Colonel Davies's telegram said nothing of the kind. Mr. J. ALLEN said the report was " that- owing to the constitutions of these men being broken down it would be disastrous to send them by the colder route to Invercargill." Five or six of these men were now dead. That. was proved by the honourable member for Mataura. "Who had the responsibility ? The honourable member wanted to know what the political capital was. He (Mr. Allen) would tell him. The political capital was to please the people of Invercargill. The Premier was afraid to offend the people of Invercargill, even though to please them he had to sacrifice the lives of men who had been serving their country." Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- There is the charge. Mr. J. ALLEN. - I said so. Mr. SEDDON moved, "That those words be taken down ; that was the only way to bring the matter to an issue. An Hon. MEMBER .- This is very unfair. Mr. SEDDON said it was not at all unfair. There was still an opening for the honourable gentleman, and he had now an opportunity of withdrawing them. Mr. MASSEY asked, as a point of order, whether it was in order that the words be taken down now, seeing that the honourable member was not using them in his speech, but merely quoting from another speech. The ACTING-CHAIRMAN thought anything read in the House could be taken exception to, and he must rule it was in order to take ex- ception to words whenever they were uttered. Mr. SEDDON said, to show he was not vin- dictive, he wished to have the words taken down. to give the honourable gentleman an oppor- tunity, on reflection, of withdrawing. Mr. J. ALLEN said he would show he did not wish to be vindictive. The words the Premier wished taken down were these : "The Premier was afraid to offend the people of Invercargill, even though to please them he had to sacrifice the lives of men who had been serving their country." He was quite willing to withdraw these words and put in their place other words to this effect : that he believed the Premier was afraid to offend the people of In- vercargill, and that the voyage of the "Tagus" from Albany to Dunedin or the Bluff by the colder route did, in his opinion, cause increased suffering to the men who came that way. Would that satisfy the Premier ? Mr. SEDDON said the words he wished taken down were much more severe than those words ; 