the Daily News had published a full report of the proceedings of this Committee of the 8th April, 1875. They had published it in their issue of the 9th April, and in the proceedings of that Committee those two papers, out of all the papers that reported the proceedings, published in extenso the letters that had been read. On the 13th April a motion was brought up in the House that the publication of those letters, and the publication of the proceedings of the Com- mittee, was a breach of the privileges of the House, and the House hastily decided that it was a breach of privilege; but during the debate it was pointed out by Sir William Harcourt that this Committee was a public Committee, that the reporters were all present, and that it might be well to ascertain whether they had been instructed to publish it or not. The House carried the resolution that it was a breach of privilege, and a day-the 16th April -was set apart for the publishers of those two papers to attend at the bar of the House. On that day they appeared at the bar of the House, and when Mr. Lewis, a member, moved that they be called, the leader of the House had in the meantime ascertained all these facts in regard to the Committee-namely, that it was a public Committee, and that the reporters were present and had authority to publish. The consequence was the resolution I have read to you-to refer the question to the Committee for the information sought. The Committee was asked to report, and it brought down the following report to the House on the 19th April. I quote from the latter end of the re- port :- " This letter was orally translated into Eng- lish by Mr. Kirkman Hodgson, a member of the Committee, in presence of the public. After the letter had been thus publicly read, the reporters of the Times and Daily News applied to the Chairman, in writing, to be allowed to see the original letter in order to correct their report The Chairman, acting on behalf of the Committee, gave directions that the reporters should see the letter in the Committee-room, but should not take it away. No similar application was made by the reporters of any other newspaper. The reporters were allowed to see the letter because, if published, it was better it should appear in a correct form. As the letter of M. Hersan was in substance a denial of the very serious charges contained in the evidence of Captain Pim, reported above, your Committee are of opinion that it would have been unjust to the Minister of Honduras in Paris to have suppressed his denial of the charges so brought against him, and thus lead to the inference that they were not capable of contradiction." That showed that the leader of the Imperial House had been justified in the action he had taken. When they referred it to the Com- mittee they found there was no breach of privi- lege at all. That is the point, and that is where I say the Right Hon. the Premier is wrong in drawing a parallel between that case and the one we have before us. If it had been found in our case that the Committee had passed a resolution that the evidence be pub- Mr. McNab lished, and the Star had published it, then you would have an absolute parallel. - Mr. SEDDON .-- I still assert Mr. Disraeli's motion was to strike out the order. Mr. McNAB. - Exactly ; the honourable gentleman there is quite correct, but if you state it in that way you do not convey to any one else the correct position of matters. The only reason it was struck off the orders of the day was that the subject had been dealt with in another way. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- As the hour has arrived for the House to adjourn, I have to interrupt the honourable gentleman. He will have the opportunity of explaining matters more fully at half-past two to-morrow. Debate interrupted. The House adjourned at half-past ten o'clock p.m. # LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Wednesday, 11th September, 1901. Third Reading - Imported Railway - carriages - President Mckinley : Attempted Assassination- Cigarette-smoking by Youths Prohibition Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. ## THIRD READING. Presbyterian Church of New Zealand Bill. IMPORTED RAILWAY-CARRIAGES. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN asked the Minister of Education, Whether it is a fact that the rai. way-carriages recently imported from America have not been built according to specifications sent from New Zealand, and whether faulty construction has occasioned considerable ex. pense to the department ? In asking this question he was very far from wishing to make any objection to orders being sent to America cr England, or elsewhere, for the purpose of ex- pediting the increased means of traffic in tins country, which were becoming more and more necessary. But so many alarming rumours bad got about as to the state in which some of these carriages came from America that he thought it was just as well there should be some an- swer given by the Government as to the state in which they were delivered. It had been currently reported that the carriages were found not to be in accordance with the specifia- tions that were sent to America ; and. although a supervisor was sent to see the work properly done, the bodies of the carriages were out bolted together, without being properly mortisd and tenoned as specified. It was also stated that the wheels of these carriages have worn loose on their axles in a very short time, in- volving serious danger to the travelling publie. This might or might not be true, but at any rate he would like to ask for a specific answer. as it was currently reported that, in consequence of the defective construction, considerable cost 