Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) was glad to notice that members generally, and even the Premier, were coming to a more judicial frame of mind. This was a very serious matter, and they should, at all events, endeavour to look at it strictly im- partially. What they had just heard read from Colonel Davies, the officer in command of the troops, was stronger and clearer than anything he had expected. It said that a number of men were suffering from that worst of diseases where a cold climate was concerned-pneu- monia. Mr. SEDDON .- Certainly not. There is not a word of that in the telegram from Colonel Davies. Mr. MASSEY said that was in the telegram. An Hon. MEMBER .- That was the one from Dunedin. Mr. MASSEY understood that the telegrams and cablegrams mentioned that a number of men were suffering from pneumonia, and that the doctor, through Colonel Davies, said that it would be very unwise, under the circumstances, to take the colder and southerly route. An Hon. MEMBER .- No; not to take them to the Bluff. Mr. MASSEY .- He recommended the warmer route. An Hon. MEMBER .- Which is the northerly route ? Mr. MASSEY was unable to say ; he under- stood that instead of taking them to a southern port it was suggested to take them to a northern port. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the honourable member was mistaken. The steamer in the first instance was under the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 orders of the War Office, and the intention was that the steamer was to proceed via Albany to Wellington. No one could have altered the destination of the steamer except the War http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Office. The Premier could not have altered it. After she got to Albany the instructions were that the steamer was to go to the Bluff. The owners of the steamer refused to allow her to go to the Bluff on the ground that she had only one screw, and that it was dangerous to do so. The next port fixed for her was Dunedin, and the point in dispute between them was the Bluff versus Dunedin. But she could not have been ordered to Auckland by the Government of this colony. The War Office controlled her movements; and she had already been ordered to Wellington, which was afterwards changed at Albany to the Bluff. Mr. SEDDON thought he had made it clear, and if he had not he would make it clear now. The order was, as he had said, by General Kitchener, who promised that the contingent should go to the Bluff in the first instance. There was a communication from him to that effect. The Transport Officer at the Cape changed it, against the orders of the General. When they were to go to the Bluff they were to go via Albany. There was some hocus-pocus, and they changed the ship from the "Gulf of Taranto." At all events, when the "Tagus " was put on, the question was raised that she . could not go to the Bluff. However, she in | cargill." the ordinary course had to go to Albany, and when she called at Albany she got her instruc- tions to go to the Bluff. When she arrived at Albany the Transport Department gave her in- structions to go to the Bluff ; and then, two days after her arrival there, he (Mr. Seddon) got that communication that she was not to go to the Bluff, but that she was to go to Port Chalmers. It seemed the owners objected to the vessel going to the Bluff, and kept her there at Albany two or three days. That was the point. When she arrived at Albany she got her instructions to go to the Bluff, and the cap- tain did not like to go to the Bluff. Now, he (Mr. Seddon) was told, and it was on record, by Colonel Davies, and, strange to say. Colonel Davies's communication to him was that they landed at Albany on Saturday night, and were leaving at nine o'clock next day. But, instead of doing that, they remained at Albany, with all these sick men on board, two or three days, whilst the owners were cabling Home and getting the destination altered from the Bluff to Port Chalmers. Then, ultimately, the Ad- miralty said she must go to Port Chalmers. That was the whole thing. She could have left Albany on the Sunday, and as a matter of fact she never left until the Wednesday, and all that time cables were going Home to the Admiralty from the owners asking to get the destination changed from the Bluff to Port Chalmers. If they had left on the Sun- day they would have gone on direct to the Bluff. For two whole days he (Mr. Seddon) never got a single word from the doctor or the captain or the colonel in charge, or from any one else, that it would be injurious to send the men to the Bluff. Take the date of the tele- gram. The boat was there two days before he had received it. It would be well understood that he was not pleased with what had happened. Mr. MASSEY could quite understand the Premier not being pleased ; but this point had not been made clear : Would it not have been possible for the Defence Minister, on receiving the cablegram referring to the health of the men, to have recommended that the route be changed, and the boat should come to Wellington instead of Dunedin or the Bluff ? Sir J. G. WARD .- What difference would that have made ? Mr. MASSEY said he understood a great deal of the mischief was done, not during the voyage across, but on the arrival of the vessel, on account of the very cold weather experienced. However, all these differences of opinion showed the necessity for an inquiry of some sort. Mem- bers seemed inclined to make out that the charge was worse than it really was. He had during his first speech on the subject given way to Mr. Allen to enable him to make his position quite clear, and this was what his Hansard proof said. Mr. Allen said- "The doctor advised that it would be unwise, on account of the shattered health of the men, to bring them by the cold southern route. The Premier was so advised, and, notwithstanding that advice, he said they must go to Inver- 