wholesale manner. He was followed by the demand for public works is very much in the honourable member for Riccarton, who is direction of the demand of the British people nominally a member of the Government party, for increased expenditure in the expansion of and he, in an able speech, dealt very adversely Imperialism, and in regard to the war in South with the Government finances. Sir, I am not Africa in which Britain is now engaged. What going to appear as an apologist for the Govern- did Lord Salisbury say the other day in the ment, but I am going to draw honourable mem- House of Lords ? He made these remarks :- bers' attention to the parts of the Statement " The tendency to extravagance is increasing. which are worthy of their consideration ; and We have to protect ourselves, and pay the cost. before doing that I wish to give notice that it We have no choice. For years public opinion is my intention to move an amendment on the was in favour of a pacific policy, but now that motion before the House-an amendment in state of opinion has passed away. The tide has the direction of asking the Government to deal turned, and who am I or who are we that we with a State bank of issue. I simply give should attempt to stem the tide? If the tide notice of this before I commence to deal with has turned we shall have to go with it. We the figures submitted to us. There is one are in the presence of forces far larger than we feature which, although I am a Government supporter, fills me with a great deal of alarm can wield." The Government are in the same position in connection with the Financial State- with regard to the public demand for large ment, and that is the abnormal rate at public works expenditure on roads and railways. which borrowed money is being piled up in this The tide can scarcely be controlled, but I here colony. Our times of prosperity will pass throw out a word of warning. The Government and the House has a duty to perform, and that is to put some check and limit on public works expenditure, or the result will be disaster so pronounced that the colony will be unable to bear the strain. I commend my remarks with regard to the public works expenditure to other members who may speak for other parts of the colony ; but I feel that, while the public works expenditure may be demanded by the country, we are going at a pace that in the near future we may have great reason to regret, and we may find it necessary to make still further sacri- tices in order to prevent " unemployed " difficul- ties and bad times of depression in this colony. I am sorry, Sir, I have not time to go into other matters, your bell having rung me down ; but I https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 have dealt with those subjects that I feel the colony has a deep interest in, and will reserve my remarks on other subjects to a future occa- / http://www.hathitrust. org/access\_use#cc-zero Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) .- Sir, I be- sion. lieve the orthodox procedure is to get up and say, " At this late hour I shall not detain the House at any length." However, this after- noon I have not even that bald excuse to bring forward. I rise to express my opinions as briefly as possible on the estimates that have been put before us, and also on the Statement and balance-sheets that have been submitted for us to discuss. I have listened with a great deal of interest to the remarks of previous speakers, and their very able criticism against the balance-sheet that we are considering. In this connection I feel that we on the Govern- Inent side of the House are placed in a very invidious position. Owing to the weakness of the Opposition we are compelled to criticize the estimates and the Financial Statement, with the view of discovering their weak points and condemning them, and, if neces- sary, voting against them. After all, there appears to be very little opposition to the Go- vernment measures from the so-called Opposi- tion. The first speech that impressed me during this debate was the speech delivered by the honourable member for Bruce, in which in very vigorous and powerful language he condemned away, and adversity will overtake us -lean years will succeed fat ones - and if we do not preparo for adversity now it will be all the worse for us when it comes. Instead of heaping up bor- rowed money, and keeping the colony in a more or less inflated state by means of it, we ought to taper off. Instead of borrowing now more than we did ten years ago, we ought to borrow less. I am aware of the fact, for instance, that to keep the Railway Department in a state of efficiency it was necessary to give the Minister power to borrow money to replenish his stock of trucks and other rolling-stock. The result has been that we find only about half the number of complaints which we had last year from farmers and merchants regarding the shortage of trucks. In analysing the balance-sheet that has been put before us I will endeavour to be as brief and as fair as possible, because I do not think that any man should occupy the time of this House for an hour unless he has, shall I say, something worth saying; and, without being egotistical, I think I can say that I have some- thing worth telling honourable members. The honourable member for Riccarton drew a com- parison covering ten years, and it is my inten- tion to do the same. I find the following to be the result : The Civil List has increased from 425.081 in 1891 to $29,000 in 1901, being an increase of €4,000, which is just about in ac- cordance with our increased population. We find, however, that the charge for legislative expenditure has increased from $15,499 to £25,265, being an increase of €9,666, or about 60 per cent. We find that the Colonial Secre- tary's Department has increased from $76,000 to $110,000, which is an increase, in round numbers, of 40 per cent., both of which in- creases are too large altogether. The Colonial Treasurer's Department has also increased its expenditure by 20 per cent .; and altogether the total increase in our charges on the permanent appropriations of Government and annual ap- propriations since 1891 has been $1,345,596, or an increase of 31 per cent. An Hon. MEMPER .-. For what period ? 