so far, good work had been performed. There was, undoubtedly, a great disadvantage in having an hour fixed for adjournment. It enabled members who wished to obstruct the business to talk against time, so that the business in hand could not be concluded when the House rose. The only remedy for that was to adopt the closure, or to fix no hour for adjournment. If no hour was fixed, it would then be a question of physical endurance, which he did not like. Such a method was not bene- ficial to the health of members, nor did it tend to good legislation ; but, unfortunately, it was sometimes the only way out of the difficulty. He appealed to members to retain the morning sittings. The experiment should be given a further trial. Up to the present it had been fairly satisfactory, and he would be sorry to see it abandoned. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) wished to say that the motion moved by the Premier met with his full and entire approval, and he would give the honourable gentleman every assistance to carry it into effect. He considered that the morning sittings had been a failure. He was a man of regular habits. He had regular hours of going to bed and regular hours of rising, and these morning sittings did not suit him at all. The old system suited him much better than the new one. His friend the honourable member for Franklin and he were always freshest about three or four o'clock in the morning. Mr. MASSEY .- About four o'clock. Mr. FISHER said it was a case of the survival of the fittest. The most intellectual members remained to that hour to do the intellectual https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 work of the country, the member for Franklin and himself included. He could not see how the business of the country could be carried on effectively if the House adjourned at mid- / http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero night. He would therefore oppose the mo- tion of the honourable member for Nelson City. It afforded him very great pleasure to announce to the House that he entirely agreed with the action of the leader of the House, who was the best judge as to the most expeditious method of conducting the business. hoped that the House would adopt the Pre- mier's motion. He did not agree with the honourable member for Masterton that morning sittings had been an unexampled success. They had interfered with the business of the House, and he hoped that the motion would be carried, minus the addition proposed by the honour- able member for Nelson City. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) expressed surprise at the remarks of the honourable gentleman who had just preceded him. Any one who visited the House about three or four o'clock in the morning towards the end of the session would find not more than a score of members present. Where were the other members ? Some were in other parts of the building, and many of them were in bed. If they were to have good legislation they would not get it at four o'clock in the morning, when members were physically and mentally exhausted. He Mr. Hogg scind the morning sittings, and he would also support the addition, moved by the honourable member for Nelson City, to provide for the House rising at midnight. There could be no doubt that morning sittings had been a failure. An important part of the business of the House was Committee-work, which had been com- pletely disorganized. The public, when they found all other doors of redress closed to them, appealed by petition through their members to Parliament. They came from the north, the south, the east, and the west, and many of them had to wait in Wellington for weeks before their petitions could be heard. The country was very often put to great expense in connection with witnesses. Just now a peti- tion was before the M to Z Committee referring to an important matter. Witnesses had come from Auckland in connection with it, and heavy expenses were being incurred. He recollected on one occasion of hearing a petition the ex- penses of witnesses alone being over £200. Those long delays debarred the public from coming to the House with their petitions. As Chairman of the Public Petitions M to Z Committee, he would support the motion of the Premier. He did not agree with the re- marks of the honourable member for Master- ton, that it was no inconvenience to Commit- tees to have morning sittings. Petitions had accumulated, and members were coming to him asking when petitions presented by them would come before the M to Z Committee, of which he was Chairman. That Committee had so much work on hand that he had to reply that it would probably be three weeks before they could be dealt with. It was abso- lutely necessary that Committees should be allowed to sit on at least four mornings in the week. Members could not be expected to sit on Saturdays and Mondays: they had their correspondence to attend to, Ministers to inter- view, Bills to read, and other matters to attend to. Ministers were differently situated ; they had their Private Secretaries - some one, and some as many as five. Any member who did his work honestly was engaged not eight hours, He but fourteen hours a day. If the House closed at twelve o'clock midnight, honourable mem- bers would spend ten hours in both Commit- tees and the work of the House, and he thought they should not be expected to daily breathe a vitiated atmosphere for a longer time than that. As for the honourable member for Masterton, he could on Saturdays get to his home by train in a couple of hours ; but that was not so in the case of the Canterbury, Otago, Southland, and Auckland members. Is was all very well for that honourable member to urge the continu- ance of the morning sittings and the late sit- tings when he could get into the country once a week. He (Mr. Meredith) hoped the House would rise to the occasion by supporting the amendment of the honourable member for Nelson City to rise punctually at midnight. He regretted that the Premier had complained of failing health. Mr. SEDDON .- I did nothing of the kind., 