dulgence to me during my absence, which I hope will not extend beyond the coming week. "G. MAURICE O'RORKE." Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - I am sure, Sir, that courtesy will be extended to our worthy Speaker. We are delighted to know that he is on a fair way to recovery, and we shall be glad to have him with us again. # DEPARTMENTAL STATEMENTS IN HANSARD. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER had to state that the Railways Statement and the Mines State- ment were laid on the table of the House, one on the previous day and the other that afternoon ; but as there was a standing rule that those documents were not to appear in Hansard unless a motion to that effect was carried, he would ask the honourable gentle- men who laid those documents on the table whether they desired that they should appear in Hansard. " > Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) thought it was important that the Railways Statement and the Mines Report should appear in Hansard ; and he desired to move that the Railways Statement should appear in Hansard at the end of the financial debate, and his colleague would similarly move to have the Mines Report included. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why ? Sir J. G. WARD .- If it came right in be- tween members' speeches it would stop the whole sequence of the financial debate, which he did not think would be generally approved by honourable members. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) asked where the Railways Statement was? The House had not got it. Sir J. G. WARD said he had laid the Rail- ways Statement on the table early in the afternoon. He had received a note that the Government Printer hoped to have members' copies circulated that evening. They had been detained on account of a plan attached to one particular return requiring to be re-litho- graphed. It had been simply an accident, and he was advised that the moment this was done the Statement would be circulated. The whole two thousand copies of the Statement were finished in the Printing Office on the previous day. The Printing Office was not responsible for the delay, but the hitch in connection with the lithographing of a plan had necessitated the re-lithographing of it, and it had to be in its proper place. Captain RUSSELL asked, as a point of order, if the House had any right to accept, as a public document to be printed in Hansard, a report which was not in the possession of members. The report, they were told, had been laid on the table of the House, but he was really beginning to doubt if it had been laid on tho table. At any rate, it appeared that the document laid on the table was not the docu- ment members were subsequently to have in their possession. Mr. Deputy. Speaker Captain RUSSELL said they had been told it was to be altered. It might be a matter of lithographing or something of that sort, but, at any rate, the report has gone from the cus- tody of the officers of the House, and the docu- ment to be submitted to members was not the same document that the honourable gentleman had laid on the table Sir J. G. WARD said, Yes, the document was exactly the same. He could assure the honour- able gentleman he was mistaken. Captain RUSSELL said he had been in- formed by his friend on the right that the report was still on the table, and, if so, that modified his contention. However, he con- tended that the report passed out of the custody of the officers of the House, and went into the custody of the Printing Department, and there- fore did not properly remain as a document in the possession of the House. Under those cir- cumstances the House had no right to deal with any document that did not remain on the table or in the custody of the officers of the House. He did not agree with any deviation from proper parliamentary practice. When a document was in the possession of the House it ought not to be altered. This document had been laid on the table, and the Minister had no right to withdraw it from the table without the consent of Parliament. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said he was in- formed by the Clerk that the original document which was laid on the table of the House on the previous day was still on the table. Captain RUSSELL said it was not the one that was to come into the possession of honour- able members. Sir J. G. WARD said, Yes, it was exactly the same one. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the order of the House was that the document was to be printed, and the document that was laid on the table was the document that would be printed. Sir J. G. WARD said the honourable member for Hawke's Bay was quite mistaken. The Railways Statement which was laid on the table of the House was printed before he laid it on the table, and it had all the plans of every kind attached to it, and the Statements to be given to honourable members would be exactly the same in every detail as the document that was laid on the table. There had been no sending of the report back to the printers. It was printed, and the copy he laid on the table remained in the House. What had occurred was that something in the lithographic office in connection with one of the lithographic plans went wrong, and the balance of the printed Statements could not be circulated until all the plans were attached to it. It was an accident. the result of which was that the required number of copies could not be produced for circulation among members. The lithographie block had to be adjusted in order to have it the same as the copy that was laid on the table of the House. The honourable member, in his de- sire to uphold the forms of the House, had 