was his intention to move a further amendment, because he ventured to believe this would be carried. There was a much more genial climate than that of Auckland to be found in this colony, and there was no danger in the locality he referred to that members would suffer from bubonic plague or other evils that had been present in Auckland City. He would move, That Palmerston South be in future the seat of Government, which was a charming spot, very healthy, and beautifully situated. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) said it would serve the Government jolly well right if those honourable gentlemen who sat with him took up the rest of the afternoon in useless, idle talk. No doubt this amendment by the honour- able member for Parnell had been inspired for some strategic purpose, and for the acting. leader of the House to express a devout wish that there should be no useless discussion, and that they should get on with the business, when the object of the amendment was so obvious on the face of it ; was simply humbug. It would serve him jolly well right if the House took up the gage and prevented them a little further from going into Supply. There were no points in such tactics. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) was bound to say there were no points in these tactics. He did not mind being outpaced in tactics, using the phrase employed by the Minister for Rail- ways a few days ago, but he objected to be con- sidered a fool who could be taken in by such an obvious device as this. It would -to use his colleague's expression - serve the Government jolly well right if the House devoted all the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 afternoon and all the night to debating this amendment. That would settle the question whether it was wise of the Government to put up a member of the Government party to move such an amendment in future. He was quite prepared to go into Committee at once, without any nonsense of this kind, but let them treat the business of the House in a business- like way. He had a little bag of tricks which he could use when wanted; but he objected to being written down an ass. He knew as much of the forms and tactics of the House as any one, and if half a dozen mem- bers took it into their heads to keep this matrer going the whole afternoon no one would be to blame but the instigators of the amendment, whoever they might be. He knew the honourable member for Parnell had his uses, and he supposed this was one of them. But, if they were going to select a more suitable place in which to hold the sittings of Parlia- ment, why not go to the beautiful little City of Napier ? Many of them were now in a position to speak with authority of the suitability of Napier. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay). - We have a very fine Town Hall at Hastings. Mr. FISHER said the members to whom he referred had just visited the City of Hastings, and also Napier. They had carefully inspected each of those cities. They had also inspected ings of Napier eclipsed the attractions of them all. Why, the very streets of Napier, on which the traffic was conducted, were far superior to the so-called footpaths of Wellington. There were avenues of trees, there was the Marine Parade, there was the superb Cathedral, a delightful seashore; and how could anything truthfully be said of the Empire City after a visit to the City of Napier? He was not jest- ing. If one wanted a change which would delight the hearts of every member, let them have one year's session at Napier. The honour- able member for Napier would, he felt sure, lend every aid to the proposal. The next time the honourable member for Parnell had any such suggestion to make he would recommend him to consult those he thought he was going to delude, and they might give him a little useful advice. The honourable gentleman had played many parts. At one time he wanted the salaries of the Wellington members distinguished from the honorarium paid to other members. He was sorry he had not proceeded further with that proposition when he brought it before the House. So far as he understood, there was no objection at all to the amendment, and the best thing they could do was to carry it ; that would carry out the wishes of the Government in suggesting an amendment which he understood the honourable member to say the Government wished him to propose that afternoon. His view was that there ought to be a change, and if there was to be a change they ought to go to Napier. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) objected to the Government putting up one of their own sup- porters to intercept Supply at a time when the House was prepared to go on with business, and for more reasons than one. One reason was that this was the day set apart by the Standing Orders for the business of private members, and the Government ruthlessly took from the private members that privilege. There was more in the discussion started by the Government in this way than merely the amendment moved by the honourable member for Parnell, because members would know that every subject could be debated on a motion to go into Supply, even without an amendment, and by putting up one of their supporters to move this amendment they invited discussion, not on the amendment alone, but on the whole proceedings of Parliament and every- thing connected with it. If there had been any tendency shown on the part of members to move an amendment on going into Supply, there might have been some excuse for what the Government had done. But, after the Speaker had put the motion, not a single mem- ber made any attempt to intercept Supply. Surely that ought to have been a sufficient lesson to the Government. Yet in spite of that they put up one of their faithful sup- porters, who would not even contradict the statement that it was done to please the Government-to cause what they must know would be a useless discussion and waste of time of the House. There might be points in it 