157,000 Remissions of Customs duties Railway concessions (see page xii., Fi- nancial Statement) 165,000 Postal concessions. . 75,000 . . . . Old-age pensions 215,000 . . Contingents (expended during last 82,000 financial year) .. Imperial troops 5,000 Visit of Duke and Duchess of Cornwall 50,000 Tranferred to Public Works 500,000 .. £1,249,000 Now, there is a sum of £1,249,000 which the Government have remitted on the one hand and paid out of the ordinary revenue of the country on the other. Now, why did not the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar), and the honourable member for Wai- rarapa (Mr. Hornsby) refer to these concessions and to this extraordinary expenditure? And I ask that, as they did not in previous years, and as they did not in their speeches delivered during this debate, refer to these matters, will they say now whether they object to the Customs remissions, or to the votes for the contingents, for the Imperial troops, or for the visit of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall? Do they object to the transfer of £500,000 from ordinary revenue for the carrying-on of public works? What do these honourable gentlemen want ? They do not express them- selves with sufficient clearness. The honour- able member for Napier, I think, touched the point. Do they aim at the formation of a new party, or do they think of joining this remnant of the old Opposition party? Sir, one of the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 most fortunate things that has happened to this most fortunate Premier, the Right Hon. Mr. Seddon, is that the honourable member for Hawke's Bay has been leader of the Opposition for many years past. Sir, I am reminded of two parallel cases, one when Sir Robert Stout was Premier and Sir Harry Atkinson leader of the Opposition, the other when Sir Harry Atkinson was Premier and Mr. Montgomery leader of the Opposition. The closer of the two is that of Sir Harry Atkinson as Premier and Mr. Montgomery as leader of the Opposition. Sir Harry Atkinson's Premiership was assured as long as Mr. Mont- gomery remained leader of the Opposition, and so is the position of the present Premier assured as long as Captain Russell remains leader of the Opposition. Well, I say, are these gentlemen waiting for the formation of a new party ? Are they ready to jump? What are they waiting for? All they are doing now is that they are aiding these disorganized political tatterdemalions - the remnant of the old Opposition-who are fit only to rank, in the Pickwickian sense, with Falstaff's ragged regiment. The member for Hawke's Bay referred the other day to a scene in Mozart's "Don Giovanni," in which Don Juan, who is described as a sceptic and a libertine, is feasting with his friends at a gorgeous banquet. He insults the memory of Commandant Ulloa, whom he had slain, and Mr. Fisher erected to Ulloa. During the carousal the statue enters the banquet-hall, seizes Don Juan, and disappears with him in an atmo- sphere of sulphur and blue flame. But the picture was not completed. Suppose Don Juan (Seddon), the libertine and betrayer, to vanish in a cloud of blue flame, who is to succeed him ? An Hon. MEMBER .- Chaos. Mr. FISHER .- His name may be " Chaos," but it will not be Captain Russell, for Captain Russell is destined no more to lead a party in this House. Twice has Captain Russell been a Minister of the Crown in this country. He was first a Minister of the Crown for six days in the year 1884-from the 28th August to the 3rd September. He was again a Minister of the Crown for fifteen months in the years 1889-90, his appointment as a Minister on that occasion being brought about by an intrigue which resulted in utter disaster to that Minis- try and with consequences lamentable to its Premier, Sir Harry Atkinson. If it be thought that I speak harshly of Captain Russell, I ask the members of his party to listen to an ex- tract I am about to read from a leading article which appeared in the Christchurch Press of the 8th March of the present year. The Press, it should be understood, is the authoritative exponent of Conservative opinion throughout this country, and I call particular attention to this opinion, - this strong opinion,-because, coming from such a quarter, it carries with it a peculiar value and a peculiar weight. This is the extract from the article : - "There is no organized Opposition party and there is no Opposition leader. On this latter point there is some misapprehension in the public mind - a misapprehension sedulously encouraged by Mr. Seddon for his own ends. A little explanation on the subject will there- fore not be out of place. For six years Captain Russell was the recognised leader of the Opposi- tion, and received the loyal support of his party. At the beginning of last session it was intimated to him that his services were no longer required in that capacity. The function of a leader is to lead, and in this quality Captain Russell has proved himself deficient. He has many excellent traits in his character, but they are not such as to enable him to fill the position of a political leader with advantage. The innocent way in which he 'fell in' when the net was laid for him by the 'slim' tactics of the Premier was at first amusing, but it soon became exasperating to those of his own side. If deportment could storm a political fortress or defeat a 'slim' politican, Captain Russell would have been irresistible. He reminds us of the cha- racter in melodrama who is, or used to be, known as 'the walking gentleman.' A ' walking gentleman ' has never yet been in- trusted with 'leading business' on any stage in this world. It is not to be wondered at that the Opposition, after six years' fighting, and being continually robbed of its fruits by the ineptitude of its leader, should last session have 