course, well known to any one who has looked cablegrams in our papers that the producers in into the subject that the land - tax and the Australia are agitating in that direction. There mortgage-tax-which is really a part of the are very few people in the colony at the present land tax-is very much heavier in proportion time. with the exception of merchants and than the income-tax. Take, for instance, the business-men, who have any idea of the im- case of two men, each owning, say, £8,000 : one mense amount of business that we have been man puts his money into Government deben- doing with Sydney. I have looked up the tures at the current rate of interest-namely, figures for last year, so far as agricultural pro- 4 per cent. You will find that the tax works duce is concerned, and I intend to put some of the more important items on record. For the out in this way : #8,000 at 4 per cent. gives an annual return of £320. The exemption is year 1900 we exported- $300, so he will be taxed 6d. in the pound on $20, making a tax of 10s. per annum. Potatoes Let us suppose that the other man lends his Malt money on land, also at 4 per cent. The man Oats who lends his money on landed security will Wheat have to pay a mortgage-tax of 1d. in the pound Maize on $8,000, making £33 6s. 8d. per annum. Beans and peas When the two taxes apply it works out in Barley this way: One is taxed, as I have said, 6d. Flour in the pound ; while the other, on the 4 per- Bran cent. basis, is taxed no less than 2s. 1d. in Bacon the pound. Now, Sir, the Treasurer tells Cheese us in his Statement that it is necessary Onions to recoup in one direction what is lost in Butter another. I admit the time is inopportune for Oaten meal suggesting anything in the way of reductions, Hides but if he wants to recoup in any direction he Grass-seed should reduce the exemption on the income- Tallow tax. A very small reduction would be sufficient Wool (greasy) . to make up for the loss of the mortgage-tax ; but such a reduction would tend to equalise Timber matters, which are very unequal at the present time. Then, there is a very peculiar paragraph Timber (logs) .. in the Statement with reference to federation I am afraid that on every one of these articles with Australia. It says this :- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 -which are nearly all free at the present time- "The tariff of the Commonwealth has not Customs duties will be charged, and to our dis- as yet been submitted; but, inasmuch as some advantage. Of course, it is not to be supposed eight million pounds is required to meet reve- that I consider timber, for instance, to be an nue requirements, it may be taken for granted agricultural product ; but it is an important that there will not be any serious altera- article of export, and one of particular im- tions in the Australian tariffs, nor is it likely portance to the Provincial District of Auckland. that the Federal tariff will materially affect I am not going to argue in favour of federation the trade relationship as between New Zea- with Australia, because I recognise that, rightly land and the Commonwealth. A cordial and or wrongly, a large majority of the people are friendly feeling exists between this colony and opposed to it at the present time. But what I the Commonwealth, and there is no foundation do say is this : that the farmers and producers for the fears of many that, because New Zca- of this colony should have been represented on land has not deemed it prudent to federate, the the Federation Commission in proportion to farmers of this colony will, in sending their their numbers and the importance of the in- products to Australia, be penalised." dustry, and such was not the case. I could Why, that is just the very reason there will have written out the report as soon as I saw be serious alterations, and especially with those who were to compose the Commission. I hope ports where we have been doing the largest the Farmers' Union-whose business it will be to see that justice is done to the farmers amount of business. It is well known that we have been doing an immense amount of busi- -will see that justice is done in such respects ness with Sydney, because, so far as we are as this, as well as in other matters-or, to concerned, Sydney was practically a free-trade quote the member for Avon, that "they will port : but the Commonwealth Act provides that know the reason why." A few years ago we were told that if we did not federate there within a certain time, which is specified-I would be no difficulty in arranging a reciprocal think it is two years from the inauguration of the Commonwealth - there shall be uniform tariff with the Commonwealth. We have not heard much, however, of reciprocity lately. I tariff rates in the different States ; consequently hope the matter has not been lost sight of, be- on many articles which are now free Customs duties will be levied, and this, I am afraid, will cause I am strongly of opinion that it would be an advantage both to this colony and to the especially be the case in connection with agri- cultural produce. We can hardly expect any- Commonwealth if arrangements were entered into for a free interchange of goods between the thing else, and already I have noticed from Value. £ 12,114 tons 21,120 .. 216,905 bushels .. 49,551 1,017,824 93,265 . . 84,551 9,201 . . 170,540 21,726 . . 36,993 5,632 9,739 81,178 570 tons 3,119 4,137 1,507 . 4,131 1,579 cwt. . . 13,144 30,523 2,735 25,554 1,525 6,680 25,072 centals .. 11,105 11,260 14,920 number 4,783 4,122 bushels .. . . 8,650 + 449 tons . 431,502 lb. 14,204 . . (scoured) 733 1b. 34 (un- dressed) .. 26,127,662 ft. 98,369 .. 10,120 ft. 30 . 