take extreme views and denounce people in a ment which was used to demarcate the boun- daries of their own country. The spectacle of way which would cause others to say that they were not fair-minded, using terms that he re- a huge portion of the African or Asiatic map gretted to see employed. It must be being painted red, green, or blue, as the case 9.0. admitted that Mr. W. T. Stead had might be, exercised a soothing effect upon their done great service to the weak and oppressed, nervous vanity, and operated as a kind of ex- hilarating dream upon their national pride." and was a very able man. All he could say was that the Government had done their best, as It that ? they thought, in the colony's interests. would be a fair thing to say that the Govern- able gentleman's point of view, but it proved ment had exceeded their powers in this ex- that the Premier's statement was incorrect. penditure, and to attack them on that ground ; The Premier stated that there had been a but the Parliament gave the Government change of policy in regard to the Review of $150,000 a year at the discretion of the Minis- Reviews, but the honourable gentleman was not try, without a vote, and if the Government candid enough to say that that change occurred brought this item before the House rather than after the January publication. He (Mr. Pirani) charge it to " Unauthorised " they were entitled had two issues in his hand, one with the name to credit rather than blame. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) said he was of Mr. W. T. Stead appearing as the English editor and the other without his name. not concerned at all about the amount of £260 ; what he was concerned about was that they should in any way countenance a paper that to was made in November. had Stead's name associated with it. It was all very well to say that this edition had nothing was wrong; the notification was published in February, and its terms were quite different to do with Stead, but that was merely a cun- ning move on Stead's part to maintain his from those quoted by the Premier. There, circulation in the colonies, for the people of however, was the fact : the January number had the Premier's article, and in it there were Australasia would have had nothing to do with articles by Mr. Stead, while in the number that a paper with his obnoxious name connected with it. He believed Stead, however, to be appeared two months later Mr. Stead's name did not appear at all. Then, the article which still the largest shareholder in it. If not, then he sold his interest at a very big price. Per- was written on Queensland was a well-written article, and in it there was not a single picture sonally, he had never had a copy in his house of a politician. In the number that contained since Stead had turned traitor. the article on New Zealand, however, there were Mr. SEDDON .- Why not go to another ex. five pictures of Mr. Seddon in different attitudes treme, and move to strike it off the library list ? Mr. T. MACKENZIE said, If he had the -vignette and full length-and in different cos- running of the library like the Premier he tumes -- summer dress, winter dress, and others. No wonder, indeed, that the Premier said the would do so. It was natural for members to feel indignant that the money of the country Rev. Mr. Berry was a talented writer ; but he should be paid to any magazine connected with was far more talented in the selection of the subject of his illustrations. the name of a man like Stead. The thing would have been quite complete if Grattan might be, what he wished to say was that Grey had been hired to write the article. It there was great objection to money being had been proved that Labouchere had received spent in this way. It was all very well for the Premier to speak about such an article being Boer money to betray the interests of Great Britain. What was the result of the action of an advertisement for the colony, but, as & pro-Boers like Stead and Labouchere? It en- matter of fact, if there was a useless way to couraged the Boers to continue the fight, and advertise the colony it was in such a way as this. No publication in the world would insert resulted in the loss of valuable lives. Mr. PIRANI ( Palmerston) said the Premier as an interesting article for its readers one that had challenged any member to produce an was full of advertisements of one prominent man. On the face of it the article bore the article of a pro-Boer tendency from this edition impress of an advertisement. The article on of the Review of Reviews. In the very copy at Queensland, on the other hand, was not an ad- present under discussion there were two such articles -one, written by Mr. W. T. Stead, vertisement for any prominent politician, but reviewing the past century, which was stronger an advertisement for the colony itself. in its statements than anything in any other to Parliament that members should speak in number, and another written by a lady in praise the way the member for Wellington City (Mr. of the Boers. Fisher) and the member for Riccarton had done Mr. SEDDON .- No. Mr. PIRANI said he would read an extract in of Mr. Stead. proof of what he said :- made a great impression on the people of Great " The victims of the hallucination that Britain and the civilised world. He was a man England should dominate Africa imagined that who had defended the weak against people who were living and gloating on the depravity of in some mysterious way they became happier, and their Empire became stronger, if they were the poor ; yet the member for Waihemo and allowed to take a paint-brush and colour the others spoke about him in a way that led one to think they would rend him in pieces if they map of other continents with the same pig- Mr. BARCLAY .- What is the matter with ! \--- Mr. PIRANI said, Nothing from the honour- \- - Mr. SEDDON said the notification he alluded Mr. PIRANI said the honourable gentleman However that Mr. HOGG (Masterton) said it was no credit Mr. Stead was a man who had 