occasion as he could have done, that gentleman and two others, his confederates, would have been kept in seclusion by the Government for a time. And if the honourable member opposite would dare to say outside what he had said inside the House, he would take a course that would prevent repetition. He dare not say even within the precincts of the House what he had stated in Committee. As it was, he would treat him with contempt. Now he was going to read the honourable member a com- munication. This was to Colonel Davies :- "I have asked Commandant to see doctor with contingents, and have told him that any members of troops likely to be detrimentally affected by cold, or who are not sufficiently strong to go to Bluff, may be allowed to land in Dunedin. " R. J. SEDDON." Then, he had another communication to Colonel Penton, Dunedin :- " See doctor with contingents. Any mem- bers of contingent likely to be detrimentally affected by cold, or who are not sufficiently strong to go to Bluff, may be allowed to land in Dunedin. "R. J. SEDDON." He again repeated that the question that arose whilst the "Tagus" was at Albany was as to whether she should go to the Bluff or to Dunedin. The Admiralty decided they must go to Dunedin ; and she went there, and there the matter ended, and no communication from either Colonel Davies or any one else could alter the situation or facts. It was the Bluff or Dunedin, and nowhere else. They did not go to the Bluff ; they went to Dunedin, and the men who were ill landed at Dunedin. If they had come to Wellington they would have had to send all the men to their homes -to Dunedin, or Invercargill, or elsewhere in the South Island. It was never intended to keep them in Wellington, and for the honourable member to state what he had stated against him (Mr. Seddon) was monstrous. He was not one of those who was going to put up with the honour- able gentleman or any one else saying a thing of that sort. Another communication he would mention. It was one to his colleague ; it was not usual to mention these matters, but on an occasion of this kind it was only right to do so. The telegram he had sent was :-- " Dr. De Latour telegraphs that there is danger to health in the men of the contingents having been sent to Invercargill, and having to go in trains, &c. See that the men are well cared for, housed, and fed ; and especially see to their warmth on the train, even though blue or red blankets are borrowed or bought to be used as rugs. And I would not get out at too many stations, but get train through as soon as possible. "R. J. SEDDON." That was what he had done, that was the way he had met the situation, and he was sure that no one could be more careful or more vigi- lant than he had been. Even if the men had landed at Wellington they would have had to be sent to the South Island ; and the question between the owners and the Government was Invercargill or Dunedin. The owners were Mr. Seddon willing to go to Dunedin, and instructions were to go to the Bluff. He could only say again, as far as the estimates were concerned, that he was desirous to see the first item put through, and for what had happened now he was not respon- sible. The honourable gentleman had stopped the House from going on with finance, and he could only again add, Was the opportunity a right one, a fitting one, or a proper one to bring up this question? If it had been done delibe- rately with forethought and with premedita- tion, was it proper that it should be brought up without the slightest warning. The honour- able member had accused him wilfully, he could not say maliciously, but certainly without the slightest foundation, and he had used language which, if challenged at the time, he would have been compelled to apologize for, or he would have been expelled from the House. He re- gretted that no one had taken notice of the matter at the time by moving that the words be taken down. That opportunity had been lost. This was his (Mr. Seddon's) fourth speech, and the honourable gentleman had the right of reply. He hoped that reply would be what it ought to be-a withdrawal of the statements made and an abject apology to the House. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) said it was of no use to obscure the matter. The communication he referred to was not the communication the Premier had read, and had nothing to do with it. The communication he referred to was one sent to the Premier from Albany on the recommendation of the doctor. He did not know the exact words, but it informed the Pre- mier that it would be unwise-that was the very mildest word-unwise for the troops to re- turn by the cold southern route. The reply to that was that they must go to Invercargill. That was the communication he referred to. A good many members on the other side of the House had said a good many hard things about him, but he had borne them with patience, and he asked the House in fairness now to get the Premier to consent to a thorough inquiry. And if he was wrong about this com- 12.0. munication from Albany to the Pre- mier, then he would apologize to the House and to the Premier. He asked for a thorough inquiry, that papers and witnesses should be called, and if he could not prove that that com- munication was sent, as he said it was, and that the purport of it was that the ship should not go by the southern route at all, but should go by a warmer route, he would apologize. Honourable members had accused him of say- ing harsh things, but they had overlooked the fact of the harsh things that had been said by the Premier about the Hon. Mr. Rolleston in connection with the Poverty Bay mas-acre. In the course of the debate that night the Pre- mier had said some very harsh things about him (Mr. Allen). He had told the House, how- ever, that it was not on account of any harsh things that had been said concerning him that he had made this charge against the Premier. He had made it that night because he had not had the opportunity of doing so in the financial debate. 