the Premier's salary-all these are going up, and the only thing that is going down is the population of the colony. Well, after the rise, the fall ; after the boom, the slump ; after the " fizz " and big cigar, Worcester sauce-which is, I understand, a famous pick-me-up in certain parts of the colony-and the hump. Mr. SEDDON .- Elliman's embrocation ! Mr. HUTCHESON .- I am informed that on the West Coast, after a prolonged spree, a bottle of Worcester sauce or Painkiller, neat, is con- sidered a good pick-me-up. Now, I have just a few words of criticism with reference to the management of the railways. I believe the management of our railways is in competent hands. Whilst we have had an increase in re- venue from the railways, 1 may point out that I do not think sufficient prominence has been given to the fact that there has also been in- creased expenditure as well as an increase in the revenue ; but, as my time is very limited, I will not open that question just at present. There is one small question of detail I would like to submit for the consideration of the Minister for Railways. He is now building a suite of hand- some offices adjacent to Cable's foundry, in Wellington. The train emerges from the rear of those buildings, and the corner of the build- ings immediately contiguous to the railway will be an acute angle, so that the train will emerge from behind the corner of the buildings without the slightest warning to passers-by. That will be a very dangerous place. When the new building is completed it will completely hide the train while it is behind it, and render that crossing exceedingly dangerous. I suggest to the Minister https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 for Railways that, in order to prevent the loss of human life, or, at least, some ghastly accident, he will, without undue delay, place a crossing- keeper there. One of the objections of the Premier to the recently much-talked-of shelter- sheds was that there was a danger of accident at the railway-crossing at that place; but the danger will be much greater at the place I have just referred to when the new buildings are erected, for they will even deaden the noise of the approaching train, as well as hide it from view. I do not want to make any capital out of this, nor to reflect on any Minister or head of department, but I simply wish to point out the danger that it means to the public. Now let us have a look at the Savings-bank. There has been so many barometers and ther- mometers and anemometers brought forward in this debate that I am almost afraid to refer to this institution-the Savings-bank-as another alleged barometer of the prosperity of the public. The member for Napier, Mr. Fraser, in " slang-whanging " some of the recalcitrant members of the Government party in his speech the other evening, was very emphatic about the thermometer indications of the Budget ; every- thing was a thermometer with him. The member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar), when speaking about the condition of some of the mines of the colony, said the expert was unable to discover any indication on his anemometer- that is, I suppose, as regards the ventilation of Mr. Hutcheson as another barometer - a barometer of the pro- sperity of the people. Indeed, it is one of the finest institutions that there could possibly be. It is of great advantage to the people, and a wonderful assistance to the Government. It is the finest little nest-egg the Government could possibly have. But the question occurs to my mind, Suppose there should occur any little panic? Let us suppose some stupid, groundless alarm impelled the people to lift their money out of the Bank. Have the Go- vernment got the money to give them ? How much ? I will tell the House what I think the Savings-bank really is, and what inference I draw from the Postmaster - General s state- ment. The Budget tells us the deposits of sums up to £100 have increased since 1890 by 97-97 per cent .; deposits between $100 and $200 by 135.22 per cent .; between $200 and $300 by 242.94 per cent .; and above $300 by 218.54 per cent. Well, it is the easiest matter possible for people of wealth, after placing most of it on permanent investment, to keep a cur- rent account of #500 at the Post-Otce Savings- Bank. They have the advantage of being able to work on it as a current account, while at the same time they get interest on it as a deposit. There is nothing wrong about that. I do not say for a moment that it is not com- mendable, and that it is not good both for the depositor and the Government; but I would like to locate things. I want to know whether the Savings-bank is a barometer of the pro- sperity of the great mass of the people, or whether it is a prosaic, unsentimental business institution like any other bank in the colony, that indicates nothing more than that people have invested their money in it for the pur- pose of getting interest on it from the Go- vernment. At any rate, I venture to say that not 1 per cent. of the more highly skilled artisans is able during the whole course of his working life to save more than £100 solely from his wage-earnings. By the time he comes to have a deposit of nearly $100 he has fixed on a piece of suburban land on which to build a home for himself and his family, and the money is then withdrawn. I would like to know how many small trust accounts have been placed in the Savings-bank, and how many emergency accounts of friendly societies there are ? All these sums go to swell the total amount of the deposits. This table, therefore, is unsatisfactory, inasmuch as it does not give the essential facts to enable us to tell the real value of the institution as a barometer of public prosperity. It does not tell the num- ber of depositors of from $1 to $5. of from $5 to £10, of from #10 to $15, and so on. It classifies them all under the general term of " Depositors under $100," and there it leaves them. But I have analysed it for myself. What do I find ? I find that in New Zealand, with a population of 772,719, there was, according to the Statement, deposited on the 31st December last the sum of $5,809,552, which amounts to $7 10s. 4d. per head of the population. That is wondrous prosperity ; that is a clear indication 