posed by the Hon. Mr. Twomey was at first sight more properly placeable in a Mining Com- panies Act. The Companies Bill, which we were considering, was more with respect to the audit and control of companies; but the clause my honourable friend wished to introduce went much further, and dealt with the regulation of goldfields by Wardens. At first sight I thought that that barred the introduction of the clause into this Bill. We are all aware that the Go. vernor is barred from giving his assent to Bills dealing with two subjects. I looked upon this proposal as dealing with a different subject, and I thought the honourable member should have an opportunity of testing the feeling of the Council by moving the motion he has now pro- posed, and thus to let the Council settle the question. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND .- Before we went into Committee it was pointed out, I think by the Hon. Colonel Pitt, that it would be a very great advantage if we provided, by an amend- ment of the Mining Acts, for a number of things which the Council, during the debate on the second reading of this Bill, indicated that it was in favour of. I may point out that we have put amendments in this Bill which are entirely out of place, and which will make this Bill as a Companies Act in many respects not nearly so workable a measure as it would have been other- wise. It is too late, I suppose, now to alter it, but I intend to vote against the third reading of the Bill, because I think that in the form in which it is now it is undesirable, and in many respects it is not an improvement on the present Companies Act. The Hon. Colonel PITT .- I understand that https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 the Hon. Mr. Twomey has moved this motion with the view of getting your ruling, Sir, as to whether the Chairman was right last night in rejecting the proposed clause which the Hon. Mr. Twomey wished inserted in the Bill. That ruling, I hope, we shall have from you. It will not help matters if we recommit the Bill and the honourable gentleman tenders the clause again to the Chairman of Committees, who, from what he has just said, may rule in the same way he did last night, and that ruling is only to be appealed against by reporting the matter to you, Sir. I can well understand that in the buzz practically of so many speakers last night, and at first sight, there may have been room for doubt in the mind of the Chairman of Committees whether this clause is relevant to the Bill or not. He stated it was one which should have been introduced into a Mining Companies Act ; but I would point out to the Council - and I say it with the utmost respect -- that the ruling of the Chairman of Commit- tees was wrong, because this is a Companies Bill, and, however objectionable the proposed clause might be as a provision in itself, still I think it is germane to the Bill before the Council. If a Mining Bill were before the Council, and it were proposed to introduce into that Bill a provision that no company should be registered under it, there, I submit, it would be manifest that it was irrelevant to the purpose and object of the Bill, and would be properly rejected in such a Bill as that. Here is a clause relating to companies. It says that no mining company shall hereafter be registered, et cetera; and, as I pointed out the other day, mining companies take advantage very largely of the Companies Act, and many of the most influential and the wealthiest mining companies in New Zealand are registered under the Companies Act. Therefore I submit, with the utmost respect to the ruling of the Chair- man of Committees, that the Hon. Mr. Twomey was in order in submitting that clause for the consideration of the Committee. As to the merits of the clause itself, of course that is another matter. If we can get your ruling now on the subject, I submit that would be the most convenient mode of dealing with it, and then honourable members will be able to vote as they think best as to whether the Bill should be recommitted or not. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- There is another reason why I think the Chairman of Commit- tees was in error in refusing the Hon. Mr. Twomey's amendment, and it is this : This Bill deals with the Companies Act and the Mining Act as well, because, as has been mentioned by other speakers, a large number of mining companies are registered under the Companies Act of 1882. This Bill deals with that Act and with Mining Acts as well. Previously to the ruling referred to three clauses distinctly affecting mining companies were accepted by the Chairman and incorporated in the Bill, but, when it came to a similar clause moved by the Hon. Mr. Twomey, that was rejected be- cause it dealt with mining companies. There- fore I think all those clauses were in the same category. If the Hon. Mr. Twomey's clauses ought not to have been submitted to the Com- mittee, then the other clauses I have men- tioned ought not to have been submitted. I think it is very desirable that we should have a definite ruling on the subject. The Hon. Mr. W. C. SMITH .- I think it is a pity that the usual course was not carried out in this matter -namely, that progress was not reported on the Bill, and your opinion, Mr. Speaker, taken on the subject. That is the usual course in another place, and I think it is the course we should adopt in this Council, because, Mr. Speaker, if you do not give your ruling now any member who wishes to move an amendment that is rejected by the Chair- man in Committee will be put in a very awk- ward position. He has, of course, to move for the recommittal of the Bill, which does not give him anything like such a good position as if the Bill was still in Committee. I think the honourable gentleman should have the op- portunity of moving the clause in Committee if it is a proper one. We know that in many cases members will not vote for the recom- mittal of a measure; but in this case I trust it will be allowed. I hope, Mr. Speaker, you will see your way to give your decision at once, and that the honourable gentleman will be put in the same position as he was in last night- that is, that he will be allowed to move his clause in Committee. I will not comment on 