let me tell you this: that the honourable mem- ber is entirely wrong in asserting that this man -whom he did not name, but whom I shall name-this alleged Maori king, Mahuta, is the King of the Maoris. The Maoris never knew of kings in their days, not at all ; there was no such things as kings. There were men of dif- ferent ranks, holding sway over their particular areas at that time, and over their particular people. I do not dispute that this alleged Maori king, this Mahuta, is a chief of some rank, but to be said he is King of the Maoris is absurd to any one who knows anything about it, excepting a small section who claim allegi- ance under him, and it is very, very small in- deed. How could other tribes look upon this particular individual as king of the Maori people ? Mr. CARROLL .- He is head of the Wai- katos. Mr. HEKE .- He is simply head of his own people in the Waikato district, and that is all. His influence is only centred in that particular locality, and nowhere else. I was going on to say that the people up in our part of the country in the North of Auckland had very good reasons to believe that he was no king, or that he was a member of a tribe that could for a moment assert that it had any superiority over our people. If we go back to the olden history of our country and people we will find that our northern tribes made raids right throughout his particular country, and defeated some of the very people that this alleged king represents ; and how could we look upon a man who belongs to a tribe that has been defeated by others to be King of the Maoris ? Not at all. Then, this king movement was never coun- tenanced by Ngapuhi. The honourable member goes on to claim that the ancestor of the alleged king, who is now Mahuta, ought to receive some consideration from the Government be- cause of his assistance to the pakehas in the early days. Well, this assistance might be all right, but it was not so very much. The assistance given by Potatau was nothing to be compared to the assist- ance given to the English Government by Tamati Wakanene. Now, the whole dissatis- faction of Mahuta and his people in this matter, as expressed by the honourable mem- ber, was not at all on account of Maori cus- toms being infringed, or anything of that kind ; it was not because the local people at Roto- rua did not send an invitation to the alleged Maori king, because I know as a fact that the meeting of the Arawa people, of whom Te Heuheu, Te Keepa, and others were present, sent a letter inviting the alleged Maori king to go to Rotorua. That was apart from any recommendation made from the Govern- ment to them to the same effect. Now, the intention of Kaihau and others in supporting Auckland was to claim a superior position for this alleged king-a position far and away ahead of any right he has. If the wish of the Waikato Maoris and of the alleged King Mahuta had been acceded to by the Govern- Mr. Hcke at all at Rotorua. All the tribes had made up their minds to this. We were not going to allow this so-called Maori king to claim any position of superiority that he has no right to. Therefore all the tribes of the east, west, and of the northern electorates and South Island agreed to support the Government in this : that they should come to Rotorua to receive their Royal Highnesses. They did not consider the inconvenience of travelling. No; they said this was an occasion where it was good for them to show their loyalty to the son of their King, not Mahuta, but King Edward VII., which they did; and I am proud to say they did it well. And in this respect I have already said outside of the House, and I repeat it again in this House, that the tribes who were repre- sented at Rotorua desire to convey to the Native Minister, the Premier, and the Govern- ment their thanks for the care and assistance throughout the whole of the performance. Although the Natives found they had to suffer little inconveniences, they put up with it gladly for the purpose of showing themselves before this high and august visitor whom they had the pleasure of seeing and doing .homage to. Sir, it tickles my fancy very much when I consider the claim made by the member for the Western Maori District on the part of the man who considered himself on a par with the King of the British Empire. Why, the grandparent of this man was only a man of third considera- tion when the new idea to create a Maori kinz was mooted. The first man who was noticed and called upon to accept the position is a man who belongs to the East Coast-the great and famous Te Kania Takirau. From here it was rejected. They sought Te Heuheu, the great chief of Taupo. It was also rejected, and it was only after this that it found its way to Waikato. The king idea was taken from the Bible and information supplied by Europeans. My people-the Ngapubis-never gave it their countenance. The Maori tribes throughout the colony never objected to this particular tribe going to Rotorua. If they desired to go to Auckland with their canoes no one ob- jected. My people never objected, and I never objected. But when I noticed that the member for the Western Maori District, and the alleged Maori king, Mahuta, were communicating with the Government, aided by Auckland, for the purpose of getting Mahata special recognition on the platform in Auckland. I stepped in, along with others, to notify the Government of the objection of our tribe. Our position was this : If the Government concede this position to Mahuta, then the meeting at Rotorua will not be recognised by our tribes. But here is the funny part of the whole thing : Instead of Waikato not being represented. in- stead of Mahuta not being represented at Rotorua, he was represented there by his own immediate relative Honana, an old chief of Wai- kato. An old connection of the king, his seere. tary, and a good many others, were all there paying homage to our Royal visitors. Mr. HERRIES .- Did they get medals ? 