the farmers are included under that Act, but I believe they are not included-that is to say, farmers pure and simple. But if the honour- able gentleman chooses to drive a threshing- mill, or shearing-machines, or erects machi- nery, of course he has got to run the risk of paying for accidents. But we know very well that it is hard to please certain people-you cannot hit them exactly where they like to be hit, and if you hit them in the wrong place they immediately say so. Then comes this extraordinary cry that the country is going to the dogs, and that this Bill is going to help it to go there. I deny that there is any connection between legisla- tion of this kind and what the honourable gentleman is referring to. The honourable gentleman is simply referring to a cry in which the wish is father to the thought. There is no reason for people to be more than ordinarily critical on matters of public expenditure ; more than is at any time exercised when the Treasurer has got to see that his receipts will overbalance his expenditure. There is no indication that the public credit is contracted in any shape or form ; and, while it is true there is a very large contraction in the value of the wool as exported Home, on the other hand there has been an enormous increase in the values realised for frozen sheep and for fat stock in the colony. I believe when the farmers make up their books this year they will find it has been probably one of the best years they ever had, because every hoof they could sell has realised perhaps · 20 per cent. more than could have been reason- ably reckoned on. And why should we not pride ourselves on the fact that our farmers have not got all their eggs in one basket ? Thirty-three years ago wool dropped to such an extent that we were nearly all ruined, simply because we had to trust to wool and nothing else ; but the condition of the farmers to-day is very different from the condition of the old squatters of those days; and if wool is lower, our expenses are lower. We manage our properties on different lines, and we have a great deal of other products which enable farmers now to make use of the products of the farm. So that, even though wool is reduced to the large extent to which the honourable gentle- man referred, I maintain the condition of the farmers to-day is not such as to point to uni- versal calamity, as the honourable gentleman apparently wished to prognosticate. As regards the Bill itself, I say it is a consolidation Bill. Really, the most of the opposition the Bill has met with has been to parts of the Bill which have been law, are the law at the present time, or have passed this Chamber on a previous occasion. The inclusion of offices, and the re- duction of their hours, is the law at the present time ; banks are already included in the legisla- tion of to-day; the new principle of paying overtime was introduced in the Council and carried last year. So that was not a new part of the Bill so far as the Council was concerned. I consider, therefore, that the Council in deal- ing with this Bill as regards offices has really Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker any shape or form commends itself, to my way of thinking, or that would make me understand why the opinion of the Council is so changed. Of course, an honourable gentleman like the Hon. Mr. Ormond, who has taken the oppor- tunity to get up and rail broadcast at labour legislation and labour unions, and the ideas of those who sympathize with labour, causes me no astonishment. Evidently he has been wait- ing an opportunity, and thinks now is a favour- able time for him to come and sail in on the top of the tide, as he thinks. But I take it he has made a great mistake. In the first place, he has made a mistake when he states his belief that the country up and down has come to the conclusion that labour legislation is a matter to be regretted, and that it is not only time to stop, but even time to go back and withdraw some of the legislation we have already got. I am afraid the honourable gentleman has natu- rally been led away by the fact that he lives in a district where labour is put on a very dif- ferent level from what it is in other parts of the colony. If Hawke's Bay were more of an industrial community the honourable gentle- man would know a great deal more about it than he does now. He, unfortunately, looks at subjects from his own point of view ; and perhaps he thinks that because Hawke's Bay, so far as he knows, does not want labour legis- lation the rest of the colony does not. But I can assure him he has no reason to think that that opinion is general. He seems to think that be- cause a certain case goes before the Board, or is before the Arbitration Court, and there are differences of opinion, therefore they are proofs of trade disturbance to a regrettable extent ; be- cause possibly there are difficulties to be dealt with which will make a material difference either to masters or employés. Of course, the very object of the Act is that these matters should be settled ; but because they are settled either one way or the other it does not prove anything except that an agreement has been arrived at, and we hope it will be a settlement for the best. I do not know any decision of the Boards or Courts yet in New Zealand which has done anything except to give a certain amount of fixity on the points at issue to both sides. because no award is given without a certain amount of time being attached to it for the currency of the award. And I have been in- formed that is one of the most satisfac- tory parts of all these matters-that both employer and employed know exactly where they are. I can quite understand the speech coming from the honourable gentleman as it has, for I am afraid I must take it as the speech of an honourable gentleman who does not believe in labour legislation at all. I am only giving the impression I received from his words, as the words of a man who does not believe in labour legislation, who thinks that everything should settle itself without reference to any- thing more than mere greed of the master or need of the man. We hoped when this legislation was first promoted, and we have since been hoping, that by consolidating existing 