of those companies are most highly respected citizens, and this is the first occasion on which their characters have been so publicly attacked. I say it is wrong that there should have been such general and sweeping statements made in reference to the character of the directors of these dredging companies, and no attempt made to discriminate between who are scoundrels and who are not. There has been a general attempt made in this Bill, so it is said, to protect the public. What is it the public want to be pro- tected from ? It is quite true that we have dealt with the management of directors, and we have put certain restrictions in the Bill to insure more careful management in the future. I have no objection to that. But what the dis- cussion was about lately was prospecting, and it was stated that we should get a Government Inspector to make a statement before a Magis- trate to the effect that the land in question was auriferous. The Hon. Mr. Jones pointed out that the ground could be bored and the statement referred to made before the Magistrate. I should like to call attention to the fact that you cannot bore rivers or prospect rivers, and very frequently it was found that we may have a highly auriferous piece of ground on one sec- tion of a river, and on the adjoining sections you may not get any gold, or very little gold. There is no possibility of legislating against such disappointment. There is one way in which the public, I think, could be pro- tected against disappointment, but that lies with the shareholders themselves. It is quite true that they buy a property, but they buy a property in regard to which the seller may have been quite mistaken as to its value. He may have made a certain examina- tion of the ground, and he may have come to certain conclusions ; but those conclusions may be quite wrong, although honestly formed. On those conclusions, however, a company is formed, and they accept the statements of the vendor. Now, what will protect the share- holders more than anything else is something that we cannot provide for, but they can do so themselves. Every company, before it enters on any contract, should expend from £50 to £100 in testing the ground before any further capital is called up, and so check the vendor's statements. That is a precaution which is abso- lutely necessary, owing to the hazardous charac- ter of the industry. Many months ago the Otago Daily Times advocated that all com- panies floated should do that ; and that is the only way by which shareholders can be pro- tected. They can then employ any expert they like to ascertain what is in the ground before entering on any contract; but they must do that themselves. We cannot legislate for that. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- I have spoken at such great length upon this Bill that I do not propose to trouble the Council more on the sub- ject, except to make a few remarks on what has fallen from the honourable gentleman behind me. I quite agree with him that to a certain extent little has been achieved by this Bill ; but I think we have achieved something, and we VOL. OXVIII .- 33. any means we can make it more difficult for these men, whoever they may be, who have promoted companies upon improper lines to do so, I think that will be a good thing ; but to say that this Bill is altogether worthless is to say too much. The Hon. Mr. Bolt says that very much depends upon the people themselves as to how they invest their money. I agree with that; but at the same time I think it is the duty of the Legislature to provide such machinery as will prevent as far as possible the repetition of some very improper transactions which have taken place in the last few months. The idea that it is possible to keep altogether clear of such transactions is ridiculous. All we can do is to minimise them. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I will not admit that this Bill has been passed in such a form as to render it a useless Bill, or an imper- fect or ill-considered Bill. The Bill was brought down very largely in order to bring our company law up to the level of the English standard, and that, I contend, has been effected. At all events, it is a very great improvement on our present law. Then, we have added to the Bill certain amendments which our experience clearly shows to us to be necessary. I think the amendments we have added to the Bill are improvements on the present law and improvements on the Bill ; but I do not think it is any reflection on the Council to say we have steadily refused to be moved by a sense of panic. Any legislation that would be instigated simply by that sort of feel- ing would be bound to be very unsound in its nature indeed ; and therefore I think it is very much to the credit of the Council that they have refused to take that view of the situation, and they have only endeavoured to put the- companies law on a sound and safe basis, and with such restrictions as experience shows ought. fairly to be added to the existing law. I deny that there is anything peculiar about the present position, except that a new crop of fools has- cropped up. As long as the world will go on there will always be these, and those who burn their fingers ; and no matter what legislation we pass, even with a Government expert to test the ground, there would be some means of floating the companies. Why? Only ask any honourable gentleman of experience. In a time of excitement people would not wait for the approval of a Government expert. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- They would be right into it. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- If they did not get right into it they would think they were badly treated. Really, one cannot help it. Human nature is human nature, and there is an end of it. I am sorry my friend opposite thinks the Bill is contradictory. I think I will be able to show, however, that the instance he gives as to the conflict of sections 29 and 31A and 32 is not right. It is simply that the honourable gentleman does not understand the clause. Section 29A provides : "The Official Liquidator and each Supervisor shall be entitled to such remuneration out of the assets of the company as is fixed by the Court." Of course, 