these people, at any rate, have contributed to Otago £347 2s. 7d., to 790 tenants, was remitted ; the value and welfare of the country. And they in Southland, £101 17s., to 206 tenants; in would do a great deal more if the Government Marlborough, £93 68. 2d., to 35 tenants ; and in had some better system of dealing with for- Nelson, £5 19s., to 42 tenants. In the Districts feited and surrendered sections ; but, in all of Auckland, Hawke's Bay, Taranaki, and West- these improved-farm settlements, when a section land no rebate was given during the last is forfeited an unnecessary amount of red-tapo financial year." has to be expended before they put it up for selection. Under the village-settlement system up. in Auckland in 1895 there were 236 selectors, who held 9,781 acres ; in 1901 there are 190 was not allowed by the Commissioner of Crown selectors, holding 7,837 acres, and they owe £515 Lands and Receivers of Land Revenue. The in rent. Village settlement, at any rate in Act gives these two officers the power to say "Yes " or " No." Auckland, has not been a success. In Taranaki in 1895 there were thirty selectors, holding 176 Bay ? acres ; in 1901 there are twenty-five, holding 101 acres. So that there, again, they are re- duced. . Well, if honourable members could Hawke's Bay :- only see the land that has been set apart for small holdings they would not be at all sur- unnecessary, as the Crown tenants paid prised at these village settlers leaving ; but I promptly without it." say they would have remained there if they could have leased the forfeited sections, instead of Land Revenue and the Commissioner of of having them put up and sold to outsiders in Crown Lands did in Taranaki. The settlers every case, and thus altering the original tenure went to the office and were told that it was not from lease in perpetuity to freehold. Now, in yet decided whether they would get a rebate connection with the settlement conditions,- or not ; they were told to call later on. They "The inspections made by Crown Lands called later on, and they found the Commis- Rangers disclose that, on the whole, the con- sioner was not in, and they were told to call ditions of lease are well complied with. They again. Then, at the end of the month, they said show that they examined 6,028 properties, it was no use going to the Commissioner on the occupied by 5,597 settlers, holding 1,173,093 matter, because the money ought to have been acres ; that the improvements actually made paid by that time; and as a result they got were worth £876,363, or £407,889 in excess of no benefit from the Act. They had actually again and again tried to find out the position what the lessees had undertaken to do, although they occupied. They were the very people who there were 339 selectors who had not quite wanted help under the Act, and yet they did effected the requisite improvements." not get it. It is a case of the old saying, " To This clearly shows that where the areas are of him that hath shall be given." It has been anything like a respectable size the holdings are given to every Crown tenant in Canterbury, a success. That takes me right down to the Crown Tenants' Rebate of Rent Bill of last where we were informed the tenants neither year. I have said before, and I say it again, wanted it nor should they have got it ; but I believe the members of the Land Boards there that was one of the clumsiest and most unstates- manlike pieces of legislation I have ever seen fixed the matter up for the tenants and said, " We will give you all a rebate." Yet in my introduced into this or any other House. I voted for it simply because I considered that half a loaf district no rebate was allowed to the Crown is better than no bread, and it was the only way tenants. When one tenant waited on the Re- in which we could get half a loaf. But, Sir, ceiver of Land Revenue that officer said to unfortunately, we have not got that. him, "You fellows will want us to give you An Hon. MEMBER .- What will the Taranaki the land next "-a remark that would suggest that the whole of the land belonged to him. men say ? Mr. SYMES .- I am going to tell you pre- Why, Sir, if we had no Crown lands in the colony that officer's occupation would be gone. sently. Now, that measure was chiefly opposed by members from the other Island, more par- It was an instance of the servant dictating to the master. It is only owing to the fact ticularly from Canterbury. This is what the Crown Tenants' Rebate of Rent Bill does: that we have Crown lands in this colony that we have Commissioners of Crown Lands and Honourable members will remember that I Receivers of Land Revenue, and instead of asked for a return on, I think, the first or second day of the opening of Parliament, but getting impertinence from these officers our settlers ought to get the best of treatment. up to the present time that return, which ought These, Sir, are the downtrodden Civil servants to have taken about two hours to compile, has we have heard so much about from our not found its way to the table of the House friends opposite. Sir, in place of having the yet :- " The discounts granted under the Act of last Crown Tenants' Rebate Act on the statute- book, the Land Act should have been amended session on one half-year's rent amounted to £2,317 13s. 9d., the largest being in the Land for the purpose of giving relief where necessary. District of Canterbury, £890 Os. 9d., granted to With the Valuation Department and the Crown Lands Ranger, surely any cases of hardship 474 tenants, and the next in Wellington, where An Hon. MEMBER .- They ought to have paid Mr. SYMES .- They all did pay up; but it Mr. HERRIES. - What about Hawke's Mr. SYMES .- This is what is said about "In Hawke's Bay a discount was considered Now, I will tell the House what the Receiver 