ing. The moment I saw the new platform at | and homely speeches made by the Premier Palmerston I said, "This is a satisfactory union for me, and I will support it." As to the Pro- ducers' Union, I am in no way connected with it : I have nothing to do with its management. I have never been a member of it, and the remarks of the member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson) on the subject are not dis- tinguishable in point of accuracy from his remarks on the Porirua Bill of last year, and many other speeches he has made. He made a statement which was wilfully incorrect to suit his own purpose. Mr. HERRIES .- I rise to a point of order. Is it in order to say a member's remarks are wilfully incorrect ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable member must withdraw the word " wilful." Mr. FIELD .- Very well, Sir, I shall with- draw the word "wilful." Returning to the Producers' Union, I understand that the main centre of the organization is at Pahiatua, and that it comprises something like a hundred mem- bers, and that its main platform is the improve- ment of our markets, and that at the present time does not seem to be the main platform of the New Zealand Farmers' Union, although it is one of their planks. If that is the main plat- form of the Producers' Union, then, I say, that union deserves the support of every man, woman, and child in the country, and I shall be proud, if it comes to my district, to become a mem- ber of it. Whether it is called a producers' union, or farmers' club, or farmers' conven- tion, or whether it is run by Mr. Moore or any- body else, so long as it has the interests of the farmers at heart I am with it heart and soul. I do not care whether there are forty organi- zations, I will support every one of them so long as they are on the right lines. At the same time I feel that it is far better to have one large body, and that is why I strongly urged amalgamation when speaking at Palmerston. I am a mem- ber of the Farmers' Union in two places, and, to show that there cannot be any truth in the suggestion that I am in any way opposed to the Farmers' Union, I have all along encouraged, and am still encouraging, the formation of branches throughout my district; and in the case of the Otaki branch, which is the main branch in the district, the chairman and secretary are both my personal friends, and probably two of my strongest supporters in the whole district. Every resolution which comes from the various branches of the Farmers' Union to me, to be laid before the Govern- ment, has received and will receive my im- mediate and cordial attention. If the fore- going are the class of facts upon which the Opposition base their criticism of the Budget, what is that criticism worth ? I could not help being struck with and sorry for the remarks made by the same member for Wellington City last night on the subject of certain words and exhortations the Premier used to some South Sea Islanders on the occasion of his recent trip to their part of the world. The honourable member endeavoured to belittle the Premier, and hold him up to ridicule in the eyes of the House, by reading in his own way certain simple to the islanders. I venture to say any right- thinking person who might have been present would have said after the words were uttered that they were exceedingly appropriate to the occasion. Now, coming to the question of the words used by the Premier upon the occasion of the deputation of West Coast members : a good deal has been said about it, and the most has been made of it by the op- ponents of the Premier. Apparently there has been a misconception concerning the words. It is quite true that, unfortunately, what is ap- parently an exaggerated form has been cabled all over the world, and this may have caused some damage to our securities and loss to our security-holders. I hope and trust no harm was done. It appears to me that the whole matter was satisfactorily disposed of by the explanation made last night by the member for the Buller. As to the statement made by the member for Nelson City, what he said was this : that after reading the words in the Lytteiton Times, they brought back to him the statement made by the Premier. Well, now, had the Premier made any seriously significant state- ment affecting the financial position of the colony, such as that appearing in the Lyttelton Times, surely it would not require the reading of them in the Lyttelton Times or any other newspaper to bring back to the mind of the member for Nelson City these significant words. It was an absurd thing on the face of it. Whether the words were made use of 2.30. or not, it was certainly an immense relief to every honourable member on this side of the House to find that things were not as bad as were pictured. I can under- stand, of course, that on the other side of the House there would be a great deal of chagrin and disappointment felt when they learned the colony was not in a bad way after all. I can assure the Hon. the Colonial Treasurer that his long Budget was listened to not only with interest, but with satisfaction, from beginning to end, by Government members, notwithstand- ing the interjections, more expressive than refined, of the middle member for Wellington City of "Tie it up," and so forth. Now, com- ing to the financial position, as was said by the honourable member for Rangiora, the large increase in our incometax revenue indicates beyond all doubt that the colony is still in a prosperous condition. We could not have a better weather-gauge of our prosperity than the condition each year of the earnings of the in- come-tax. As for the public debt, we have heard from the other side of the House that the debt has largely increased, that it is in- creasing by leaps and bounds, and that the colony will never be able to overtake its obli- gations. Well, Sir, I have here some figures which are very instructive, showing the in- crease of the national debt during the last ten years-that is, during the tenure of office of the present Government-as compared with its increase in the preceding ten years. I find that in March, 1880, the total net public debt was £26,036,147, and that the increase for the years from 1880-81 to 1889-90 were as follows :- 