tions ; and it was at the very time that they were being taken that a clamour was raised, worthy of ignorant Hindoos, to let us go back to barbarism again. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS said it was the fact of knowing that many of the most eminent and the most intelligent medical men in the world who had given attention to this subject were somewhat doubtful of the effects of vaccination that had caused him to bring this question before the Council on many oc- casions. They found that two of the most able medical men at Home-Dr. Creighton and Dr. Cruickshank, men eminent in bacteriology- in their evidence before the Royal Commis- sion, gave strong opinions against compulsory vaccination, and that many other notable men at Home had done the same : that in Austria, after investigation by the Medical Superinten. dent-General, who had received reports from eighty vaccination doctors connected with the State railway service, the whole of those re- turns showed that vaccination had not had the result that its advocates wished to prove. The report showed that vaccination made the healthy rather more predisposed to small-pox than the unvaccinated and most unhealthy. He held in his hand a copy of the European Mail, contain- ing a letter written by Mr. William Tebb, who had taken a great deal of trouble, and had accumulated a large number of facts from all parts of the world on this subject. He wrote from Tokio, in Japan, and gave the result of his investigations in Japan and China. Even in the case of the despised Chinese, they had no compulsory law in regard to vaccination. Some honourable gentlemen no doubt thought that smallpox was one of the raging diseases in that country. It was nothing of the sort, and there was not 1 per cent. of the four hundred millions of people in that country vacci. nated. Mr. Tebb found that the alarming increase of leprosy during the past thirty years in various parts of the world was caused by vaccination. There was no compulsory vacci- nation law in the United States, nor in five out of six of the States forming the Commonwealth of Australia. Compulsory vaccination had been abolished in Great Britain, which he took to be one of the most intelligent nations in the world. The majority of the cantons in Switzer- land had abolished compulsion. Knowing all these facts, it appeared, without saying too much to those honourable gentlemen who had not given that close attention to this question which had recently been given to it and if honourable gentlemen wished to get at the cor- rect facts in regard to the effects of compulsory vaccination let them read Wallace's book, " The Wonderful Century." One medical witness before the British Royal Commission on Vacci- nation showed that there had been 6,233 cases of serious injury and 842 deaths due to vaccination, the witness giving chapter and verse. death-rate had greatly diminished in Switzer- land and also in Leicester since compulsion had been abandoned and vaccination nearly discon- tinued. The death-rate of young children in Hon. Mr. Bowen vaccinated, was 107 per thousand ; in 1888-89, when vaccination had been discontinued, the death-rate had been reduced to 63 per thousand. This bore out what he had stated before-that the great infant mortality in this colony may be caused by vaccinating children when not strong enough to stand the torture. In the face of the fact that almost all the intelligent nations in the world except Germany, France, and Italy were doing away with compulsory vaccination, he did think that in this colony, where we had all the advantages of being free from the dread of small- pox, it was not right to dictate to any man, who was the best custodian of his own children. that those children should be inoculated with lymph that might have tuberculosis or other germs of disease in it. As he had pointed out a few weeks ago, Dr. Karl Kober, of New York, another eminent physician who had carefully investigated the subject for ten years in New York, said, " Undoubtedly disease is communi- cated and created owing to inoculating child- ren by lymph." He (Mr. Jennings) would be satisfied with having the return printed ; and he believed that, sooner or later in this colony, the compulsory clause in the Act would be modified very much. Motion agreed to. COMPANIES BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I beg to move the committal of this Bill. It is a Bill which has been carefully considered by the Statutes Revision Committee, and the amendments I there- made in it are not very numerous. fore trust the Council will, as a whole, receive the Bill with satisfaction. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- Before the Council goes into Committee I should like to detain honourable members for a few minutes while I make a few remarks upon this Bill, and more particularly am I desirous of doing so because I have some amendments which I am going to propose when the Council gets into Committee. Since this Bill was first intro- duced into the Council, there has been an investigation into the proceedings of certain companies down South. I do not know whether I shall be in order-but if I am out of order you, Sir, will inform me - in referring to what has taken place in con- nection with this matter in another place. But I have an intimate knowledge myself of some of the circumstances of this case, ascer- tained by my own individual investigation, and I suppose if I am out of order in referring to a Committee sitting in another place, still I can give the results of my own personal experience. It is now several weeks since this Bill was before the Council, and during the interval I have been down to Dunedin, and I have got in- formation there which confirms the suspicion which I and others have long had-that there The has been a considerable amount of wrongdoing in connection with companies, and more espe- cially with regard to dredging companies. I am not alone in that opinion, because whilst in Dunedin I discussed this matter with a number 