disastrous that the mine may not be profitably worked. Mines known to be fiery mines are often worked, and more so in the Old Country than here. The law in regard to fires in coal-mines is more in the interests of the workmen in New Zealand than in the Old Country. Now let me give the report of the Inspecting Engineer in regard to this fire. He says,- " This [fire] was at a small disused mine of very small area at the highest point of the Castle Hill property, adjoining the new Coast Road, and of no importance whatever." I do not want to take up the time of the House by reading a number of letters from miners of twelve or thirteen years' experience condemning the report after having seen the matter as printed. Now let me say a word in regard to the Allendale Mine, which has also been adversely reported upon. The Inspecting Engineer states :- "The Inspector reports considerable improve- ment in its condition, that the mine is a small one, and labours under many disadvantages -- e.g., faults, bad roof, &c. I always found the management careful and solicitous for the safety of employés." Now, let me read the report of the Inspector of Mines on this very mine. He reports as follows, in reply to a memorandum from my- self. Seeing the report in the papers of the very dangerous state in which the mine was said to be, I at once issued instructions that he should be asked for an explanation. Here is his reply :-- " I beg to say that the condition of the mine, as described in my report of the 29th March, was very different to what it was on the occasion of my previous visit on the 21st No- vember, 1900. On this date (21st November, 1900) there was no indication of the creep set- ting in ; the airway was standing, in good order but low, the seam there being only about 5 ft. thick ; and I also noticed that there was a good circulation of air throughout the working-places. The mine, with the exception of certain road- ways, which were wet and dirty, was in good working-order, and, seeing that the management were busy renewing timber and heightening the main roadway from the foot of the engine plane to the bottom of the main jig, with a view to making it a horseway, and thus cutting off a considerable length of hand-drawing, I anticipated that the conditions of working would be very much improved. " On the 21st March, when I next visited the mine, I found that, owing to the creep, my anticipations of an improved condition of mat- ters had not been realised. I notified the pro- prietors to put on a double shift of men to lift and stow bottom in airway, to renew timber where necessary, and also to provide an adequate amount of ventilation in the pillar workings, No. 2 North Level, also in the new workings, No. 3 seam (vide report, 29th March). On the 16th April I again visited the mine, and found that my instructions had been carried out, with the result that there was a marked improve- ment in the condition of the mine (vide report, 17th April)." "I intend to keep this mine under close supervision until the area affected returns to a normal state." Now, those are conditions that often happen in regard to coal-mining, and those who are acquainted with the district and the mine say that there is no particular danger. It is a "creep "- one of those things which might happen when certain portions of the coal are taken out; and, although there is a danger, if it is left alone there is no great fear that loss of life may arise. Now, in this connection I should like to say, in regard to the report of the Commissioners, that the recommendation they have made - that a Chief Inspector should be appointed to whom all these matters should be referred without the necessity of his report- ing to the Minister-is to a certain extent mis- leading. That statement was evidently made under a misunderstanding, because the Mining Inspector has authority as a statutory officer to take action without reference to me, if the mine is not in proper order. When that is the case it is his duty to report to me, as the Minis- ter, what he has done; but there is no neces- sity when anything is wrong for him to report to the Minister and ask for instructions as to what he should do. His instructions are laid down in the Act ; he Is, as I have already said, a statutory officer, and has absolute power to act without reference to any one. Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- The Chief Inspector (Mr. Hayes) said he has no control. Mr. McGOWAN .- I am not talking about the Chief Inspector. I am talking about the Inspector of Mines. There is no Chief In- spector. The Inspecting Engineer is the gentle- man to whom you refer. We have no Chief Inspector. The Inspecting Engineer has no power under the Act at all. He is an officer of the department, and has to report on all matters in regard to mining and in regard to the public expenditure. He has to report whether that expenditure is in accordance with the vote and the direction of this House. The Mining In- spector is appointed under the Act. He is a statutory officer, and he has the actual power to do all that is necessary for the safety of life and the proper working of the mine-a power that the Inspecting Engineer has not. I quite admit that. Now, I think I have dealt suffi- ciently with that matter, and I need not say anything further regarding it than this: The member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) when he is blaming the Government for the increase in the consolidated expenditure, should bear in mind what he has recommended to me as Minister of Mines-namely, that there ought to be £2,000 additional put on the estimates for the appointment of extra Inspectors of Mines- An Hon. MEMBER .- Quite right, too. Mr. McGOWAN .- And in the same breath the honourable gentleman is blaming us for the great expenditure under the Consolidated Fund. Now, it is not logical on the honourable gentle- man's part on the one hand to say that we are unduly increasing the expenditure of the colony, 