goes on the lines which I have suggested. Mr. HALL-JONES .- The motion explains itself : but I will read it, so that it may be per- fectly clear :- "That in the matter of the breach of privi- lege that has arisen through the publicity of the evidence given before the Goldfields and Mines Committee, in respect to the promotion and flotation of certain dredging claims by Mr. Cook, by the Dunedin Evening Star, the House accepts the expression of regret of the repre- sentative of that journal, and, upon payment of the sum of #15, this House resolves to pro- ceed no further in the matter." Hon. MEMBERS. - By whom ? Mr. HALL-JONES .- This House accepts the expression of regret of the "representative of the journal." Hon. MEMBERS .- By whom is the fine to be paid ? Mr. MASSEY .-- I should like to add to what I have said that I do not think the Minister has made the position any clearer. We are not informed by whom the £15 is to be paid. We ought to be so informed, and the resolution ought to be amended in that direction ; if it is not so amended, I, for one, shall vote against it. I do not wish to occupy the time of the House longer ; I think members will agree with me that sufficient time has been wasted over the matter already. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) .- I could not sup- port a motion of this sort, because, to my mind, the letter does not express any regret for the offence. It expresses regret that the House should be so foolish as to uphold its Standing https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 Orders ; there is not one word of regret by the person who has committed the offence. Mr. SEDDON .- Oh, yes, there is. Mr. SYMES .- I hear some one say there is. Well, I think my understanding of the English language is as good as his, and, although I have read the letter over carefully, there is nothing of the sort in it, to my mind. I do not think the time of the House has been wasted, because there is now a chance of getting the Standing Orders amended. We heard yesterday the statement over and over again that to bring any man to the bar of the House for committing a breach of privilege was worse than a farce. Now, this farce was enacted in 1895. Has the Government taken any step to prevent a recur- rence of that farce ? We have a Committee set up for the purpose of revising the Standing Orders, and this has never been before that Committee. But there is a chance of having them amended now, because the gentleman representing the Star says the House must amend its Standing Orders, and no doubt the House will now take the necessary steps on that gentleman's advice to amend them. I think it would be a good thing to abolish some of the red-tape, but not at the dictation of the reporter of the Dunedin Star. I do not think any member of the House hates red-tape more than I do. But, I say, so long as we have Standing Orders they should be obeyed. If not, it would be better to gather them Mr. Massey going to play the farce we have been playing, allowing a man to commit a breach of privilege and then to flout the House with his opinions on the subject, the sooner the Standing Orders are burnt the better. It is said "It is done every day." Well, it may be ; but there is no crime until it is found out, and in this par- ticular case it was found out. And when people are found out they must be made ex- amples of. It is a marvellous thing that we should be told, as we were yesterday by Minis- ters, that they hate this farce of bringing a culprit to the bar of the House, and yet for five or six years they have knowingly allowed this matter to remain in abeyance, so that this farce may be re-enacted time and again. It is time we brought it to an end. I consider the hne of £15 is a farce-more than a farce, considering the impudent letter ; for it is nothing short of impudent, and any man who says it is not does not or will not understand the King's English. It is a most impudent letter for any man to send to the House, and I, for one, will never accept it as a letter of regret. Another thing: if we are to open our Committees to the Press, well and good ; but if we are to accept this letter and let this man off scot-free I will never attend another Committee, because every mem- ber of Committee is open to suspicion. Here is the evidence, and we must take every member's statement as equal to being on oath. Each member says he has not given the evidence to the representative of the Star. Every member says so, and we must, under our Standing Orders, accept their word. The wit- nesses say- they have not given it, the Clerk and the reporter say they have not given it, yet the representative of the Star says he got it in an honourable way. And yet, according to the evidence, he must have stolen it. Is that at honourable way? He could not have got it in an honourable way, no matter how he got it. The representative of the Star, by allowing any member to be branded for his crime, is not much of a man to allow it. The Com- mittee are looked upon with more than sus picion, and if he has a spark of manliness be will come forward and say, " I did not get it from any of those members." He talks about his own honour, but does he not think the honour of the members of the Committee is as much or more to them ? He talks about the honour of the Press, and says he got it in an honourable way. I say it is a most dish, nour. able transaction from beginning to end. No matter what he may say, he will never. in my opinion, be regarded as an honour- able man until he comes forward and ex- onerates the members of the Committee. Mr. Cohen says he committed this breach of privilege in the public interest in order to hos the Committee. Well, he must have a wry great opinion of himself and the Dunedin Ster to imagine that the public of this colony are represented by those who subscribe to that journal. At any rate, I. for one, do not believe it. To my mind, of the cases we had cited yes terday ad nauseam there was not a single one 