but the subject has been so cut about, so mixed up, that it is impossible to know where we stand. As to myself, I will cut the Gordian knot by abstaining from voting upon the resolution in its present form, which I hold to be nothing short of humbug. Because I asked the House to adopt the only reasonable, logical, and digni- fied course possible under the circumstances, they now accuse me of making this trouble. They were not so valiant when the resolution came before us in its original form, but when the party assembled in caucus, and decided upon a totally different course to that origin- ally proposed by the Ministry, they defeated my amendment by forty - two to eighteen. I say the House ought to have been left to assert its deliberate judgment, and then I say, as all honourable members who have spoken around me have said, that if this had been done my amendment would have been carried by forty-two to eighteen. But, then, the honour- able gentleman said that he would regard that as a slap in the face. He did not intend to allow Mr. Fisher's amendment to be carried ; he would rather concede something to the mal- contents in his own party by remodelling the motion and carrying it as his own. Sir, I have no feeling whatever in this matter. I only ask that the House shall retain and maintain the position which it ought to have maintained, so as to prevent occurrences such as this happening in the future. I object to being dictated to. I object to being insulted by any journalist sending to this House, through its Speaker, an impudent letter such as was sent to the Speaker the other day. The letter ad- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 dressed to the Speaker by Mr. Cohen has been read to the House several times, and I ask any impartial man, any man with a dispassionate mind, to say whether in its tenor and its pur- port it is an apology, or whether it is not a letter of defiance? It is throughout a letter of de- fiance, and I say the House has only 9.30. one duty to perform in the matter. But when we come to place the blame for the waste of time and the cost to the country in discussing this subject, I want that blame to be placed in the right quarter, and therefore I repudiate the statement of the honourable member for Napier that I am responsible for the trouble-that I am the instigator of the trouble. Mr. SEDDON .- Hear, hear. Mr. FISHER .- Very well, the honourable gentleman may have his view; he is quite entitled to it ; but formerly-and not so long ago-the honourable gentleman was so strong in number that he could afford to disregard the views of members of his own party. Well, the honourable gentleman has begun to take heed. I have no right to warn the honourable gentle- man, excepting that I have the right to warn him as he warned us in the Financial State- ment; and I ask him in his own interest to carefully read the signs of the times. I under- stand perfectly well the whole purport of what I am saying. I understand perfectly well the consequence of the attitude I have assumed Mr. Fisher the House as a whole-not to any particular section of it-that I would rather surrender my seat in this House than surrender my opinions upon this question. It will be of no avail to misrepresent me in any way or in any quarter. I am here to speak for myself, and I speak on this question with the utmost unreserve. I have no one to fear ; I have no one with whom to curry favour : I have a right to express a perfectly independent opinion. Sir. if that be displeasing to Ministers, that matters not one straw to me. I have no desire to dis- cuss the various phases of the question beyond saying that the Government have, in conse quence of the strongly expressed opinion of members, both publicly in the House and pri- vately in other places, changed their attitude three times since the original motion was pro- posed to the House. Well, that might fairly and properly be called graceful yielding to the members of the Government party ; but when the honourable gentleman tells us that there was no pressure or compulsion on the part of the Government party, and that the resolution and suggested alteration were his own, the honourable gentleman, I say, is quite wrong in making that statement. Sir, I rose to express my dissent to what has been said in the course of the discussion this afternoon, and to explain, in connection with the amend. ment proposed by the Minister for Public Works, that I shall distinctly decline to vote upon that amendment. I shall walk out of the House rather than be trifled with in that way. I proposed that the reporter of the Dunedin Evening Star should be fined ; I pro- posed that the man who stole our property should be found, if he could be found. Ther. we come to that constitutional stage where the honourable gentleman says we cannot find him. An Hon. MEMBER-Get a detective. Mr. FISHER .- No; we do not want a de- tective. You cannot hit these people harder than by touching them in the pocket, because, as some honourable member speaking to-day said, although these papers are so wealth ;. particularly the Dunedin Star, they squeal mightily when you touch them in the pocket. I hope I have expressed myself with sufficient clearness. My opinions are opinions winch I will not abate one jot under any pressure from any person. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I think the House will admit that we have listened to the speech of a disappointed man. There is disappointment in every word that the honourable gentleman has uttered respecting the present situation, and my motion as amended. The honourable memte! thought he could carry his amendment, and now disclaims having moved it at the suggestion of any member of this House. Let me remind him that his memory is defective, because the very motion he has proposed was suggested by the member for Bruce. Mr. J. ALLEN .- No. Mr. SEDDON .- The member for Bruce, who spoke before the member for Wellington City 