The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY. - What about Sunday ? The Hon. Mr. JONES .- That is a matter we cannot deal with now. I think there really ought to be some exemptions in the case of the shopkeepers who have perishable goods on hand and who might lose by them, which, of course, would be a very grievous thing. But there can be no doubt that medicine should be available at all hours. I quite agree with the remarks made by the Hon. Mr. Feldwick in that re- spect ; but medicine is not available at all hours now. If arrangements could be made whereby the chemists could be induced to adopt the sys- tem of rota, which was suggested by the Hon. Mr. Feldwick and the Minister of Education, I think it would be admirable; but the diffi culty is, of course, that the chemists would not be likely to trouble themselves about it unless the State interfered and said this system must be established. The case brought up by the Hon. Mr. Jennings is one that might happen at any time; and, in fact, cases of that sort do happen now-that is, medicine may be wanted in a great hurry, possibly at most inconvenient hours. An Hon. MEMBER .- You can get medicine at the hospital at any time. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- It is not everybody that can go to the hospital. It may be miles away from the person who is wanting the medi- cine. Even if you had a rota which would necessitate one or two chemists in different parts of the town keeping open throughout the night, still the medicine might be at a con- siderable distance from the person who would https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 require it. But, though we cannot have a system for the supply of medicine that would be absolutely perfect, I am of opinion that we ought to have some State interference in order to see that medicine is available when required by the public, because there is no doubt now there are hours during the night when medi- cine cannot be procured except with very great difficulty, and perhaps may not be procured at all. So far as I am concerned, I quite approve of the Bill. The Hon. Colonel PITT .- Sir, I should have deemed it quite unnecessary to reply at all except for the remark made by the Hon. Mr. Jennings. I would like to point out to the honourable gentleman that there is nothing in the objection he has raised. If anybody is taken ill at three o'clock in the morning, there is nothing whatever to prevent a chemist supply- ing him with medicine, as that time is before noon on the particular day. If it happened before midnight, this Bill provides that on the afternoon of the day on which his shop is to be closed the chemist may supply any medicine or surgical appliances which are urgently re- quired. He may open his shop merely for such purposes. It is only a question whether you can rouse a chemist up during the night of the closing-day just the same as on other nights. I am not going to detain the Council now, but I think this question of the chemists closing was very fully gone into before the Labour Bills Committee last year, and certain sugges- tions were made then. Supposing the whole of the chemists' shops were closed, possibly some arrangements might be made in the direction then indicated. That is all I wish to say about it, and I shall not detain the Council further in the matter. Bill read the second time. CIGARETTE-SMOKING BY YOUTHS PROHIBITION BILL. On the question, 'hat this Bill be committed, The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK said, When the second reading of this Bill was moved, I moved as an amendment that the Bill be read a second time that day three months. Circumstances caused me to be absent from the Council at that time-seven hundred miles away-and so I was not able to take charge of it. The Bill, of course, was too stringent, and I certainly be- lieved, and do still hold, that the Bill was sprung upon us because certain ladies who were enthusiastic on certain subjects had induced my honourable friend Colonel Pitt to take the Bill up. There was a debate on that occasion, and my honourable friend Mr. George Jones read us some opinions of Dr. Forbes Winslow, the great lunacy doctor, as regards cigarette- smoking. I was bold enough on that occasion to state my opinion that the cigarette, when a man made it himself and made sure he was using good tobacco, was about the most healthy kind of smoking in which one could indulge, and that the cabbage-leaf cigar was the most ob- jectionable thing to smoke, and that filthy pipes, such as some gentlemen I know smoke, are still more objectionable. Now, my honourable friend Mr. Jones read some statements made by this great lunacy doctor, Mr. Forbes Winslow, who traced lunacy in a very large degree to the practice of cigarette-smoking. Well, Sir, I agree with that honourable gentleman to a certain extent, in that the smoking of certain kinds of cigarettes is hurtful and most ob- jectionable. There can be no doubt but that there is very little or no tobacco in these pro- ductions. They are made of very thin paper, sprayed with nicotine and Goodness knows what, and remind one of the cane that boys used to smoke in our early days. Boys will smoke in some shape or form, and I said at that time that if the Adulteration Act vere properly enforced nothing but good tobacco could be used, and nothing could be sold to boys as it appears is sold in Christchurch and in Wellington for 3d. a packet. I do not wish to oppose the honourable gentleman's Bill any further than this, because I understand he is willing to take out of the Bill a clause which proposes a whipping for the third offence. But, Sir, since then I have fallen across something which I wish to put into Hansard regarding the respective merits of the dirty pipe, the cabbage cigar, and adulterated cigarette. My honourable friend when he last spoke quoted something from Dr. Forbes Winslow, and I suggested he had cut it from a "liver pill " advertisement or something of that sort. Now, I have something here which goes to show the opposite, namely,- 