This afternoon, when we commenced our pro- ceedings-and that is what pains me in respect to the attitude taken up by the member for Wellington City-the member for Bruce, in a few words, said they were prepared to get the matter through, and to go on with other busi- ness. Who is responsible, then, for the debate still going on at this hour? Is the Government responsible ? I say, No. The amendment was proposed yesterday. Members have slept over it, and yet we are here debating the question ; and what is the difference ? According to the honourable member's proposal the penalty was to be $50-two fines of #25 each; and what is now proposed, and what would probably have the support of the honourable gentlemen, is that a fine of £10 should be inflicted upon the publisher of this document, and that the other gentleman, the reporter, who, according to the honourable member, has flouted this House, who has written an impertinent letter and ob- tained dishonestly this information, the pro- posal now is that you should fine him £5. That, forsooth, is to uphold the dignity of the Parliament of New Zealand, and, the honour of members of this House ! They value their dignity and the privileges of this House at £5 ! I say it would have been more to our credit to have said, " We regret the occurrence." monetary penalty, in the face of the letter of the Star reporter, is unnecessary. An Hon. MEMBER .- You proposed £15. Mr. SEDDON .- Sir, I did nothing of the kind; my opinion has never changed, my opinion was from the commencement what it is now; and I still believe that the course https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 proposed was the best course to have fol- lowed. There is an obsolete course that has been followed of calling publishers and offenders to the bar of the House. It is a mistake, but it http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero seems to be the only thing you can do, as laid down by precedent. We ought to amend our Standing Orders so as to meet a case of this kind, and bring them up to date and place them on modern lines. We ought probably, in a case of this kind, to simply say there has been a breach of privilege and then send it to some tribunal - not let it interrupt our business-but send it to some impartial tribunal where there is no chance of "getting at " the Government, no chance of one member bandying words with another - send it to an impartial tribunal who shall deal with the offence. These are the views I hold upon the question. Then, Sir, I will go a little further. I take this letter and I say, although it is not couched in language that I myself would approve, that there is not anything intentionally offensive in it. I say again that an unfair interpretation has been placed upon it by the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson), and by other adverse critics, who make more out of the words than the words will fairly bear. I read it in its broadest sense, as I say it should in fairness be read, and I will tell the House how I interpret it. The writer says : - "I regret that my bona fide endeavour, through the medium of my paper, to assist in Mr. Seddon matter of the greatest concern to the mining industry of Otago, has led me to commit a breach of privilege." An Hon. MEMBER-" We." Mr. SEDDON .- No, the honourable gentle- man is wrong. It says, "I "-" I express my regret," and " in extenuation I ask you to deal lightly with the case, because it was owing to that fact alone that I did it." I say, Sir, that that is a reasonable construction to put upon this letter. An Hon. MEMBER .- He says that we have erred. Mr. SEDDON .- He does not say it is we who have erred. Then, Sir, he goes further, and says, "I trust that the explanation given will be accepted by your honourable House." Sir, the person who wanted to flout the House, would not ask in gentlemanly and courteous language, such as this, that his explanation may be accepted. If that is not sufficient to meet honourable members' views, what does he say as his concluding remark ? " Reiterating that it has not been my wish to set Parliament at defiance." I say, Sir, that whatever- Mr. ATKINSON .- You skipped two pages. Mr. SEDDON .- I skipped nothing. I told the House that I was reading the concluding paragraphs of the letter, and I say you may A efface all the rest of it. The question we have to consider is whether the writer who sends us this letter has couched in courteous language his regret and his explanation. I say he has done so. Mr. ATKINSON .- Two pages are skipped. Mr. SEDDON .- I do wish the member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson) would cease his interruptions. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I hope I shall not have to continue directing members not to interrupt the Premier. It is not right to resort to this practice, seeing that it also interferes with the member's right to occupy a part of his time in addressing the House. Mr. SEDDON .- I say I want members, Sir, to consider what they are asked now to vote for. With regard to the question before the Chair, the amendments proposed are not for the purpose of bringing this to a conclusion. They are being proposed with no other object than to place members on this side of the House in a false position. Even to those members who say they are not satisfied with the letter, the proposal has no other meaning. The proposal of the honourable gentleman is to strike out the words expressing regret, and to say the House accepts the letter. That is the proposal now before the House ; yet we are told it is a letter that flouts the House, that it is impudent, and should never be received at all. Very well ; the honourable member him- self in all probability will be voting to insert these words. An Hon. MEMBER. - Oh no. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, then, what is the reason for the amendment for the insertion of these words ? If they are not to be inserted, why move the amendment at all ? There is the 