is very unfair that that part of the colony should be so treated. Mr. HORNSBY .- What is the name of the line ? Mr. HOUSTON .- The Opua-Kawakawa. It goes from Kawakawa to deep water at Opua. The Minister says, when asked by me to lower the rates on this line,- "In view of the fact that the gross earnings on the Kawakawa Section for the year ending 31st March last amounted to less than the cost of working the line, I cannot see my way to make any alterations in the existing rates on that section." Sir, it is these heavy tariffs that cause the line not to pay. The large bulk of the traffic that formerly went over that line now goes to the Kirikiri landing, where it is taken away by boats to be put on board larger vessels. In this way the railways lose traffic, and the result is that high rates are charged to those who are forced to use the lines. Those settlers who are in a position to do so take their cargo in a different direction altogether, and this is owing to the heavy tariff imposed. With regard to the Post and Telegraph Department, I wish to compliment the Postmaster-General upon the successful state of things disclosed in the report. This and the railways are two great depart- ments of Government, and I am glad to notice that under the management of the honourable gentleman they have been successful during the past year. I hope, however, that he will not make the mistake that the Commissioners made when they had control of the railways by trying to make them paying concerns. I hold that they should not be made to pay more than the interest on the cost of construction, because they belong to the people. Any profit arising out of them, I contend, should be expended in extending those privileges to other parts of the colony. Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- £20,000 a year is lost on the Auckland Section. Mr. HOUSTON .- What is the loss on all the railways of the colony taken together? It is the system I am dealing with, and not any par- ticular line. I say that the lines of the colony should be worked in the interests of the people. If one line pays while another does not, those using the non-paying lines should not have these additional charges imposed upon them. Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- There is not a single line paying in the colony except the one at Westport. Mr. HOUSTON .- Oh, yes ; the West Coast pays everything, and gets everything. As to the education system, I contend that at present we have not got a system that can be called national, for the reason that we have not got uniform school-books throughout the colony, and until there is uniformity in this respect the system cannot be called national. A child attending school at the North Cape should use the same books as one at the Bluff; and, fur- ther, he should occupy the same position in the school at the Bluff as he would if he were attending at the North Cape. At the present Mr. Houston his district without having to get a new set of books. These books are being continually changed, and until we have a national system of school-books our education system will never be perfect. On more than one occasion I have called attention to this matter. I come now to refer to the Crown Tenants' Rent Rebate Bill of last session. As the honourable member for Marsden dealt fully with that question, I shall not spend much time over it. I hope the advice he gave the Government will have good effect, and I wish to point out that this matter has been brought under the attention of the Government in years past. Now, in the year 1899 -it is not often I trouble the House, but on that occasion I was induced to say a few words on the Budget, and this was one of the points that caused me to speak on that occasion. The statement made by the Premier in that Budget was almost similar to what we have here before us this year. When I heard the remarks of the Premier in 1899 I felt that something would surely be done for these settlers ; but, though I have been waiting patiently ever since, nothing has been done in regard to the unfortunate people who occupy sections away back from settlement and civilisa- tion, and who suffer very great hardships in- deed. The Premier, in 1899, said,- "The privations and difficulties the settlers have to encounter are heartrending to endure. Having personally made myself acquainted with the true condition of affairs, I feel this stand- ing reproach should be removed, and every expedition exercised in making roads next summer to the back-block settlements.'' That was in 1899, and yet nothing has been done since. I have brought this matter under the attention of the Government by petition and by letter every session, and almost every week of the session. I will guarantee that in the different offices of the Minister of Lands you will find letters from me on this subject almost every week. Now, on that occasion I made some remarks in reference to that state- ment by the Premier which will be equally applicable at the present time. Last year 1 said,- " Now, one would imagine from this that the Premier had been over the roads in winter. I say this tax of 5s. an acre for roading is a most iniquitous impost on these settlers in the back blocks." I still say so. Those settlers have been there for years, and they have been paying interest at the rate of 4s. and 5s. ever since. I have presented petition after petition to the Govern- ment in reference to the high value placed upon the land :- "Under the present valuation at which blocks of land are put up the value of the sec- tions, I say, is entirely wrong. I do not know whether it is the Commissioners of Crown Lands who prepare the reports, but, at any rate, they accept the valuation of the property. I say that is a great mistake. I say that in every case where a block of land is to be opened for selection, before it is advertised for 