arranged in their proper place among the re- cords which formed the history of New Zea- land. They might not be of very great interest at present, but in the course of a few centuries they would be much thought of. No doubt the interesting incidents that took place in the early history of the country would be very much prized, and would form a reference for the future historian of New Zealand. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, All the colony could expect to get of the early records now in the possession of New South Wales were copies. He did not think New South Wales would be inclined to give up the records. Of course, it was possible they would not take the interest in them that New Zealand people did ; but if they demurred to handing them back to this colony the Government might be justified in going to the expense of having them copied if they were valuable. He would look into the matter. It was important that the history of the colony should be made as complete as possible. Mr. MONK asked what progress was being made with the collating of the early documents of the colony. Mr. SEDDON said it was now, he thought, well up in the fifties. # ADJOURNMENT. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, I move, That the House do now adjourn for one hour. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I understand it is the general wish of members that I should leave the chair for one hour, as the funeral of the late President Mckinley takes place to-day. At three minutes past three o'clock p.m. the House adjourned, and resumed at four o'clock p.m. # MAORI CARVINGS AND CURIOS. / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) asked the Premier, Will the Government take steps to secure for the colony the valuable ancient Maori carvings discovered in a cave at Toka- tea, in the Hokianga district? He was in- formed by the honourable member for Waite- mata, who had some knowledge of the history of the district, that the caves in which these very ancient and valuable Maori carvings were discovered were on the Wairoa River, in the Kaipara district. It seemed to him that we should do all we possibly could to preserve any of these mementos of the early history of the Maoris in New Zealand. He should imagine that the expenditure would not be very great, and the money would be well spent in a direc- tion like this. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said it was the intention of the Government to place a vote on the supplementary estimates, and, subject to its being passed by Parliament, to utilise the money in acquiring relics and mementos of early Maori history. It would be a good thing for the future as well as for ourselves to have these curios retained in the colony. He thought, also, we should pass legislation forcing the owners desiring to dispose of these things to give the first refusal to the Government. He thought it ought to be made known throughout the country that the Government were prepared to acquire these articles for museums, and for the benefit of the people. But he also wanted the public to understand this : that if they came and asked the Government for £20 for an article they would sell to a private individual for £10 they would not get it. Mr. ELL asked if the Government would take steps to acquire the articles he had mentioned. Mr. SEDDON said they would come under this category. # PUBLIC LOANS RETURN. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) asked the Pre- mier, When the return which was ordered on the 10th August, 1898, showing,-(1) Nominal amount of each public loan raised since 1870, and by what Government raised ; (2) the actual amount received by the Treasury for each such nominal loan ; (3) the cost of raising each loan ; and (4) who received the difference between the nominal amount of each loan and the actual net cash value of same, will be furnished ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said this information was in course of preparation. # QUEEN'S BIRTHDAY. Mr. LANG (Waikato) asked the Govern- ment, If they intend to gazette 1st Decem- ber, the birthday of Queen Alexandra, a public holiday ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said it was not the intention of the Government to do so at present. # NORTH CANTERBURY VOLUNTEER CORPS. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) asked the Minister of Defence, When it is intended to provide the North Canterbury Volunteer corps with the new service rifle? It was rather disheartening to our Volunteer corps to have to wait so long for these rifles, and he trusted the Minister would be able to give an affirmative answer to the question. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said the rifles had come to hand, but at the present time the artificers and armourers were mark- ing them. When the rifles were marked they would be sent to the various companies. Mr. BUDDO .- How long will that be ? Mr. SEDDON .- It will not be any longer than can possibly be avoided. # ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR SALE. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) asked the Pre- mier, Whether - in view of the grave conse- quences arising from drunkenness, as shown by the Police Commissioner's report of 1900, wherein the Commissioner states, " Drunken- ness is always reflected in the number of such offences as manslaughter, abusive and threaten- ing language, breaches of the peace, disorderly and riotous conduct, indecent exposure and behaviour, obscene and profane language and 