such a vote as that should be laid before Parlia- ment. In connection with the Premier's sugges- tion in the Financial Statement, that we should "go slow" in regard to our public works, there is another department of expenditure which should also go slow, and that is the department that deals with the purchase of lands for settle- ment. We have been buying land during the last two years at the top of a land boom, on the top of a boom that cannot possibly last another twelve months. During the next twelve months land-values, which are already beginning to fall, will be very much lower than they have been during the past. I notice, in regard to the famous Pomahaka Settlement, that half the land at the present time is unoccupied. An Hon. MEMBER .- One man wanted to give £60,000 to cry off his bargain. Mr. PIRANI .- That was not Pomahaka; and the honourable member knows just as well as I do that the £60,000 was not to be given be- cause of the money to be made out of the land, but because there were not other avenues for the investment of money at the present time. But, so far as the Hatuma Estate is concerned, I think there will be just as much crying out about the rents on a good deal of Hatuma, if they have a dry season or two in Hawke's Bay, as there has been of late in regard to the Pomahaka. But the reason I say we should go slow in regard to the purchase of lands is that the money is needed for roading the lands the Government have at the present time. There are settlers who have been eight or ten years in occupation of Crown lands who have not got a road to their land, and it is un- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 fair to ask those men to take their families to a place from where there is not the faintest prospect during most of the year of their getting any produce to market ; and while that state of things exists, while the Government themselves are such bad landlords as not to give their tenants an approach to their land, I think it is about time to say that the expenditure should go in that direction, before we buy land that is already being used, and which is near to a market, for other people to settle upon. And then, in regard to settlement of the Native land, there is any amount of Native land fit for settlement which can be obtained right away. The Government themselves have a good object- lesson in regard to the West Coast Settlement Act of the North Island, where they have suc- ceeded without spending a penny of Govern- ment money in settling large areas of land, where the settlers are prosperous, where the Natives are getting very good rents from the land, and everybody seems to be content. That system was brought in by the Ballance Govern- ment : why do not the present Government imitate it with regard to other parts of the colony, instead of making a hash of it, as they did in their Native Land Acts of last year ? Somehow it seems that the Government, no matter what good example they have in their own legislation, want to make fresh experi- ments. I maintain that when they make a successful experiment they should follow it up. Mr. Pirani much larger areas of Native land would have been settled than there are at present. Mr. ARNOLD (Dunedin City) .- Sir, this de- bate has now been going on for some days, and I am sure it has proved not only interesting, but very instructive to the colony. The whole argu- ment has centred, as it seems to me, round one point, and that is as to whether this colony is at the present time in a sound financial position or not-whether the amount of progress which has taken place during the last ten years is con- tinuing and is likely to continue-and on that point I wish to say a few words this evening. Before doing so, however, there are one or two re- marks that have been made by the last speakers which I think are worthy of notice. In the first place, we come to the remarks of the honour- able member for Wanganui, who spoke this after- noon with regard to a certain award of the Arbitration Court overriding Acts of Parliament. As I have a good deal to say to-night, I just wish to say one word in reference to this matter. and that is that in several cases the Court of Arbitration has refused to interfere with the question of apprentices. This also answers, to some extent, the statement made by the honour- able member who has just sat down, and will- . Mr. WILLIS .- It affects apprentices in some cases. Mr. ARNOLD .- Exactly. I contend that, while you have a Court of Arbitration con- stituted, as it should be, of three intelligent men, who are as far as possible unbiassed-one of them is certainly unbiassed-and while both sides are enabled to bring all the evidence they can before the Court-I say, Sir, in that case the Court is quite qualified to say whether apprentices should be limited or not in any particular trade. And, while it may be con- tended, as was done by the honourable member for Palmerston, that harm will be done if there are no apprentices, or only a few, in a particular trade, I would remind honourable members that a few years ago it was found in some cases that there was only one journeyman to eight or nine boys. We had then a system of "sweat- ing " which I am sure no member of this House would like to see renewed. Although I could occupy the whole time at my disposal to-night on this question, I will not say more about it at present, as I wish to deal with other matters. Now, Sir, with regard to the re- marks of the honourable member for Patea. it seems to me that that honourable gentle. man is thoroughly in accord with the remarks I shall make hereafter, and which. I think, will be in accordance with the desires of the party who occupy seats on this side of the House. I think, however, that the honour- able gentleman was a little inconsistent in his remarks, inasmuch as he opened his speech by referring to the amount of money spent by the present Government during the past ten years. After mentioning the fact that the debt of the colony was now so much more than it was at the beginning of that period, he went on to quote the Premier's remarks with regard to 