vited, because he did not think the honourable gentleman claimed to speak as the mouthpiece for all the friendly societies of New Zealand. If the Government had certain proposals sub- mitted to them, they were perfectly prepared to consider them, and do everything they could to extend the usefulness of these societies, and, where the law was defective, to strengthen the law so that the object of these friendly societies should be attained. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS just wished to say one word in reply. The Hon. the SPEAKER said the honourable gentleman had no right of reply. WAIPAWA RAILWAY-SIDING. The Hon. Mr. TOMOANA asked the .Minister of Education, What steps are being taken to provide a railway-siding for the convenience of the Maoris living near Waipawa, Hawke's Bay? He might just state that this convenience had been promised by the Government, but the Natives were getting weary of waiting for the fulfilment of the promise. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER was not informed that any promise had been given in this case, and the Government would only be too glad to meet every reasonable requirement ; but his information was that, owing to the grades on each side of the proposed stopping- place, it would be perfectly impossible to stop the trains at the point required, so that for the present at all events, or until the grades were altered, it was impossible to comply with the honourable gentleman's request. He might state, further, that the distance from the Maori pa to the Waipawa Station was about a mile and a half, and that a footway had been https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 attached to the Waipawa Bridge specially to give the Natives an easy way of getting to the railway-station. The Government would be only too glad, if they possibly could, to meet any http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero reasonable demand, but it would be seen from the facts he had mentioned it was a matter they could not deal with at the present time, unless they were prepared to cut down the grades at that particular part of the line. EDUCATION BOARDS ELECTION BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, last year we passed an Act which had for its object the placing of the election of Education Boards on a more satisfactory basis. It has been found, as the experience of the first election that has taken place under that Act, that there was not sufficient regard to secrecy in the matter of voting. One of the old troubles about the elec ion of Education Boards was that the Committees used to cast their votes in a public way, that they were reported, and that before the day of election there were people who knew exactly how the "cat was going to jump." We hoped the Act of last year had spoilt that cat's work ; but ap- parently that cat is not quite dead yet, and some of the officers who have been acting as Returning Officers have not been conscientious enough to keep to themselves the result of the Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker possible, I move the present Bill, which is simply to provide that the Returning Officer and every scrutineer shall sign the declara- tion set forth in the schedule binding them to secrecy while they are performing the duties of their office. There is another clause also, which imposes a penalty for any breach of the Act. I beg to move the second reading of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. W. C. SMITH. - I would just like to point out to the Minister that there was a good deal of complaint with reference to the last Education Board elections - that there was too much time given between the day on which the ballot-papers were received and the notification of the election. That is one of the causes why things have leaked out. The papers. and everybody interested, were anxious to know the result of the election, and, as there was a long time intervening between the days I have mentioned, the information in some cases leaked out. I do not know whether the Minister can see his way to shorten the time or not, but I am informed by members of the other House and others that the time was a great deal longer than was necessary. I hope the Minister will consider that point. The Hon. Colonel PITT .- Sir, I do not want particularly to discuss the Bill at present before the Council, because I do not think any one can have any objection to the additional safe. guard which the Minister is proposing here io: the secrecy of the election of Education Boards: but I should like to take this opportunity of expressing my opinion upon a matter which is very closely associated with the election of members of Education Boards, and one which I should like members of the Council seriously to consider, because I think it is really a very serious matter. Sir, it is nearly a quarter of a century since the Education Act was passed. and, although not proposed under the name of the Education Act, under other names amend- ments have been made in various directions from time to time. Consolidation of statute. seems to be a matter in the air just now. and no doubt at a very early date the Educa- tion Act, with others, will be consolidated Before that is brought about I should like ?? see some provision made extending the d:s. qualification of members of Education Brani: in this direction : I think it should be a d ... qualification to any member of an Educatie! Board if he has any blood relative, or father- in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, or daughter- in-law in the service of the Board as part of the teaching staff. That, perhaps, may appea" at first sight a very serious reform : but 1 an quite satisned it is one well worthy of cot. sideration, and that if something of the kite were done the work of Education Boards atri their relations with School Committees and with their Inspectors would run much mot smoothly than at present. It would also plae the members of Education Boards themsein. in a much more independent position, an: would prevent them being charged, bower unjustly, with favouritism towards any px .. 