people are slipping away from them rapidly. those of their lands that they did not require No ; their unfortunate position is this : themselves, and, as a consequence, Europeans that their lands are slipping rapidly through were welcomed to the district. But with the their fingers at the command of the Govern- advent of the Europeans, I am sorry to say, I consider the Natives are there was also the introduction of liquor, and ment. suffering injury under the present law." the police have been unable up to the present time to keep down sly-grog selling. I must He goes on to point out the expenses heaped upon the Natives in connection with survey say, with all justice to the Police Department, and Land Court expenses, and mentions that that I believe they have done their best to keep when the Native gets paid for his land there is it down, and I believe it is the opinion of the very little left, for he says,- majority of the people in the district that it " The land passes from the Natives, and they is impossible to keep down the sly-grog selling virtually get nothing in return for it." in the King-country under the present circum- Then there is a speech by Mr. Wi Pere (Han- stances. sard, Volume 86, page 375),- were in favour of prohibiting licenses in the " The Natives ask to be emancipated from King.country are now of opinion that the licenses would be the lesser of two evils. Now, their present state, so that they may in future look to the Queen only." the Prohibitionists should surely allow the Here is a reflection on the legislation of the same privilege to the inhabitants of the King- present Government : that the Maoris ask to be country that are at present enjoyed by the placed in exactly the same position as the na- electors in other parts of the colony. If in tives of Fiji occupy at present, in order that the other parts of the colony the electors they may be relieved from the tyranny of the of any district carry a vote in favour of Government. I am glad to see that Native licenses, the Prohibitionists would not object legislation in the hands of the present Native at some future time to reverse that vote Minister is going more in the direction it should and carry prohibition. Then, why not extend go, and which I believe he himself believed in the same privilege to the inhabitants of the I have advocated in the King-country ? A large number of petitions many years ago. House that the Natives should have a free hand have been presented to this House against in dealing with their land, with certain restric- the issue of licenses, and I would just like to tions-one from the European and one from the point out that the people of the King-country Native point of view : from the European point do not ask that licenses should be granted, but of view, that no one should be allowed to buy more than a certain quantity, to prevent the purchase of too large blocks; and, from the Na- tive point of view, that the Natives' in other parts of the colony. A great many 12.30. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 interest should be maintained, taking care to see that they get fair value for their land, and that they retain sufficient to main- few Europeans, and that nearly all the Natives tain themselves. That is what I advocated years ago, and I think it is somewhat on the lines of the Government legislation which is proposed at the present time. Now, Sir, I and one-half Natives. Soon there will be a would like to say a few words about licenses in the King-country. This matter has been brought forward on more than one occasion in this House more particularly by way of petitions presented to the House ; and, as the King-country is in my electorate, I would like to say a few words with reference to this vexed question, because it is one that is very much misunderstood, not only by members of the House, but also by a very considerable pro- granted, there is not half that number of portion of the people of the colony. Some Natives. The evidence given before the A to L sixteen years ago, at the turning of the first Petitions Committee showed that there is only sod of the railway, there was an agreement a population of from one thousand seven hun- entered into by the King-country Natives and the Government that no liquor should be in- country, and that there is more than double troduced into the King-country, and that there should be no sale of Native land there-that is to say, the King-country was to be kept apart for the Natives who were settled there. Just a short time previous to this it was not safe for Europeans to go over the boundary, or, at any rate, no European was allowed to go over the boundary unless he was a pakcha- Maori, or on good terms with the Natives. The Natives, however, very soon found that it was to their advantage to dispose of Many of the persons that formerly they ask that their votes should be taken, and that they should be placed in an exactly similar position to that enjoyed by their fellow-settlers people seem to have a very vague idea of the King-country. They seem to think that there the Natives are huddled together, that there are are located in that part of the North Island ; whereas the population of the King-country at the present time is nearly one-half Europeans very great preponderance of Europeans. Now, the Waikato electorate may be divided into two parts. The northern part is the part in which licenses are granted, and the southern part is the prohibition or non-licensing portion. In the northern or licensing portion of the district there are about four thousand Natives; but in the southern part, where no licenses are dred to two thousand Natives in the King- that population of Natives in the northern portion of the district where the licenses are. Now, no evil results are complained of in the northern part of the Waikato; nor do they say that there are any evil effects from the licensed houses close to the boundary, as re- gards the Natives who live just over the boundary. But, Sir, I do not stand here to advocate licenses, for I have nothing to do with the liquor party. They have never done anything to help me in my election contests, 