quotation of our stock on the London money- market. The London Stock Exchange, judging by the quotations, has faith in the colony ; and why should we not have confidence in it our- selves ? Our stocks are higher than the stocks of any other colony, which I take to be a pretty fair indication that we are in a sound condition, otherwise those stocks would not be quoted so high as they are. Why, Sir, we boast of our magnificent resources ; we boast of our great productiveness ; we boast of our great im- portance ; and also we boast of our ability to stand aloof from joining the great Common- wealth of Australia ; and surely we are not going to be alarmed because we have expended six millions of borrowed money on public works during the last ten years ! Why, what does it amount to? It amounts to this: that our exports for six months is equal to the whole amount that we have spent on public works during the last ten years. I say these are figures that speak for themselves, and that there is no cause for the alarm some honourable gentlemen have endeavoured to create during this debate. We are the wealthiest country per head of popu- lation in the whole world. That is a big thing to say, but it is a fact nevertheless. The wealth of this country amounts to no less than £288 for every man, woman, and child in the colony. An Hon. MEMBER. - And how much is it pledged for ? Mr. E. G. ALLEN .- Not nearly so much as that. There is no doubt a time will come when we shall not need to borrow, when our railways are completed and the country settled. The Right Hon. the Treasurer has already said, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 "Go slow." Well, he has piloted this good ship of State for a great number of years, and has piloted her well, and I, for one, do not think he is now going to run her on the rocks. He watches the barometer carefully, and when http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero the time comes he will probably be the first to say, "Shorten sail." Sir, the honourable mem- ber for Hawke's Bay, when he replied to the Right Hon. the Treasurer's Statement, said that the " Right Hon. the Premier, in order to achieve popularity, was bribing the people." Now, Sir, when he said that, the honourable member for Hawke's Bay was not doing justice to himself. He does not often say unkind things, and I am sure he did not mean what he then said. Captain RUSSELL .- He did, though. Mr. E. G. ALLEN .- At any rate, I hope he did not. I give him credit for not meaning it, but for saying it when he was excited, because it was an unjust remark. Sir, is it bribing the people to remit the taxation this country has remitted ? Then, was it bribery to make the concessions to the producers, to the farmers of the country -concessions that assist the farmer in the way the railway concessions have done ? Was that bribery; or was it bribery to give votes to the local bodies to enable them to make roads to the settlers' homes ? Is that a case of bribery ? Sir, we know very well that without such assistance there would have been large numbers of settlers in this country who Mr. E. G. Allen There is nobody in this House knows better than the honourable member for Hawke's Bay that the local rates are not sufficient to meet the necessities and requirements of the local bodies of this colony, especially in the back blocks. Sir, the settlers in this colony have struggled along manfully ; they have struggled on through difficulties in a very commendable way. Why, in a part of the constituency I have the honour to represent there is a Road Board that has actually had to resort to a toll-bar in order to enable them to meet necessary expenditure and to supplement the rates. This Board, in addition to its inland roads, has to maintain fifteen miles of road which is protected by a sea-wall. This wall is continually being damaged by waves, and they have to economize and tax themselves to the full extent the law allows, and, with the revenue of the toll-bar, are unable to keep the roads in order. Now, would it be bribery for this House to give that Road Board £10,000? It would not be one penny-piece too much ; but we cannot get it, and it is a great pity that money is not avail- able for such necessary works as those. There is another part of my constituency where the settlers have gone round with the hat and col- lected subscriptions, and given their own ser- vices free, towards repairing a public road. Would it, Sir, be a bribery to give these people money to enable them to keep their roads in order when they cannot do it out of local rates ? I do not think it would. And this is in a comparatively settled district. Now, what must it be in the back blocks when such a state of affairs exists in a settled dis- trict ? Why, Sir, it cannot be considered bribery to advance small sums to enable the struggling settlers to have access to their pro- perties. 'The expenditure in helping the country settlers is justifiable, and must be continued until good roads in the country districts are provided, or some other means adopted whereby local bodies would have an assured finance, assisted by subsidising rates from the consoli- dated revenue, in proportion to the necessities of the districts. Referring to the Budget, it is very satisfactory to notice that the railways have had a prosperous year. They have paid 3 per cent. on the cost of construction. There are indications that they have been prudently managed when such a handsome return of profit has been announced, notwithstanding the great concessions made to the farmers and producers -€165,000. I think, however, it is a question- able policy to make the railways self-supporting. Some hold to the opinion that the railways should be self-supporting. Personally, I do not believe in that. I think, instead of making them earn 3} per cent., it would be better if they paid considerably less than that, and greater reductions were made in the rates on agricultural produce, thus further assisting the farmers and debiting the whole of the community with a greater propor- tion of the interest payable on their cost. Every one in the community shares in the 