miles have been opened during that time as were mentioned by the honourable member. During his speech the member for Patea stated that the co-operative works cost three times as much as contract work, and almost in the same breath he said the work cost one-third more than if it was done by contract. Will the honourable member tell us which is correct ? Is it one-third more or is it three times as much, or does the honourable member know so little about the subject that he is not able to express an opinion? Then he went on to ask what had the Government done to show for all the mil- lions expended ? " Had any one railway been finished, or one arterial road carried through, or was there one prosperous settlement to show for the many millions borrowed "? That was what the honourable gentleman asked, and upon my word I began to doubt the condition of the honourable gentleman. He certainly has not travelled much in New Zealand. Did he never hear of the Eketahuna-Woodville line ? Did he not know that the honour- able gentlemen who support the leader of the Opposition - for of course we all still recognise him as the leader of the Oppo- sition-when holding office in 1888-89-90, left that Eketahuna line unfinished-left a com- paratively short gap untouched for years? Does he not remember when everything from and for the Government railways beyond had to be sent over the Manawatu line because that work was not taken in hand ? Who finished that work? Sir, the present Govern- ment finished it, and that is one railway they completed. Take as another instance the rail- way between Paeroa and the Thames, and leading on to Coromandel. There was a line completed in many parts, bridges built, rails laid --- An Hon. MEMBER .- There is no railway to Coromandel. Mr. HALL-JONES .- On the way to Coro- mandel ; and if the Thames is not on the way to Coromandel I must be very much mistaken. I say on that line there were bridges built. rails laid, sign-posts erected stating, " Stop ! look out for the engine," for years, and left unfinished until the timber rotted, the sleepers rotted, the rails rusted, and the bridges had to be pulled down and re-erected. Who completed that line, which is one of the best paying branch lines in this colony? Did the gentlemen opposite complete it? No; it was one of the legacies left by the previous Government, and the present Government completed that neces- sary work. And let me tell the honourable member this: that the first work there cost some £50,000 or $60,000. That money was, as I have said, completely wasted because they would not complete the work, and in- terest has to be paid on that sum for all time. And yet the honourable member tells us this Government never completed one railway. I hope the honourable member, before he makes these statements again, will exercise his intel- ligence and make sure of his facts, otherwise his reputation in this House certainly must suffer. Mr. Hall. Jones tailors of Tooley Street " have been absent from the House for so long. I refer to the member for Riccarton, the member for Ashley, and the member for Nelson City. An Hon. MEMBER .- They are all ill. Mr. HALL-JONES .- Well, if speeches such as they delivered in this House did not make them ill, I should say they could stand any. thing. I do not know whether they are ill or whether they are conscience-stricken. Why. take the speech from the honourable member for Ashley-and I see he has actually got in Hansard a table dealing with the question of Ministerial salaries, which is as false a state- ment as has ever been made in this House. An Hon. MEMBER .- Is that in order ? Mr. HALL-JONES. - I say as false a state- ment as has ever been made in this House. An Hon. MEMBER .- Be careful. Mr. HALL-JONES .- I am always careful; the honourable gentleman will never find me otherwise. And I say a member who will de- liberately put into Hansard or state in this House what he knows is not a fact is likely to find that any statement he makes hereafter is not worthy of credence. Mr. HERRIES .- I rise to a point of order. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I do not think the Minister has said anything that is out of order. Mr. HALL-JONES .- I saw Mr. Speaker was keeping a very careful eye on me, and it conse- quently made me very careful; but if the honourable member did not know, he ought to have known, that not one of the salaries men- tioned there as having been received by Minis- ters last year was received by a Minister. Members can take from the Premier down to the last gentleman appointed to the Executive, and I say the statement of the salaries received by them is wrong. But, Sir, what about a member who will make this statement that I believe he knew to be wrong? He has an opportunity of verifying his figures from the public documents, and yet he places this on record as an authentic statement ; but is was only one made by the honourable member for Ashley. And so it is with nearly every other statement that he happened to make. He referred to the giants of the past, and challenged Ministers because we did not reply to the several statements made by the honourable member for Riccarton and others. Well, Sir, I must confess I never enjoyed any- thing so much as the speeches delivered by these honourable gentlemen. It was the old story of giving them rope enough and they will hang themselves ; and I believe now thev are suffering from the effects of what they said at that time. Now, the member for Ashley. because Ministers did not reply to these gross misstatements, referred to the giants of the past, the men who had sat upon these benches, and what they had done in their time. Why. Sir, we had, in the year 1895, a similar speech from the honourable member for Riccarton to that delivered here by him this session, and at a time when the giants of the past were sitting 