parent body, and they have carried into America had been incurred by the department in neces- our laws, our institutions, and our religion. sary repairs. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER trusted the Americans, since they have been established as a separate nation, have allowed the population answer he would give would satisfy the honour- of Europe free access, and have given them all able gentleman and allay any anxiety that he the privileges of citizenship in that country. It felt. The carriages recently imported were ab- seems an extraordinary thing, therefore, that solutely constructed according to specifications where the greatest freedom prevails there and instructions forwarded from New Zealand. should be found persons determined to destroy Some expense had been incurred by the depart- the head of the Government. It seems to me ment in testing the wheels on the axles; but a silly thing that any individual, no matter this cost, however, would be borne by the what his views may be with regard to the builder. The builder was quite satisfied that system of government, should attack the head this should be attended to. An Hon. MEMBER asked, Would the builder of the Constitutional Government with the view of getting rid of such a Government, be- have to pay the cost of this ? The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said the cause in all civilised nations, wherever constitu- tional government exists, there must be a extra testing expense as to fitting the axles nominal head for the time being, but the de- would be borne by the builder. struction of the head does not in the slightest PRESIDENT MCKINLEY : ATTEMPTED way do away with the constitution as provided by law. It seems to point to the fact that ASSASSINATION. people of this class wish to destroy all govern- The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Before we ments, however framed. I entirely sympathize proceed to the orders of the day I desire to with the motion brought forward by the move a resolution which I feel quite certain honourable gentleman. will recommend itself to the sympathy and good feeling of every member of this Council. ficult to find words to express one's abhorrence It is with reference to the horrible attempt on the life of the President of the United States. of such a crime as this-such an attempt upon It is hardly necessary to speak at length, or to the life of the head of the States Government. I am very glad that, in addition to the tele- enlarge on this subject, because it is a crime grams which have already been sent by His which revolts every right-minded man in any Excellency the Governor, the Ministry and the country. How much more, then, must our sympathies be evoked when a cowardly blow is Parliament of New Zealand intend to express struck at the elected head of a kindred people, their feelings of sympathy with the American who represent to us a very large and important people on this occasion. I most heartily sup- republic, mainly of British blood ! Our feelings port the resolution proposed by the Hon. the must always be with them, and we trust no Minister of Education. The people of America, time will ever come, and nothing will ever as has been said, are a nation akin to ourselves ; and we cannot but sympathize with them and occur, when our feelings will not always be of with the family of the President in connection the most fraternal and kindly nature. So that we are bound in all natural relation- with the affliction which has fallen upon them. ship to extend to them, even more than this resolution, Sir, because I believe it to be we would to any other nation, our sincere sympathy when their head is attacked in one which this Council should pass. In my this horrible way. I desire to move, That opinion, we ought all the more readily to pass this Council desires to express its detesta. it because there is a tendency in all communi- tum and horror at the diabolical, wicked, and ties to make attempts to destroy constitutional government ; and, as one who believes that the unprovoked attempt made to take the life of the people have the right to rule, I would as strenu- worthy and revered President of the United ously endeavour to put down this crime of sedi- States of America, William McKinley, and de- tion as I would autocracy or anything else that sires to extend to Mrs. Mckinley, the relatives of the President, and the American people, its would be calculated to ruin the best interests of the people at large. Those who desire that go- warm and sincere sympathy, and further shares vernment should be by the people, of the people, with al good people sorrow and grief that a and for the people must endeavour to attain man could be found who, without cause or pro- vocation, should attempt to take the life of a good and great man ; that members rejoice and those which are being employed by these mur- are delighted to hear that the assassin has derous persons who are endeavouring to upset failed in his attempt, and that the wounds in- all law and order in society. But, Sir, I am sorry I cannot compliment the honourable flicted are not likely to prove fatal, and hope that the sufferer may recover speedily and be gentleman on the drafting of this resolu- restored to health, and that he may for many years to come be of service to his count y and put. I do not know why the Council should the world at large. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- I am very grati- resolution of this sort submitted to a Committee fied, Sir, to find that the Government have thought fit to move such a resolution. Of course, of this Council in order that it might be im- the Americans are bone of our bone and flesh of proved if possible. I am one of those who believe that everything we do should be done to our flesh. The people are an offshoot from the The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- Sir, it is very dif- The Hon. Mr. JONES. - Of course, I support their object by entirely different means than tion. I think it wordy, and not delicately be compelled either to accept such a resolution as it stands or reject it. I should like to see a 