and in charitable ways considerably reduces the amount of his honorarium. The public debt of the colony has also been adversely and severely criticized. I have already stated that, as far as the members of the House are concerned, those who differ from the statement made by the Colonial Treasurer differ also very materially among themselves in regard to the amount of the debt. I have taken some figures out and placed them in Han ard, and I defy criti- cism, and challenge those who will come after me to show wherein my figures are wrong. We had a gross public debt on the 31st March, 1901, of £49,591,245; on the 31st of March, 1:000), we had a public debt of £47,874,45 ', or an increase for the year of £1,716,793. Now, how is this increase made up? Are the honourable members who denounced the money which was raised last year prepared to go before their constituents and say, " We disapprove, and if the question were to come up again we would denounce all these increases, and, in fact, dis- approve of them "? I venture to say, Sir, that there is not one honourable member who has denounced the accumulations in connection with our national debt who would be pre- pared to go on the platform and say to his constituents that he would not increase the public debt by granting further loans to local bodies ; that he disapproves of the Land for Settlements Act, because it increases the public debt ; that he does not believe in the New Zealand Consols; that he does not believe in adding to our public works; and, as far as the advances to settlers are concerned, he would strike it out altogether, because that depart- ment increases the public debt by £380,000. The dairy industry also caused an increase of £1,781-a total, in all, of £1,694,683. Now, I feel sure I am correct in saying that any honour- able member who goes before his constituents and says that he would do away with these things that I have mentioned, because they in- crease the public debt, he would never see this House again. Now, if we take the gross public debt from 1891 to 1901, we find that on the 31st March, 1891, the public debt amounted to 138,830,350, whilst on the 31st March, 1901, it amounted to £49,591,245, or an in- 4.0. crease for the ten years of £10,760,895, made up as follows :- Direct interest-earning- 2,075,566 Land-settlement 2,380,000 Advances to settlers . . Loans to local bodies 1,205,900 Lands improvement .. 500,000 Bank of New Zealand preferred shares 500,000 New Zealand Consols 459,389 District railways 47,000 Additions to open lines 625,000 Dairy industry 1,981 7,794,636 Non-direct interest-earning- Purchase of Native 649,700 lands 1,910,000 Public works Increase by conversion 646.312 Sinking fund accretions 1,407,700 Naval and military 27,226 settlers Government Accident Insurance 2,000 . . 4,642,938 Less redemptions- £12,437,574 "Consolidated Stock Act, 1,260,420 1984" Other debentures 416,259 . . 1,676,679 Increase of public debt, 1891- 10,760,895 1901 .. This is the amount of money borrowed by the Government since they came into power, and I challenge any honourable gentleman who has denounced the finances of the Government to go before his constituents and say that, so far as increasing the national debt is concerned, if such proposals are placed before the House, " [ am quite prepared to denounce and vote against them," and not do as one of them did the other night- immediately the third reading comes on, through sheer funk, clear out and not record his vote. There is no doubt the Government have gone to a great deal of expense, and their hands have been forced. We had the war in South Africa, and we had to contribute largely to its cost by sending troops and horses, en- gaging boats, et cetera. Then, there was the visit of the Duke and Duchess of York; but the money spent on it will result in good to the colony. It is one of the best and cheapest advertisements the colony ever had. Members of this House, previous to all these things taking place, must have realised or antici- pated the cost to be incurred; and why did they not denounce it, and oppose by their votes the idea of sending the contingents, or giving the Duke a reception in the colony ? No; the House unanimously agree to the ex- penditure, and when the Government have done their duty, and obeyed the will of the House, the result is, those who have a desire for Ministerial position turn and denounce them, and, like a pack of wolves, tear them to pieces for an act which they participated in themselves, and the responsi- bility of which they should share. In my opinion, the expense could not be avoided, and it has done a large amount of god. It has brought us prominently before the world, and, as a tourist colony alone, the number of tourists will recoup us a great deal of the outlay. I do not, certainly, believe in large borrowing, be- cause if we go in for a large loan it would mean indiscriminate expenditure as in the past. We want to borrow small and well. What we want to do is to have all public works in hand at present completed. As a country representativo-one who represents a roadless part of the colony-I demand that roads in the settlement of the back blocks shall be completed at as early a date as possible. If it is not done within a reasonable time- I have spoken strongly on this question ever since I have been a member of the House- and if my constituents are not fairly and well 