branch of the Legislature had to do the duty which ought to be particularly the duty of this Chamber-namely, to revise it. Here we are going to send up a Bill which would be a dis- grace to any branch of the Legislature, and we are asked to read it a third time. I should like to take advantage of this opportunity to say a few words on the whole question of the attitude of the Council in regard to these labour Bills. It is time we spoke out about it. In Committee the other day I stated my opinion, and entered my most earnest protest against this class of Bills being initiated in this Chamber, and I now take advantage of your being in the Chair to place on record my opinion that this course is not only most improper, but it means or what it affects ; and the same may is unconstitutional-unconstitutional, because this and other Labour Bills which the Council has dealt with are Bills which affect the rights and liberties of the people, and which, there- fore, ought first to be dealt with by the repre- sentative branch of the Parliament, and it should be then for the Council to exercise its proper functions, those of review. That is what the Council did in the past ; that is the duty it has carried out with honour in the past-the duty of reviewing legislation, and of putting on the brake if it is in advance of public opinion, and so performing the high functions the Council was constituted to perform. We are reversing all this, and in my opinion it is putting us in this position : that we are taking steps which are bringing the Council into obloquy and contempt throughout the country. I go so far as to say that I am not overstating the position in stating that to be the case. What have we been doing during the last year or two ? be the case. Nearly every Bill that we have What Bills are there which the Council has been asked by the Government to pass in advance of public opinion? What is the history of the Shops and Offices Bill? It was initiated in the Council last year : it passed the Council; it was not proceeded with in the House. It went up to the House, but those who repre- sent the people did not want it, and the Bill did not proceed. This was a significant hint enough to us that we were asked to take upon ourselves the initiation of legislation which is in advance of public opinion. Then, there is another Bill which is creating great excitement in the colony-the Factories Bill. This Bill is in another branch of the Legislature this year, but it was initiated in the Council in 1899. deal with Bills of this kind. I might almost The Hon. W. C. WALKER .- It was never before the Council. said, who was speaking just now-have been the The Hon. Mr. ORMOND .- I beg the honour- measures which have taken up its greatest able gentleman's pardon. The Hon. W. C. WALKER .- I never under- attention. No one can sit here without neces- took a Factories Bill. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND .- I have taken it place here when any other measure-no matter how great its importance-is dealt with and when out of our records, at any rate, as having passed the Council in 1899, and having left us an immediate live interest shown directly one of in Conference with the House of Representa- these Bills comes on. tives. The Hon. W. C. WALKER .- I do not re- state of interest in the Council as when this member it. their feet at once over a Bill which they know The Hon. Mr. ORMOND .- Well, there is the has no possible chance of passing the representa- record, and the honourable gentleman will find in my opinion, and it ought to have been initiated in the other branch of the Legisla- ture. It is there now. Undoubtedly if it had been brought down here we should have passed it again, but it has no chance whatever of passing in the other branch of the Legislature, because it is interfering with industries which the representatives of the people are beginning to recognise are in danger. Then, again, last year we passed the Workers' Compensation for Accidents Bill. There was another most im- portant Bill initiated in the Council in 1898 and 1899, and passed last session. In regard to the Bill we have now before us, I have objected to it on account of its provisions being in such a condition that we do not know what it really be said with regard to the Workers' Compensa- tion for Accidents Act. We thought it did not apply to agricultural pursuits, and now the opinion is general that it does apply, and con- siderable consternation exists throughout all the agricultural districts of the colony in respect to it. It never ought to have been initiated here, and I protest against the Coun- cil being asked to initiate Bills of this cha- racter, the proper place for which is in the House of Representatives, where those who directly represent the people of the colony can best say whether they are necessary or not. I am going to say more about this. I am going to say that, so far as my judgment enables me to form an opinion, in most cases this legisla- tion has not emanated from the Government itself, but it has been forced upon them by those bodies known as trade-unions of the colony, and it is an ignoble position that such should had has, in one shape or other, come to the Go- vernment at the dictation of the trade-unions of the colony ; and those trade-unions, what are they ? A small minority of the people. The last return of their numbers shows that there were 26,067, and yet this Chamber has been practically engaged during many years mainly on legislation at the dictation of this very small minority of the people of New Zealand, ignoring the necessities altogether of the large majority, and imposing disabilities on those who do not belong to them which are utterly discredit- able to the colony. I am well aware that the Council has shown during late years its readiness-the greatest possible avidity-to say these Bills-as an honourable gentleman sarily seeing the difference of interest that takes we come to one of these labour Bills. There is I have not seen such a Bill was before us the other day-a dozen on 