and he then upbraided the Government for not telegraph, and the electric cars, which are so making sufficient progress with public works in extensively used, do not belong to the State at the North Island, and with not having voted all, but are wholly owned by private companies. sufficient money for the formation and improve- That being so, the comparison was not a fair ment of roads in this Island. He then referred one; and it should be, I think, the duty of to the number of men employed on the co- every member, when using a comparison be- operative works of, I presume, the whole colony. tween two places, either to show where the At the present time there are 5,627 men em- comparison does not apply or where there is ployed on the co-operative works of the colony. no comparison, or to put a case that does The honourable member for Palmerston North apply, and applies exactly; and I say that said that these men are employed because there can be no comparison made between they cannot get work elsewhere. The honour- the cost of government in Ontario and able member for Riccarton said a few nights New Zealand. I think the Colonial Trea- ago that if these men were thrown out of em- surer is to be congratulated upon the Statement that has been presented to the ployment and got back into the cities there would be such a reaction in consequence of the House this session. Last year we were told "unemployed " difficulty that we would have that we might anticipate this year that if he the same state of affairs as we had some ten or had a surplus it would be a very small eleven years ago. On the other hand, the one, and consequently the surplus that he member for Waitemata, when speaking on this has is not only as much as we could question, said that if these men were not em- have anticipated, but even more than we ployed by the Government we would find, as of might have expected. I mean this: that in old. swaggers travelling from place to place. consequence of the large expenditure of the last twelve months we might have expected to All these statements are, I presume, more or less correct, with the exception of the one that find that, though the Treasurer said he would these men could not get work elsewhere. I con- have a small surplus, that surplus would have tend that they could, because the country would dwindled away to almost nothing. Let us look not permit the Government to stop the public- for one moment. We had increased expendi- works policy that is going on at the present time, ture on public works to the extent of #442,759; and if the Government were to cease construct- we had reductions in Customs of £157,000, in ing their railways and other works by co- round figures ; we had reduction in railways operative labour it must be done by contract, which amounted to £165,000 for one year, or and the great majority of these men could get which has amounted for ten years to the sum work under the contract system. Therefore of £420,223. The reduction in the railway they would not be thrown out of employment. freightage for one year amounted to £92,600. But, Sir, if these men were thrown into the Then, we have the large expenditure in connec- cities we would have the same state of things tion with the contingents; we have had the that we had eleven or twelve years ago. We visit of the Imperial and Indian troops; and would have the swagger travelling from one lately the visit of the Duke and Duchess of part of the country to another, we would have York, which I admit should not come into this the soup-kitchen again in our midst ; but is discussion, as it cannot be said to come within there any likelihood of any such thing being the financial year. Nevertheless, when the Trea- done ? Certainly not. The policy of this party surer said we should go slow he certainly took will, I hope, be continued. These men will not into consideration the expenditure caused by this be permitted to go from farmhouse to farm- visit. Then, there has been the loss by the penny house and from station to station with their swag postage ; and, though the figures are not yet on their back because they could not get work, down, there is a certain amount given back to becoming a pest not only to themselves but tenants of the Crown under the Crown Tenants' Rent Rebate Act of last year. So that, looking to those with whom they had to stop over-night, and from whom they had to get their meals ; at the question from that standpoint, I think the and I believe that while the policy of the Financial Statement is very satisfactory. And, while it may be said our loans have been in- Government is continued as it has been up to creasing from year to year, and the interest the present time in regard to public and co- has been constantly increasing also, and that if operative works these things will not be. Then, Sir, the honourable member for Patea we continue as we have been for the last ten years, in ten or twenty years' time our debt made a comparison with regard to this will be very heavy indeed, nevertheless, look- colony and the cost of government in Ontario. Now, Sir, what are the facts ? I find ing over the ten years that have passed, look- that there are two forms of government in ing at the progress of the country during that Ontario. In the first place there is the State period, and at the success at present, and the Government, and in the second place there is amount of prosperity there is, I say we could not desire very much more than we have. We the federal form of government; and it was the State Government, which only looks after have been reminded to-night of a certain quota- and has under its jurisdiction a small amount tion in regard to a fly which was found in some amber. Now, I do not wish to allude to this par- of the government of the country, that was quoted by the honourable member. So that ticular fly, and I do not wish to refer to any ex- tent to those who were the cause of this quota- the larger portion of the expense comes under the heading of the Federal Government. Then, tion being made at another place last night; 