highest authority that the men themselves wanted to go to the South Island. The men had come mostly from Otago and Southland. Then, simply because he gave effect to the men's wishes, he was to have such a state- ment made about his actions as was made by the honourable member. He would disregard the statement, and say that the honourable member, if he wished to do justice to himself, would withdraw it at once. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) said he had nothing to do with the Admiralty, nor with the corre- spondence which the Premier had read from the Admiralty. He did not care whether the Admi- ralty ordered the vessel to proceed from Albany to the Bluff, or from Albany to any other place. He wished to remove an impression which ap- parently Sir Joseph Ward had as to what he (Mr. Allen) said with respect to Invercargill. What he said was that if the people of Invercar- gill knew what the medical officer said as to the boat going to the Bluff the people of the Bluff and Invercargill would at once have dispensed with the pleasure of receiving them there. The Premier had complained that he (Mr. Allen) did not give him notice that he would bring up this matter. He might explain that he did not think it necessary that written notice should be given. He had already given the honourable gentleman notice in his speech on the Financial Statement that he was going to make some re- marks in the presence of the Premier, because the Premier was not present when he (Mr. Allen) spoke in the financial debate. Mr. SEDDON said, As this matter was so important, he hoped the Chairman would https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 allow the honourable member to quote from Hansard of the present session. The ACTING-CHAIRMAN (Major Steward) said, as this was a very serious matter, he thought there could be no objection to the honourable gentleman quoting from Hansard. Mr. J. ALLEN said this was what he said :- " And, Sir, it is the same with everything else they profess, but they never practice ; and if the Right Hon. the Premier were here to-night I should have to say something about his pro- fessions with regard to those who have been of great service to the colony during the last two years -- those who have been fighting our battles in South Africa. Everybody knows how the Premier has paraded 'our boys at the front,' and on every platform in the colony he has made political capital out of them. I recollect the Premier's patriotism about twelve years ago. It was the patriotism of separation and the patriotism of elective Governor ; and to-day, Sir, I say-although I will not say what I should say if the Premier were here-I say that he is parading 'our boys at the front' merely for political purposes, and that alone ; and I will prove it to the Premier when he is present. I will not take advantage of him in his absence, but when he is present in the House I shall prove, I think, to the House and to the country that he has simply been using our boys who have gone to the front solely for political purposes, and that he cares no more about them than he cares about everybody Mr. Seddon else : he only cares when he can utilise them for his own political advantage. " An Hon. MEMBER. - You know nothing about it. "Mr. J. ALLEN. - I do know something about it, and I shall say what I know when the Premier is here. I will not say it to- night." That was all with regard to that. Mr. SEDDON .- Is there a word there about the change of route ? Mr. J. ALLEN said it would have been unfair to the honourable gentleman to have said it then. He simply wished to prove to the Minis- ter for Railways that this was not brought for- ward because of the strictures-as the honour- able gentleman said-the Premier might have made upon himself. He also wished to inform the Premier that he had intended to make a statement about the " boys at the front " when he spoke on the Financial Statement some time ago. He delayed making the statement until the Premier was present. He now took the first opportunity of making this statement. He saw no reason why he should tell the honourable gentleman what he was going to say so long as he warned him he was going to say something as soon as he had the opportunity. With re- gard to the Admiralty, he had nothing whatever to do with that. The men were shattered in constitution; the doctor knew it; the doctor so reported ; and the Defence Minister was warned in a telegram that it was unsafe for those men to come by the cold southern route. Mr. MEREDITH .- Where is the telegram ? Mr. J. ALLEN said he had not the telegram. He would ask the Premier whether he had the telegram. Mr. SEDDON said he had told the honour- able member that the communications received would be placed before the House. He said that no communication emphatically stating it was dangerous for the men, as had been mentioned by the honourable gentleman, bad been received by him. Mr. J. ALLEN said, as the Premier denied the receipt of the telegram, all he asked for was an inquiry into the whole matter, and see whe- ther any such telegram was sent and whether the Premier received it. But the inquiry must be a thorough one-no party inquiry, and no pillorying of him (Mr. Allen) with a majority from the other side. Let them have a fair inquiry. He asked for nothing more than 3 fair inquiry. Let all the correspondence. let all the documents-the official documents deal- ing with the "Tagus," the doctor's report, and all the official reports-be produced, and he would stand by the result of that inquiry. He could not say more than that. Mr. SEDDON said, On a telegram which the honourable gentleman had never seen. and which he could not give to the House, he bad charged him (Mr. Seddon). Was that a right and proper thing for any member of the House to do ? Then, the honourable member went on to say he wanted an inquiry, but it must not be a party one. An honourable member would stand up and make a serious charge like that. 