haps those honourable gentlemen themselves, disappointed at not receiving office, did all in their power to unseat the Government, with the view of getting on the Ministerial benches. I think the statements that have been placed be- fora the House and the country by these gentle- men have placed the matter in an unfair, and, because unfair, in an unfavourable light. There is no doubt that those who are timid, such as the honourable member for Nelson City, the honourable member for Ashley, and those who condemn the Statement-that their utterances will have the effect of making a great many people timid, and possibly may drive them out of the country-that is, if these pessimistic statements are listened to. But those who are timid will only have to refer to the speeches of the same honourable gentlemen previous to the last general election, and then they will be convinced that the statements made in this debate are simply humbug and nonsense. Mr. Massey, the leader of the Oppo- sition-or sub-leader of the Opposition stated the other night that the majority on this side of the House was gained by bribery, and that some- times the public funds of the colony were used for this purpose. My honourable friend the mem- ber for Auckland City (Mr. Witheford) became indignant, and stoutly denied such a charge. should like, also, to hurl that accusation back at the honourable member for Franklin as far as I am concerned. I would like to tell an expe- rience of my own as far as bribery and corrup- tion are concerned. The gentleman who op- posed me was undoubtedly a man whom every one could respect. We had not the slightest doubt in our minds that he would conduct the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 election as fairly as I would myself, and that is saying a good deal for him. But, Sir, those who assisted him, what did they do? There were three candidates in the field, and, to make the election sure for my opponent, they subscribed $50 to buy one of them out-to get him out of the field. Is that not corruption ? Is that not the worst form of bribery ? I say that such tactics as these, when they come to light, should make those honourable gentlemen on that side of the House hold their peace. The honourable mem- ber for Franklin also condemned the Govern- ment for their extravagance ; and almost in the same breath he says, " Give us more money for the North Island Main Trunk Railway." And he further declared that unless the public works of the North of Auckland, or near Auck- land, are prosecuted more vigorously than at the present time it will be a bad look-out for any member of the Ministry or any Government supporter going into the City of Auckland. He also states that the outlook of the colony is gloomy. In my opinion, it is not. It is just as prosperous as it has been for the last ten years. But if those honourable gentlemen whom 1 call pessimists would have a little courage they would make the colony advance, instead of by their pessimism dragging it down to the lowest depths. There is no doubt that the honourable senior member for Dunedin City delivered an excellent speech. It was a very specious one, and as an ex parte statement it Mr. O'Meara sounded very well indeed. What did he do in speaking to this House ? He did not show one bright ray in the picture at all. He turned the gloomy and dark side to the House,. and en- deavoured to make the country believe that the financial position of the colony was such that the Government and the country would pro- bably come to grief in a very short time. If I had the faith of the honourable member for Dunedin City, the honourable member for Ashley, the honourable member for Riccarton, and the honourable member for Nelson City as to the abilities of the Government, and their financial position, I would go to the other side of the House and say that the present Adminis- tration have no right to stay a day longer in office. That is my view of it, because these men to whom I refer have done their best by the statements they have made to prejudice the Government in the eyes of the people of the country, and by so doing hurl that Govern- ment out of office at the earliest opportunity. The senior member for Dunedin City also stated that the building trade was not so brisk as it had been-that, in fact, it was extremely dull. As a matter of fact, the building trade in the North Island is as brisk as, if not brisker than, ever. The sawmills in my district-I might say right through the Wellington Province- I cannot keep up with the demand for timber. No doubt Dunedin is suffering considerably from depression. There are a number of people in that city who have been over-speculating, and have now become very gloomy, and, speak- ing in common parlance, are "whipping the cat." But, if Dunedin has suffered by over- speculating and gambling in shares, I do not see why it should be said that, because Dunedin is dull and gloomy, the rest of the colony is in the same position. Let the senior member for Dunedin City tell the Government that, "Owing to your bad financial position, it is my intention to oppose any vote with which you may come down for the further prosecution of the Otago Central." Will the honourable member do that ? Would any Dunedin member do that ? In my opinion, that railway ought never to have been constructed. It was a political job in the first instance to tako it where it was taken, instead of from Palmerston South. If that had been done a lot of money would have been saved, and the line might have been of some service. But I question very much if, even after the line is completed, it will ever earn sufficient money to pay for axle-grease. I see the honourable member for Waitemata shaking his head, but no doubt by the time the debate ends he will alter his mind, and become a little more liberal to the party which are opposed to him. If the senior member for Dunedin City had introduced a measure to make promoting bogus companies and floating shares on the market and issuing false pro- spectuses liable to punishment he would have done good service to the people he repre- sents. The honourable member also states there is a falling.off in Customs, a falling- off in railway receipts, and in our staple product - wool. What are the facts? No 