that one witness had refused to give evi- dence. If the Committee had done their duty they would have recommended that the persons concerned-the publisher of the Dunedin Eren- ing Star and the correspondent in Wellington for that journal -should be called to the bar of the House to explain and apologize, or to be further dealt with as the House might think fit. They did not do so. What, then, was the duty of the leader of the House? It was his duty to move a motion in the direction I have sug- gested-namely, that the persons concerned should be called to the bar of the House, and should show cause why they should not be fined or otherwise punished for the offence they had committed. But the leader of the House did not do so. He moved a motion that showed to every member that he was careless of the rights and privileges of the members of this House, and that he wanted to shield the paper concerned. The result was a long and acrimonious debate, during which much un- necessary heat was introduced. Things were said that would have been better unsaid, and statements were made which would have been better if they had been left unmade, and which will rankle in the breasts of members for a long time to come. Mr. SEDDON .- Let them rankle. Mr. MASSEY. - " Let them rankle," says the honourable gentleman ; but the Premier will hear of them later on. I am not referring particularly to the Premier, because, so far as acrimony and the saying of severe things are concerned, the Premier was not as much to blame as many other members. As to the vote, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 I wish to say this : The honourable gentleman found fault with us just now for voting against the amendment that was dealt with. Sir, for myself, 1 voted for the amendment moved by the member for Waikato because I thought it was the right thing to do; and I voted against the amendment proposed by the Minister for Public Works because I thought it went in the wrong direction. It accepted as an apology a letter from Mr. Cohen, the representative of the Dunedin Evening Star, which is no apology at all, and which I cannot think was meant as an apology ; and in so doing I believe that I did the right thing. At all events, I take the whole responsibility of my own action, and I would do it again. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City). - Sir, before this debate closes it is demanded of me to re- pudiate the suggestion of the Premier that I received suggestions from the member for Bruce in the action I took in the matter. The House knows very well what my action has been throughout for many years past in connection with matters affecting the privileges of this House. On this occasion I felt that the privi- leges of Parliament could only be safeguarded in the way in which I moved that they should be safeguarded, and I therefore gave a lead to the House which the Premier should have given. I was glad to find, from assurances given to me by members of the House on all hands, that my action had met with very J'r. Massey proved my standing in the House by the action I have taken. If the honourable gentleman feels that I in any way attempted to usurp his position, I assure him that I had no desire to do anything of the kind. I felt that the House wanted some direction, and 1 endea- voured to supply that want. If I have touched the honourable gentleman's vanity in doing that, I regret it, because I had no wish or intention of the kind. However, I felt it my duty to express my feelings on the subject very strongly, as I have in connection with all simi- lar motions for very many years past. I had no personal feeling in the matter. I had no feeling of antipathy to members on either side of the House. I also wish to say I was not influenced by any member on the Opposition side of the House, nor did I receive or act upon any suggestions from that side. Sir, I am quite satisfied with my action in the matter. I have confined myself throughout the debate to the question, and the question only, of the invasion of the privileges of this House. I have taken no part in the recriminations and accusations which have been indulged in by members on both sides of the House, and prin- cipally by members on the Government side of the House. I have held aloof from all such re- criminations; and the part I have taken has been merely an effort to maintain without blemish the responsibility of Parliament, and of all members of Parliament. I hold that I have done nothing but right, and, under the same circumstances, I would do exactly the same again. Major STEWARD (Waitaki). - With re- ference to what the honourable member for Franklin has said, as to the Committee having failed in its duty in not coming down to this House with a recommendation of what ought to be done, in its opinion, with the persons who had offended against the Standing Orders. I have to say that the matter was not lost sight of by the Committee; but on looking at the order of reference it was held by the Com- mittee that we were not empowered to make any recommendation of the kind. If the honourable gentleman will turn to the order of reference he will observe that our duties were defined as follows : " That a Committee of Privilege be appointed to inquire into and report on the matter of the publication in the Dunedin Evening Star of the 23rd August concerning the evidence," and so on ; and there is nothing added in the nature of an instruction to recommend as to what course should be taken by the House. It therefore appeared to us, as I think it will appear to the honourable member if he looks into the matter again, that our duty was merely to endeavour to ascertain for the House how it came that the evidence got into the possession of the Evening Star. It must be remembered that the House had already had the question before it, and had already found that a breach of its privileges had been committed, and the whole duty that was thrown upon us as a Committee was to assist the House, if possible, in finding 