at these increases. I find that the chief in- City (Mr. Hutcheson) said we ought not to creases are in the Colonial Secretary's Depart- borrow. It is pure nonsense to talk of building ment, the Post and Telegraph Department, the public works which we are to hand down to generations yet unborn-those unborn millions Education Department, the Department of Agriculture, and the Defence Department. In of which we have heard so often-to say that the Colonial Secretary's Department the in- we are to hand down these public works to them crease is £69,300, and if we turn to the esti- absolutely free of encumbrance. I ask, Is it mates it is plain how that increase is caused. right or just that we should tax ourselves to There is, of course, the census. The census is build these public works simply to hand them responsible for £23,270, the sum last year for over free of debt to posterity ? No honourable gentleman will venture to tell me that these the Registrar-General's department being only £5,422. Take the Public Health Department : works should remain at a standstill until we can well, everybody knows that, owing to the passing afford to pay for them out of revenue. The of the Public Health Act of last year, consider- thing is unarguable. It reminds me of a passage able expenditure must take place in that depart- in Lord Macaulay's history. At the time when ment. We have consequently an expenditure the national debt was founded in England, that of #12,784 under the head of Public Health, as country had been at war for some time, and it against £511 last year. Then, there is the office had been the custom to pay the abnormal ex- of Trade and Commerce, which calls for $8,908, penses for the year out of revenue. Of course, as against £304 last year. The tourist-traffic is that became unbearable after a time, and they one that is likely to be valuable for New Zea- had to resort to the process of borrowing for the purpose of an expenditure the benefits of land, and as all members approve of the crea- tion of the department, money must be spent which would pass to posterity ; and Macaulay in that direction. It is put down at £16,147, as says here-and the argument is very applicable against $5,278 last year. Then, there are the to the state of affairs in regard to public works miscellaneous services, which absorb £81,398, in New Zealand,- " Why meet the extraordinary charge of a as against £52,512 last year. Of course the Royal visit is accountable for a good deal of year of war by seizing the chairs, the tables, the extra expenditure under this particular the beds of hard-working families ; by compel- head. There, then, is the bulk of the increases, ling one country gentleman to cut down his and can any honourable member conscien- trees before they were ready for the axe ; an- tiously lay his hand on his heart and say that that other to let the cottages on his land fall to extra expenditure is not justifiable, and not such ruin ; a third to take away his hopeful son from as he himself approves of ? I do not think any the university when Change Alley was swarm- one can. As to the Post and Telegraph De- ing with people who did not know what to do partment, I need not say much about it. The with their money, and who were pressing every- honourable gentleman in charge of it has ex- body to borrow it ? " If for " war " the words " public works " are plained so clearly the position to the House that everybody must fully understand that the inserted, the quotation is very applicable to the work of that department has considerably in- state of affairs in New Zealand. The position creased, and that consequently the expenditure here is exactly the same. We cannot construct must also be increased. Then, take the Educa- public works out of revenue. We must borrow, tion Department. The scope of the work in and it appears to me that the least amount we that department has been increased by the should borrow at present is a million a year. I Technical Education Act of last year, and we can imagine the faces of some honourable mem- cannot pay 3d. a head for all the pupils who bers if it were proposed to stop the public works. attend the technical classes, and pay the grants I can imagine the faces of the honourable and the other demands, without expending a. members from Auckland if it were proposed considerable sum. I really think that the ex- to stop the Main Trunk Railway. We heard penses of the technical education branch, last session a great deal about the " irreducible coupled with the increased capitation, makes minimum " of expenditure on that line. Then £67,000 a very moderate expenditure. Then, there is the Otago Central. Could I for an we come to the Department of Agriculture. instant agree to allow that railway-line to have Honourable gentlemen on the opposite side of its terminus in the Poolburn Gorge? No, not the House are supposed to be trying to identify for an instant. Then, there are various other themselves with the agricultural interest. They public works which would be similarly re- are attempting to pose as its special champions garded by the members representing the dis- and friends ; and surely the member for Patea triets in which those works are. The fact, and other honourable gentlemen on his side of however, is so patent that I shall not waste the the House, who are always talking about the time of the House by further dealing with it. oppressed and the down-trodden farmer, will Now, I am told, "Oh, well, leaving the ques- not object to an increase of $17,005 in the De- tion of the public debt, it is the future expen- diture that is the dangerous thing. There is a partment of Agriculture. great increase even on last year's expenditure." Now, Sir, this increase, excepting the increase that. in the way of interest and sinking fund, are not taxed nearly as much as you ought to which, unfortunately, cannot be diminished, be. I will come a little later on, if I have time, amounts to £222,467. Well, turning to the Captain RUSSELL .- We are all taxed for Mr. BARCLAY .- Yes, that is true ; but you 