that came to the office, and the remuneration that you received went to Cook and Gray's account as a revenue of the office ?- That is so. " You kept the banking account yourself ?- Yes. " And you and the accountant operated on that banking account ?- Yes. " Neither myself nor Mr. Gray had anything to do with it ?- No. " With reference to the transfer of shares from Choyce to Easton, Easton has stated that he paid Choyce $25 for the shares : is it not a fact from the transfer (produced) that Easton bought the shares without the allotment-money being paid, the consideration being £12 10s .- the application-money was paid, and Easton paid the allotment to the office ?- Yes. "Easton paid the allotment-money, and not Mr. Choyce ?- Yes ; the date of the payment -of the allotment-money is the 4th September -' By cheque, £12 10s.' That is the entry in the book. "Can you tell us from your letter-book whether you got a letter from Mr. Easton in reference to this ?- There would probably be a letter with the cheque, but I have not brought the correspondence up with me. The cash-book shows £12 10s. received on the 4th September, credited to Choyce. "The directors who attended the meeting when this transfer to Easton was made were Messrs. Leijon and Somerville? - Yes. "I was not there ?- No. " Neither Cook and Gray nor myself had any- thing to do with it ?- Nothing whatever. "What is the name of the auditor to the company ?-- Mr. Chalmer. " Had he anything to do with Cook and Gray? - Nothing whatever ; as a matter of fact, he belongs to the "opposition." "He was elected by the shareholders at a public meeting ?- Yes. " And never had anything to do with Cook and Gray, directly or indirectly ?- No. " Mr. Easton has told us that he (Easton) was a director of this company. Can you tell us how Mr. Easton was placed in the position of director if he did not have the shares, as he says he did not ?- He could not have been placed on the directorate unless he was a share- holder. " He tells us that he is not a shareholder, that he disputes the shares, and yet he acts as director to the company ?- Yes. " By whom was he elected a director ?- He was elected a director by Messrs. Somerville and Leijon. " When I resigned they elected Mr. Easton in my place ?- Yes, after you resigned. " At the annual meeting of shareholders Mr. Easton was nominated ?- No. " Presuming that these shares are Mr. Easton's, how much does he owe in calls ?- $25. "In reference to this 'option ' agreement from Wylde to myself, it is stated on the pro- spectus that the only agreement in existence was this one, which was to be seen at the office of Cook and Gray ?- Yes. pany was registered ? - Undoubtedly. " And was then handed over by me to the solicitor of the company, in order to prepare the agreement between the company and my- self ? - That is so. Mr. Allan Holmes drew up the agreement. The general options were printed ones. This agreement was never taken out of the office by any one. Section 5 of the agreement between Cook and the Tucker Flat Company is in the usual form. I may mention that I know of articles of association of other companies that are the same in that respect. The same thing occurs in connection with at least two other companies ; but it is really a legal question, and I am speaking from memory. I do not think that this clause 5 was embodied in the articles of association. " But it does not say about the profits arising from the secretarial duties. Can you explain why this was put in ?- No, I cannot. "Was the secretary paid office-rent for the company as well as salary ?- The secretarial salary included office-rent ; it included the use of office for ordinary purposes and Board meetings. " You say you are a shareholder in the com- pany ?- Inasmuch as I hold that one share that Mr. Cook gave me. "But that share was not placed on the register ?- No; it is included in Mr. Cook's holding. "Then, you admit that you were acting as a dummy for Mr. Cook. You were acting as Mr. Cook's clerk, and as secretary to the com- pany, and you were not on the register ?- I exercised no vote at any time. "I see by the balance-sheet that ' prelimin- ary expenses " amounted to £34 13s. Who got that money ?- £1 11s. 6d. was paid to Mr. Sawell for printing. " Is that the Mr. Sawell who applied for the shares ?- Yes. Wilkin and Co. got €6 10s. for printing ; Legatt 14s. 6d. for printing circulars, I think, and office stamp ; the cost of registra- tion of the company amounted to $15; and £10 17s. paid to Mr. Holmes for law - costs make the total of £34 13s. " Who received the commission of $150 ?- Cook and Gray. "And who received the secretarial salary, £68 15s. ?- Cook and Gray, through me. "And rent, $9 12s. ?- That is the rent of the claim. The rent of office is included in the seretarial salary. " Was a separate account at the bank and a separate bank-book kept for this company ?- Undoubtedly ; that was the very first thing that was done. "Have you got the bank-book with you ?- No ; but there are separate bank-books for each company. " You said that you took that deed of associa- tion out of your safe when you left ?- Yes. " And you stated to Mr. Somerville when he called for it that you did not think you had it ? -It was last Monday that Mr. Somerville called for it, evidently under Mr. Easton's instruc- tions 