them, because it is at that time of life that they require most supervision. Now, with . regard to the experimental farms, I admit that there the Government are doing good work. I am not finding fault with the Government at all in that direction. They have an experi- mental farm at Wairangi, and I was very much pleased indeed to see what was done there. I received an invitation last year to go up and have a look round, and it is really sur- prising to find what has been done there. I believe they have this season about 40 tons of grapes, while they had magnificent grapes there last season ; but the vines are not quite of a sufficient age to show what they can do. And yet, notwithstanding that the season was a very bad one, they had a growth of grapes which shows what can be done in this country with the kind of management that is carried out there. They were perfectly clean and beautiful, showing that even in a bad season grapes can be grown in the open air in the Auck- land District that are fit for any wines. Now, as I say, there is no doubt the Govern- ment are doing good work in teaching the people of the Auckland District how to grow grapes in order to make wine. What has been done in the past in the way of producing wine has been altogether wrong. I have pointed out several times to vine-growers in the Auckland District that they have been making a mistake in using different kinds of grapes to make wine. They have been using all sorts of grapes, and put- ting them indiscriminately into the crusher, ex- pecting to make a good class of wine. They cannot do it. If you want to produce a good class of wine you must use one particular class of grape for each particular variety of wine you want to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 produce; and the Government, by the manner in which they are conducting the vineyard at Wairangi, will be able to show vine-growers in this country that they can produce grape wine quite equal to the Australian wine, and the effect of that will be to develop the industry throughout the country to a very great extent. Many people would drink wine when they would not drink beer or spirits. I am surprised that the licensing law in connection with colonial wine has not been altered before this. Why, a man may make 500 gallons of wine and yet he cannot sell a drop to his neighbour ; he can- not sell less than two gallons. Why should not every restaurant-keeper be able to sell a glass of light wine to a man for his dinner ? Now, there are many people who would like to drink a glass of light wine, and yet who would not care to go into a hotel for their dinner. I wish to draw the attention of the Government to this matter, and I hope they will take an early opportunity of pro- posing an amendment of the Licensing Act which will enable wine-growers to sell wines in a reasonable way. I sincerely hope, also, that the Government will take into consideration the question of establishing a school of agri- culture in the Auckland District. In the large centres we have the universities, we have high schools, and provision is made for enabling young men to qualify themselves for the learned professions; but what have we done for the farmers ? A farmer may go on the land, and may spend a lot of money unnecessarily, simply from want of knowledge or experience, before he strikes the right thing. I think the money now expended in connection with the Agricul- tural Department might be better expended in the way I have suggested. Young men, self- trained, would be scattered about the country, and thus much good would result to the colony. It appears to me that our labour laws are going beyond all bounds in the matter of regulating the relations between employer and employé. It appears to me, from what I have read in the papers, that pressure is being brought to bear on the Premier by the labour unions. These people have taken complete control of him, and are simply going to deal with him as they think proper. That seems to be the position, and I think in the end the honourable gentleman will be hoist with his petard. I have no objection to labour unions, or to unions of any sort. I believe they are good things, in moderation. I believe that Conciliation Boards and Arbitration Courts are good things to settle disputes be- tween employer and employé. But in conse- quence of the encouragement given by the Minister of Labour to the different labour unions, and in consequence of the manner in which they are forcing him to alter the labour laws session after session, these unions are run- ning mad. Just fancy for a moment the labour union trying to impress upon the Government of the country that people handling perishable goods can do so within eight hours. Why, it is the act of a lunatic to think that such a thing can be done. We are told by those engaged in handling perishable commodities, such as milk, meat, vegetables, fruit, fish, and things of that kind, that it is impossible to do the work without having a double staff of hands, and that staff of hands means double the cost of handling the goods; and they tell you very plainly that they must take the cost out of the producer. That is a fine state of things ; but labour unions do not care who it is taken out of so long as it does not touch them, and so long as they get higher wages. In the district where I have been living for forty years I have paid the highest wages, and I have never asked a man to work more than eight hours for me, and have never required any law to compel me to do so. I have great sympathy with the working-man ; but I like to see him reasonable, and not trying to impose impossible conditions on employers, and thus render it impossible to carry on business. What is going to be the effect of all this labour legislation ? It will happen that sooner or later this power the Pre- mier has created will rend him, and he will be hoist with his own petard. I ask him now, before it is too late, to go slow, as he says in his Financial Statement. At present we have people coming here from all parts of the colony in a state of excitement and unrest wondering what is going to happen next, and fearing that they will have to close their businesses. Why should people be called upon to rush to Wellington at their own expense to pray 