bathing in houses that were dangerous. He | the Government provided free beds. The vote noticed on the estimates only £50 as subsidy for a doctor, and £100 as a subsidy to the Do- main Board. He hoped when the supplemen- tary estimates came down a sufficient sum would be provided to put the houses he had mentioned in proper repair. He had already many times brought the matter under the notice of the Minister. Sir J. G. WARD said the requirements of Te Aroha would not be overlooked. The Govern- ment were going to equip the sanatoria at the various places as fully as possible. In reply to the member for Geraldine: Hanmer Springs received in maintenance fees £1,139 19s. 10d. As to the question of free patients, there were patients now being treated at Hanmer free of charge, and the number of beds for the friendly societies had been increased from two to four. In a matter of this sort the Government would necessarily have to exercise a good deal of care, otherwise the friends of those people requiring treatment might do nothing in the way of assistance, but would look to the Government to give them everything free. It would be for the hospital and charitable aid institutions to do their part also, and make recommenda- tions as to who should be accommodated at these sanatoria. When it was realised that Italy obtained twenty millions sterling from its tourist traffic, this colony must look upon the tourist traffic as an important branch of its administration, which should be developed in every way possible with the funds at his disposal. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) was pleased to learn that the Government was going to do more for https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 Te Aroha. Compared with what had been done for other places this health resort had been absolutely neglected. He hoped that for this place a substantial sum would be put on the supplementary estimates. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) said the Minister professed that a great number of people had been helped by the vote described as " Assistance to invalids," but he noticed that the amount voted last year had only been $40, and the amount expended reached the insig- nificant sum of $4, so that not much could have been done in this direction. If the expen- diture was continued at the same ratio next year they might expect about €6 to be spent. This surely did not bear out the desire of the department to assist those in need of assist- ance. There were many bona fide cases which the Government had not seen its way to assist. He wished, however, to take the opportunity of congratulating the Government on the appointment of Mr. Donne, and to place on record his feeling with regard to that appoint- He believed Mr. Donne's unfailing ment. courtesy and general knowledge was of much benefit to the colony. He would, however, like to know why there was not a larger vote to help those people who could not help them- selves. Sir J. G. WARD had already explained that the Hospital and Charitable Aid Boards were required to pay for the passage of people where was only used where it was absolutely necessary for expenses in necessitous cases, which neither the Charitable Aid Board nor any one else would defray. There were also numbers of people who were given free passages ; but they were not going to lay it down as a system that they would carry people free and give them free beds. It could not be done. The only way was to ask that the charitable aid body should be responsible, if these people had not friends who would pay for them the very low rate of carriage by rail as well. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) thought if there was any department which warranted an increase of expenditure it was this department in regard to providing additional free beds for the class of persons who would be benefited by a course of treatment at the curative springs at Rotorua. The Minister knew that the districts repro- sented by the Premier and by himself and other West Coast members, in consequence of the very wet climate, contained a large number of people who required treatment at these springs for rheumatism and other complaints. He would urge upon the Government the de- sirability of seeing whether they could not in- crease the vote for these free beds, and increase the number. He quite agreed that every proper precaution should be taken, but believed that by doubling the number of beds available for ordinary members of the public, apart from those granted to friendly societies, they would be conferring a benefit upon the country and upon humanity. There were many persons who were suffering acutely, and whose suffer ings could be relieved by treatment at these springs, and therefore increased accommoda- tion should be provided. There was not suffi- cient information given as to the form of the application which had to be made and the con- ditions upon which persons would be received and treated. It would be a proper thing for the Government to issue some notification as to the conditions under which people were re- ceived - for instance, the conditions under which members of friendly societies, and per- sons who had no means whatever of paying for their keep, were received and treated at the Rotorua Sanatorium. Mr. LANG (Waikato) drew attention to the fact that there were very fine hot springs in his electorate at Waingaro, which was only three hours by rail from Auckland and about one hour's drive by coach over a most picturesque road. The Tourist Department should do some- thing to improve the state of this road. There were also hot springs at Kawhia. Then, there were the celebrated Waitomo Caves, which were at present very difficult to reach. He hoped something would be done to make these spots more accessible to travellers. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) said it was quite patent to the most casual observer that a first-class Balnealogist was wanted. From all available evidence the gentleman in charge at Rotorua was not the man for the position of Balnealogist, not being thoroughly expert in the matter of these baths. They had 