department, saying that Mr. Von Blaram- berg's request for an inquiry could not be sanctioned, and that the Minister blamed the Education Board of Wanganui for appointing him to a bigger school when he failed to give satisfaction in a small one. The petitioner said that that had hurt him very severely, and had cast aspersions on his character ; but he (Mr. Jenkinson) did not think it did in any way. It simply amounted to this: that the teacher could not get on with the Committee, or the Board, and he had to go. Summed up, there had been a disagreement between a teacher and a statutory body, the Education Board. Was it right to ask the Petitions Committee to re- commend an inquiry in a case like that? He thought that the Committee had done right in finding that they could not grant the request of the petitioner; and he would vote against the motion to have the report referred back for further consideration. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER thought that it was very difficult to expect Committees to inquire into old grievances like this. They had had before them the whole career of the man since 1881, and they had found that he was always getting into trouble, partly owing to his impetuosity and partly owing to the fact that he fancied he was suffering under a grievance the whole time. He (Mr. Walker) thought that the Board had endeavoured to meet him fairly. As had been pointed out by the Hon. Mr. Jenkinson, Mr. Von Blaramberg threw up his employment at Wellington, and sold all his furniture at a moment's notice to enable him to go to Wanganui. This he did on the receipt of an unofficial and unauthorised telegram. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- No ; I will read it. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER replied that all he could say was, that, so far as he could http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero make out, the only communication that the petitioner had received was a telegram which asked him when he could come to Wanganui. An Hon. MEMBER .- If required. The Hon. W. C. WALKER said he forgot whether the words " if required " were in the message or not. Anybody with common- sense would infer that the message was sent simply to enable the Board to come to a decision as to whether they would appoint him. He thought that the Board had recognised that a certain amount of hardship had been caused to this impetuous gentleman, by offering him the best school they could give him at the time. That was a country school in the neigh- bourhood of Wanganui. He did not know whether the Board intentionally did it, but they said that the prospects of the district were good, that settlement was spreading, and that, although the attendance was only thirty. there was every prospect of its growing. Mr. Von Blaramberg was never satisfied, and there was constant friction between him and the Board. The petitioner had a further grievance against the Board for doing him what was really a kindness. He had got into trouble with his Committee, and a certain letter had been circu- Hon. Mr. Jenkinson his returns had been interfered with, and that the word "promise " had been altered to " per- secution." But, reading that letter, he must admit that its sense had not been altered materially. He believed that in Mr. Von Blaramberg's mind the irony of the word " promise" might have conveyed a great deal more irritation than the word "persecution." The fact was that he was a difficult man to get on with, and yet the Board gave him a second chance, and promoted him to another school. He could not, however, get on there, and finally a separation was arrived at. He did not think that Parliament was a proper place to ventilate grievances between a statutory body like an Education Board and individual teachers. It was not a matter of money compensation, for the country should certainly not be expected to pay, and they all knew that Boards of Educa- tion were hardly able to do so. They were doing the best they could for the teachers and the School Committees. Occasionally they had found difficulties; and he did not know whether it was the petitioner's case or some other cases that caused his predecessor to intro- duce the Public School Teachers Incorporation and Court of Appeal Bill in 1895. That gave, within a limited time, every teacher an oppor- tunity of placing before the Court to be set up any complaint that he had against a Board. A complaint under the Act had, however, first of all to be indorsed by the Teachers' Institute of the district, so that if this particular case had been considered a proper one for appeal it could have gone before that Court. It was one in which there was now no remedy. It was a case where the petitioner was probably more to blame than anybody else, and, considering the length of time that had elapsed, it was not fair to ask the Committee to reconsider the statements in evidence made by the petition, or anybody else on the question. They had the petitioner's documents, affidavits, and other things of a most voluminous nature, but the whole of them were tainted by a certain disposition to construe in the worst sense what he (the Hon. Mr. Walker) really believed were conscientious actions. The man had evidently been, from the first time he got into the Wanganui district, determined to quarrel ; and yet the Board endeavoured, twice over, to go out of its way to do more than it was bound to do for this man. He should be very sorry to think that this gentleman had been persecuted, and, if he thought there was any good likely to come out of a further investigation after so many years had elapsed, he would be ready to give the case further consideration. He did not, however, think that any good could come out of it. It was too old, and it was impossible to get to the bottom of grievances which were mostly, after all, of a personal character, and of a character which, after the lapse of years, it would be impossible for a Committee of the Council to probe to the bottom in a satisfactory manner. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY said this was a man with whom he sympathized, and for whom he 