That, however, was not the fact, because the At present, and particularly on the date men- tioned in the question, the letters were not de- \- livered to the Auckland merchants until past at five minutes past nine a.m. It was this one o'clock, and, as the mails had been placed on the Onehunga Wharf at a quarter past eight a.m., nearly five hours elapsed before they reached the merchants' boxes. At that time the offices were closed, and so the goods ordered by traders in Taranaki from the Auckland mer- could assure the honourable member the facts chants could not be supplied by Monday's steamer, and had to be delayed until Thurs- day's. In consequence of this, of course, the Auckland merchants were placed in an unfair position as compared with the Wellington mer- chants, in that it took five days practically for them to supply goods to Taranaki, owing to the laxity in one or other of the departments. He did not know which department was to blame, but he wished to know, first, whether special trains could be made available to take these mails into Auckland from Onehunga, and, secondly, whether the letters could not be put into the post-boxes, say, at half-past nine or ten o'clock. This would be a great boon to the commercial community, and he trusted it would be granted. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said he was afraid the honourable gentleman had been misinformed upon the matter. He would read to him the position, and would then point out what probably had given rise to the inquiry the honourable gentleman had made. The Secretary of the Postal Department advised him, with reference to the question put by the honourable member, as follows :- "The statements are contrary to fact. So far from the letters not reaching Auckland until 12.30 p.m., they were actually ready for delivery at 10.35 a.m. Last Saturday was outward Fr'isco mail day, and the Auckland mails were brought on by special, leaving the Onehunga Wharf at 9.5 a.m. and arriving at Auckland at 9.47. The southern portions of the Fr'isco mails were sent on by the 11.5 a.m. train, and reached Auckland at 11.45 a.m. This train has probably been confounded with the special." The honourable gentleman would see that it was forty-seven minutes, instead of four hours and a half, as it was according to the informa- tion that had been placed before him. The letters were sorted and were available for de- livery at twenty-five minutes to eleven, and it could not for a moment be contended that it was the fault of the Postal Department if people did not get the letters till the afternoon. The southern portion of the San Francisco mails were sent on by the five minutes past eleven a.m. train. That was not the Auckland portion at all. It was the southern portion of the 5.0. San Francisco mails which was held back at Onehunga, and that was done so as to get the Auckland portion away from Onehunga with- out delay; and, as he said, they went through by train, leaving Onehunga at five minutes past nine a.m. The sending of the southern por- tion by the five minutes past eleven a.m. train had evidently given rise to the impression that the whole of the mails had been held back. Auckland mails went through by special train fact of holding back the southern portion of the mails that had caused these gentlemen to imagine that they had a grievance against the department, and to assume there was some laxity on the part of the officials. He he (Sir J. G. Ward) had stated were absolutely correct. And, in addition to that, he could say, from a considerable experience of what took place in the conveyance and carriage and delivery of the mails by the Postal and Rail- way Departments, that it was very seldom indeed that anything could be attachable to them in the way of blame. He had found that there had been the most extraordinary zeal on the part of all officers in connection with the handling of the mails to see that they reached their destination as soon as possible, and in this particular case the complaint was ground- less, and he thought it was only due to the officers of the Postal and Railway Departments that that statement should be authoritatively made. He had given the honourable member the whole of the facts, and he was sure he would see that the information he had received was based on a misconception, that misconcep- tion being that the Auckland mails were held back until five minutes past eleven a.m., whereas it was the southern mails that were held back at Onehunga, and only held back so as to enable the Auckland mails to be sent through at once. RAILWAY OPERATIVES' PLÉBISCITE. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will give instructions in taking a plebiscite from the railway operatives that the vote of the permanent and temporary employés shall be kept separate and distinct ? Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) was afraid this was asking a question after the event, which was well known now. However, he would give the answer : "A vote of workshops employés on ' The Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act, 1900,' was taken on the 21st instant. In taking the vote no employé, per- manent or casual, with less than twelve months' continuous service was supplied with a voting- paper, and, as casual men who had been em- ployed continuously for twelve months enjoyed the same privileges as permanent hands, there was no object, so far as the department was concerned, in keeping the vote separate, and this could not now be done unless a fresh vote was taken." PUBLIC HEALTH INSPECTORS. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Government, Whether they intend to appoint local Inspectors under the Public Health Act? Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) said that so far no Inspectors had been appointed. He had the matter now under consideration, and such Inspectors as were required would in due course be appointed. 