session steps should be taken to amend it. Then, Sir, there is another cause for that un- rest amongst the farmers, and that has been brought about by the abnormal values that have been placed on their land for taxation purposes during the last year. From one end of the colony to the other I find there has been a deliberate attempt by the Valuation Depart- ment to place abnormal values on the land of the colony for taxation purposes. It may be said by the department that there have been good sales of small pieces of land sold here and there, and that that has warranted this valuation. But I venture to say that the lending departments of the State are not game to make advances to the farmers on their own valuations. I venture to say that the Advances to Settlers Department will not accept one of the valua- tions made by the Valuation Department as the basis on which to lend their money, which shows that the object is simply to put an ab- normal value on land for the sake of grinding more taxation out of the people. There is a right and a wrong way of doing everything. I hold if the State requires revenue they have a right to get it, but let them get it in an honest way ; and to value a man's farm beyond what it is worth for the sake of grinding taxation out of him I say is a dishonest way of doing it. I come from a country where the land question for generations has been a very burning ques- tion, and in that part of the world at one time there was a very easy method adopted of deal- ing with a rack-renting land agent and the perjured witnesses he took into Court. They https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 had a very easy method of dealing with them, and it got rid of them very quickly, and I hope it will never come to that in this country. Let me tell the Premier-and I speak from some experience in the northern part of this Island-if this system is carried on very much longer it may not be so far off as some of us may think, because people will submit to fair taxation, but they will not submit to being plundered. There is no doubt that that is one of the reasons why this feeling of unrest exists all over the colony. Then, Sir, I would also like to call the attention of the Premier to the working of the Conciliation Boards. Sir, when Parliament passed the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act we all expected great things from it. I think, Sir, the time has arrived when we should examine into the working of this Act and satisfy ourselves whether it has answered the purpose for which it was created. I am afraid there is far too much agitation going on, and a great deal of this agitation is kept up by interested parties for the purpose of providing employment for themselves. At least, that is the impression ; and, if that is so, I think some amendment in the Act should be brought about so as, at least, to take away from these gentlemen the guinea a day which they earn so very easily now. I believe if the Court fees were not so liberal we would have much less conciliation in this country : At the present time every morning one takes up one's paper one finds column after column taken up with condition in that way than they are in Australia, or in the other colonies where they have no labour laws at all. Therefore, Sir, I hope some steps will be taken to try, if possible, to bring about some amendment that will conduce to a better state of feeling amongst employers and employés. Now, Sir, speaking of this unrest amongst the country districts, a good deal has been said about the formation of the Farmers' Union. I happen to represent a district com- posed mostly of small farmers. I belong to no union myself; I like to have a free hand and to go alone in everything. But I say that the farmers, so far as I can gather from correspondence, have made up their minds to combine. The farmers are beginning to realise that they have not been having a fair share of the good things going. They are beginning to realise that too much time in this House has been taken up in legis- lating for one section of the community, and they are now beginning to come to the conclu- sion they must also combine ; and I think they are very sensible in doing so. So far as I am con- cerned, I should like to see every farmer in New Zealand belonging to the union. Then they would have a fair issue to place before the country as to how the incidence of taxation should be levied as affecting the different classes. Sir, I do not believe in class legislation of any kind, but I say there is no section of the people in this colony more deserving of con- sideration and attention from this House than the farmers of New Zealand. Sir, if a slump takes place in New Zealand, who is going to take the colony out of that slump? I say the whole burden will fall on the farmers of this colony. Those who are very quick now at getting up agitations when dull times come will be found crossing over to the other colonies ; but the farmer and his family cannot go, because the farmer cannot take his farm with him. He must remain in the colony, and become the beast of burden in the shape of paying taxation until the colony recovers itself. Therefore I say the more we can do for the farmers of this country the more it will be in the best interests of the colony to do so. Now, Sir, I wish to say another word or two about the mortgage-tax, and I am not going to say much about it. Various speakers have referred to it. I look upon the mortgage-tax as one of the most unfair taxes in existence at this moment. There can be nothing more unfair than it, and I am very sorry indeed that the Premier has not been able to keep his promise of last session. I hope that even yet before the session closes he will find some means of keeping good faith with the people in that respect. There is no more unjust tax ; and I would point out this to the Premier: that if he can bring about an alteration in no other way, let him reduce the tax to the amount of the unimproved value of the property on which the money is lent. Why should people when they borrow money on their improvements, which are not taxable under the Land- and Income tax Act, have to pay a mortgage-tax on money borrowed on their 