cast over the length and breadth of the coun- try ? " Sir, I never heard of such an imputation able member hear him assure Mr. Speaker that as that. I am better known than the honour- it was an imaginary case, and immediately able member, and his character would not com- afterwards that it was a real case ? The honour- pare with mine. able gentleman shows most to advantage when Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- Sir, I desire to make he gets a strong band, such as the "Frivolity a personal explanation. I wish to say that I Minstrels," playing his accompaniment. He had no intention of making reference to the requires them as part of the show. And, to member for Ashburton, or to any other member give you an instance of the looseness of his of the House. I said, " What would the honour- statements, this is what he told his con- able member for Ashburton, Mr. McLachlan, stituents at Napier in apologizing for not say if this was attributed to him?" If it was having properly prepared his speech during attributed to me, what would I say ? I would last recess. say it was false, and this House should have risen as one man and claimed that a breach of a point of order. I understand that members privilege had been committed. I also used the have to speak to the amendment that is before names of the member for Bruce, the member the House. for Wakatipu, and the member for the Bay of what occurred last recess. Plenty. I said a stigma was laid on the House, and in saying so I did not refer specially to the the paper if it is not in order. honourable member for Ashburton, or to any individual member of the House. If that it out of order. I want to see what bearing it honourable member or any member has on the question. 9.0. thinks that I referred to them per- sonally, I withdraw it at once, and offer my of the honourable member to make word-pic- sincerest apologies. What I said was : Was it tures : " In apologizing for not having properly their duty, if such a statement were made as I prepared his speech he said he had had to do a quoted, to safeguard the honour and dignity of great deal of the Native Minister's work." the House by immediate action. I reiterate that I had no intention of making any reference was in respect of the visit of their Royal High- to the honourable member for Ashburton. nesses. Mr. MCLACHLAN .- I accept the honourable able gentleman would not agitate and unnerve gentleman's apology. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I hope the honour- me by his interruptions I might have time able gentleman will also express his regret to enough to read the whole thing: "He had to me. He has made a statement that some undertake a great deal of the Native Minister's paper or other was obtained from the archives work in connection with arranging for the of the Minister's room. I assure the honour- reception of the Duke and Duchess of York at. able member no paper in respect to this matter Rotorua, and had been kept busy night and ever came from my room. I have never been day." Some honourable members find ample consulted, nor do I know anything of the scope for the discharge of their duties in at- matter. All I know in reference to the ques- tending in their place here in Parliament. tion is that the honourable member for Wel- Now, the honourable gentleman, in what he said in the beginning of his speech- lington City (Mr. Fisher) has quoted a passage from the Manawatu Standard. That is all I know. I think the honourable member has order, and ask for your ruling, Sir. no right whatever to attempt to connect me with the matter, and he should, I think, with- there is anything in what the honourable mem- ber said which is out of order. He is replying draw his remarks. Mr. MCLACHLAN .- I withdraw the remarks. to comments made on himself, and in doing so I am very glad that the Premier is innocent in he is using this quotation in support of his argument. the matter. Mr. HUTCHESON .- I have only a few words the few words which I wish to say, and which to say. I feel the House must certainly agree with me that the predominant feature of the are neither of a contentious nor vexatious speech made by the honourable member for nature. I wish simply to clear up some of the Napier (Mr. Fraser) was its manifest insin- misrepresentations that have been made. The cerity. I say it advisedly, because the honour- honourable gentleman, in the earlier part of his able gentleman began by reading an extract remarks, reiterated the statement, so often re- from a paper, about which he prevaricated. It peated, that the letter sent by Mr. Cohen to was a piece of tergiversation from beginning to this House was a full and ample apology, and end. He first of all assured the House that it he further said that he sat there with pain and suffering listening to me this afternoon. Does was an extract from a paper. On his honour, he recollect that I read the whole of this letter then, he said that it was not a real case, but a supposititious case ; he said "suppositious case," from beginning to end, and challenged any and immediately afterwards he said it had member of the House to say "Stop" to me actually happened -- that it was a real case. when I came to that particular paragraph or word that implied regret for the action that Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- That is quite in- Mr. Cohen had taken ? The honourable gentle- correct. Mr. HUTCHESON .- Did not every honour- Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) .- I rise to This has something to do with Mr. HUTCHESON .- I do not wish to read Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I have not ruled Mr. HUTCHESON .- It bears on the capacity Mr. SEDDON .- Why not continue it ? It Mr. HUTCHESON .- If the right honour- Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- I rise to the point of Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I do not think Mr. HUTCHESON. -- It is only prolonging 