pity that in past days these breaches were passed over so lightly as they have been, for if they had not we would not have had a similar trouble before us to-day. I regret the House has nobody to lead it on this particular occa- sion. I regret that the Premier has changed his front. I know that it is not his inward opinion. I regret that the day has come to this Parliament when - I use the word ad- visedly -its privileges can be flouted, when it can allow its Standing Orders to be set at naught, not by members inside, but by those outside, and when punishment is not to be meted out for any breach, but commendation of the person who commits the breach by the person who rules this Parliament. I think this Parliament is descending to a level lower than it occupied a few days ago, and that we are going down and down in the scale of parlia- mentary work, and one knows not where it may end. I thought we had some honour and feeling, that we were an august assemblage to represent the people ; but, Sir, this is not representing the people. It is succumbing to outside influence, and it is a pity that Parliament should fall and degrade itself, as I believe it is degrading itself in this instance. It is said outside that this is a matter of no moment, and that we are making a great deal of nothing. I do not hold with that opinion. I do not want to magnify the matter to too great a degree, but I do look with respect on the privileges I possess as a member of Parliament, and I be- lieve every other member does the same, and desires that those privileges should be free for those who come after us as well as for our- selves. I regret the Premier has taken the step he did to day, and has degraded the House by so doing. I am not going to move an amend- ment ; it is not my duty to move it. I am only an individual member of this House. I exercise no authority in this House except my own individual authority. I express my own individual opinion in this matter. The entire responsibility for action rests with the leader of the House, and if he is to lead us in the direction in which he wishes-I suppose we are not strong enough to stem the tide in which he is dragging us down -I, for one, will be only too happy to record my vote against the motion, if I have an opportunity of doing so. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City). - Sir, I agree with the member for Bruce that the whole responsibility in a question of this kind rests with the Premier, the leader of the House. And I very much regret the attitude of the Pre- mier. Upon any question affecting the privi- leges of Parliament I speak in the most utter disregard of the feelings or opinions of mem- bers of the Government side of the House, or of the feelings or opinions of members of the Opposition side of the House. It is not with me a question of party. I speak as a member of this House in defence of the rights and privileges of Parliament, and I care not who leads. As the Premier has led us to-day, I say that lead will never be satisfactory to me. Sir, in order to put before the House a definite issue, I propose the following amendment :- VOL. CXVIII .- 23. "That the House having declared the publica- tion in the Dunedin Star of the 23rd August and of the 27th August of evidence taken be- fore the Goldfields and Mines Committee to be breaches of privilege, and Mr. A. E. Cohen, the representative of the Dunedin Star, having refused to state who furnished him with the shorthand report of the evidence, he be fined in the sum of $25 for each such refusal, or $50 in all." What are the facts surrounding the publica- tion of this shorthand report ? It is said that in such cases as this the newspapers are prompted only by a desire to further the public interests -that they are anxious to keep the public fully informed. At the threshold, then, I ask, why did not the newspapers endeavour to give the public some idea of the merits of this particular case ? A Committee of this House has investi- gated the manner in which the shorthand re- port of the evidence taken before the Goldfields and Mines Committee was obtained. It has come to a resolution. It has submitted to this House a report upon the circumstances of the case so far as it has gone. Have the news- papers, usually so avid, as they profess, to keep the public fully informed, to this moment pub- lished the report of the Privileges Committee, so that the public should be possessed of all the circumstances of the case? Not one word of that report has been published. We have had printed in the New Zealand Times some trashy articles relating to some antediluvian proceed- ings in the Imperial Parliament. The articles are quite wrong. They are all upside down ; but that, I suppose, does not matter. But we are not dealing with these ancient relics. We are dealing with the circumstances of to-day, and with the privileges of the Parliament of to-day. That is what we are here to discuss. What have we to do with the desire of this particular newspaper to supply the public with informa- tion regarding the dredging industry of Otago ? We have nothing whatever to do with that. It would have been easy for the Premier, without lowering the dignity of the House, to show that this evidence should be published in the public interest. Then, the proper course would have been to ask the House for permission to publish the evidence. Parliament would then have stood on firm ground. There would have been no violation of the privileges of Parliament ; there would have been nothing that could cause a jar to feelings of the members of this House. But what has taken place is this : The evidence taken before the Goldfields and Mines Com- mittee is stolen. A bare-faced robbery has been committed, and I am very deliberate in the selection of my language. The Privileges Committee is unable to discover who com- But a witness is called mitted the theft. before the Committee who tells the Committee point-blank that he did receive thee shorthand report of the evidence, and he refuses to give up the name of the person who gave it to him. That witness, I say - and the language is neither strained nor vulgar-is in the possession of stolen goods, and, instead of offering any palliation of the offence, we, the Parliament 