member for Waitemata is satisfied. I con- tend that not only is the collection of the revenue unfair in its incidence, but that the expenditure also is unfair in its inci- dence, especially between the North and the South Island ; and the further north you get the worse it becomes. It is bad between the North and the South Islands; it is also unfairly in favour of the southern portion of the North Island as against the Auckland Province. Even when you go to the Auckland Province you find that that part of the province north of Auck- land City has been more unjustly treated than any other part of the Auckland Province. In passing I want to show that, as far as contribu- tions to the revenue are concerned, the North Island has contributed more than half. The population of the North Island is 390,579 ; the population of the South Island is 382,140, show- ing an excess of population in the North Island of 8,439. The imports for last year were : In the North Island, £5,882,779; and for the South Island, $4,675,655, or a surplus for the North Island of $1,207,124. This shows that under the head of " Customs " the North Island must have contributed a good deal more than half the revenue of the colony. I find, also, the land-values of the North Island were £71,680,952, while for the South Island they were £66,910,395, or a surplus of land-values in the North Island of #4,770,557. Now, under the head of "land- tax " it must be clear that the North Island is pay- ing more than half the revenue that comes from that source. It has been impossible for me to get the returns of the income-tax, though I tried to get them from the Income-tax Department ; but, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 if you got the returns for the North and South Islands, I will be bound to say that even under that head the North Island will be found to be contributing more than the half. Now, Sir, how has the money been expended? I find from the table annexed to the Public Works Statement of last year that up to the 31st March, 1900, the latest returns available, there had been expended on the construction of rail- ways #14,379,792 7s. 10d. Out of this the South Island had received £8,094,174 16s. 3d., and the North Island £6,285,617 11s. 7d., leaving an excess for the South Island of £1,808,557 4s. 8d. Apportioning the expendi- ture on rolling-stock in the same ratio as the cost of construction, I find that the South Island would have $1,402,896 14s. 7d., and the North Island £1,089,943 5s. 6d., a surplus for the South Island of £312,9539s. 1d. If I add to that last year's appropriations and the additions to open lines, I find that the total for the South Island under all those heads is £9,963,156 10s. 10d., for the North Island £7,715,560 13s. 9d., or an excess of expenditure in the South Island of £2,247,585 13s. 9d. Now, when I mentioned these facts or similar facts to honourable mem- bers of this House on a previous occasion I was told, " Oh, yes, that is all right enough, as far as the railways are concerned ; but you have such stacks of money for roads and bridges and other kinds of works in the North." But, Sir, I have taken the trouble to go into this matter accounts stand. One or two of the accounts appended to the tables of the Public Works Statement I was not able to analyse, because there is no distinction made between the ex- penditure in the North and South Islands. Take, for instance, the amounts spent on tele- graphs, or the amounts spent on lighthouses and public buildings. I was not able to analyse them, because I could not ascertain the locali- ties in which those works were constructed. Mr. HALL-JONES .-- Take roads. Mr. FOWLDS .- I have them ready for you. Including roads, roads on goldfields, water. races on goldfields, and harbour-works, I find under those four headings the North Island has had $3,097,166 8s. 4d., and the South Island #2,567,027 16s. 10d. There is a surplus there for the North Island, as you will observe, of £530,138 11s. 6d. But let me summarise this, and let us see how the accounts stand as a whole. There was an excess in favour of the South on railway construction of £2,247,588, an excess in favour of the North on these other heads of £53),138 11s. 6d., which leaves a deficiency still owing to the North Island of £1,717,450 2s. 3d., and if I were able to analyse the other accounts I have no doubt I should find the same unfair treatment of the North. That is pretty bad, but what about the inten- tions of the Government for the future ? We can only judge of their intentions for the future by their recent conduct. If I take the result of last year's work, I find that, including the amount spent on railway construction for the year ending the 31st March, 1900-which is the last return I can get-with the appropriations of last year, the result is as follows : South Island, £480,420 16s., and the North Island, £304,699 18s. 11d. That shows the inequality of expenditure is still going on at the rate of £175,720 a year. We thus get a little insight into their intentions for the future. Under the Railways Authorisation Act of last year pro- vision was made for the construction of 120 miles of railway in the South Island and sixty-three miles of railway in the North Island, a further deficiency of fifty-seven miles for the North Island. The total expenditure works out in this way: The average expen- diture on railways per head of the inhabit -. ants of the colony amounts to £18 12s. 2d. The South Island has had per head £21 3s. 7d. and the North Island has had only £16 1s. 10d .. while the southern portion of the North Island outside the Auckland Province had, of moneys so expended in the North Island, £17 3s. 1d. per head of the popula- tion, while the Auckland Province had only £14 15s. 11d. And I venture to say, if we were able to make a similar comparison with reference to the people living still further to the north of Auckland, the discrepancy would get worse and worse as you go north. I would ask, How is it that this unequal expenditure between the people living in different portions of the colony comes about, and how is it con- tinued? I say that the whole of this injus- tice comes through the preponderance of South 