the Natives, which meet the desires of the | The wish that I have is to try to enable these The main wish always contended for Natives. by the Maori people of the colony from early years was that they should have the retention of their lands. They were far-seeing people, for they saw that a large number of the members of their tribes were disposing of their interests, not considering the future of their people. But the older people said-and have always said in the meetings which they held-that it was the duty of themselves as a people to look after the future welfare of their race. The only means for the purpose of pre- serving them is to retain all the surplus land they hold now, because they have realised that large portions of their land have passed away into the hands of the Europeans, and also into the hands of the Crown. Sir, whatever areas of land we may have now cannot be considered · a sufficiency for the balance of the Maori people. I say that it is not only the duty of the Maoris themselves, it is not only the duty of the Euro- peans and also this Parliament, but I say it is the duty of all to see that the balance of the Maori land should be retained for the entire support of the Maori people in the future. We find that this long-sought-for desire by the Maoris has been carried out by the Act of last year-not in its full entirety, but, at any rate, almost so -it has prevented the continual pur- chases made by the Crown itself of Native land. Now, that is a step which was made by the Go- vernment realising themselves that the time had arrived when this should be done ; and the Maoris themselves desire to express, and have expressed over and over again since the passing of the Act of last year, their appreciation of the action of the Government. Now, the small de- fects of the Act of last year, to my mind, are only a few. One is that the number of mem- bers on the Council is too many. I have been looking at it from a monetary standpoint. It is rather too expensive. I have always con- tended, ever since 1899 up till last year, that seven members constituting this Council was too many. It is not a working number. A working number would be three; and it is not only that, but it reduces the expense which would be created by the Board in administering its work. I look forward to the future that these particular phases of the Act of last year will be remedied and amended in this direction. I desire that the Act should be set up now and set in motion, and by its own operation we might be able to find out the different errors that time alone will show, and the Government, no doubt, prompted by the Maoris, will have these defects remedied. Now, to my mind, another defect in the Act which I leave to the future to decide is this : the mingling together or joining together of two distinct functions : that is, the mingling of the judicial with the administrative functions. I have always con- tended that these two features ought to be set aside for the administration of distinct bodies. It would not only simplify the working of each, but it would be far more beneficial were the two things made distinct, and I hope time will show that this course will have to be taken. Mr. Heke bodies to get on with their work without being hampered by the particular complications which will come in, not only through their adminis- trative capacity, but also through their judicial capacity. Now, there is also this that I desire to convey to the members of the House : It has never been the wish of the Maoris to pre- vent the opening up of their lands. In every large meeting held by themselves there has always been a wish expressed to this effect : that the laws ought to be changed so that they should be able, if they did not desire to apply their own industry to the land, that this land could be cut up and set aside for the purposes of settlement. There is that great wish among the Maoris of the Ngatimaniapoto Tribe, who have large tracts of Maori land which they cannot entirely work for their own advan- tage. These people desire that this land should be immediately cut np and settled by Euro- peans. And the same wish was expressed by the large Maori landowners up and about Wa- nganui. The same wish is also expressed by the Maoris North of Auckland, who have fairly large areas of land. There is no desire to block the growth of the country, but the whole wish is to pass some legislation by which we can gain benefit, and also by which we can let our lands be laid open to European industry so that we may reap the benefit of it. Now, I also da- sire to make a few remarks, Sir, on the Maori Councils Act of last year. The Maori Coun- cils Act introduced last year was one that was passed by this House to enable the Maoris to exercise some control in reference to the sanitary condition of their settlements. Now, it has been found necessary by our people, and there is also a wish expressed by the Maoris as a whole, that the provisions under this Act should be set in motion ; but we also realise, after the consideration of many of its provisions, that there are small defects in it, and I hope that the Native Minister will come down with a Bill to amend some of the provisions of the Act of last year. I might cite a few. In section 6 of the Act, it provides that power should be giver. for the purpose of subdividing the districts into ridings. Now, the intention of this House was to enable the people of each riding to nominate a member of their own riding to represent themselves directly on the Council. But. un- fortunately, in the Act of last year there was a defect which was not found out until later: that is, there was no power given to the Returning Officer to enable him to set up or elect Deputy Returning Officers. For that reason a good many compli- 5.0. cations have occurred where large por- tions of a district are not directly represented by a member nominated in their own particular locality. I hope this defect will be remedied. Then there is also this : In section 16 of the Act it gives the Maori Council the right to deal with certain matters. We find now the proper course is that the Maori Councils should be given power to form regulations to deal with minor offences-minor offences entirely origi- nating from Maori customs. We shall have & 