to mention that they were purchasing lands from the Natives and continually adding to the public estate, as well as selling some of the lands which were required for closer settlement. And another point he omitted to tell the House was this: that you may sell twenty thousand acres out of a hundred-thousand-acre block, and have more value left in the eighty thou- sand acres than you had when you owned the one hundred thousand acres, simply by the pro- motion of closer settlement. I know a farmer who had a thousand acres of land. When his eldest son got married he gave him 250 acres, he also gave the second son 250 acres, and to the third son he also gave 250 acres ; and after- wards, when he had only 250 acres of land left, those 250 acres were worth twice as much as the whole of the thousand acres had been. So that by selling part of the Crown lands you may still have a more valuable asset left. Next, I will take the public - works item, representing £1,910,000. Are we to stop these public works? Will the leader of the Opposition say, when he taxes us with over- borrowing, that we ought to stop all public works? He knows perfectly well it is im- possible, and we know it is impossible. What line of policy does he suggest in its place ? It is easy to destroy, but not so easy to construct. The Ministry of the day are no more than the trustees of a large estate, and they ought to do what is best in the interests of the estate, which is the colony; and they can no more stop reasonable borrowing than we can stop eating ; but it must be done in reason, and judiciously. Then the next item of increase is conversion, £646,312; sinking fund accre- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 tions, £1,407,700 ; naval and military settlers, £27,226 ; Government accident insurance, £2,000; making another sum of £4,642,938 ; or, together with the sum I first named, £12,437,574, less redemptions under "The Consolidated Stock Act, 1884," £1,260,430. Other debentures, £416,259 : total, £1,676,679. And, together, the different amounts make exactly what we have increased the public debt by in those ten years, the total being £10,760,896. There is a fair open statement for the House to look through. An Hon. MEMBER .- Whose figures are they ? Mr. MILLS. - These are my figures, but given on the authority of a department that knows exactly what it is stating. And not only do those figures come from the department, but they have been taken from balance-sheets which have been duly audited; and I do not think that even honourable gentlemen of the Opposi- tion will find fault with the Audit Department as well as the Government. At any rate, I am quite satisfied with their work. Now, some people say figures are not interesting, but I con- sider they are very interesting, more especially when they are on the right side of the book. Passing from that, some other honourable gentlemen, and among them the leader of the Opposition, said there was a remarkable falling- off in the Customs revenue, and that it was causing great alarm Now, let me ask who caused the alarm ? An Hon. MEMBER .- The Premier. Mr. MILLS .- No; the honourable gentle- man's friends. Hon. MEMBERS .- NO. Mr. MILLS .- Decidedly it was. They dis- torted a statement made to two or three West Coast members about one particular fund, and immediately it was spread broadcast throughout. the colony, and sent Home to England as well .. Now, I am going to contradict those false im- pressions with no uncertain sound, and I am going to show, by the logic of facts and figures, what the true position really is. I had not. been long enough in office to have become familiar with the figures for past years ; so to. satisfy myself and the House that we are on. the right tack, I have done what any ordinary business man would do : that is, I have procured; the figures from audited balance-sheets, extend- ing over a period of years. Now I will take the past five years, and the corresponding months since the end of the financial year-that is, April, May, June, July. Our Customs revenue from 1897 to 1901 is as follows :- 1897. April 167,694 .. Beer 5,804 May 129,899 .. .. Beer 5,474 .. . June 130,686 .. Beer 5,303 July 168,035 .. Beer 5,039 Total . 4)617,934\* . . Average per month .. £154,483} 1898. April 155,787 .. .. 6,236 Beer May 144,770 .. 5,720 Beer June 134,185 Beer 5,226 July 156,728 5,227 Beer Total . . 4)613,879\* .. Average per month .. £153,4693 1899. April 159,730 Beer 6.001 . May 160,652 Beer 5,936 . June 141,517 Beer 5.854 157,433 July .. Beer 5,076 .. . . 4)642, 199\* Total .. .. €160,5493 Average per month \* Includes parcel-post. 