tenant of the other, and if any one knows the financial position of the colony it is Sir Joseph Ward ; and if the Premier had made that state- ment, can it be suggested for one moment that Sir Joseph Ward would have the temerity to absolutely deny it within forty-eight hours ? I say that is an answer to Captain Russell, and to the text that he took in his speech on this debate. An Hon. MEMBER .- Mr. Graham was pre- sent. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- The honourable member says that Mr. Graham was present. I am not an old member of this House, but I occasionally read the newspapers, and have done so for some years past, and I remember, as the honourable member for Franklin re- minds us, of an experience of the honourable member for Nelson City as a newspaper corre- spondent, which illustrated that honourable gentleman's capabilities for supplying news of a highly coloured nature. Might he not have supplied the "fairy tale" now referred to? Then, in reference to the next text adopted by Captain Russell, he raised once more the bones of poor John Ballance. Captain RUSSELL .- No. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- The crux of Captain Russell's speech was this : that we have aban- doned the policy laid down by the late John Ballance, and that statement was reiterated by the member for Nelson City, by the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar), and by the member for Riccarton ; every one of whom took up that text and discussed it ad nauseam. Now, is it not strange to find Captain Russell to-day elevat- ing the late John Ballance to a high pedestal in political history, for when Mr. Ballance was in power there was no one who opposed him more http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero than the honourable member, and the attacks of that party actually assisted to bring about his early death. An Hon. MEMBER .- Oh, rubbish. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- The honourable member says that is rubbish. The honourable member may disagree with me with respect to that ; but I repeat, what helped to drive him to an early death was the cruel criticism from those benches and from the Conservative news- papers of New Zealand. The whole essence of the late honourable gentleman's policy was an- tagonistic to that of those members sitting on those benches. Now, to-day that policy is brought forward as the only policy originat- ing from the present Government that was worthy of consideration ; and we are now ac- cused of having thrown it overboard and of sailing under false colours. If the honourable member for Hawke's Bay never makes another speech in this House he will retire with honours for his success in "borrowing " the honourable gentlemen just referred to: and I intend later to clearly show how he has exploited them. Now, Sir, to prove that those two 8.30. honourable gentlemen have drawn members on this side of the House, I would ask, Why do we not find an attempt on the part of honourable members on the opposite Mr. A. L. D. Fraser Statement? Where is the didactic Herries ? Where is sledge-hammer Massey ? Where is the Demosthenes of Waitemata ? Mr. MONK .- I am waiting here for some- body to answer what has already been said. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- Where is the ubiquitous Pirani ?- not one of them moving, for the simple reason that Captain Russell and the member for Bruce have so successfully exploited Messrs. Millar, G. W. Russell, and Graham. Mr. PIRANI .- We are waiting for a Minister. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- " Waiting for a Minister "! You know perfectly well that that is not the reason. You are sitting there, Mephi- stopheles-like, gloating over the errors of your in- carnated Faust. You are waiting for a Minister, and possibly a Minister will be with you in a short time whom you will be able to confess to. We will now leave the texts of Captain Russell for metal more attractive. With other honour- able gentleman I say that I am not a financier. Captain Russell said that he, too, was not a financier ; and it is strange to relate that one or two honourable members who have followed him have used the same words. When Captain Russell said that he was not a financier he must have said so owing to diffidence, for he should be one. He has had extensive experience ; but when the honourable member for Nelson City (Mr. Graham) says that he is not a financier, I say it is hardly necessary for him to tell us so, for it is self-evident. During the last few days both he and the honourable member for Riccar- ton have given us their views on the financial position of the colony as it is at the present time, and as it has been during the past ten years. Figuratively speaking, it was only yesterday when, at the hustings, with the goal of Parlia- ment before them, that their views were then entirely different from what they are now. I say, therefore, that I would rather have the consistency of the Opposition than the incon- sistency of those honourable gentlemen who are now being smiled at by those sitting op- posite, for the reason that they have been made use of. I will now, for a moment or two, deal with the honourable member for Ric- carton, and I shall demonstrate that the only consistency he has displayed has been in his inconsistency. We have now had for some time three recognised parties in this House. We have recognised the Opposition ; we have also recognised the "left-wingers "- and in saying that, I am not speaking dis- respectfully ; and we have recognised the repre- sentatives on the Government side of the House. But now we find that we have here those who are not connected with the Opposition, nor with the " left wing "-for the members of that party would not have them-nor are they on the Go- vernment side. Then, I would ask, What are they ? and would reply, that they have become a fourth party. What shall we call them ? In my opinion we can only call them Ishmaelites - Ishmaelites, whose hands are raised against every one and who have every one's hands raised against them. 