ment to enter the profession, and no oppor- tunity of getting better positions in another education district. Again, in the districts of North Canterbury and Otago teachers have an opportunity of attending training-colleges or university lectures, of improving their educa- tional status, and of obtaining higher certifi- cates. The teachers in Nelson and other small districts have not that opportunity, and con- sequently cannot improve their classification so fast as do the teachers in the larger and better- equipped districts. Again, what opportunity or facility is offered to a teacher in one of the smaller districts of attending the university examinations so as to qualify for a degree ? Take, for example, once more the case 3.0. of the teachers in Marlborough, who would be compelled to ask for leave of absence, first of all, from the Education Board in order to go to Wellington or some other examining centre to stand for an examination. Why, the result would be that every one in the education district would know the teacher of a particular school had asked for leave of absence to go to Wellington to endeavour to pass a university examination, and would keep a look-out to see whether he failed or passed. We find that the salaries of teachers are so low, and the chances of promotion to remunerative positions are so very remote, that it is a difficult matter for the Education Boards to obtain the services of male teachers. Out of 3,615 teachers engaged in the colony no less than 2,164 are females, and 1,451 are males - that is to say, there are nearly two females to every male. Again, putting aside the adult teachers, we find that the pupil-teachers-that https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 is, those undergoing a course of training, and who will be the teachers in time to come -- are in the proportion of three females to every male-namely, males 230 and females 792. The http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Education Boards experience considerable diffi- culty, as I have pointed out, in obtaining the services of male teachers. Intelligent, stalwart young men will not favourably entertain the idea of entering the teaching profession, where the work is arduous, where they have to undergo a literary examination at the end of each year during the four years of their apprenticeship, and stand a good chance of losing their position when they have completed their course owing to the want of a sufficient number of vacancies to which they could be appointed. We find there are 230 male pupil-teachers in the ser- vice of the various Education Boards of the colony, whereas there are 792 female. In the Wellington Education District, for example, there are only twenty-two male and no less than 153 female : in Auckland, forty-nine male pupil-teachers and 190 female. Now, I ask the question, Where are these Edu- cation Boards to get their male teachers from in time to come? I will go a little fur- ther. In the weaker education districts the dearth of males is even more apparent, for in Marlborough there are fifteen pupil-teachers, and all of these are females. In Nelson there are forty-three female pupil-teachers, and only eleven males ; consequently, we see that there Mr. Gilfe ider brightest boys who pass through the standards in our schools to join the teaching profession. They see no prospect of their future success and promotion in that profession, and consequently they turn to some other calling or occupation that will be more lucrative, and in which pro- motion will be more certain. Now, with regard to equal pay for equal work, honourable mem- bers have for the last few days been presenting . petitions to the House from female teachers asking for equal pay to that proposed to be given to men. Perhaps honourable members are not aware that there are three meanings given to this hackneyed expression, " Equal pay for equal work," and the report of the Com- missioners appointed to inquire into the sala- ries of teachers as far as possible recommends the adoption of the principle of giving equal pay for equal work in the teaching profession. Hon. MEMBERS .- NO. Mr. GILFEDDER. - Sir, the honourable member for Palmerston knows nothing at all about it. The honourable member is thinking of equal pay for men and women. That is not necessarily equal pay for equal work, and.I will tell him where he is wrong. Equal pay for equal work means, in the first place, that the teacher, no matter in which education dis- trict he may be employed, who teaches a school of, say, thirty, forty, fifty, or a hundred pupils will receive the same amount of remuneration. Again, the work of teaching efficiently a school of, say, thirty children, whether by a male or female teacher, should command the same salary provided it be well done, irrespective of the locality of the school or of the sex of the teacher. Women would be entitled to the same salaries as at the present time are being paid to male teachers in all positions if the work done by them were equally efficient. This, again, would be equal pay for equal work. But allow me to say, Sir, that there are positions in the schools in which the work of the females is not equal to that of the males ; and that is the secret of the whole thing. Sir, women do not perform the same work as men. I cannot comment at this stage on the evidence taken before the Commission, as it has not yet been placed on the table of the House; but when honourable members read that evidence they will find that, according to the testimony of the leading experts on the subject in all parts of the colony, the work of the females is not equal to that of the males. The evidence of these educational authorities goes to prove that the lower positions in the large town schools-that is, class-teaching in all standards up to and including Standard IV .- can be done efficiently by the female teachers; but the expert opinion of headmasters, of Inspectors of Schools, and even of many females them- selves is that with very few exceptions females do not give satisfaction as class-teachers in the Fifth and Sixth Standards. I think that the reasons given by the witnesses before the Com- mission will appeal to the common-sense of members of the House. Mr. PIRANI .- You are wrong. 