it seems to me that, if we are to tax those who are best able to bear it, the best course would be to put an additional graduated tax on land, and thus take a further step to prevent the aggrega- tion of large estates, which apparently is still going on unabated. Then, something has been said about the unequal distribution of Ministers throughout the colony-that is to say, the South Island is far better represented than the North Island in the Ministry. That, though undesirable, does not seem to me to matter so much. A turn of the wheel may show that the North Island is far better represented on the Ministry than the South. But, on the question of the representation in the other Chamber, I consider an attempt ought to be made to equalise matters, and more particularly the farming districts should be represented. They are not at the present time adequately represented in the Upper House, and as vacan- cies occur Ministers ought to bear in mind this fact. On the subject of education one fact has come very prominently before my notice during the term I have been in the House - namely, that there is a want of small schools in remote districts. In two cases in my electorate there has been urgent need for years past for the establishment of small schools : but, notwith- standing the disadvantages under which the settlers are placed in that respect, no schools have been erected. I know in one case if a school had been erected in the proper place every child in the district would have been able to attend. As it is whole families are allowed to grow up without any education whatever. And it is manifestly improper that young child- ren should be asked, as they are now asked, to walk long distances-say, four miles every morning and the same distance back every evening-to and from school. Walking long distances robs the children of the energy they require to do full justice to their school-work. This is particularly true in the dairying dis- triets, where time in the morning and evening is of great value to parents. They have to get up practically a couple of hours earlier in order to get their children away in time, whereas if the school were within a convenient distance there would be no need for such early hours, and the elder children might be able to assist in the working of the dairy farm, a thing which at the present time, owing to the remoteness of the school, they are in many cases unable to do, unless they neglect their education. On the subject of defence, I agree with the honourable member for Wairarapa that the staff seems to be costing too much money-that an unnecessarily large sum is being expended in this direction. It might very well, for the pre- sent at any rate, be reduced. And I am entirely in accord with those members whoare of opinion that the citizen soldier is the kind of soldier that should be encouraged, and that the regula- tions affecting the formation of rifle clubs need relaxing very considerably, so as to throw those clubs open to a much larger section of the com- munity than at present. The one main lesson the South African war has taught us is, above Mr. Field and there are no doubt many men, young and middle-aged, who do not care to join Volunteer corps, but who nevertheless desire to take part in rifle-shooting, and who in time of war would, for general purposes, prove almost as capable soldiers as the Volunteers themselves. It seems to me that not only should the regulations af- fecting the formation of rifle clubs be relaxed, but there should be some provision whereby the older men in the community might join Volunteer corps as honorary members, no drill being required of them, but rifles and ammu- nition being supplied to them on reasonable terms for rifle-shooting purposes. Something has been said by honourable members on the other side as to the certainty that our Customs revenue would be reduced. In answer to this, I may mention that I have before me one return which shows that the item of beer duty collected during the last five months has materially increased, and this is a fair indica- tion as to Customs duties generally. It may not be pleasing to our Prohibitionist friends to discover this, but to those who are not Pro- hibitionists it will mark a very satisfactory in- crease. The figures are as follows :- Month. 1901. 1900. d. £ 8. d. 7,603 April 7 7,059 1 1 May 6,994 15 0 6,325 8 1 June 6,562 2 5,880 0 3 July 6,012 5.542 5 1 0 1 August 7,306 7,012 8 1 8 8 Totals £34,478 11 9 £31,819 2 2 .. That is a very satisfactory increase : and, as a matter of fact, the Customs duties are keeping up very well indeed. Then, coming to the question of the labour laws, there is no doubt a very strong feeling, through- out the country districts especially, that our labour laws have reached the very ut- most limit to which they should go --- that the country should be given a rest, and that the present labour laws, so far as they are working unsatisfactorily, should be amended in the direction necessary to render them satisfactory. There is a desire felt, and certainly it seems to me not only reasonable but absolutely neces- sary, that a change should be made in the con- stitution of the Conciliation Boards, so as to prevent this everlasting, never, never ceasing. unhealthy, and expensive turmoil which we have evidence of every day in the newspapers. Under this head it is instructive to notice the leading matter on the subject in the Austrai- asian Pastoralists' Review, a few lines of which I will read, and I commend these comments to the serious notice of the Government :- "The Compulsory Arbitration Bill which is now before the New South Wales Parliament has received both impulse and direction from the report of Judge Backhouse, the Commis- 