Standing Orders of the Imperial Parliament on this point of reporting the evidence of Select Committees. Our Standing Orders on this point are almost word for word with the Standing Orders of the Imperial Parliament. Standing Order No, 349 of the House of Commons says :- " By resolution of 21st April, 1837, according to the undoubted privileges of this House, and for the due protection of the public interest, the evidence taken by any Select Committee of this House and documents presented to such Com- mittee, and which have not been reported to this House, ought not to be published by any member of such Committee or by any other person." That is almost word for word with the Stand- ing Order we have in connection with our pro- cedure. Then we were further informed by the Premier that it is the custom at the present time for the House of Commons to allow the proceedings before the Select Committees to be reported. That, I admit, under certain circum- stances ; but in every case they require the Chairman of the Committee to ask for the consent of Parliament. This is what May says :- "It is the general custom to withhold the evidence until the inquiry has been completed and the report is ready to be presented, but, whenever an intermediate publication of the evidence or more than one report may be thought necessary, the House will grant leave, on the application of the Chairman, for the Committee to report its opinion or observations from time to time, or to report minutes of evi- dence only, from time to time." That, Sir, is the position in the Imperial Par- liament. I have been in this House for a num- ber of years, and I have had an opportunity of listening to discussions on a number of breaches of privilege, and, in this connection, my mind goes back to what occurred in 1896, when before the Banking Committee Mr. Watson refused to give evidence. What happened then ? He re- fused to answer questions put by the Chairman (Mr. Graham) and the Premier. The Chairman reported to the House that Mr. Watson had re- fused to give evidence ; and the leader of the House, the Premier, moved that a breach of Mr. Watson privilege had been committed. was heard at the bar of the House, and persisted in refusing to give evidence. Let me remind the Premier of what he said on that occasion. He said :- "I have not taken any step in connection with this matter without experiencing pain at being forced into the position ; because, personally, I am friendly with Mr. Watson, and I have very great respect for him ; but I say that if he had been my brother and my dearest friend, and I found that our rights and privileges as representatives of the people were being encroached upon, no matter what the consequences might be, I should still do my duty. In this case I have been placed in a most unfortunate position in having to insist on our rights being observed; and, under the circumstances, I think that honourable members ought to say that I am doing my Mr. Massey duty in endeavouring as far as I can to do that which, as leader of the House, I am bound to do-namely, to see that our privileges are maintained." Sir, in 1896 the Premier was willing to do his duty with regard to the privileges of the House, even if the offender had been his dearest friend or brother ; but he is not willing to do his duty now when a wealthy and influential newspaper is concerned. That is the difference. To sum up the position, as I understand it, it is this : There are two counts in the indict- ment which we are now dealing with. One is with regard to the breach of privilege itself, for which I submit the proprietor or the publisher should be called to the bar of the House to apologize and explain, and if such apology is not forthcoming they ought to be fined more or less heavily according to the circumstances. Mr. FISHER .- The contempt should come first. Mr. MASSEY .- Perhaps that is so. I am not well enough up in the matter to say which should come first. Then, with regard to the witness refusing to give evidence: Mr. Cohen has admitted the offence, and it is only for the House to say what the punishment should be. I think it should be a fine. I do not say it should be a severe fine; but I think a fine of £5 or £10 would meet the case. Bu: so long as we have Standing Orders I think those Standing Orders should be complied with. and I think, in this connection, the House should assert itself. It should not allow itself to be trifled with, and if it takes up that position there will be fewer breaches of privi- lege in the future than in the past. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, the amend- ment, if carried, would be a gross violation of every precedent of representative institutions. I defy any member of the House to give me a parallel case where a penalty has been inflicted without the person having been called before the bar of the House. There is no pre- cedent, and it would be a gross injustice. I hope the honourable member for Wellington City will not forget that when I said to the honourable member for Bruce, " Why don't you move an amendment imposing a penalty ?" He said "You don't catch me." What the members of the Opposition would like to do would be to give the Premier a slap in the face ; but they would like to do it through some one else-they would not do it themselves ; and that is the interpretation of the words. " You don't catch me." I will undertake to say there is not a member of the Opposition but will vote for the amendment, and they will only do it to show to the House and the country. if possible, that the Premier cannot lead the House. I know what they mean. But, if they think that I am blind, or deaf, or asleep, they make a very great mistake. All I can say is that. it does not redound to the credit of the relics of the effete Opposition when they make a question of privilege a question of party. I saw the member for Palmerston rush- ing and getting a Hansard and giving it to a messenger, and the messenger giving it to 