of people-some promoters of companies, some directors, and some shareholders -and the general result of my investigations was that at a recent period of the boom a very large number of companies were floated, and are now in existence, which have done actually nothing whatever towards the carrying-out of their legitimate objects. I can state this as a fact from my own knowledge: that, out of eight companies inquired into as to their position, going before the public and asking for subscrip- tions, seven of those companies have got no dredging property at all-not a shilling's worth. The promotion of those companies has been carried out in an improper and, I was almost going to say, fraudulent manner; and it will surprise people when the evidence comes out -those interested in the honour and credit of the mercantile community-that such pro- ceedings could have taken place at the present day. I looked into one particular company, and I found that the promoter of the company put out a prospectus, and within a short time got a large over-application for shares, and that when the supposed contract was filed, or should have been filed, there was no reckoning made for the original vendor. Then, this peculiar position aruse : The gentleman agreed to convey to the company a property on the West Coast, for which he had only paid 10s. and some paid-up shares, for an option. He was to have some- thing like a thousand bonus shares himself, and he did not even take the trouble to get any more than a kind of provisional agreement with that gentleman, which agreement was neither signed by the vendor nor by the option holder, and which, of course, never was registered, and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 which has lain for the whole of the time since in the hands of the solicitor without anything being done. These vendors' shares have been issued, and beyond that there has been a large number of subscribing shares issued, upon which a considerable amount of money has been called up. I may also add that there is no attempt whatever being made to put a dredge on the claim, or to do any- thing at all, but just nurse it to keep the license alive, apparently for the benefit of the pro- moter. Unfortunate people have paid hundreds of pounds into the company, and have seen their money disposed of in this very peculiar and improper, and, I should say, dishonest manner. It has been distributed, first of all, in directors' fees, the vendor himself being a direc- tor. The vendor himself is also the secre- tary, although there is a clerk in the office who is nominally the secretary. An office is kept, and the driblets of money that have come in from the shareholders have gone to pay the fees of the directors and secretary. The clerk is the nominal secretary, receives the fees and passes them over to the party who was vendor and director, who also got the money which was paid for the use of the office ; so that for the money the shareholders have paid to this company there has not been one scrap of property acquired, and it is being frittered away in such a manner as I have described. The original vendor is on the Coast. He can take and hold that property as long as he likes. He has signed no transfer deed, and therefore the result is that this company has no assets. That is merely one instance of the many I know of that are in exactly the same position. There has been considerable interest, as all honourable members know, in the dredg- ing industry. It is an industry with great potentialities, and if carried on honestly and properly, and with due regard to the principles that lie at the base of success in all business enterprises, there is a great future for that industry in New Zealand. But when we find that it has got into the hands of individuals who simply want the pickings-and almost the stealings-of it, the industry is so dis- credited that it is impossible now to write Home, or to Australia, or to anywhere else, with any probability of getting investors to put their money into it. Sir, the fullest dis- closure must be made. and steps taken by Par- liament to see that the interest not only of the people of the district surrounding these dredging claims, but the interests of the whole of the people of New Zealand, shall be pro- tected, and the colony saved from what I con- sider is a great discredit, and even a scandal. I could go on for a long time relating to the Council circumstances of a similar character which would further bring before honourable gentlemen the real position of matters ; but I do not know that it is worth while doing so, for the reason that very shortly there will be a full report submitted to the Council of the whole of the proceedings of the inquiry now being made. When honourable members read that report for themselves they will be able to understand the position very much better than I could put it before them now. There- fore I may say that I, for one, am ex- ceedingly glad that Government are taking some steps to alter the law. I consider the proposed amendments do not go far enough. This Bill in itself is largely a reproduction of the Home Act of last year. Now, there are no gold mines at Home, and for that reason there could be introduced into this Bill a large number of protective clauses which, of course, would not apply in Great Britain. In this Bill we have, I consider, only an instalment of what is required. On the Committee I suggested a few amendments, and if I had had time I could have suggested a number more. I think the Bill as it stands at present does not fully grasp the situation, and I do not think it will be possible for us to get the Companies Act into proper shape until a sub-committee of expert members has been set up to investigate the whole thing, and to draft a Bill to submit to Parliament, so that thisi m- portant subject may be considered by the whole House. Passing on to the Bill itself, I will just briefly relate a few of the alterations made in it. First of all, by a new clause that has been put into the Bill the qualifications of the direc- tors must be stated in the prospectus. Hitherto it has been the rule to say nothing about the qualifications of directors, but to leave it to the public to find them out. My opinion, which I 