And so on. Therefore members will see that a | way workshops of the colony are concerned, comparison of these tables goes to show that, so there is yet room for improvement. The dif- far as the amounts voted for public works are ferent branches of the service are huddled to- concerned, the expenditure has been well up to gether in a way that is inimical to rapid work- the margin. A progressive policy of expendi- manship; and were the works extended on the ture has gone on in regard to public works, and vacant land at Petone, which the Govern- L the total for 1900 of the expenditure is $281,124, ment own and have acquired, that would give while the total for 1910 is £301,660. Honour- the workshops at Petone ample room for work, able members will see by that table that the and they would become first-class workshops, expenditure on roads and bridges under the and remain what. perhaps, they are now ad- Department of Lands and Survey of this mitted to be, the best workshops in the Colony colony for the years ending the 31st March, of New Zealand. Now, we notice that the , 1900 and 1901, compares not only favourably colony has been making its own engines, though but is in advance of the expenditure of former within the past few months they have imported periods. Now, while considering the question some from America. The character of those of expenditure on roads and bridges, there is engines I have discussed with men who know. another matter which I intend to make a point The difference between these so-called Yankee of to-night, and which I intend to keep at until engines and those of English manufacture, I I get a satisfactory settlement -- it may take a understand, is this: The Yankee engines are long while-and that is, the expenditure by put together quicker and run more quickly the Government on railways. It is admitted than the English ones; they do not require the that railways are the servants of the city ; same breaking.in. The machinery in those that unless you have got rapid and effi- imported from Home, I understand, is more cient communication you 'cannot have com- mercial or industrial activity. You require may be finer-that is, though it is not so rough as that on the Yankee engines-the Yankee railways to be run at a cheap rate; and you require that no private companies should engines that have been imported readily do the hold railways for their own use ; and you re- work that is required of them. They did good quire that the whole of the railways should work during the Duke of York's visit, and have belong to the colony or State. The reason for done other important work, and for heavy that is simple and plain. If a private com- pany owns a railway they run that railway not only to help the public, but for the purpose of paying dividends for their shareholders. The Government who own railways run them in order to pay working-expenses and to save a kind of sinking fund-in itself only a very https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 small percentage-for wear-and-tear of rolling- graph Department is concerned, as to the stock ; and they do not endeavour to extort from the traveller and from the producer a sum of money not commensurate with the return they give. They do not decide to take from the producer and traveller by way of the railway a sum of money which will enable those who hold large shares in these rail- ways to benefit by the holding of these shares. It therefore stands to reason that, if the State owns a railway, that railway can be run cheaper so far as the public are concerned. The municipalisation of gas and electric-light works stands in exactly the same category. If you have a private company run- ning a gasworks or electric-light works, that private company is running for shareholders, and the consumer "pays the piper" every time, because there is no possibility in many cases of any opposition. The company is generally a huge monopoly. Therefore if you put in the hands of the State the ownership of railways, if you put in the hands of the State the owner- ship of works such as I have described-tram- ways, and so on-you allow the public to get the benefit of the State's control. Now, while the Government undertakes railway improvements -and I must congratulate the Hon. the Minister acting as feeders to them. Why has the for Railways on his up-to-dateness and pre- paredness as far as the railways are concerned - I consider that, as far as the rolling-stock of the colony is concerned, and as far as the rail- complicated, and, though the workmanship work they are almost invariably used. I do not say that because they compare favourably with the English engines we should do away with our contracts in England and take up contracts in America. I am one who believes that a good deal should be done to alter the state of things, so far as our Postal and Tele- carrying of letters with America. I consider our contracts with the Oceanic Company should be either altered or determined. As to the engines, however, that have been supplied, I think a good deal of the criticism that has been passed upon them has arisen from want of knowledge, and that if those who criticized had waited upon those who understand these matters they would find out that the engines were quite capable of doing very good work. I think the Government should help the country districts by assisting them to light lines of railway, for then the main lines would be largely fed. A few years ago an Act was introduced in the British Parliament giving facilities for the making of these light A Bill something on the same lines lines. should be introduced here and passed by this Legislature, so that the districts that desire to run these light lines for the purpose of close communication, for the purpose of getting over the difficulty of impassable roads, should have an easy course to pursue. There should be power under the authority of statute to con- struct these lines, power other than that already given, so that these light lines of railway might be made connecting with the main lines and Government not straightened the line from Wellington to the Lower Hutt? I believe the Minister for Railways is absolutely in 