The Committee divided on the motion, ' he would like to say that they were not used to "That the Chairman report progress, and ask leave to sit again." AYES, 18. Allen, J. Monk Heke Hutcheson Pirani Arnold Kaihau Barclay Rhodes. Bollard Lang Tellers. Ell Massey Atkinson Fowlds Millar Herries. Haselden NOES, 28. Parata Allen, E. G. Hall-Jones Bennet Hanan Seddon Carncross Houston Stevens Carroll Laurenson Symes . Ward Collins Lawry Witheford. Colvin McGowan Mckenzie, R. Field Fisher Tellers. McNab Fraser, A. L. D. O'Meara Hogg Gilfedder Palmer Hornsby. PAIRS. For. Against. Mills Fraser, W. Lethbridge Hall Thomson, J. W. Thompson, R. Majority against, 10. Motion to report progress negatived. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) said, In continua- tion of remarks that had been made on the treatment of our colonial troops, he wished to refer to the movements of the Volunteers, and also to the treatment the military had received https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 in the colony during the visit of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall. He did not intend to use any language to which exception could be taken by the House ; but if he only used the / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero language contained in letters sent to him by parents whose children had suffered, and whose children had died through being sent down to Christchurch in the winter time, just for the sake of display or to create a fallacious impres- sion of our military resources, he thought it would make the Premier even more angry than the statement made by Mr. Allen, for five or six of the school cadets had died through the ex- posure they had suffered. He was not 3.0. going to blame the Premier for that, but he would say that the display was abso- lutely unnecessary, and that it was indiscreet to send them. Any parent knew that mere boys were not fit at that season of the year to endure hardships that they would only be subjected to in time of war. Then there was also the scandal at Newtown Park, which was altogether uncalled for, and which should never have taken place. The country was paying men to look after the Volunteer troops, and had they done their duty the scandal would never have taken place. In- stead, the responsible officers went about en- joying themselves in the fêtes that were given by the public and the Government, and the troops were subjected to hardships they should not have suffered. As for the colonial troops, VOL. CXVIII .- 36. the punctiliousness practised among the Im- perial forces ; but at the same time they were most valuable for fighting purposes. They were men who must be handled according to their idiosyncracies, or the free and easy sociology of our colonial life, and not treated as one of the orderlies at the entrance-doors of this building had been treated lately by one of the members of this House, who, entering dressed in uni- form, reported the orderly because he did not salute him as he expected. For himself, he would be ashamed to subject any member of the colonial forces to such treatment for so trivial an offence. It was a good spirit in the men. It was the sort of spirit that had made the New-Zealanders and the other colonials specially valuable. They had not been taught to cringe and be on the unceasing salute before their officers. They were ready to do actual hard work when required, but were indifferent to the formalities that form a large part of the concern of an Imperial private. While they talked about democracy, he thought that, in the visit of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York, they altogether forgot the spirit of democracy, and practised a toadyism that, for himself, he would say was bordering on the contemptible. If they had met the Duke and Duchess with the warm- hearted feeling of free men who had not been trained to the conventional obsequiousness rendered in Old World usages to wealth and rank, the reception would have been sincere and impressive; and there was really no need to try and outrival the display and expenditure of cities much richer than we were. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) said, Last year, when they came to this item, he had moved to reduce the vote by £1, and it was carried, with a direction from the Committee that there should in future be given details of the Legis- lative Council vote. Sir J. G. Ward, who was in the chair at the time, agreed to the proposi- tion. This year, again, no details of this vote of £1,870 were given, although the details of the House of Representatives vote were given. He thought it only right they should know exactly what was to be done with the people's money. He was commencing on the first item and he would continue it right through the estimates. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) said the honourable member, in referring to what was done on the occasion of the Royal visit as " toadyism," was not very complimentary to the people of Auck- land. He considered the arches erected in Auckland were of a most creditable character, and not miserable little arches as he had de- scribed them. He had seen them, and they were a credit to the northern city. With re- gard to the young people who had travelled from the North Island to the South Island to make a display befitting the occasion, he won- dered what the honourable gentleman's loyalty consisted of that he should object to what was done. He had not heard of the mortality that was now said to have resulted from this visit, and he believed that if there had been any 