ber for Bruce. The honourable member has the paper and the representative of the journal -for what reason I cannot understand-but it said that the course proposed in this motion moved by the Right Hon. the Premier is dis- does appear to me that some members, if they creditable to the House. He wants more. Where, can, in order to get at some one else, will hit a man below the belt. They are not above doing I ask, was the honourable gentleman when a it, even under the plea of maintaining the privi- former breach of privilege in this House was leges of Parliament. Why, I ask, should we before us ? Where was he when a breach of exact more from a member of the Press than privilege, relating to a member on that side of from a member of Parliament in such cases? the House who had disclosed information in If a member of Parliament commits a breach regard to the proceedings of a Committee which the House declared by resolution to be a breach of privilege, and expresses regret, the House condones the offence and accepts the apology, of its privileges-where was he when a motion was moved by the Premier declaring it to be a and when you have the representative of a jour- breach of privilege-where was he when that nal who admits that a breach of privilege has been committed, and has given his reasons for motion was before the House ? 'The records of having committed it, and when he has written the House show that he was here immediately and expressed regret for having transgressed before the division, and most of his party voted the rules of the House, as is the case in the against it entirely in the interests of a member communication read by you, Mr. Speaker, to the on their side of the House ; and the honourable House, what is the ordinary course to adopt ? member for Bruce disappeared from the House when the division took place, and immediately Why, that the apology or expression of regret afterwards he came in, and the records show he is accepted. But that is not enough for the honourable members who are so bitter. They voted against a proposal to adjourn the House. desire more, and we are asked to proceed fur- The honourable member, when a breach of pri- vilege was committed by the then member ther against the only man who can give us the source of his information, and who has given for Patea, was silent. Not only was he silent, but he absented himself when the motion was us his reason for adhering to what every honourable member must admit was the only proposed to uphold the dignity of Parliament. And now what do we find ? The honourable honourable course a journalist could take with- out committing a breach of journalistic eti- member suddenly magnifies himself into a pro- tector of the dignity of Parliament, an upholder quette, without being guilty of ungentlemanly of the privileges of the Parliament of this coun- conduct-without, in short, acting a most dis- try. He thought nothing of either its dignity honourable part. We are asked to pass a reso- or its privileges on the former occasion ; but lution placing the representative of a paper now, with some other object in view, the course in a worse position than members of the House when breaches of privilege have been suggested by the Government is not enough for committed ; we are asked to martyrise the him : he wants a heavy penalty imposed on the reporter and to magnify the Dunedin Evening publisher and reporter of the Dunedin Star. In every instance since I have been a member Star, and to bring it into even still greater prominence by bringing the representative of this House, when a breach of privilege has and the publisher of the newspaper before been committed by a member, what has been done by Parliament ? In order to sustain the the House, and fining each of them £25. say it would be bordering upon an absolute privileges of Parliament they have moved a farce to do so. My honourable friend the mem. resolution similar to that now before the House -first. declaring by resolution that a breach of ber for Franklin knows that when the matter cropped up in the House in the first instance privilege has been committed -and we have he suggested that a Committee should be set already done so in this caso-and then by reso- up, and that the suggestion was made by him lution deciding to go no further in the way in order to avoid the very thing we are now of the imposition of a penalty, and that is also asked to do. The suggestion was made as what we now propose. On previous occasions against my proposal to call the publisher and the honourable member for Bruce has not been found upholding the dignity and privileges of the reporter to the bar of the House, and in order to obviate what I believe to be an abso- the House, as he is so anxious to do in this lutely useless, idiotic farce of having men at case ; the honourable member went out just the bar of the House and asking them ques- before the division, and came back again as soon as the division had taken place, and said tions, as was done in the case referred to by the not one word when the matter was being dis- honourable member for Wakatipu-that of the late President of the Bank of New Zealand. I cussed. That was how he upheld the privileges say, to bring them to the bar of the House, of Parliament on that occasion. Now, why to hear them say they regret that honour- should we exact a penalty from a news- able conduct will not permit them to give paper, whatever the newspaper may be, information to the House, and then to go any more than from a member of the House through the farce of inflicting fines, which who has committed a breach of privilege ? the men themselves do not pay, is absurd. I entirely put aside all feeling, such as appears Members are asked to go through the farce of to be introduced by some honourable members bringing them to the bar of the House and against this particular journal, or the repre- inflicting on them a fine which they would not wntative of that journal. Judging from some themselves pay, but which others would pay, of the observations that have been made, I infer and all this in order to uphold the musty, that there must be some feeling against both I 