July :- "For your information I forward names of sick troopers per s.s. 'Tagus': 1252, Cor- poral Bell, Wellington, malaria, serious ; 2437, Sergeant W. F. Bell, Marton, pneu- monia, serious ; 2365, Private F. W. Forbes, Thames, pneumonia, very severe; 2394, Private J. Nicholas, Auckland, pneumonia, severe ; 2601, Private E. A. Harley, Christ- church, rheumatism, improving ; 2630, Saddler W. Murphy, Cheviot, malaria, convalescent; 2533, Sergeant A. Webster, Hokitika, malaria, taken ill this day; 3641, Private N. T. Martin, Dunedin, diseased fauces, to go home to friends; 1108, Sergeant-Major L. Murphy, Invercargill, malaria, taken ill this day ; 1109, Robert McAulay, Portobello, pneumonia, convalescent, discharged home; McKechnie, Napier, enteric, dangerous - this man was sleeping, or semi-comatose, could not get his number; 1121, Private H. Campbell, Invercargill, pneumonia, convalescent ; 1015, Private J. P. Heenan, Dunedin, abscess of liver atter enteric, very dangerous ; 1359, Lance-Corporal D. Trengrove, Pahiatua, colic, convalescent ; 2613, Private F. Knox, Ashbur- ton, malaria, convalescent ; 2380, Private A. E. Nicholson, Auckland, malaria, convalescent ; 1326, Private R. W. Rylie, Wellington, pneu- monia, convalescent ; 1680, Private J Robertson, Kelso, dislocation of shoulder ; 1137, Private J. D. Maloney, Dunedin, con- valescent ; 2241, Saddler G. Fernandos, Wel- lington, jaundice, convalescent ; 2724, Private E. W. Speck, Taranaki, pneumonia, convales- cent ; 1512, Private J. W. Groves, Wairarapa, bronchitis, convalescent ; 2441, Farrier W. E. Brown, Nelson, pneumonia, convalescent ; 1453, Private H. B. Patton, Auckland, pneu- monia, convalescent ; 2687, Private A. W. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Johnston, Taranaki, malaria, convalescent ; 1091, Trumpeter W. Cheeseman, Wellington, malaria, taken ill this day ; 1402, Sergeant J. L. Long, Te Awamutu, malaria, taken ill this day ; 1662, Corporal E. Massey, Oamaru, bronchitis and sore throat, convalescent. In addition to above there are several invalids who require watching, Surgeon-Captain Watt remaining in charge of invalids. " HARRY A. DE LAUTOUR, Brigade-Surgeon Lieut .- Colonel, P.M.O., Otago." That boat only took about nine days between Albany and Port Chalmers. She had to go to Albany, and the only question was whether she should go to Port Chalmers or the Bluff. She never went to the Bluff ; she went to Port Chalmers. An Hon. MEMBER .- She ought to have gone to Auckland. Mr. SEDDON said her first orders were to go to Wellington, then she was ordered to the Bluff, and then Port Chalmers. Port Chalmers was her final port. All through he had done his duty to the young men of this colony. It was well known that sickness developed be- tween Albany and the Cape. The hospital was overcrowded, and the doctor said the over- Mr. Seddon \-- pneumonia was caused by overcrowding. He (Mr. Seddon) had absolutely insisted upon an inquiry as to overcrowding, and he had asked what was the meaning of it. There was the correspondence about that point, and honour- able members would see that he had done his duty. When it came to the inquiry as to over- crowding, Dr, De Lautour, the Commandant, and Surgeon-Captain all said the inquiry was not necessary, and so the matter dropped. When he (Mr. Seddon) did order the Command- ant to put the "Tagus" under inquiry he was advised there was not any necessity for it. On the other hand, the Commandant and the Surgeon in charge informed him practically that the sickness was unavoidable. The sickness had got into the systems of the men and the change from South Africa aggravated it, and yet he was told he was responsible for that ; and it was said that the boat should have gone by the warmer route, and that he (Mr. Seddon) had been told it was dangerous to go by the other route. This was pure fiction. There was abso- lutely nothing more than what he had read. An Hon. MEMBER .- Read it again. Mr. SEDDON said they had heard it read already. Any one who would take up such a view as the honourable member must be devoid of the finer feelings of mankind. That was not S. a very harsh way of putting it. Honourable members did not seem to think that he had any feelings at all. It was simply the jaundice of political prejudice which blinded the honour- able gentleman, who still questioned his state- ment. The telegram was :- "Dr. Thomas, P.M.O., 'Tagus,' officially notifies me very unwise expose troops been through Beira to cold voyage to Bluff. Also, on account of sickness on board at present he strongly recommends port of arrival should be changed." The honourable member had denied that. Did he withdraw that statement, and admit he had made a mistake? As would be seen by the telegram, there was sickness on board the "Tagus " on arrival at Albany. Was he to be held responsible for that ? Mr. MASSEY .- I have nothing to withdraw I have said nothing. Mr. SEDDON said some one on the other side had asserted that his statement was incorrect. Honourable members should not play with a serious thing like this. He was not treated with the courtesy that he extended to honourable members both inside and outside the House. As all could now see, the charge made by the member for Bruce had been founded on so slight a pretext that it should have been at once withdrawn; and not to withdraw it was to stand condemned by every right-thinking person in the country. At all events, he was now determined to go on with the business of the country. The business had been stopped for fully a week by the honourable gentlemen opposite in some way or other, and it seemed that this was to stop further business. The ACTING-CHAIRMAN .- Time is up. 