Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) .- I would like to point out that the whole of the evidence might have been published in one issue of the Star. Mr. PIRANI .- It could not do so. Sir J. G. WARD .- But suppose it did ; the Committee then would have dealt with the whole question in one report only. The House having declared that a breach of privilege has been committed, and this further evidence having also been published in the same paper, surely the case can be met by the Privileges Committee reporting to the House on the whole business at one time. I would ask, Sir, what is the use of threshing this thing to death ? We have already referred the matter to the Privileges Committee. No further publication has taken place since then ; and, with the second paper of the 27th before it, surely that Committee will report on it, and it will then be for the House to deal with the whole matter at one and the same time as it thinks desirable. To go over the business now a second time would only re- sult in senseless repetition. The honourable member for Avon was mistaken in assuming that this was being treated lightly, and that the paper was by further publication defying the House. Mr. TANNER .- I stated the whole practices generally prevailing. Sir J. G. WARD .- I am not defending the publication of the evidence at all-quite the contrary; but when the matter was brought under my notice this afternoon by the Chair- man of the Privileges Committee I saw that the paper was dated the 27th August, and that was https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 before the privilege question was raised in the House over the first lot of evidence which was published. I could quite understand that members would be irate and anxious to show their displeasure at hearing of a second breach of privilege, if the evidence published in the paper of the 27th was after the first breach of privilege had been brought before the House, but that was not the case. Consequently, sec- ing that the Committee was now engaged in- vestigating the first breach of privilege, and the Chairman of that Committee's attention having been called to the second publication, I thought the Committee would investigate this second lot as well, and regard it as a continuation of the first publication. I hope the House will accept the proposal of my colleague, so that we may continue the very important financial debate which was going on, and which is likely to go on for some time. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) .- Sir, as I happen to be the Chairman of the Privileges Committee, I did not intend to say any- thing on the present occasion, nor shall I say now one single word that might influence the decision of the House as to the course it proposes to take in regard to this particular matter ; but I thought it my duty this after- noon, when a copy of the Dunedin Evening Star of Tuesday was shown to me, to draw the attention of the leader of the House to the fact that that copy contained five columns of what purported to be evidence given before the same Committee in regard to the publication of whose proceedings the first complaint was made. I also thought it my business to mention the matter to you, Sir, as Acting-Speaker, and also to the Chairman of the Mines Committee, which I did. I was not aware that the question was going to be brought up in the House to-night, and I now simply rise for the purpose of point- ing out that the remarks of the Minister for Railways did not put the whole case before the House. The honourable gentleman, replying to a remark made by the honourable member for Avon as to the proprietor or publisher of the newspaper in question "having flouted the House by this second publication," pointed out that the second publication occurred prior to the setting-up of the Committee of Privileges by this House-that is to say, the Committee of Privileges was set up on the Wednesday, and the publication took place on the previous Tuesday afternoon ; but there is this fact that should be borne in mind, namely : that the Mines Committee on the Monday, which was the day before the publication, resolved that the matter was a breach of privilege which ought to be reported to the House, and it was so reported. It therefore becomes clear, to my mind at any rate, that the person who was able to obtain the evidence of that Committee for publication must have been thoroughly aware of what the Mines Committee was doing, and presumably he must have been cognisant of the fact that on the Monday the Committee had decided to take the action which it did ; and, if he were cog- nisant of that fact, it was competent for him, even supposing this second batch of evidence had been sent through the post, to have tele- graphed to the newspaper in question. If he did so, then, knowing that the Committee had by resolution decided to bring the matter before the House as a breach of privilege, the editor of the paper would have taken the wise course of not publishing the second batch, unless he had determined to defy the House by publishing it in the face of the fact that that resolution had been passed. I cannot help thinking, myself, it is quite possible that the paper was aware of the resolution passed by the Committee on the Monday : but that is one of those points to which the Committee will have to direct their inquiry." I simply rose for the purpose of showing that the whole case was not stated by the Minister for Railways when he pointed out that the second publication was prior to the action taken by the House .. I thought it necessary to add that, though that is true, it is also true that the second publication was subsequent to the action taken by the Committee, and which was presumably known to every person connected with that publication. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- 8.0. As I brought this matter before the House I think it is only right that I should explain why I did so. I belong to the Mines Committee, and we are under suspicion at present of having divulged evidence to the paper mentioned ; and, Sir, as long as I see any more of this evidence appearing in the paper I shall always bring it before the House, because 