France itself money has become scarce, and there was nothing but financial congestion and exhaustion apparent at the time I men- tion. Further, in England matters were not at all in a good condition. During the last two years there has been in England an extra- ordinary amount of capital invested in trading concerns - in enormous cycle companies, in big breweries, mining companies, and concerns of that sort-with the result that the money- market has tightened to such an extent as has not been known since 1894. As we know, the English market is the centre of the financial system of the world-that if the Eng- lish market is tight it is bad enough, but if it is affected by the tightness of the money-mar- kets all over the rest of the world, then it will take very considerable time, and a considerable amount of care and caution, before that market returns to such a level as to allow a colony like New Zealand to float large loans. Well, the Government are asking authority to borrow over five millions in one way or another, and I would like to know how it is possible, in the present state of the London market, to get any- thing like that amount at what may be called a payable rate of interest ? Under the circum- stances, those members who have asked the Government to be cautious in regard to their finances, and who have backed up practi- cally what the Premier himself has said, ought not to be blamed for the attitude they have taken when they have only followed the Premier's own lead. In regard to the colony's borrowing, there is a most extraordinary state of affairs. We are told in the Financial State- ment that the Colonial Treasurer has been able "to tap our own resources, " and, as the result of " local emissions "- I do not know what that is ; it is generally supposed to mean sickness -but, as the result of local emissions he was able to float a local loan of half a million. But our own resources have been " tapped " at a very expensive rate, because we are told in the Financial Statement that the loan has been floated at 4 per cent., with a bonus of 1} per cent. to lenders, the bonus being practically payment of interest from the 1st April until the capital amount was paid in. And, strange to say, in this connection I notice that the Solicitor-General has given his opinion that the loan does not produce more than 4 per cent. Well, I am sorry he is in conflict with the Colonial Trea-urer, because the Colonial Trea- surer in his Statement says that for this year, at any rate, the loan produced 5} per cent. In addition to this loan of half a million, the reference to which occupies a page in the Financial Statement, it appears from the last quarter's accounts that the Government floated another loan of half a million in the London money-market at 4 per cent. Now, if it is possible to borrow money in the colony at 4 per cent., why should the Premier go quietly-you might almost say silently and surreptitiously- to the London market to borrow half a million at a similar price, unless he found it was im- Mr. Pirani against that, it is most extraordinary that the Postmaster-General has told us that there must be plenty of money in the colony, because there are twenty-two millions of money in the banks of the colony. Of course, if that state- ment is correct the Preinier would very soon tap these resources ; but examination of the last banking returns show that there is only about three millions in the banks of the colony, although the deposits in the banks amount to fifteen millions. But the coin and bullion, which is all the banks hold at present, and which is their only uninvested asset, only re- present about three millions sterling, while their liabilities amount to eighteen millions sterling ; so that I cannot understand a man in the re- sponsible position of a Minister of the Crown telling the public in such an optimistic speech that there are twenty-two millions in the banks of the colony, when he must have known that such a statement was misleading, and that it would be impossible for the banks we have in the colony to hold that amount in a liquid state. We are also told by the Premier in his Financial Statement that the colony badly needs increased population, and yet we are keep- ing over five thousand of the "unemployed," or employed at co-operative works because they cannot get work elsewhere. Why, the colony does not at present want increased population, but it wants an outlet for its present popula- tion ; and the unfortunate part of the working of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is that it is bound, if it is properly worked, to decrease the avenues of employment for our population. I will show the House why : Because, in the first place, it limits the avenues of employment for young people; and, in the second place, it will induce employers, wherever possible, to get labour-saving machinery that will do away to a great extent with a large number of em- ployes who are at present earning a living- wage. A particular instance-I do not com- plain about it - has occurred in connection with my own trade. The town printers are asking for a minimum wage of $3 5s. a week. The average wage on the country newspapers runs from £2 5s. to £2 10s. a week, and I will guarantee that the men at these wages can live better than the men in the City of Wellington at £3 a week. But if the demands of the em- ploys are given effect to, and the rate of wages is raised from £2 5s. and £2 10s. to £3 5s. a week, it will pay the country newspapers to get type-setting machines, one of which will be able to do the work of several men. But at the present rate of wages the difference between the cost of the machine and the interest on it and the wages paid is so small that it would not pay the country newspaper proprietors to trouble about getting the machinery. But if, as I say, the arbitration in the matter is to in- crease the rate of wages, you will understand then how many men will be thrown out of work. Of course, it may not occur. The de- mands of the city men may not be carried into effect ; but there is always that danger, and 