Mr. SEDDON said he had been led into this { he would find that in 1887-page 48-the by an interjection of the honourable member for Bruce. At all events, he wished to show that the moment members got the details of the public debt of the colony it would prove that really it would have been in the inte- rests of the Government if the paper had been laid on the table, and it would have removed misconceptions that had got into the minds of honourable members opposite. The Government had nothing to keep back. Every paper and return that was furnished showed careful administration, and was in favour of the Government and in favour of those gentlemen who supported the Govern- ment; so that it had been against their own interests that this delay had occurred. He felt pained that the leader of the Opposition should have- Mr. ATKINSON .- Who is that ? Mr. SEDDON said, Well, it was not the honourable gentleman. At all events, he was pained that the member for Hawke's Bay should make the statement that we had kept the returns back until the member for Pahiatua was just about to speak, and the Hon. the Minister of Lands, who had not spoken yet for . a reason that honourable members knew. He might say the Minister of Mines would be the next to come in for adverse criticism, because he was just about to lay the Mines Statement on the table. Honourable members would get that printed at once, because it was only a short Statement. He only wanted to prove to the House and the country that they had not kept back returns. However, he more particularly https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 wanted to emphasize the absence of B .- 1, and from this forward he supposed members on the other side would be quiet, because he had shown an example that had never been shown by any previous Administration in respect to these details. He might say that, without being asked by members, he should carry out his promise that as soon as the paper was ready-not, as Mr. Ballance said, " in the course of a few weeks "-it would be laid on the table, and he thought that ought to be sufficient for members for the time being. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) said the Right Hon. the Premier just now contradicted an inter- jection he made that the B .- 1 return had been laid on the table in some previous years before the Financial Statement had been delivered. He knew he was right, and he had proof that he was right. The Right Hon. the Premier, of course, went back to previous history, and he forgot to tell us that at that date Parliament used to meet at a much earlier time in the year. It was only since the present Govern- ment had been in office that the date of the opening of Parliament had been brought to a late period in the year, and therefore it had been rendered much more easy to produce B .- 1 now than in the olden days when Parliament began in April or May and ended in June. Now Parliament began in June. He had the par- ticulars of when B .- 1 was laid on the table in 1887, and if the Premier would care to look Public Accounts for the year ending the 31st March, 1887, were laid on the table on the 13th October. Mr. SEDDON .- 13th of October ! Well, this is September now. Mr. J. ALLEN said the Financial Statement was delivered in that year on the 1st of November. Mr. SEDDON .- There were two sessions that year and two Financial Statements. Mr. J. ALLEN said he was aware of that. In the olden days when they had a late session B .- 1 was laid on the table before the Financial Statement was delivered, and that was the case in the year 1887. He might say that the paper was not called B .- 1 in those days, and he was not quite sure that the Premier was quite honest in his statement to the House. Has the honourable gentleman been quoting B .- 1 all through ? Mr. SEDDON .- Ycs. Mr. J. ALLEN said in that case the Premier had been misleading the House. The honour- able gentleman ought to have referred to the Public Accounts, for the paper was not always numbered B .- 1. He (Mr. J. Allen) had been quoting, not B .- 1, but the Public Accounts for the year. They were laid on the table on the 13th of October, and the Financial State- ment was delivered on the 1st of November in 1887. Mr. SEDDON wished to put himself right, because a statement had been attributed to him which he had never made. He started with the year 1888. He never said a word about other years except 1878. He said that during Mr. Ballance's time a certain course was followed, and the honourable member interjected, "during Mr. Ballance's time." He (Mr. Seddon) might say that in respect to 1887 an appeal was made to the country in that year, and the first Financial Statement was delivered before the appcal was made to the country ; then there was another Financial Statement delivered, and it was after that that B .- 1. was laid upon the table of the House. Why did not the honourable member tell the House and the country that ? If the honourable member thought that he (Mr. Sed- don) had a bad memory, he was mistaken, and he might say that this return had always been called B .- 1, and was B .- 1 in 1887, and which during the second session was laid on the table. Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) would like to say, in reply to the honourable mem- ber for the Bay of Plenty, that the Railways Statement was already in print. The reason it had not been circulated was in consequence of something having gone wrong with one of the lithographic plans which was attached to the Statement for the information of honour- able members, necessitating the reprinting of that plan. Honourable members did not want to have the Railways Statement incomplete. 