not have to accept a resolution, or anything else, if we do not quite approve of the manner in which it has been drafted. An Hon. MEMBER .- Move an amendment. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- One cannot do that at a moment's notice. This is one of those things that require to be very judiciously dealt with. It requires a great deal of deftness of construction, and I do not pretend to be able to amend it as I should like to see it amended at a moment's notice ; but I am able to say this : that it is not what I desire to see emanate from this Council. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND. - Perhaps after what has been said it might be better that I should keep my seat, and not say anything at all ; but I am an old man, and for the last sixty years I may say I have watched and taken account of the tone of the British Press towards America, and I can say that I feel the highest satisfaction at the great change that has been gradually taking place in the tone of the British Press towards the great American Republic. I can remember the time, Sir-and notably on the Maine boundary and the Oregon ques- tions - when it was almost impossible to take up a leading English paper without meeting with some offensive remarks on America, her institutions, and her ways. Sir, all that is now happily changed. We recognise in the Americans a great people, and it affords me great satisfaction to think that this would-be murderer has found nothing in the British Press at the present day to en- courage him in his wicked attempt. Sir, I heartily support the motion. Motion agreed to. On the motion of the Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER, it was also resolved, That the above resolution be transmitted to His Excellency the Governor with a request that it be forwarded to the Secretary of State for the Colonies. # CIGARETTE - SMOKING BY YOUTHS PROHIBITION BILL. The Hon. Colonel PITT .- I beg to move the second reading of this Bill, and in doing so I would say that the principle involved in it is a very important one as regards the well-being and the future physical condition of the young people of this colony. That principle is, whether or not youths under a prescribed age mentioned in the Bill, or such other age as may be agreed upon by the Council if the Bill is con- sented to, are to be allowed to indulge in the habit of cigarette-smoking. Now, cigarette- smoking of late years has extended very much indeed, and, whilst I have nothing whatever to say as regards cigarette-smoking by adults, or those who are of sufficient age to be able to judge for themselves whether it is beneficial to them or not, I think that there is a duty in- cumbent upon those in authority to see that young persons of comparatively tender years- at all events at an age when their physical con- dition is being developed-shall not indulge in a habit which interferes with their proper physical growth. This question of restricting Hon. Mr. Jones attention of the Governments in various parts of the world from time to time, and in America. in Germany, in Norway, and in, I believe, some of the States of the Australian Colonies- The Hon. Mr. JONES .- Tasmania. The Hon. Colonel PITT .- - and Tasmania- I was not aware of it ; but certainly in the State of Victoria the question not only of cigarettes, but of allowing tobacco to be supplied to youths under the age of sixteen or eighteen years has been made a statutory offence; and not only that, Sir, but in America, at all events, so much objection has been taken to the evils arising, or said to arise, from cigarette-smoking, that it has been made a test in the employment of operatives, not only of boys but also of adults, in certain factories there. When a person applies for employment in many of those factories he is asked the question, "Do you smoke cigarettes ? " because it is considered that in the case of those who smoke cigarettes to excess not only are the vital parts of their constitution in danger of being injuriously af- fected, but apparently their whole nervous sys- tem is affected by it, and many of the employers in America will not employ a person who is a habitual smoker of cigarettes. Besides that, in various parts of the world there are societies for the suppression of cigarette - smoking, and in looking at some of the publications issued by those societies, whilst I am bound to say that in some instances, in the advocacy of the principles which they maintain, they may perhaps indulge in great extravagance of language, and make statements which possibly cannot be borne out by facts, still, I have not the slightest doubt that it would not take much to satisfy any one who has considered the subject that the smoking of cigarettes by youths under the age mentioned in this Bill is, and must be, prejudicial to their physical condition. Ask any medical man what bis opinion is as to a boy under seventeen years of age smoking cigarettes. He will tell you that if that is indulged in to any considerable extent the boys' eyesight is likely to become pre- judicially affected, or in other cases that the lungs or the heart are likely to become pre- judicially affected. Now, I am not prepared to discuss the composition of cigarettes, though I know it is asserted by those who object to cigarette - smoking that they are made of very deleterious compounds. Some people go so far as to say they contain various poisonous substances. I do not intend to dis- cuss that, because I am not prepared to prove that it is so ; and I believe that many of those who have contended that such is the case have perhaps indulged in extravagance of lan- guage which is not justified by facts. But, Sir, I think it is only fair that I should refer the Council to a statement which was made in the Lancet newspaper. a medical journal, on the 9th December, 1899, Volume 2, page 1607, where there is set forth in full a report of the Lance Analytical Sanitary Commission on American cigarettes. I believe a large number of different brands of cigarettes were examined by this Com- 