with a population of 34,000,000, and you will find that at the same time they had actually £8 per head, or nearly 10s. per head of the popula- tion better than New Zealand; while in the case of Saxony, with a population of four millions, which is generally credited by the British - speaking people with being very come to our way of thinking, and is going to do far behind in material prosperity, and where the working - classes are supposed to be particularly poor, we find that they have the astounding sum of £12 10s. per head of the population in the savings-bank. Therefore spirit of the age in land legislation, which was I maintain that the fact of our having £7 10s. one that I foresaw could not be permanent, and, 4d. per head in the Savings-bank proves nothing at all, when it is compared with returns from other countries. Let us now see how they have placed these deposits. Assuming the bulk of the class called "Up to $100" to be the savings of the wage-earners-which it is not- and taking the averages of the various classes given in the table, I find that in 1890 there were 7.093 depositors of sums over £100 hold- ing 58 per cent. of the total amount, while in 1900 there were 19,003 depositors holding 70 per cent. of the total amount, that is to say that off. Supposing that land in the course of time the large depositors had increased between 1890 and 1900 from 58 per cent. to 70 per cent. of to be worth $25 per acre-and I believe that the whole of the depositors. In 1890 the deposits under £100 averaged £11 5s. per depositor, and in 1900 they only averaged £10 per depositor, so that the average amount of the small deposits was decreasing. Put in be only equal to 17s. Ogd. per cent., instead another way, we find that in 1890 the large depositors represented less than 8 per cent. of the whole, and owned 58 per cent of the value of the total deposits ; while in 1900 the large depositors had increased to 10 per cent., and owned about 70 per cent. of the value of the total deposits; so that during the ten years the small depositors have decreased 2 per cent., and the amount per head held by them has also decreased by 12 per cent. I regret I have not time to deal with several other matters that I would like to refer to. Before I conclude, how- ever, I would like to touch upon the question of land-settlement. In his Budget the Premier says : - " Last session the Rebate of Crown Tenants Act was passed. Its working has not been satisfactory, or equitable in its incidence. An amendment of the Act is necessary, and at this juncture it is well to speak plainly, for from facts which have come within my own knowledge it is quite clear that a person taking up bush land, and having little or no capital, cannot pay rent until the land yields a return." . That, Sir, is particularly gratifying to me. I have had the same gratification several times. Those with whom I agreed last year pointed out to the Premier that it was opposed to Liberalism, and that it was only paltering with the matter, and we pleaded with him to bring in a Bill such as he now declares his intention of bringing in -a Bill that will be a scientific settlement of the difficulty, and will enable these bush settlers to live practically rent-free till they have sub- dued the wilderness and brought it to such a state of advancement that it would give them VOL. CXVIII .- 12. then said, was the kindliest way to settle them, and urged that the clumsy expedient of granting relief by his famous 10-per-cent. rebate on half- yearly rents should be dropped. And the ex- perience of time and the logic of facts have proved too much for the Premier, and he has what we want. I, for one, will support him in this, and in doing away with the unscien- tific and crude step he took in making re- bates in that blind way, so opposed to the if maintained on the statute-book must lead to confusion and injustice. Now, last year there was acquired under the Land for Settlements Act 388,493 acres, at a cost of £1,866,971. To that must be added the cost of roading, £30,000, giving a total cost of $1,896,971, costing the Government in all about £4 17s. 8d. per acre. Allowing that to be first-class land, and giving the maximum amount to the lessee of 640 acres, at 4 per cent. on the capital value it would come to #125 0s. 3d., or a net annual rental of £112 10s. 3d. when the 10 per cent. was taken money has actually been paid for land in \- the Taranaki District-if this land was so en- hanced in value by land-settlement, the rental that the lessees would then be paying would of 4 per cent. on the capital value. Now, I have conclusively proved by the return laid on the table of the House by my request a few days ago that land held under lease in per- petuity contributes nothing in the way of land- tax to the revenue of the country, and probably never will. Yet this land is held for all time- for that is what the 999-years lease virtually is -without any increment in the rent and with- out any contributions to the revenue of the colony in the shape of land-tax. This 10-per- cent. rebate was unscientific, and could no more stand than can the present tenure without re- valuation stand. Now, I would like before I finish to say a word about "the Empire." I remember an occasion last session when the Premier waxed exceeding wroth, and stigma- tized myself and one or two others as " Little- Englanders," "pro-Boers," and other terms- "socialists," and worse; he even hinted at anarchism, and all for what reason ? Because, forsooth, we hesitated to agree to his mopping up all the spare islands of the South Pacific. I remember well the figure he cut in his jingo- istic fury when he roared, "Do not those honourable gentlemen know there is a British cruiser in our harbour tugging at her 'awsers" - or her leg-rope, or something of that kind- " wanting to get away on her mission of peace and expansion." Well, I suppose she must have broken her hawsers or leg-ropes, or what- ever held her, and got away in spite of the few objectors ; and what has New Zealand got as a consequence ? A heavy leaded headline in the Budget, " Greater New Zealand," and a heap of trouble. Greater New Zealand ! Greater 