conversant with the current prices, because I an enormous ocean tramp-a regular floating warehouse - discharging hundreds and hun- deal in kerosene; I know what I am talking dreds of tons of gold-mining machinery on our about, and I say no benefit has reached the wharves. What does that mean, Sir, to the consumer at all. The middleman has probably people? It means that our foundries are idle collared it. Again, the Budget says,- now. It means they are practically deserted ; that the busy hum and resonant hammers that ture may be expected, and it is therefore not we heard twelve months ago have gone, and surprising to find that the departmental ex- that the oversea tramp is bringing foreign-made penditure was in excess of that of the previous goods to this colony. Why did we do this ? I year by £289,670 under the annual appropria- am one of those who have no great respect for tions." the gold-mining industry. I am one of those cranky men who believe that gold is a curse practically occurs the leakage in the finances to a nation, and who believe that gold is the embodiment and typification of that which has extravagance of the departmental expenditure, caused all the trouble in the world. And I have no affection whatever for those speculators and boomsters of "wild-cat " mining ventures. I have just as much respect for the man who lays "tote" odds, or who makes it his business to go to the racecourse and lay the odds where he can with profit to himself and ruin to the many, as I have for those gentlemen who busy themselves in gold-mining gambles. That these should be subsidised at the expense Board to investigate the departmental offices, of the wage-earning classes of the country I and see that there are competent and well-paid cannot regard as an act of statesmanship. Is it officers in all the different departments, and to be supposed that if fewer industries grow up only such as are necessary for the proper con- in this country our Customs revenue will be- duct of business in those departments, I venture come more and more buoyant, and that if to predict there will be such a cleaning-out of articles are not being made in the colony, but the State Augean stable as has never yet taken are being brought to us from oversea, it is not a place in this country. In any case, if the detriment to the wage-earners here in our occasion should arise for retrenchment in the midst ? I can understand a protective public service, I trust that at first, at least, it 4.30. tariff, and I can understand a free- will not take the form of reductions in the trade tariff ; but a revenue tariff such as we salaries of those it is proper to retain there, have is devised for no other purpose than for but a saving altogether of the salaries of very https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 squeezing taxation out of the people. If there many who ought never to have been in the public service of the colony, and upon whom was a really protective tariff there would be little revenue from it. If where there is now thousands of pounds of public money are now a duty of 25 per cent. it was raised to 50 per cent., we would certainly get less revenue from it, but you would certainly have a protective would prevent them from leaving us when they tariff. The Premier deludes the people with a get better offers elsewhere, as so many of our lot of cheap claptrap about concessions on the best men have hitherto left New Zealand. Now let us look at the annual increase of necessaries of life. Some of these concessions expenditure. The Premier tells us that it was that were made last year in the way of relaxa- £339,576, made up as follows :- tion of the Customs duties were of such a nature as to be absolutely useless to those for whose benefit it was alleged they were intended. I say my experiences-and I speak after due in- quiry-are entirely different from those of the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds) and the honourable member for Christ- Now, what does this mean to the people church City (Mr. Ell), and I say again that not During 1899-1900, with a population of 759,748, one single penny-at least, locally-has been the actual expenditure was £5,140,127, while saved to the consumer of the goods from which in 1900-1901, with a population of 772,719, the expenditure had increased to £5,479,703. That we removed taxation last year. Kerosene, after a series of fluctuations due to a gamble on the is to say that, while the increase of population part of those who held large stocks, and before during the year was only 1.7 per cent., the Mr. Rockfeller had time to reach out for the actual increased expenditure during the same 6d. & gallon duty we had obligingly made him period was 6.2 per cent. Or, per head of popula- tion in 1899-1900 it represented an expenditure a present of, has now reached its normal equal to £6 4s., and this year of £7 1s. 9d., an rate, and the consumer has received little or no benefit. A case of kerosene is still just the increase per head in the year of 17s. 9d. The cost of government is increasing. The only same price to the consumer as it was before thing that is decreasing is the population. we struck off the duty. Whatever it may be in other parts of the colony, I can say I have Everything else is increasing-the cost of go- " With increased revenue increased expendi- Now, it is in the cost of government that of this colony. In declaring my belief in the while I admit that our heads of departments -and, in fact, all the competent officers of the State - are not too well paid, it may seem paradoxical, but I claim that it is the army of loafers, the army of cats that catch no mice, that is sapping our finances and rendering it impossible to properly reward merit. But if this colony should ever get a sufficiently inde- pendent and competent Royal Commission or thrown away. Such a policy would enable us to pay our competent officers such salaries as £ Permanent appropriations 49,906 Annual appropriations .. 289,670 .. Total 339,576 . 