military regulation to wear uniform until such time as they receive their discharge. That, Sir, is the reason why there are so many young troopers to be seen in uniform-they are com- pelled to wear that uniform. If the honour- able gentleman, holding such views, had been doing his duty, even when the last contingent was proposed he should have stood up in this House and denounced the sending-away of our boys to South Africa. Did he do that? No- thing of the kind. Now, the member for Ric- carton also spoke about the co-operative labourer. He said there were 5,600 co-operative labourers who were living on loan-money. Any country representative who knows anything about the co-operative labourers knows perfectly well that the honourable gentleman did not know what he was talking about. In my own district-in fact, in all newly settled districts in New Zealand-we have some of these men settled on the land, many of them on rough bush land, and in nearly all these settlements they were promised a certain amount of work by the Government. They have got that work, and many of them have become prosperous settlers, worked themselves out of debt, grassed their lands, and felled their timber. The result is that in all the consti- tuencies the co-operative labourers consist of men who but for this system would have been cast on the streets in the larger centres of popu- lation. They are now perfectly independent of any Government, and all that they want is roads to give them the necessary means of access to their settlements, and they can live on the land by their own industry. The honourable gentleman also spoke about the Public Revenues Act. Now, what was his position in connection with this measure ? He https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 said that the Premier had bribed certain mem- bers by the #40-1 forget whether he called it " bonus " or "steal," but we will call it "steal "-that the right honourable gentle- man had bribed certain members to vote for this Public Revenues Act. What did the honourable gentleman do in connection with that measure ? On the first and second read- ing he actually voted for it. But when it went into Committee he did not appear on the scene at all, and when the third read- ing came on he deliberately ran away. Yet he is one of the members who stand up in this House and say, "I am here to represent the interests of my constituents and of the country generally." Why, then, was he not here on the third reading to exercise that vote which would have protected the interests of his constituents? What did he do the other night when the Advances to Settlers Bill was under discussion? When it came on for the third reading he stood up and denounced it in the most bitter terms. And what was the result ? He stayed here till the division on the third reading came on, and, as an honourable gentle- man said the other night, the honourable mem- ber for Riccarton found a lobby for himself. That was the "central lobby," and he found himself outside the precincts of the Parliament- ary Buildings. The honourable member also had a great deal to say about the largo salaries being paid to our Civil servants. My opinion concerning the Civil Service of the colony is this: When we get a good man we should pay him well. We have lost many of our best men, more especially in the Railway service of the colony, through our parsimony. I would like to quote here the salaries paid by the New Zealand Midland Railway Company to their officers : In 1892 the general manager, Mr. Wil- son, was paid $2.400; in 1893, #2,500 ; in 1894, £2,600; and in 1895, #2,600. The Government should pay a man a fair wage for fair work done. If that is done we will have good public servants. There is another matter which I would like to put on record. It was stated on two occasions that the ballot for land in the Te Awamutu district was a miserable failure, and that there must have been corruption to enable one man to get so many sections. That statement has been hansardised. I have ob- tained a statement of the facts from the Com- missioner of Crown Lands at Auckland, and I deem it my duty to place those facts on record in Hausari. The following are the facts : - " Re ballot, Te Awamutu, 20th July, 1900 .- In accordance with the request you made ver- bally just before my leaving Wellington for Auckland, I now forward to you the particu- lars of this wonderful transaction, concerning which I reported at the time for the infor- mation of the Cabinet. The Courthouse at Te Awamutu proving too small for the large num- ber of applicants attending, we adjourned to the Public Hal! adjoining, which is a building very much larger than the Courthouse, with a stage or platform at one end about 3 ft. higher than the floor of the hall. On the platform I had two tables, one for the Receiver of Land Revenue and the larger one for the balloting. It occurred to me that the facilities of the public supervising the balloting were not as good as on previous occasions when it was taken on the floor, and I therefore requested the applicants, of whom there were enough to practically fill the hall, to select a scrutincer who might come on the platform and supervise the putting-in of the balls into the ballot-box and the correct read- ing of the successful numbers drawn. They duly nominated Mr. McCardle, and on the pro- position being put he was unanimously elected. Mr. McCardle refused to act, but on being repeatedly pressed by several of the appli- cants he at last consented and came on the platform. Mr. McCardle, up to half an hour before the taking of the ballot, was a stranger to me as well as to all the officials present. Mr. McCardle took his seat on my right; the officer (Mr. Munro) working the ballot-box was on my left. I myself called out the numbers and names of the applicants, and Mr. Munro, as I called these out, dropped the respective balls into the ballot - box. The same officer closed the lid, turned the ballot-box backwards and forwards, shook it freely from side to side, and then reopened and, with averted face, drew one of the balls, handing same to me. I called out the successful number, and then handed it to Mr. McCardle, who likewise called out the After a while I number by way of check. 