South at all who had their constitutions affected in this way, and had fallen sick on the way and since they had arrived in the colony. This was one of the attempts made by the honourable gentleman, he supposed, to pre- vent the first item being passed to-night. He wanted to keep them from the estimates. Let him tell the honourable gentleman this: he was going to give the telegrams referred to to members, and have the same laid on the table of the House. He hoped hereafter that they would have from the honourable gentle- man a withdrawal of the statement he had made ; and he hoped the honourable gentleman would reflect and see for himself that he never gave him (Mr. Seddon) the slightest indication that there was anything whatever serious in his mind. He took it, when the honourable gentle- man read these remarks, that he was alluding to the sending-forth of the contingents, not the reception of the contingents. Mr. PIRANI said there was a reference that the contingents would be two years in South Africa. Mr. SEDDON said the honourable gentle- man did not say a word about bringing them home. Mr. PIRANI. - Yes. Mr. SEDDON said the honourable member would keep on protecting his friends, but he did not think that if he protected the honourable member, under these circumstances, he would get much credit. His own opinion was the honourable gentleman did not make up his mind until the close of his (Mr. Seddon's) speech, when he referred to the Commissioner's report. Well, then, it was in the honourable gentleman's mind, and he did this deliberately -he would not say with malice aforethought, because that would be unparliamentary. the honourable gentleman would do that, he (Mr. Seddon) would not be safe when the honourable gentleman was near. Mr. PIRANI wished to make a personal ex- planation. The Premier had practically accused him of giving the member for Bruce, Mr. J. Allen, that information. Mr. SEDDON .- I did nothing of the kind. Mr. PIRANI .- That was the inference. Mr. SEDDON .- No. Mr. PIRANI only wished to say that if that was what the Premier insinuated it was simply untrue ; that was all. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said he hoped during the supper adjournment members on both sides had had time to cool down. But they must realise that a very serious charge had been brought by the member for Bruce against the Premier. The charge, so far as he could understand, amounted to this : that while the returned troopers were at Albany the doctor reported to the officer in command that, on account of a number of men suffering from malaria and enteric fever. it would be dangerous to take them into a colder climate, and the officer in command cabled to that effect to the Premier, notwithstanding which the Premier insisted on the troops landing at Invercargill, Mr. Seddon died. Mr. J. ALLEN said he did not say that in consequence of it the men died ; he had said the responsibility was taken off the shoulders of the doctor, and was on the Premier. Mr. SEDDON .- Did you say I received a wire from the doctor that it would be dan. gerous for the men to be taken South ? Mr. J. ALLEN. - I did not use the word "dangerous." Mr. SEDDON. - I repeat the honourable member did use the word dangerous; if not, then what did you say ? Mr. J. ALLEN said, This was what he had said : The doctor advised that it would be un- wise, on account of the shattered health of the men, to bring them by the cold southern route. The Premier was so advised ; and, notwith- standing that advice, he said they must go to Invercargill. Mr. SEDDON .- You have changed the word from " dangerous" to "unwise," and upon that you base the charge against me ? Mr. MASSEY said, Though it had been quali- fied to a certain extent, still the charge was so serious that the matter should not be allowed to rest where it was. The difficulty was to know what to do. The only course, it seemed to him, to adopt was to set up a Committee of inquiry, the difficulty being the tendency of such Committees to develop into party Com- mittees and to look at questions from a party point of view. He would suggest to the Pre- mier to set up a Committee of five members- two from each side, with the Speaker for Chairman. If that were done he was sure the honourable member for Bruce would withdraw from his position if found to be wrong. In the meantime the matter might be allowed to If drop. Mr. SEDDON said, If any member was to be allowed to make such charges, and the course suggested was taken, no member of the House would be safe. He said that no honouravie member would besafe. The honourable gentle- man did not give any grounds for his statement. beyond mentioning that there was a communi- cation in which he alleged the doctor said that it would be unwise to do a certain thing. He thought the honourable member's words ought to have been taken down, as when a member made a reflection on another member it was customary to make him withdraw. The ACTING-CHAIRMAN. - If it was de- sired that the words should be taken down, a motion to that effect should have been made before any other honourable member had spoken. Mr. SEDDON thought a serious matter like that ought not to have been overlooked. The responsibility rested with the honourable mem- ber, and he ought to have given the House some- thing to support him in his statement ; but he had not attempted to do so. He had now intimated that he was afraid to face a Com- mittee. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) said. He particularly wanted to speak on the matter, because he 