arrives when increased taxation is required to meet the ordinary expenditure, so surely will reductions in salaries eventuate." The time had arrived, but the reductions in salaries had not eventuated. There was nothing to warrant their increasing the salary of any officer receiving over $400; and if things went on at the present rate the time would come when the 10 per cent. reductions of the Atkin- son Administration would be a fool to what would take place. He knew an efficient officer in this department who had been getting under £200 without an increase for seventeen years ; and he believed that if one went through the service he would find that there were many officers in the more poorly paid ranks who had been in the service for a very long time, and had not even had recommendations for a rise given effect to. The reason was that they were not in touch with the Ministers, whilst the heads of the departments were, and so were able to get rises for themselves. A maximum salary ought to be laid down, and the per- sistent increasing of salaries every year on the present system should not be permitted. He of the Committee would object to his wishing would support not only this motion, but motions with regard to striking off every other increase on the estimates. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) protested against doing business -only thirty members being pre- sent to deal with a vote involving £185,000. He had nothing to say against this particular officer, but this was not the time to increase salaries. As a true friend of the Government build up, and that unless they afforded facili- and of the Civil servants he said that we were going too fast. He submitted that if 12.0. succeed. The Government was promoting ex- they allowed this vote to pass without https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 protest they would be doing wrong. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) added his pro- test to that of the member for Ashley as to the lack of interest shown by members of the House when dealing with the estimates. Those who attended to this business were outvoted lay this increase at the door of the Civil Service. by those who were not present to hear a word Last year they had taken a census, costing of the discussion. The moment the division- bell rang they came into the House and out- voted and overmastered those who were really non-recurrent items, arising from exceptional doing the business of the country. He agreed with the suggestion made some time ago by the member for Clutha, that the quorum should of the Colonial Secretary's Department. There be raised to one-half the members of the House. so far as annual expenditure was concerned. Sir J. G. WARD might point out, in reply to the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) and the honourable member for suggestion that they should take divisions with- Wellington Suburbs, that the total increases in out delay, and avoid useless discussion, was a good one, as talking was absolutely useless. He salaries on these estimates, outside the classi- fied departments, amounted to £12,121; and presumed the increase of $12,121 referred to by the Minister in charge represented increases in that 802 of these increases, amounting to previously existing salaries only, and did not £ 10,021, represented salaries all under $300 a include the new salaries of a large number year. There were forty-five increases in salaries between £300 and $400, and the total amount of new offices recently created, as, for instance, those in the Public Health Department, was £1,000. There were twenty increases in amounting to £5,984. That being so, what salaries between $400 and £500, and the amount he complained of more particularly was the was £675. In salaries over $500 there were six enormous increase in the number and amount increases, and the amount was £175; and of new salaries, which, together with additions among the heads of departments there were to salaries, amounted to over $45,000. seven increases, and the amount was $250. ! higher salaries could effect a saving of $50,000, as was talked of, he could understand their action ; but in order to effect a reduction of even $2,000 on the whole of the estimates they must of necessity reduce a large number of the smaller salaries under £300, which con- stituted nine-tenths of the whole. As for the Under - Secretary in the Colonial Secretary's Department, whose salary was being increased from $475 to $500, this officer had been twenty- nine years in the service ; his duties required him to be at the office on holidays as well as ordinary days, and to work a great deal of overtime, and the advance of $25 was only fair. He had in his hand the estimates for Victoria, and the officer holding a similar position there was receiving $000 per annum. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said the three divisions that had been taken showed the mind of the Committee. He was quite satis- fied that the estimates would not be reduced a single shilling. They could have his vote for the whole estimates; but, as he was not pre- pared to waste his time, he was sure no member the Chairman a cordial Good evening. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) said the Ministry should not have increased the estimates in this class as they had done. Last year they were £127,542; this year, £185,438. As representing the people who had the taxation to pay and the hardships of roadless homes to endure, he would remind them that they had the country to ties for the transport of produce they would not penditure not on requirements most urgently needed. He dreaded the coming of the day when, after they had forced up the salaries of the Civil servants and taught them to expect so much, they would have to cut them down. Sir J. G. WARD said it was quite unfair to £16,000 ; there had been an expenditure on the Royal visit of £50,000, and there were other circumstances which had nothing whatever to do with the Civil Service or the ordinary work was no growth in that particular department, Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) thought the <!-- PageNumber="1" --> 