honourable gentleman refused to stir hand or might have asked the honourable member for Bruce that question when he started his speech, foot. Mr. SEDDON. - I said I could not inter- and also the honourable member for Wellington fere with the management of the bank, nor City. I would suggest that the honourable member who has interjected, like the honour- can I. Mr. FISHER .- Then, the honourable gentle- able member for Wellington City, will hardly man ought to have shown-it is a matter of find there are any points in being an unde- viating supporter of the Opposition, and that if taste, I suppose-the honourable gentleman ought to have shown a little more delicacy in he chooses to transfer his allegiance to this side dealing with the character and history of Mr. of the House we should be quite willing to Cook. I do not speak in the interests of Mr. supply him with a little intelligence, and to let him into some of the secrets of the Govern- Cook. Mr. Cook is a man for whom I have no concern ; but I do say that had Mr. Justice ment, and I have no doubt the Minister Williams done his duty fearlessly as a Judge, of Justice would apprise him fully of what acting upon the report of Mr. Cook, Sir Robert the amendment is. I was a little surprised Stout would not be Chief Justice of this colony to hear some of the remarks of the last speaker, to-day. Mr. Easton I never saw before I heard but I fear that to the honourable member for him give evidence before the Privileges Com- Wellington City reference to the Press of the mittee. But if we are to have the history of colony is very much like flaunting a red rag Mr. Cook in this public way, let us have his before a bull. He did what I do myself some- whole history. Mr. Cook may have inflicted as times : he thumped the book, and he said there great an amount of injustice upon persons as was no precedent for the course suggested on Mr. Henry Wright has in Wellington. They this occasion; and the honourable member are gentlemen for whom I have no particular went on to say that he had never before heard regard ; but I think, if the honourable gentleman of a question of privilege being made a party holds such opinions of Mr. Cook to-day, he question. I should have thought his long ex- perience would have prevented him from ought at least to give him credit for his report upon Sir Robert Stout and the Guthrie Com- making that statement, or that, at all events, he would have looked up the records to refresh panies. Now, Sir, to sum up this business : Of course, we will all closely watch the denoue- his memory. If the honourable member looks at Hansard of the 26th October, 1895, he will ment. We will all watch that stage of the busi- ness very carefully, because, after this comedy, find a party division there recorded on a ques- this parody, of to-day, it is the last stage that tion of privilege. He will find that the mem- bers on that side of the House either voted that will amuse us most. The honourable gentleman this morning went through the ludicrous per- it was not a question of privilege or else they formance of imitating the demeanour of a per- walked out and did not vote at all. Some did not vote to declare it was not a breach of son appearing at the bar of the House. He privilege ; they ran away and did not vote at told us how ridiculous the whole thing looked, almost like a clown in a circus-an amusing all. The members who voted that it was a picture perhaps, but not a dignified picture. breach of privilege were Carncross, Carnell, And I say-because I wish it to be understood Crowther An Hon. MEMBER .- Crowther was in opposi- that I am not speaking of Mr. Seddon, I am speaking of the Premier of this country-and I tion. Sir J. G. WARD .- Mr. Crowther was a Go- say that, I care not who the man is who is Premier of this country, he ought to remember vernment supporter then. - Flatman, Guin- that he is not placed in that position to gratify ness, Hall, Hall-Jones, Harris, Hogg, Houston, Joyce, Larnach, Lawry, Mackintosh, McGowan, his private or personal feelings on an occasion Mckenzie, J., Mckenzie, R., McNab, Meredith, such as this : he is there to protect the interests Montgomery, Morrison, O'Regan, Parata, Pere, and the dignity of this Parliament. I am ex- ceedingly sorry to say that the proceedings of Pinkerton, Pirani, Reeves, Seddon, Stevens, Thompson, R., Ward, and Willis ; tellers, this morning have tended to destroy the high ideal I had formed on the subject of the rights Buddo and Collins. Now, there is not a single member of the Opposition in that division-list, of Parliament. I have watched the proceedings who voted for declaring it a breach of privilege of this House very closely for more than thirty and upholding the privileges of the House, years, and I say with great regret that I never saw the honour of the House so lowered in the with the exception of Mr. Pirani, who was then, dust and besmirched as it has been to-day. I think, a Government supporter. Every one Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) .- Sir, of the Opposition voted against its being a I should have thought that by this time the breach of privilege, or abstained from voting at House would have had about enough of this all. And certainly the member for Bruce was present, as I mentioned before to-day, just be- question of privilege ; but as it does appear fore that division was taken, and he thought so that some members are still desirous of discuss- little of upholding the dignity of Parliament ing it, and not allowing the amendment of the and maintaining its privileges that he did not Minister of Justice to be carried, I do not see vote upon it; he walked out. But imme- that any harm can come by saying a few words diately afterwards there was a division on a more upon the matter. Mr. ATKINSON .- Tell us what the amend- motion to adjourn the House, and he was in his place and voted on that motion all right. ment is. 