convenient that faith should not be kept with the House I do not approve of faith being so kept with the House." The right honourable gentleman might argue as he likes, and talk as loud as he likes, but I fear that is the logic of his position, from which there is no escape. He told us he approved in general of faith being kept with the House when a Minister makes a promise ; but if that Minister is not himself, or if it is inconvenient that the promise should be kept, then let it be broken. It is simply to put this on record that I have risen at this late hour. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs). - I regret the tone this debate has taken at this period of the evening, and it seems to me that the whole cause for the debate taking this form is the action of the leader of the Opposition, Mr. Massey. Mr. MASSEY .- I am not the leader of the Opposition. Mr. WILFORD .- Well, the director of the Opposition. The honourable member threatened the Hon. the Premier with what he would do because he (the Premier) would not agree to his (Mr. Massey's) anything but mild request, and the other members of the Opposition have fol- lowed his lead. In regard to the remarks of the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson), he is a gentleman who suffers from political biliousness. The honourable gentleman always makes personal speeches. One of these days the honourable member for Wellington City will no doubt make a policy speech. We will wait for it. At present the honourable member is suffering from what I may call political biliousness, but I hope he will have a speedy recovery. I feel sure the remarks he directed at the Premier were not directed with the view of raising the dignity of the House, but that they were actuated by a per- sonal feeling, and when that is the case such remarks never go far. I feel certain the Premier will also survive. Then, the member for Wel- lington City stated in his speech that the action of the Premier in voting against his colleague was something really fearful. But what is the position logically ? The Minister in charge of the Bill gives a promise to the House that he will accede to the introduction of a particular clause. He does so. Now, just to show the absolute disingenuousness of the member for Wellington City, he says the Minister made a promise to put the clause in. Well, can a Minis- ter promise to put it in if he had not the assist- ance of members ? No Minister could say more than that he would agree to the introduction of any proposal. That is what the Minister did. The Minister agreed to do so, and, I think, voted for the clause. Now, the Premier, I presume, had a perfect right to vote against that clause. The result of the voting was twelve to twenty- three. Those members who voted against the clause, of course, felt satisfied with the Pre- mier's explanation. I am speaking for myself. Mr. HERRIES .- Which way did you vote ? Mr. WILFORD .- I voted " No," and I have to say this in regard to my vote: that I really Mr. Atkinson ber for Dunedin City was unnecessary. I think it would have been a good amendment if re- quired. The wording and drafting were worthy of a professor of constitutional law. The clause was well drafted, but there was no necessity for it, and consequently I voted against it. The majority of members in the House also voted against it. Then, why this attach ? Just be- cause there is the opening to attack, and. knowing that the whole of the Press is on their side and that nothing but their remarks against the Premier will be reported, they seized the opportunity. Any honourable member who is against the Premier has only to say " Boo" and the Opposition Press will quote that "Boo." It is the same old story, and no doubt it will be the same so long as the Opposition lasts. However, Sir, I hope that the debate will be conducted calmly, and. as I do not leave for Dunedin until five o'clock to- night, I say let us go one after another and discuss the matter fully. I hope I have suc- ceeded in pouring oil on the troubled waters. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) .- The honour able gentleman who has just sat down talked about throwing oil on troubled waters, but I think he has thrown a little kerosene on the dying embers. That is what he has been trying to do, but I am not sure that he will succeed in his object after all. Sir, he talked about personal remarks having been made on this subject. Does he or any one in this House pretend to say that personalities are con- fined to this side of the House? It is absurd even for that honourable gentleman to make such a remark. Why did the twelve members vote for the new clause ? We did it because we believed that the thing was necessary. Now. I do not pretend to say that it is necessary to pass this Bill. I am not a lawyer, and there- fore am prepared to be guided by the opinions of those who can speak with authority on the matter. But, Sir, all I can say is this: that I can bring my common - sense to bear on the subject. I desire to be logical, and if this Bill was necessary I cannot help thinking that the proposed validatory clause was necessary also. The Premier gave the real reason why he objected to it. He said it was intended to be a slap in the face to the Govern- ment. I can tell him that such an idea never entered my head. I do not think it entered the head of any member on this side of the House until the Premier mentioned it. It is the same old story we are constantly hearing, that any- thing we do or say is done or said, not with the view of remedying what is wrong, but in order to give a slap in the face to the Government. We who sit on this side of the House have be- come so accustomed to that piece of gag for the last eight or ten years that we pay very little attention to it now. Mr. SEDDON .- Who raised the question in the first instance? The member for Franklin raised it. Mr. MASSEY .- And I had a perfect right to do so. Mr. W. FRASER .- If the honourable mem- 