or two in regard to the Lands Department. Now, in regard to that department, I have said before in this House, and I should like now to emphasize the fact, that there is a black blot upon it, and the blot is this : that daily, weekly, monthly, and yearly the freehold of the lands of this colony is slipping from our grasp. Turn to the official tables-I have the Year-book for 1899; somebody walks off with the latest Year-books for 1900, and modest mem- bers cannot get hold of them-and you will see that up to the year 1892-93 the bulk of the land was disposed of on the perpetual-lease system. After that year occupation with the right of purchase and the lease in perpetuity became the standard systems under which the lands were disposed of. Last year, quoting from the Year-book for 1899, there were 109,950 acres disposed of under the occupation-with- right - of - purchase system, and 159,415 acres under the lease in perpetuity, and that was by far the greatest amount of land disposed of. Then, take the number of the selectors: Last year there were for cash, 534 selectors; occupa- tion with right of purchase, 458 selectors; lease in perpetuity, 665 selectors; and 106 lease-in- perpetuity selectors under the village-settlement system : making a total of 1,773 under those sys- tems out of a total number of 1,953 selectors. Of other selectors there were only 180, and of this 180 forty were for small grazing - runs. Turning to the areas of land disposed of, there is the same result seen. Enormous areas of land are being disposed of now. The only national asset that we have, the only thing that we could say was really the property of the people https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 as a whole, is being parted with year by year and acre by acre, and it is high time that that was put a stop to. And what an anomaly is here : We are buying back the big estates month after month, and yet month by month we are selling back the freehold ; and, by a return laid on the table the other day, I find even that the number of large estates is still increasing. Now, that must be stopped in some way or other. I hope the question will be seriously grappled with by the Minister in charge of the depart- ment, and that he will endeavour to do some- thing to check, at once and forcibly, the evil. I regret to say that I have wofully miscalcu- lated the amount I am able to get through in the course of an hour, and that I have still material here that would occupy me an- other hour or two. But before I sit down I would like to say a word or two about some agitation that is going on in the country just now as to the industrial laws, and as to the question of the farmer versus the arti- san, the mechanic, and the labourer. There are some persons in the country-wicked people, to my mind -who seem to desire to set class against class ; they seem to desire to set the farmer against the artisan, and they raise a cry against the industrial laws, and say that they are ruining the country and doing all kinds of harm. Now, what are the chief in- dustrial laws? They are the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, the Factories Act, and the Mr. Barclay effect of these laws ? Have they unduly raised wages in the country? I say they have not. Look at the Federation Report. Take the report of the Federation Commissioners, and you will see that these gentlemen say, on com- paring the wages in New South Wales and Victoria, that the wages in New Zealand are no higher ; and they say, moreover, that the cost of food and living in Australia is less than it is in New Zealand. And the president of the Wellington Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Reid, says that living is fifty per cent. cheaper here to-day than it was twenty years ago; and I think we may take the president of the Cham- ber of Commerce as some authority. I say there is nothing more amusing that I have ever heard in this House, whether the humour is conscious or unconscious, than the state- ments made by some honourable gentlemen as to the hard manner in which farmers and landowners are treated. Why, the far- mers and landowners are coddled and nursed and looked after by this House in the way that no other class is. As to labour, what does the Department of Labour cost this country ? Why, it costs the country $7.000 odd per year-that is the total cost. And what does the Agricultural Department cost ? It is to cost nearly £92,000 this year. Take the rail- way concessions the honourable member for Ashburton mentioned : $76,000 in railway con- cessions, and purely on agricultural -produce alone. Who gets the benefit of that? And then there are all these loans that are spent on roads and bridges : on what is all that money spent ? What a contrast to what is done for the artisan in the cities ! Who ever raises loans to lend money cheaply to the manufacturer ? What has been done for him ? Who is lend- ing him a hand ? Sir, it appears to me that the position of labour in this country, and in any country-its dignity and its value-is not realised by some honourable members. There is no doubt whatever that the wealth that is possessed by this colony-or any coun- try-is the product of its natural resources and labour. It never seems to enter into the heads of some honourable members that now and for centuries past the workers have never had a fair share of the wealth that they themselves have been and are the chief factors in creating. In Britain the workers form 80 per cent. of the population, and they get one-third of the na- tional income. Supposing the income of Britain was $100, the workers, who form 80 per cent. of the population, would get £33 6s. 8d. of it, and the non-workers, who form the other 20 per cent. of the population, would get €66 13s. 4d. That is to say, each worker would get 6s. &d. per annum, and each non-worker would get $3 6s. 8d. Now, is that fair, is that right ? Do honourable members wish to see that state of things perpetuated in New Zealand? Sir, members of this House-and those outside it as well-should take their hats off to labour. It is to labour that we owe all the wealth we possess-it is through the workers that we live. and move, and have our being. Sir, I desire 