as big a farmer as the honourable gentleman, but I have got my living off the land for the last thirty-five years, and I have sold a little grain and produce of all descriptions, and I may say that I have known farm produce of all sorts much lower than it is now. For instance, I never knew in the last few years cows to be so dear-and I cuill a cow farm produce - nor have I ever known ewes and lambs so dear at any time except in the very early days. An Hon. MEMBER .- Not a bit of it. Mr. MCLACHLAN. - You come down to Ad- dington and hear the quotations there, or take them from the Christchurch Press, an authority which I do not think the honourable member for Hawke's Bay will dispute. What does its report of the Addington sheep-market show ? All I can say is that if it is true that the price of wool is at its lowest, then the colony must have enormous vitality, and that shows that there are other sources upon which the country can depend to retain its equi- librium of finance, even if wool falls further in price, which, of course, everybody hopes it will not. Why, for ewes in lamb in the middle of August the price was so high that it was not quotable. The following are the prices at the Addington sale-yards for the years given : 1894, ewes in lamb, from 7s. to 8s. ; 1895, not quoted, dull sale ; 1896, lambs, 12s. to 14s. ; 1897, cross- breds, 10s. to 11s. ; 1898, crossbreds, 5s. to 11s .; 1899, crossbreds, 15s. to 16s. ; 1900, market unchanged; 1901, crossbreds nearly all passed, owners' values too high. Prices for general farm produce are not so low as 1 have known them. I know a farmer who has https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 been receiving the following prices : 33d. for his pork ; 84d. and 9d. for his butter-and these prices were cash ; and if he had young cows to sell he got from £8 to #10 for them. Then, let http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero us take the case of farmers like the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, who send thousands of fat sheep to the works to be converted into frozen mutton. What have they got during the last few years ? They have had many bene- fits, including the increased returns produced by labour-saving machinery ; they have had reduced railway freights, reduced freights on the ocean-going steamers, and they have got the returns from the by-products of the car- The honourable gentleman knows that cases. the sheep-farmer is not any worse off at pre- sent than he has been for many years past. I admit that in some classes wool is as low now as it has been for many years; but in the case of fat sheep, taking wool and taking the carcase as a whole, the sheep is worth as much money as ever it was. If there is a loss of 3s. on the clip of wool, there is a gain of 3s. on the What about three years ago? The carcase. farmers then got from a million and a half to two millions more than they expected for their clips. If they were prudent men they then, no doubt, paid off their overdraft, if they had any, or paid off the money on their premises, or built themselves better houses, or improved their flocks. It is very likely they did one of those things ; and, if they did so, the profits they made then will go far to meet the low price they are receiving now. I know one farmer in Canterbury who exports a large quantity of wool. I asked him two years ago, " What are you going to do with the money from your wool this year ?" and he replied, " I sent wool Home which has realised #10,000 more than I expected." I said, " What will you do with the money ?" And he said, "I have given authority to an architect to prepare plans for a new house for me. I have never had a decent place in my: life before, and I want one now that I can- live in comfortably." That shows, then, the stimulus that was given to trade as a result of that man's profitable returns. Carpenters, bricklayers, and others were employed on the house for some time, and naturally there was an inflation of the building trade in that locality. Therefore I say that these wool- kings have not reached bed-rock ; indeed, they are far from it. I also wish to say that the . quotations I have given of the Addington market have been taken from the Christchurch Press. Now, I wish to compliment the Hon. Sir J. G. Ward on his railway management. It is said no concession has been given to the farmers. Well, the honourable gentleman read out a list of items that did not appear in the Premier's list-I have no doubt they are all correct-and, when we perceive the nature of the reductions that have been so far given to farmers, I do not understand how any one can say the farmers have not received consideration. In the Financial Statement the Premier says this with regard to the railway concessions :- " In connection with results of working the railways for last financial year the large con- cessions in rates granted by the Government since resuming control of the lines should not be lost sight of, as they have a very material effect on the results for the year. The total re- ductions made since the Government took over the railways amounted, up to last year, to no less than £369,439, and to 31st March, 1901, to £420,239." The list of the principal concessions granted shows that the farmers have received the bene- fit of all the concessions. There is a reduction of live-stock rates to the extent of $25,000. Who gets the benefit of that sum except the farmers ? Firewood, chaff, and lime are also carried at a cheaper rate, the reduction being $8,000. Then, we have " Free carriage of lime, butter, eggs, and fish empties, £1,500 "; and the abolition of the extra charge of 1d. per ton on branch lines amounted to $3,000. Then, we have " Agricultural produce, $45,000," and " Butter and cheese, $5.000." Was that reduction made because the butter and cheese industries were languishing? No; the industries never had palmier days than when these reductions were given to them-in fact, they were given as gifts. In the way of concessions we also have "Artificial manures, $1,000 ; bricks, clay, coal, &c., $3,000 ; general reduction of ordinary passenger and season rates, $68.000; cheap tickets for workers on Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, and Dunedin suburban lines, $1,600." Next we have an item that the member for Hawke's Bay, 