had the Advances to Settlers Act for the assist- ance of settlers, and if they loaded the Loans to Local Bodies to too large an extent he did not know where they were going to end. # OLD-AGE PENSIONS. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked, When the Committee on the old-age pension regula- This Com- tions is to be called together ? mittee had been set up in the early part of the session, but had not yet been called together, and no doubt the Premier had overlooked it. Unfortunately, it had also been overlooked last session, the Committee having never met. What had occurred that afternoon with regard to the regulations of the Industrial and Arbitra- tion Act had shown the necessity for having the regulations made under all Acts carefully revised. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he would ask that the Committee should be called together on the following day. COMMANDANT OF THE FORCES. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) asked the Minis- ter of Defence, Whether, in view of the re- fusal of Colonel Henry of the position as Commandant of the Forces, the Government will give the House an opportunity of decid- ing whether a colonial officer should be ap- pointed instead of importing another Imperial officer ? He would merely point out to the Pre- mier that the most efficient heads of depart- ments in this colony were New-Zealanders, and if the same system of appointment were adopted with regard to defence it would probably be found just as successful. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said, After the report that had been laid on the table that day as to the camp at Newtown Park during the Royal visit, his confidence in colo- nial officers had been considerably shaken. Mr. PIRANI said, in reference to the Newtown Park matter, he might point out that the Com- mandant was Colonel Penton. Mr. SEDDON said the Commandant had given it as his opinion that Newtown Park was not a proper place for the camp, and the other shortcomings were not reported to him. He knew nothing about it, and was not to blame. # MARRIED MEN IN PERMANENT FORCES. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) asked the Minister of Defence, If he will grant a reasonable house allowance to married men in the Permanent Forces of the colony ? This was a matter re- specting which there was a substantial griev- Considering what had been done of late ance. years in connection with the Police Force, he hoped the Defence Minister would see his way to grant married men in the Permanent Forces a reasonable house allowance. He believed that some time ago Colonel Penton had recom- mended the construction of something like barracks for married men in the Permanent Force. That might be very good for military towns in the Old Country, but it would not do Mr. Seddon able reply. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said this opened up a wide question, he supposed, in the direction of removing from the colony the reproach arising from the reduction in the birth-rate. There were 118 married men in the Permanent Force, and if they got $50 a year more than single men the probability was they would soon have a much larger num- ber of them in the Force. Mr. BOLLARD .- How could it cost $50 a year more ? Mr. SEDDON said that would represent house allowance of £1 per week. Mr. BOLLARD .- 1s. a day would be suffi- cient. Mr. SEDDON could not see why married men should receive 1s. a day more than the other men who performed the same work and duties. AUCKLAND-MANUKAU CANAL. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) asked the Govern- ment, If they will support a Bill to give the necessary legislation to empower a private com- pany to construct a canal between the Auckland and Manukau Harbours ? This was a matter of great importance to the City of Auckland. He had several times brought it before the Govern- ment, and they had always pooh-poohed it, saying that the expense was too great. The Harbour Board was the proper authority to take this matter up. and that body had made a feint now and again, but had then done nothing. He had been communicated with by a company that was contemplating moving in this matter, and he would like to know if the Government, before the company proceeded further, would grant the necessary legislation if it was applied for to enable the work to be undertaken and the canal constructed. He hoped that this time he would be able to get a favourable reply from the Minister. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the Govern- ment had had no proposal submitted to them, and it was the duty of those who proposed to undertake a great work, and one of national importance, to, at all events, approach the Government in a proper way, with a statement of the proposal, and evidence that they were not simply syndicators or floaters of companies desirous of getting a privilege from Parliament and then selling it to somebody else. The Government, he thought, ought to know who the company were and what their proposals were. The question could not be dealt with until definite information was obtained. Mr. BOLLARD .- Suppose you are satisfied of the genuineness of the company and the bona fides of those concerned, will you give the necessary legislation ? Mr. SEDDON might say that this had been a dream of his for many long years. He had discussed many years ago this question of cutting across the narrow neck of land be- tween Auckland and the Manukau with Sir George Grey. If the question was, " Was he in favour of cutting a channel through this neck of land ? " his answer was in the affirmative. 