is that all the companies are under the Act of 1882. The Hon. Colonel PITT .- Yes, I know; and therefore I say, by an amendment of the clauses of this Act, or by an amendment of the Mining Companies Act, it could be provided that it shall not be legal for a mining company to register under the Act of 1882; but I do ask honourable gentlemen to consider very seriously before they introduce matter into this Act which is really foreign to the purposes for which it was framed in England, and let us have this Act on the statute-book, which is practically a copy of the English Companies Act of last year. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- The Act passed last session at Home has proved to be very faulty. The Hon. Colonel PITT .- At all events, there it is, and my honourable friend says it is con- sidered to be very faulty. Well, I do not know. It provides for a good many things which I think will be very useful to us here in New Zealand. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND .- The Hon. Mr Reeves has made what I suppose we must call a funny speech, but I consider he treated this question, which is a question of very great importance, too much in a spirit of levity. He, Sir, spoke of persons who were induced to take up shares in these bogus schemes, and who were swindled out of their money, as so many fools, and almost unworthy of the attention of the Legislature; and that if they go into these things they have only themselves to thank for it, and they do what no prudent man would do. Well, I say, many men and many women too go into these schemes in New Zealand, and it https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 would not be right in all, or even most cases, to call them fools. There may be fools among them, but they are not all fools. Misrepresen- tations are made to induce them to go in and risk their money, too often with the loss of that money. Sir, this Bill, I am happy to say, pro- poses to do all that it is possible to do to put a check on these rascally promoters of com- panies. Every one of these booms gives birth to a "Thomas Russell." That scoundrel-if he were standing before me at the present moment I would tell him to his face he is a scoundrel- has been a curse to hundreds of people in this country-to widows and orphans-and what does he care ? He ought to be at this moment breaking stones in Mount Eden Gaol. I was sorry to see-I hope it was not true-but I certainly read it in a paper, that His present Majesty, when Prince of Wales, went and lunched with that scoundrel in his country seat, in some part of England. Well, Sir, I hope this Bill will tie up such directors from doing similar mischief in the future. I wish I could tie up some of them in another way, but I know it is impossible, in this tender-hearted age, to punish such rogues according to their deserts. Queen Elizabeth's time such men would have been strung up by the dozen, but this is the tender-hearted twentieth century. Well, Sir, I hope not only directors, but liquidators of companies will also be touched up by this Bill. The Hon. Mr. Lee Smith, on a previous occa- Hon. Mr. A. Lee Smith sion, spoke about the liquidators of a cer- tain bank, and their very tardy proceedings, as far as giving an account of their stewardship is concerned. I also had something to say on the same occasion, I remember. I am sorry to say that the gentlemen alluded to have made no sign, and have given no account as yet. We are in the same happy position still-we are awaiting a hnal dividend of, perhaps, 2}d. in the pound, and all I can say is that I wish we may get it. I heartily approve of this Bill, and I hope in Committee we will make it even more stringent. We know the sort of customers we have to deal with ; but I trust that we shall be able to frame such a Bill as, with all their cunning, they will not be able to override ; otherwise we shall deserve to be laughed at as clumsy legislators indeed. The Hon. Mr. JONES. - The honourable gentleman who has just spoken has certainly spoken out of the fullness of his heart. No honourable member who listened to the honour- able gentleman's remarks could fail to feel that there was a considerable amount of pathos in the complaint which he has made. But such remarks as those of the honourable mem- ber will not get over this difficulty. In my opinion the only way to prevent the fraud which has evidently taken place regarding the floating and management of bogus mining companies, is for the Government to see that a proper expert investigation is made of the ground to be operated upon as dredging areas. I believe such an investigation could be made as would determine whether there was gold there or not. The difficulty is that companies have been floated in Dunedin where there was no intention of working the ground, but where the only intention was to work the public -to get gold from the pockets of the public and place it in the pockets of the promoters. I am perfectly certain that we might stay here till doomsday, and set up all kinds of other safeguards, and that we would fail to accomplish what we have in view unless we adopt the safeguard I have suggested. I think, however, we should see that an investigation is made by a competent officer of the Mines De- partment. But fraud occurs not only in con- nection with gold-mining, but in connection with all kinds of companies. The public's pockets are exploited for the benefit of the pro- moters, and I think it is a cruelty to say that those who believe the prospectuses are fools. They are simple honest people who cannot con- ceive that men could be such rogues as to send out such spurious decoys. Those are the people we ought to protect in the interest of our indus- tries, but those are the people who are not pro- tected. It has become the custom of persons a little bit smarter than others to laugh at those who believe in the honesty of their fel- lows. The only effective expedient-and I have In felt this from the beginning of the agitation- with regard to scoundrelism in the promotion of the public companies is to get a reliable expert report, and provide that those who go into these companies shall put hard cash into them themselves. 