mistake, because generally they are phono- graphs of each other's speeches. Mr. PIRANI .- Because you were not in the House, that is why. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- I think I was in the House at the time. Well, we find that the honourable member for Palmerston has been holding Mr. Cohen up to every charge imagin- able in the category of crime. And what is Mr. Cohen's offence ? That he prefers punishment to ignoring the ethics of journalistic honour, and will not divulge the name of the person who gave him that evidence. Now, what was the offence that the honourable member for Palmerston was guilty of last session ? He absolutely ignored the ruling of this House, and the ruling of the Speaker, and yet he is now to sit as judge upon a trivial offence of this kind. An Hon. MEMBER .- He took his punishment. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- Yes; but does that wipe out the offence? I say I am surprised at the honourable member, and I say it is a far graver offence on the part of a member of this House than on the part of a member of the Press. But there was no question of honour connected with the member for Palmerston. It is a matter of honour with Mr. Cohen. The member for Palmerston's offence was contu- macy-resistance to lawful authority. I ask honourable members to judge between those two cases. Now, we will come to the member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson), the word- painter. He endeavoured to impress upon us that this was not a party question. Did he make any suggestion as to how we were to get out of the difficulty ? Did he say, " Let the Premier accept an amendment or eliminate certain words from his amendment?" From his opening words to his hysterical peroration it was one tirade of abuse against the fortu- nately broad shoulders of the Premier. The honourable member laughs; but I would ask honourable members who have heard his speech if they can pick out one point where there was any originality or any special dealing with the question occupying the attention of honourable members ? Did he try to elucidate the difficulty or help us out of the mire that we have drifted into-the mire of abuse of the Premier? No. We are becoming used to such language from the honourable member. The member for Ash- burton is no doubt a little aggrieved, because I have shown that, however jealously he watches the honour of this House, he has neglected it in the past. One final word as to the offence-if I may use that term-of Mr. Cohen and the Dunedin Evening Star which they are credited with committing : I say in my own mind if the amendment proposed by the member for Waikato had been to eliminate any fine at all, and leave the remainder of the amendment in its original form, I would give him my vote, because I cannot see how you are going to assess the dignity of this House at $5. If it is only worth $5 it is worth nothing. Mr. LANG .- It is the same as Ministers propose. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- I do not care Mr. A. L. D. Fraser whether it is the same as Ministers propose or not, I disagree with it entirely. I want to put this on record, that I disapprove of the fine of £15. I approve of the major part of the motion. The analysis of the member for Bruce puts the dignity of Parliament and of his own honour at what? £10! When Mr. Lang's motion is put to the House, where will the member for Bruce be? He assesses our honour and dignity at £10. He was smiling a moment ago because I would vote for the £15, but the important feature in that amend. ment is that the House accepts the regret expressed by the newspaper and by the corre- spondent, and the House passes upon the offender a motion that says distinctly, " You have committed an offence," and, as I said a few moments ago, no newspaper of standing cares to have that on record against it. For that reason I say that if the member for Wai- kato will alter his amendment I will vote for it. because I think that is the proper punishment that should be meted out to this very much exaggerated offence. Mr. MCLACHLAN (Ashburton). - Sir, I should not have spoken on this amendment had it not been for what I call the exceedingly gentlemanly attack the member for Napier bas made upon me. I would not give the slightest denial to anything the honourable member mir say in this House against me if his remarks did not appear in Hansard. If it were left to members of the House to judge between that honourable gentleman and myself I would leave the issue in the hands of members, either as concerns my personal honour or my probity. But when those remarks are read by others who do not know the honourable member as he is known in Napier, and as I am known in Canterbury, and especially in Ashburton, it is necessary that I should reply to the charge that has been imputed to me. After he had done with his Greek and Turkish proverbs be spoke about his own kindred -- the ass. Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER. - I must cali upon the honourable member to withdraw thu! expression. Mr. MCLACHLAN .- Yes ; I will withdraw it. Sir, when the honourable gentleman rose in his place I was about to leave the Chamber. thinking he would only give a repetition of what we have already heard ad nauseam to day. The Premier was absent from the House at the time, and no doubt he had set a number of his secretaries at work to get this paper ready with which to try to traduce me by giving publicity to a statement that is abso- lutely untrue as regards me. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- Sir, may I make a personal explanation ? I had no idea --- Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honouratie member may make an explanation later on. Mr. MCLACHLAN .- The honourable meme- ber said, "What would the member for A-E- burton say "-he was reading from a paper that probably came from the archives of the Pre- mier's office-" if drunkenness were attributed to an honourable member at the end of last session, and if that charge were scattered broad- 