coming under the Conciliation and Arbitra- tion Act, which shows that there is a state of contentment amongst the employés of the Government railways in the colony that does not exist in very many firms of private em- ployers. There are, however, one or two things that I think might be suggested to the Minister for Railways. In the first place, I trust he will not lose time in bringing down the superan- nuation scheme, which has been promised for such a long time, and which we were told last session was ready, and which he was prepared to present to the House. I hope that before very many days have gone we will have the new classification scheme placed before us for our consideration, and I trust that the casual hands that are employed under the railway man- agement will receive both more consideration and higher pay than they are receiving at the pre- sent time. Then, while we are speaking of encouraging local industries, I trust the Go- vernment will see to it that at a very near date we will so employ our hands and so increase the capacity of our workshops that we will be able to build not only our carriages and trucks, but the whole of our ongines there. Let me say, under this head, that the time has now arrived -though the Minister said the other day in the House that there was not money available -when a foundry must be placed in connection with the Hillside workshops if the work there is to be done successfully and economically. We know that there is a considerable loss in consequence of castings and other foundry-work having to be brought from private firms to those workshops. There is one clause in the State- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 ment that I must refer to to-night. It was touched on by the honourable member for Wa- nganui this afternoon when he was speaking on the question of coal-mines. One knows there are those in this House who do not wish, and who do not appreciate, the Government going into any new line of business, or striking off on any fresh lines upon any subject, whether steamships, coal-mines, clothing-factories, printing-offices, or anything else. Nevertheless, I do congratu- late the Government on their determination to work a coal-mine of their own. Sir, I find this : that at the present time the Government themselves use about 115,000 tons of coal per annum, and if the Government will only bring 115,000 tons of coal out of their mine and make the saving that is to be made upon it, then I consider that that alone is a sufficient reason why they should enter upon this business. The quotation I wish to call the attention of honour- able members to is this :- "There is a combination of the coal-dealers, and the mine-owners are working in unison with them, the result being that abnormally high prices are charged to the consumers." We were told this afternoon by the honour- able member for Wanganui that, as far as his district is concerned, this is an absolute fact. Now, I have received a communication from my own district-from Dunedin - part of which I will read. It says, after explaining the whole matter,- Mr. Arnold absolutely no truth in the statement; and I have also cited a case which clearly proves that the coal-dealers are not now receiving a suffi- cient margin of profit on some coals handled by them. My executives trust that, should the opportunity occur, that you will have this state- ment corrected, as it is a direct reflection on the trade generally." This is signed by " James Macfie," the chair- man of the Dunedin Coal-merchants' Associa- tion. The request is that if I have the oppor- tunity I will make that contradiction public ; and I now take advantage of this opportunity to do so. Sir, the reason that I am very much in favour of the Government opening up the coal-mines is not in consequence of the profits that are being received ; it is not because it is believed, whether right or wrong, that there is an understanding between the mine-owners and the dealers. I take a higher stand than that : that not only the coal, but the whole of the minerals of the colony, should belong to the people of the colony. We had the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Witheford) the other night telling us the wealth was in the land up in Auckland, and that all that had to be done was to take it out. That is so, not only in Auckland but in all other parts of the colony, and I con- tend that the Government can take it out cheaper and better than private companies. It belongs to them, and consequently they ought to take it out, in preference to allowing private people to do so. Coming to the question with regard to gold, we find that for the half-year the value of gold saved amounted to ±344,888, and if we double that-because during the second half of the year we are not likely to see a falling-off-we find that for the twelve months we should have an output of £689,776. Sir, I contend that the Government are doing well now by opening up the coal-mines, and I trust the day will come when this or some other progressive Government will not only say that the coal of the colony, but that other minerals, some of which are, perhaps, not yet discovered, shall belong to the people, who have the right to them, and not be handed over to private individuals. I now come to the question of public works. The public- works policy of the Government is a policy with which I am thoroughly in accord, and, as I said twelve months ago, that policy must be continued with fair progress. During the last recess I have had the advantage of going into the back country of Otago. I have been able to look at some of the back blocks, and have been able to get into a part of the bush country, and I say that, in my opinion, no Government can, in justice to the people of this colony, pause in the public-works policy that they have been carrying out for the last eight or ten years. I say that they must assist the settlers in getting roads to the back blocks not only formed, but maintained. I say that, in some parts of the colony where they have dangerous rivers, and where the settlers- are placed at a great disadvantage, not only with 