It has, been therefore, truly pointed out that the remainder of the 38,000,000 inhabitants of the British Isles are allowed to scramble for the rest, and it is therefore no wonder that the vast majority has to go without any. When it is also considered that the landless have to pay nearly the whole taxation, inclusive of many millions a year given to the landlords for the purpose of improving their properties, is it to be wondered at that the majority of the people are not happy or prosperous. In Great Britain the average size of the holdings is 390 acres. In the United States the average size of the holdings is 137 acres. Even in the United States millions of acres of the very best land are owned by members of the English House of Lords and others of the English aristocracy. What did John Morley say in 1893, when referring to the Australasian Colonies ? He strongly condemned the practice of the colonies in alienating or selling the public lands, and said that as popu- lation increased we would have here many of the evils that are complained of in the Old Land-evils that have impoverished the masses of the people to make princely incomes for the few favoured landlords. Many other eminent statesmen in the Old Country have condemned this practice of disposing of the freehold. And, regarding the freehold tenure, what does it mean after all ? It is an ivy-grown custom or method of landholding that has been handed down from ancient times, and regarded with a reverence and awe bordering on the superstitious. Joseph Chamberlain, referring to land mono- poly, said,- " The sanctity of private property is no doubt an important principle, but the public good is a greater and higher object than any private in- terest, and the comfort and happiness of the people and the prosperity of the country must never be sacrificed to the exaggerated claims of a privileged class who are now the exclusive possessors of the great gift of the Almighty to the human race." I have always advocated the non-alienation of the fee-simple of our public lands, not only with a view to secure funds to carry on necessary public works without resorting to unnecessary taxation, but because I recognised that before long we must arrive at a state of things when we will find that we shall suffer, though in a minor degree, from the same over-population which existed in older countries : when that day came, the pressure of land-monopoly would be felt. I feel satisfied that if the question of the freehold versus the leasehold were put to the people of New Zealand by way of the referen- dum, fairly, fully, and clearly, the will of the people would be, and they would decide, that they would not agree to dispose of one more foot of our public lands, and consequently preserve the rights of posterity. An Hon. MEMBER. - Not to get money ? Mr. HANAN ..--- Not to get the purchase- money, which when it is obtained is only spent : and then you find after such money is gone that your source of revenue, in the shape of the land, is gone also. Let me deal with the ! Mr. Hanan cerns the municipal bodies. We know that were it not for the leasehold assets-the reserves that have been given to local bodies in this colony, and which are bringing them in a splendid revenue-they would have had to increase their taxation. This would apply to each of the large towns, and those leaseholds, with their rentals, have undoubtedly been the means of stopping the increase of municipal taxation. Well, supposing the local bodies had the power to dispose of the freehold, and had disposed of it, the money would have gone ; it would have been freely spent on many things, and they would not have been any better off, and the final result would be increased taxation. The possession of a large amount of municipal lease- holds by Corporations in the Old Country have been to them very valuable assets. The City of London, Glasgow, Liverpool, and Not- tingham Corporations have received such an amount of rents therefrom that they have enabled these local bodies to carry out under- takings for the general good without imposing heavy burdens on the ratepayers. In 1895 the municipal funds of Nottingham amounted to about $30.953. The London Corporation de- rives $160,000 per annum, or one-fifth of its annual revenue, from their corporate estates or municipal leaseholds. Where land is owned by a Municipality not only can it be made a source of revenue by leasing, but the increase in value of the property which takes place is secured for the benefit of the community, and not for indi- viduals who have done comparatively nothing to earn the increment in value. Moreover, pub- lic health, public comfort, and progress cannot but be greatly promoted by the municipalisa- tion of lands. It cannot be denied that it is in the power of private holders of large areas of land in towns to make or mar the progress of such towns-to alter the shape and outward character of the town by withholding land from sale, or imposing onerous conditions in building leases. Then, we talk about inducing people to come to this colony. If the State parts with all its public lands, what encouragement will there be for people to come out bere to deal with third parties ? Are we to dispose of our lands so that they will finally fall into the hands of a few individuals who would become landlords, while the rest of the people in the colony and those who might come to it would be left landless? It is parting with the public estate to give away the freehold. Those of us who urge that the State should cease alienating the public land do so with a view also of securing to the people in the future the increment in its value that had not been earned by those who occupied those lands. Then, again, what does the history of other countries tell us? That where land is parcelled out as much as possible amongst the great masses of people, that country is very prosperous, and in a better condition than where the land is held in large estates. That has been the case in France, where you have " occupying farmers," who make the very best use of their land. In that country we find there is multi- plicity of small holdings ; and it is undoubted 