take under the circumstances. An Hon. MEMBER .- Is not that arson ? Mr. PALMER .- Arson ? I say it is better to commit the crime of arson by burning the evi- dence than by keeping it and being accused by such members as the member for Wellington City of allowing people to see it. If the honour of this House is to be upheld by such as Mr. Pirani and Mr. Fisher, then Heaven help- the Standing Orders of this House forbid me to continue what I ought to say in characterizing these honourable gentlemen in the way they should be spoken about. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) .- I in- tend to move an amendment, but before doing so I desire to know if I will lose my right to speak to the main amendment. I desire, Sir, that you will direct me in this matter. I be- lieve that if I were to speak to the amendment now I would not have an opportunity of moving my amendment. The amendment that I pro- pose to move will come in about line 5 of the Premier's original motion. The first alteration would be the striking out of the words " as satisfactory." Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I understand it is not intended to alter all the words of the original motion. In putting the motion, That the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the question, I shall simply put the question, That the words proposed to be omitted, down to the words "House accepts," stand part of the question. If they are retained, then - Mr. FISHER .- 1 rise to a point of order. How is it possible to amend the original motion before the amendment to it has been disposed of ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .-- That is the point https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 upon which my direction has been asked. The Minister desires to know whether he would be in order in moving a further amendment, after the amendment now before the Chair has been dealt with. If the amendment now before the Chair is put as to the whole motion, and the words of the original motion are decided by a majority to stand, then the honourable member could not move to alter the words of the original motion. He wishes to alter the latter words of the original motion. I have told him that all the words in the original motion down to and including the words "House accepts " can be put as the question. If they are retained, then the honour- able member can move that any words in the rest of the motion be struck out. But if all the words proposed to be struck out are to be struck out, then, as a matter of form, the rest of the motion would go too. Mr. PIRANI .- I would like to ask for a direction also. If the words are struck out, will it be possible to amend the amendment moved by Mr. Fisher? Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER. - The original question was, That all the words of the motion after "That " be struck out with a view to in- serting these words : - " the House having declared the publication by the Dunedin Evening Star of August 23rd and August 27th of evidence taken before the Goldfields and Mines Committee was a breach Mr. Palmer sentative of the Dunedin Evening Star, having refused to state who furnished him with the shorthand report of the evidence, that he be fined in the sum of £25 for each such refusal, or $50 in all." That is the amendment. The question is, That the words of the original motion, down to and including the words "the House accepts," shall stand. Mr. FISHER .- That is, that the original motion shall be so dealt with in anticipation of the House voting on my amendment. Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER .- Yes; or any other amendment that might be put. The rule is that the House shall not be tied in moving further amendments. Mr. FISHER. - Then, I must say, these tactics are very talented. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- I wish to say a word or two to the amendment. The amend- ment that has been moved by the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) has not been put before the House on exactly the right lines. I quite agree with the Premier that in this instance, and in all instances where a breach of privilege has been committed, and so declared, the next thing to do is to call the person who has committed the breach of privilege to the bar of the House. The Standing Orders are absolutely clear on the matter. Like several of the previous speakers, I say there can be no hesitation in anybody's mind that the position is that the person accused ought to be called to the bar of the House. The Premier is just as much in fault as the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher). The Premier proposes to pass judgment - that is, to pass a motion - without hearing what the accused has to say. It is true that we have had a letter ; but that is not the proper method of a person accused of a breach of privilege being examined by the House. The proper course is for the person accused to be brought to the bar of the House to be heard, and to be questioned, if necessary. Now, the amendment moved by the honourabie member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisheri pro- poses to subject Mr. Cohen to a fine; and that may be quite right, and later on I may be quite in accord with the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), but at present I think it is premature. I think before we have Mr. Cohen or the publisher of the Dunedin Star, or both of them, dealt with, they ought to be brought to the bar of the House, in order that we may hear what they have to say before we proceed to pass sentence. I, therefore, do not feel that I can vote for Mr. Fisher's amend- ment at the present stage, because a further opportunity should be given to the accused persons. An Hon. MEMBER .- You are falling in every time. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I am not falling in. I am not going to vote for Mr. Fisher's amendment at the present stage, but shall take the opportunity it seems to me will be given us, when the Speaker puts the question, or part of the resolution moved by the Premier, to move » 