tration of the colony. It seems to me we might well spend a little more money in the Lunacy Department. Lunatics, we all admit, are the most unfortunate section of the com- munity, and it behoves us to treat them with every possible consideration in the hours of their affliction. It seems to me we must have reform, for the sake of both patients and at- tendants. The first reform we ought to have, from the patients' point of view, is some kind of half-way house, where the milder cases of lunacy might be placed. At present a Magis- trate is most unwilling to commit a person to an asylum unless he is certain that lunacy absolutely exists; and that usually means that it is in an advanced stage, and that the patient has gone too far for curative treatment. If there were a Government institution where persons might be treated for a time, I am sure there would be far less committals of lunatics to the lunatic asylums ; they would in many cases be cured, instead of being allowed to go on until they became incurable. It seems to me, too, that the large lunatic asylums are inadvis- able. We should have cottage asylums, where better control could be exercised over the smaller number of patients, and where there would, of course, be less chance of a serious disaster by fire. Among lunatics, too, there should be a classification scheme. At present we find all classes of lunatics massed together in large numbers, the worst cases with the milder cases, which is grossly unfair to the latter, and very unsatisfactory in all ways. Of course, to do this would entail more room and more expense, but I think it is expense we ought certainly to incur. Then, from the point of view of the attendants, there is much that ought to be done. The attendants, it appears to me, are an overworked class. Their duties are very onerous, difficult, and responsible, while their pay is grossly inadequate, and their hours are far too long. They are subject to arbitrary dismissal, practically without appeal ; whereas there can be no good reason why a Board, such as the Hospital Board or other Boards of Appeal, should not be set up to deal with dis- missals and complaints. I have here a sugges- tion, which has reached me from one of the lunatic asylum attendants, whereby, if fol- lowed out, the whole systen of lunatic asylums, as far as the attendants are concerned, might be rectified at a comparatively small additional cost. It is as follows : - " I have taken the liberty of writing to you to give an idea of the hours worked and salaries received by asylum attendants; also, what I consider the staffs should be increased to, and what the minimum rate of their pay should be. We are debarred from forming a union and seeking justice by the aid of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Therefore our only chance is to appeal to the House, and we seek your aid in letting our position be known to honourable members. We represent about three hundred public servants, and our duties are irksome, monotonous, and mentally laborious. Under the present system our better spirits are crushed Mr. Field small amount of our remuneration. I have en- closed three papers for your guidance. The first is a true statement of the hours worked for one month, representative of eleven months of the year, the twelfth being an annual holiday. After allowing for all leave our average work- ing-day is 10 hours 50 minutes. This fact speaks for itself, more especially so when you consider the number of hours we are confined to the building irrespective of duty. There are certain appointed times for meals, but the time so set aside is not our own, and we have to remain in our mess-room or in the wards, in order that we should be handy should any necessity arise. The second paper shows the number of men necessary to increase the staff so that an eight-hour day could be instituted. Take, for instance, the Mount View Asylum : it would require seven men and four nurses extra for that purpose; and, as that asylum repre- sents about one-tenth of the total staffs of the colony, the total required is easily arrived at. The arrangement of the men could be altered to suit the convenience of different institutions. The third paper shows the present cost in salaries of twenty-one men and thirteen nurses ; also, what the increased salaries of twenty-eight men and seventeen nurses would amount to. By reading over the salaries I have suggested, you will see the money asked for is very small. With regard to the nurses' salaries, I have simply put in what I think. and admit that I may be wrong ; but as they have as much chance of seeking an improved system as ourselves, I content myself by show. ing what I have done. The total increase of cost to the colony under my calculations would be about £13,580. No doubt the department would object to this extra expenditure ; but I hold that, as the Government is willing to pro- vide for its insane population, it should not do so at the cost of 'sweating' its employés. About £6,000 a year goes towards the salaries and up-keep of the Superintendents. It is an accepted idea amongst many connected with these places that they could be better controlled by a Board of Governors. Such Board could be composed of men who can always be found eager to give their time and services gratis. Such a change would provide nearly half the extra expenditure I ask for. There are two points I would like to urge strongly upon you-namely. with regard to married men. Our present Government believe in a married-man policy. and such policy should be encouraged in asylums, for undoubtedly they are better at- tendants for the insane. The rent allowance I suggest-$15 a year-is on a very low basis. Their freedom to go home after duty is a neces- sary reform. At the present time there are only three married men, who are debarred this right. They could easily be spared out of the institution at night, and yet it not infrequently happens that they cannot visit their homes for sometimes three or four nights in succession. Such a state of affairs is not right. when we know it could be arranged otherwise. I have given you, Sir, the plain facts of our case so 