and I have no reason to believe that the figures quoted against the Colonial Treasurer are borne out by analysis. I have gone into the figures so quoted in regard to one matter against the Treasurer, and they have proved absolutely unreliable. Therefore I ask honour- able members, I ask the country, and I ask my constituents to believe that the present Government is carrying on a sound progres- sive policy ; that its public works expenditure, though great, is necessary in a young colony ; that the sums of money put down on the esti- mates for public works expenditure are required, and should be spent ; but until they are spent they should not be considered to be " public debt." I would say this to the Minister for Public Works : that he should go on with the work he is doing. Until I came into this House I had no idea of the honourable gentle- man's ability and capacity for work. I believe, myself, there is no Minister, so far as depart- mental work is concerned, who is more tho- roughly up to date and conversant with every detail of the work under his charge ; and I may say, in reference to the few matters which I have brought under his notice with regard to public works, he has always been able to give me the fullest information. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) .- Sir, I congratulate the two speakers who have pre- ceded me upon their addresses. They have been very different in kind, though in one feature, at any rate, there is a remarkable parallelism. The feature they have in common is that both speeches wore obviously briefed. The honourable member for Ashburton speaks https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 admirably when he speaks as nature prompts him. There is no speaker I have more plea- sure in listening to in that case than the honourable gentleman; but he is not accus- tomed to speak from a brief, and he made some- thing of a mess of it to-night. Of course, the gentleman who briefed them both was the Right Hon. the Treasurer, who also assisted both, by applause and laughter and interroga- tion at the proper stages. Nevertheless, the member for Ashburton could not fully under- stand the matter laid before him, nor could he even tell the House of his own knowledge where the extract he was reading was taken from. He could only say that on his brief " Otago Daily Times" was written. That, of course, was rather clumsy, and the cause of it was obvious to members. The member for Wellington Suburbs speaks somewhat better from a brief. Of course, to-night is not by any means his first experiment. One remark the honourable member for Ashburton made had reference to the Farmers' Union. He shares with the gentleman who briefs him a very wholesome terror of the Farmers' Union. Like him, he condemns it as a political organization. He gave a very extraordinary reason for this view, and that was that, according to some utterances of the promoters of the union, the organization was meant to represent the country interest, and to some extent to hold in check the influence of the labour unions. That is Mr. Wilford gentleman who so dreads the Farmers' Union- that the labour unions are nothing but political machines, or nothing but wheels inside a large political machine that is larger and more power- ful than they. I would suggest to the member for Ashburton that, if he is so afraid of the Farmers' Union, while nevertheless he has the interests of the country at heart, it is obviously his duty to join the Producers' Union. That body would then have no less than three mem- bers. The membership, I understand, is limited at the present time to the member for Otaki, Mr. Field, and Mr. Moore, the secretary. Mr. Field still has the Premier's sanction to belong to the Farmers' Union also, and the secretary has inti- mated that he will join the Farmers' Union if they will make him secretary of that institution on full pay ; so that, if the member for Ashburton would join the Producers' Union, it would not have such a good chance of being "left " as it has at present. With regard to the speech made by the member for Wellington Suburbs, I shall not give very much time to it. He was briefed to demolish the member for Nelson City, and he dealt with some of his figures in a way that was certainly not very convincing ; but what appeared to me to be the most essential part of the member for Nelson City's figures -figures that, of course, have been previously adduced from this side of the House-the mem- ber for the Suburbs prudently left alone. He left alone the question of the enormous increase in our loans and public works expenditure, the question of the piling-up of our debts, the in- creased interest-charge year by year, and the very elaborate calculation the member for Nel- son City made with regard to the enormous increase in Ministerial salaries and pickings which is taking place from day to day and from year to year. Not a word about that. 9.0. To me the most striking part of the speech of the member for Nelson City was his denunciation of the profligate personal extra- vagance of Ministers in every matter where the country has to frank the bill. As there were no instructions from the Premier's Office on that point the honourable member for the Sub- urbs passed it over. Part of his speech which was obviously original was his version of the story of the chariot of the sun, and the political application he gave to it. I do not suppose the sun ever had so much . midnight oil spent upon him as in the preparation of that elaborate figure. We all know that primitive man was almost universally a sun-worshipper; but as the world gets along in civilisation man grows out of that kind of worship. The honourable member for the Suburbs is still very young, and the sun is still the cause and parent of all things to him ; his political luminary plays the same part in his firmament and his theo- logical system as the sun played in the theory of our primitive forefathers. Of course, he will grow out of it in time. May I add a word of cau- tion with regard to his exposition of the parable ? It will certainly read better than it sounded ; and I would urge upon the honourable member for the Suburbs that when he next makes a 