on any man engaged in public life. I can only against. That showed the absolute soundness say that during all the long years I have known the late Colonel Fraser he has always been admired in the district and amongst the people who knew him best. This is proven by the fact that he was frequently returned to the House for the old Thames electorate, and was elected as Mayor of Thames on several occasions, filling the chair with satisfaction to the burgesses, despite his enforced absences in Wellington for considerable periods while attending to his parliamentary duties. In conclusion, I desire to testify to the great esteem in which the late Colonel Fraser was held in the district 1 have the honour to represent. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- I first met the late Colonel Fraser on a memorable occa- sion in September, 1857, at Flemington, Mel- bourne. He was in those days familiarly known as fearless, dauntless " Bill " Fraser. It is a long spell to see a man pass through such a long career and end his days in such an honourable way. The late Colonel Fraser I know best, of course, through his career in this House, and on every occasion he had to speak, and he spoke seldom, his utterances manifested that same dauntless, fearless spirit which was characteristic of him in his younger days. There was never an occasion, as the Premier says, upon which there was a call made upon his manliness, his loyalty, or his fealty to his party upon which that fealty and loyalty were not displayed to the utmost degree. It has been said that his circumstances of late years have not been the most prosperous. But there were days when the late Colonel Fraser was not so unfortunate, when he had the handling of large sums of money, which he spent in an open, free-handed way. Nothing can be said in disparagement of the late Colonel Fraser except that in his day he was too good to his fellow- men, and too neglectful of his own interests. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). -- There is one little matter to which I intended to refer. It is a strange coincidence that the late Scobie Mac- kenzie and the late Colonel Fraser were both together on the same station in the Colony of Victoria in the very early days, and the passing of a similar resolution on the same day in the House of Representatives in New Zealand is also a strange coincidence. I can only say that both of them are called away to their long home, and both leave behind them in our Parliament sorrowing friends and comrades who sympathize deeply with their bereaved relatives, and who will ever respect their memories and cherish in fond recollection their services and good works. Mr. LAWRY (Parnell) .- Sir, I have known the late Colonel Fraser for a period extending over the past twenty-eight years. I first knew him as Warden of the goldfields at the Thames, and it is rather a singular coincidence that last night I received a letter from a very promirent citizen at the Thames referring to the late gentleman's administration of the affairs of the goldfields, and he stated he had been looking at the records, and that during the whole time of the deceased gentleman's administration as of Colonel Fraser's decisions, and the know- ledge he possessed of the affairs he had to administer. A slight reference has been made to the deceased gentleman's loyalty to his party. That was exemplified on one occasion in a most remarkable degree. At the time when the Stout-Vogel Government was in power it can be shown that during the whole of the period of their existence the late Colonel Fraser was never known to have recorded one vote against his party, and his creed was this : "The more the party I have been elected to support are in trouble, the stronger and more consistent will be my support." It is also worth placing on record that, when Sir Robert Stout was defeated in 1887 by my esteemed friend the member for Bruce, directly that information reached Colonel Fraser his loyalty to his party was exemplified in this manner : He sent a wire to the then Premier, Sir Robert Stout, saying in effect, "I consider your exclusion from the counsels of our country will result in national loss, and I am prepared to make a sacrifice ; I will resign my seat at the Thames in your favour, and I will guarantee you will be returned as member for the Thames in my place." That is what I call loyalty to party. I entirely sympathize with every word that has been said relative to the late Colonel Fraser. We knew him latterly in a subordinate position. In his position as Serjeant-at-Arms his actions were characterized by courtesy, fidelity to duty, and a desire to assist every young member, by giving him the benefit of his great experience. In con- clusion, I will only say I wish we had in public life at the present time, and that we may have in public life in the future, more men like the deceased gentleman, Colonel Fraser. Motion agreed to. FUNERAL OF THE LATE PRESIDENT MCKINLEY. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I desire to make a statement in reference to the course I would suggest being taken on the day of the funeral of the late President Mckinley, which is to be Thursday afternoon next. It is my intention to ask the House to adjourn from three o'clock until four o'clock on that afternoon. The member for Ashley has suggested that I should communicate with the Bishop of Wellington and with the heads of the other Churches in this city, and that a Church funeral service be held at Parliament Buildings. I think that is more a matter for the Churches than for the leader of the House or the head of the Go- vernment to deal with. If the front of Par- liament Buildings or Parliament Buildings are desired for the purpose of a service, I shall be most happy, on behalf of members, to give our consent ; but I think the initiative should come from those desirous of holding a general service. At all events, it is my intention to ask the House to adjourn for an hour on Thursday after- noon, from three to four o'clock, and I do not think it would be out of place if the bells 