acres, at a cost of £1,790,000. Now, I have no work, and then, after the lapse of two or three need to wander into the statement referring to years, he asks for another £200, and in another the Land for Settlements Fund, because we year or two he borrows a further £100. That would make up £500 altogether that he will shall have another opportunity later on, and I believe my honourable friend the Minister of have borrowed from the Advances to Settlers Lands will give full information to the House Office, which would necessitate his paying in- terest six different times during the twelve when he refers to this. But I would point out months, a most unpleasant necessity. Now, that there can be no question about the success the department would say when it advanced of the scheme; and the lands that have been bought are a financial success, and a social that last £100-not without security, as the success, and, from a colonial point of view, they honourable member seemed to suggest, for they have been of great benefit to the colony. The have ample security-they would say in a rea- only regret I have is that up to the present sonable way, "Surrender your old mortgages, and we will advance you the whole £500 as time larger blocks have not been acquired in that part of the colony I represent. under one new mortgage, and make your interest payable every half-year." That is more convenient to both parties, much more accept- able to the settler, saves a lot of clerical work, " Buy up the whole country," because I am not one of those who believe that the whole of and greatly simplifies the work of the depart- the land of the colony is suitable for close ment. There is also another case which often occurs, and that is : We will say a man borrows settlement. I have too much common-sense $400 on really good, or what is called gilt-edged, for that. There are thousands of acres only fit for pastoral purposes. But, on the other security. That man may have a mortgage hand, there are large areas of land, to my know- amounting to £1,000. Some time afterwards ledge, in my electorate which are suitable, and, he asks for an advance of $500 on another I think, would be better under close settle- property belonging to him. The department find that they have a good margin of security ment, and would yield a far better return than on the first property, but not sufficient margin they do now to the present owners. Speaking from memory and from experience, I say that on the second. They say .to the applicant, " You may have this money on these conditions: the Starborough Estate has been a good object- Surrender your old mortgage and we will ad- lesson so far, as well as the Cheviot Estate. vance £1,500 on the two properties." To which he agrees, and the new mortgage is executed. But by virtue of the statute law this repayment has to go through the Public Trust Account, why not? I think the Upland Downs and a and we find the amount swells up quickly, as good deal of the Awatere country could be cut by placing them together it appears to be a up to great advantage. It will not be allocated very large sum for reinvestment ; but, then, in what is known as small-farm holdings; it when you consider the cross-entries made con- tinually the amount at the disposal of the must of necessity be something very much Board is a very different one. I have just larger than the ordinary small settlements, but, still, much smaller than the present holdings. had it run out for the last six months, I am quite satisfied the Government could make and, of the total sum of £67,089 that was paid twelve to eighteen first class holdings there. As into the Public Trustee's Account no less showing what progress there has been between than $22,652 was represented by these cross- the past and the present, I have a little table entries. Now, could any Board make advances here which is a comparison between the Cheviot and depend on that class of finance to carry on such an enormous business ? I say they could and the Hororata Estates. not do it. Therefore I just wish to explain this Comparison of Postal Work for Years 1>91 to honourable members, because there has been so much talk about it that a wrong impression may have been created, and they seem to think this amount is coming in every year to assist the Board materially in relending money, which is not so. Before passing on to other matters I just wish to say that the increase of Cheviot- salaries in that department is represented by the small sum of £383, spread among all the officers ; and I am quite satisfied if honour- able members look into this matter when in Committee they will say there is not one penny but what is honestly deserved. Sir, I have Hororata- another paper here with some very good figures referring to our land-for-settlements policy, but I find time has gone so quickly that it will be impossible for me to deal with it at length. I shall summarise it in this way-by saying that up to the 31st March of this year eighty-nine estates have been acquired, containing 374,837 An Hon. MEMBER .- Buy up the whole country. Mr. MILLS .- I am not so foolish as to say Mr. WILFORD .- How about Upland Downs? Mr. MILLS .- It has not been purchased yet. Mr. WILFORD. - Why not ? Mr. MILLS .- Well, I, too, want to know and 1900 at Cheviot and Hovorata. Money Money With- De- Orders Orders draw- posits. paid. issued. als. £ £ £ 326 1891 158 810 43 1900 8,186 3,592 1,821 6,437 Increase . 5,627 3,434 7,860 1,778 803 433 92 102 1891 419 769 1900 301 195 +327 +93 \*34 \*132 \* Decrease. t Increase. 