nection with every department of the Crown, and the inevitable result is in view, although it has not yet actually arrived. Mr. ATKINSON .- They are going to give us a rise, too. Mr. MASSEY .- I rather doubt it. Well, at this stage I think we ought to look at the posi- tion in the light of a return which was laid on the table of the House on the motion of Mr. Millar, the member for Dunedin City. The re- turn, which I now hold in my hand, is a return of the value of the freehold lands and the amounts of mortgages on land in the colony. In the return we are informed that the value of the freehold land is £109,708,003, and that the amount of mortgages is -$35,032,110, leaving a balance of £74,675,893. Then, the public debt of the colony is $49,257,751, and the debts of local bodies, not including loans borrowed under the Government Loans to Local Bodies Act, amount to £6,963,254. If we deduct these items from the sum I have mentioned we get £18,454,882. I suppose that is what would be called by lawyers the equity of redemption. Now, I admit-because I want to look at both sides of the question-that the colony has other assets besides those I am referring to. We have Crown lands and railways, for instance; but even then I think the posi- tion is sufficiently serious to make us hesitate about increasing the debt of the colony any more than we can help, or even to suggest an increase of the taxation ; because once the Trea- surer admits he is unable to make ends meet, and that in consequence the taxation must be increased, down go our stocks, and the diffi- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 culties will be still further intensified. Then, there is a paragraph in the Statement about encouraging trade with South Africa. I think that trade should be encouraged with any http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero country wherever it is possible to do business. But there are difficulties in connection with trade with South Africa which will be very awkward to deal with ; the principal difficulty being that South Africa produces nothing, or scarcely anything, for which there is any de- mand in this colony, and consequently steamers running to South Africa would have to return empty, or partly so; and unless we are pre. pared to pay a very heavy subsidy it would be almost impossible to secure regular steam-com- munication and reasonable freights for shippers. I shall quote the paragraph dealing with the subject : - "As illustrating the present situation and its drawbacks, I may state that offers were in- vited for a large order of oats from the Im- perial authorities, with the result that offers came in from three large traders only : owing to the conditions farmers or small traders could not tender, and the Government were unable to obtain the oats within the price limited, and the order was probably lost to the colony. Such a condition of affairs is not in the best interests of the farmers. It is impossible for the Go- vernment itself to take small parcels of grain from the producers, but an opportunity of ob- taining suitable freights should be given them to conduct their business as they think best." Mr. Massey We are told it is impossible for the Govern- ment to take small parcels of grain from pro- ducers. Why impossible ? I do not believe in the Government coming into competition with private individuals any more than can be possibly helped, but there are special circum- stances in connection with receiving large stores of oats for the Imperial Government which ought to be taken into consideration, and I think, instead of going to half a dozen large firms asking them to supply the order, the Government should have made the conditions of the offer public, they should have advertised the price they were prepared to pay for a first- class article on behalf of the Imperial Govern- ment, and they should have given the producers of the colony themselves an opportunity of supplying the demand. I do not think there would have been any difficulty in the way. every bag should have been sampled and in- spected by an officer appointed by the Govern- ment, and he should have been an expert at the trade ; but to simply go to two or three large firms, and to refuse the offer because those firms said they were not able to supply it-I say that such a proceeding was not consistent with the anxiety the Government profess to have on behalf of the small farmers; I say it would have been time enough to refuse the offer when the farmers themselves admitted their inability to supply it. Coming to the question of the mortgage-tax, I regret the Right Hon. the Treasurer has not seen fit to keep the promise made to the House last year that he would reduce the mortgage-tax, even if he was not able to abolish it altogether. I am sorry he was not able to keep his promise, because I am one of those who consider the mortgage- tax a most unfair and objectionable tax from every point of view. It is contrary to the principle upon which we impose taxa- tion for general Government purposes. Our Land-tax and Income-tax Act provides that for purposes of general taxation improvements on land should bo exempt ; but mortgages include improvements as well as the unimproved values and consequently the mortgage-tax is to that extent a tax upon improvements. Then, it is unfair in this way : that it does not apply to the Advances to Settlers Department, by which the Government practically acts as agents for the English money-lenders; but it does apply to people who lend money in our own country, whether they lend it through the lending departments of the Crown or privately, and consequently it places our own people in a most unfair position. Then, there is not the very slightest doubt that it has the effect of increasing the rate of interest to the borrowers, because if a man who owns money is taxed for lending it in any particular direction he will naturally pass the tax on to the borrower whenever it is possible for him to do so. I would suggest to the Right Hon. the Colonial Treasurer that he should remit the mortgage- tax wherever the rate of interest charged by the private individual is not higher than the rate of interest which is charged by the lending departments of the Crown. It is, of 