forms of the House, innocently attempted to move that amendment, but was informed that he could not do so as it would be contrary to the Standing Orders, he having already moved one amendment to the resolution before the House. So he called to his aid yet another Minister of the Crown, and we had the humili- ating spectacle of the Minister for Public Works moving that amendment, which contravenes the whole spirit of the resolution which had been originally submitted to the House by the Premier, and which, he assured us, was the result of the most careful consideration of the Cabinet. It may be asked what would I have done if I had been connected with this matter, and had to take action in reference to it ? should have said, " You have committed an offence against the Standing Orders of this House - it may be considered a technical breach, but we want to mark our sense of displeasure at the offence you have wittingly committed. The Standing Orders are not there without reason, and therefore we inflict a monetary penalty for your having contravened the Stand- ing Orders." There is no feeling in this matter at all. The correspondent got his information cheap at the money. It is not a question of making anything out of it : it is in order to mark our sense of the importance of maintain- ing the Standing Orders. If the House, after the lecturing it has received from this gentle- man, proceeds in the direction suggested by some members, it will place itself in a very foolish position in the eyes of the people of the colony. Now, honourable members-and more https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 especially do I address the honourable members following the Government : do they approve of the claptrap, the burlesque, that unseemly be- littling of all the privileges of this House -for the honourable gentleman burlesqued the pro- ceedings of this House, and drew a clumsy pic- ture-he is not a word-painter-of the offender standing at the bar of the House. Mr. SEDDON .- I leave that to you. Mr. HUTCHESON .- That is not my forte, and I have "savee " enough to know it, and to let it alone. But the honourable gentleman pictured the offender appearing at the bar of the House and cutting a caper, and I say in doing that the honourable gentleman did what was really an affront to the intelligence of the House : he talked downright claptrap through- out the whole of his arguments. His followers knew that he was endeavouring to rouse up a feeling of party rancour. There was not a single dignified argument in the whole of his voluminous speech yesterday, and the cold, logical statement of fact of my colleague, Mr. Fisher, is still unassailable. He put the posi- tion like a problem of Euclid - unassailable from start to finish-and the sense of the House was with him. If the House had been wisely led yesterday we should not have had this position now. I would go thus far with the newspaper man : if he chose to pay the penalty rather than reveal the source of his information-which undoubtedly he had a right to do-then let him pay the penalty. But I do Mr. Hutcheson Premier to depart from his usual sound judg- ment. He knows how many beans make five better almost than any man in this House. He knows that he has made a mistake ; and he knows that, in order to try and shield the trans- gressor in this case, he has dragged his followers in particular, and the House generally, through the mire. He is sorry now that he did not take the advice of one of his ablest and best in- formed supporters, my colleague, the member for Wellington City, Mr. Fisher. If he had done so he would have saved not only his face. but the face of Parliament. There are others as well as the honourable gentleman who have some regard for the face of Parliament, and the I honourable gentleman would have saved Par- liament from the undignified course it took yesterday if, instead of submitting a resolution that was, as he told us, the outcome of a Cabinet meeting, he had submitted a resolution more in uniformity with that moved by the member for Wellington City, Mr. Fisher. Instead of that, however, there has been submitted to the House another resolution that differs from that of my colleague mainly in degree. Sir, what did it matter to this House whether the fine was £5 or $500? Not a single iota. The principle is there : it is proposed to inflict a fine for breach of privilege. Now, so far from the House having shown itself vindictive in the past, I ask was not the member for Palmerston punished ; and was there one of the honourable gentleman's (Mr. Pirani's) friends who voted against his proper punishment by the House? Was there any party there ? I ask honourable gentlemen to take their minds back to last session when the member for Wairarapa trans- gressed the Standing Orders, and nothing was done, because the honourable member gave satisfaction to the House. Was any spirit of vindictiveness ever shown to any member who showed the slightest degree of penitence when he had made an error of judgment in having unfortunately given evidence away? Never. Sir; and I say that it was not as a means of extorting anything from the representative of the Evening Star that I would have liked to sce him brought to the bar of the House. but solely in order to go through the form our Standing Orders set out, and in order to maintain the privileges of Parliament. = 0 long as Parliament chooses to retain those privileges, and that is until it sees fit to amend the Standing Orders or to remove them altogether. I think, Sir, it would be better for this Parliament, and for the public of New Zea- land as well as for the Press, that the reports of the Select Committees should be made by the deliberate will of that Committee through its Chairman to the House, and consequently to the papers of the colony. I am not one who desires to work in the dark. I do not believein hole-and-corner work, but in the fullest publicis being given to our actions. But I say it ₩35 consistent with the dignity of the House to do what it did do-to declare that a breach of privilege had been committed, and that as a consequence some penalty had to be paid ; and 