minent as those of successive Agents-General. However, he (Mr. T. Mackenzie) would say that there had been no more kindly gentleman who had occupied the position of Agent-Gene- ral than Sir Francis Dillon Bell, and any one who went to him was sure to receive his utmost assistance. One honourable member said that Mr. Reeves surpassed all previous Agents- General. He (Mr. T. Mackenzie) would say that no Agent-General during his occupancy of the office held anything like the position which Sir Dillon Bell occupied. Sir Dillon Bell was regarded in all quarters as the Premier Agent-General of the Australasian Colonies in the Old Country, and no one ever surpassed him in that office. His influence was enormous with the Home Office, and he was everywhere regarded with the highest respect. He (Mr. T. Mackenzie) thought that this colony had never paid him that tribute which ought to have been paid to him. He ought to have been appointed to the Legislative Council when he returned to the colony, and his valuable ex- perience secured to New Zealand. Instead of that, he was barely received by any one when he landed on the wharf, and the Government was unrepresented ; and that after giving twelve years of most distinguished service to his country. Mr. ELL said the Agent-Generalship should not carry that position. Mr. T. MACKENZIE said, Listen to this novice to political life saying Sir F. D. Bell should not get a position in the Legislative Council ! No man had had a more dis- tinguished career. Almost every position in public life were enjoyed by him; and, when they considered the utter absence of claim to seats in the Legislative Council of many men who had been so appointed, and saw such men passed over as the late Sir F. D. Bell, it filled him with disgust with our Government, and our public institutions. He wished to be as economical as any member of the House, but he did not consider the salaries now paid to many of the officers in the Agent-General's office were sufficient for the work done ; al- though Mr. Cameron's salary had been in- creased, and although the Auditor's salary had been increased by #50, he considered it ought to have been increased by £100, because no more capable officer was to be found than Mr. Palliser, and he was inadequately remunerated. The cost of living in London was much greater than the cost of living here. If the colony was to be represented as it ought to be, they ought to pay their representatives salaries equivalent to the responsibilities of the various offices. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said they had just been treated to the old, old story, of men being called upon to occupy high positions at The mem- salaries too low for those positions. ber for Waihemo told the House that the present Agent-General received much too little salary for the high office he had been called upon to occupy. Mr. Reeves knew all about that before he took the position. He broke his neck, so to speak, to get it-he climbed over every considera- tion in his haste to get the position, and then, when he got it, there was the usual clamour for more salary. Mr. SEDDON .- The Hon. Mr. Reeves did nothing of the kind. He hoped the honourable member would be just. It did not come from him, it was done voluntarily by the Cabinet. Mr. FISHER said he did not care one way or the other ; but there was one thing he did care for, and that was this : it had been said that the present Premier when he left New Zealand was going to England to fill the position of Agent- General. The present Premier was going to do nothing of the kind. That position was alto- gether too small for the present Premier. But coupled with that statement there was another statement-namely, that Mr. Reeves was going to come back here to occupy the position of Premier. Well, he hoped Mr. Reeves's head would not ache until he occupied the position of Premier of New Zealand : but such a pro- bability was not beyond that modest young man's expectations. The member for Master- ton referred to Mr. Reeves moving in the best society in London. He (Mr. Fisher) had no- thing to say against Mr. Reeves. He might mix with the best or the worst society-that had nothing to do with him (Mr. Fisher). But in this country Mr. Reeves was an out-and-out democrat, until he got through the back-door into the Wellington Club and joined the best society in Wellington ; and there were reasons for that which perhaps the member for Wai- hemo knew. He might point out, however, that this democrat par excellence, who de- nounced every landowner in the country as a social pest, and who called Sir George Grey "an irreconcilable foe to settlement "-Mr. Reeves himself owned five thousand acres in this colony. However, he might say in conclusion that he had no objection to Mr. Reeves retain- ing his position as Agent-General, so long as he did not come back to this colony in the expecta- tion of filling the office of Premier. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) said he supposed he had seen as much of the Agent- General's Office in London as any member pre- sent, and he could testify that this colony had been very worthily represented by both Sir Westby Percival and Mr. W. P. Reeves. He had seen the work they had done in London, and the only complaint he had to make against our present Agent-General was a complaint which he had made against the present Govern- ment-namely, that he reflected the sentiments of the Government in regard to literature and politics, but he did not think he represented our industry and commerce to the extent it should be represented. What we really wanted in London was a business-man like his friend the member for Waihemo, or his friend the member for Waitemata ; and what they really wanted was to get a better price in England for the products of the colony-to get as much British capital as possible for our produce, and introduced into our goldfields and other enterprises. Then, the honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell) - whom he admired for his conscientious advocacy of what 