cally, there is no waste land in that great area. Then, there are other countries adjacent entering into a competition which we will have to face. be perpetuated. Now, Sir, I come to consider Labour is got from Russia, Italy, and other countries for £2 a month. Land is procurable for wheat-growing in those countries referred to from 10s. to 40s. an acre within five to fifteen miles of railway-stations. Pastoral country can In character it is more for the convenience of be had from .£1 to £2 an acre ; but the nearer it is to the centres of population the higher the price that has to be paid for it. Now, sir, what is the taxation of that country ? The land-tax amounts to £1 per £1.000. We have to compete against that country, with its vast resources, cheap labour, and low taxes. It is not half the distance from the great markets of the world that we are. The freights for its produce are therefore nothing like what we have to pay. There is another matter in connection with this subject which I think is most important : The people of that country are able to take meat there under a system of chilling, which enables those receiving it at Home to get it placed as English meat. Those of us who would lull the people of this country into the belief that they have nothing to fear from the competition of the world make statements that cannot be borne out by facts, and which should not be mentioned in the face of the heavy competition that we shall have to face in the near future. Of course, I believe, in connection with this great question of trade, that we must develop a better system of inter-exchange within our Em- pire, so that we may not have to compete against the produce of those countries having a population such as we have not got here. I hope that what I suggest will come about, in order that the higher civilisation of our people may continue. I hope that our people will never be placed on the same level as those countries where cheap labour is used. I venture to think that if such & system of inter-exchange takes place we shall hold our own to a greater extent than we do at present. Although the Premier has not seen his way to help the Imperial zollverein scheme, I think great good would result to the Empire in the future if it were adopted. Some time ago the foot - and - mouth disease broke out amongst the cattle of the Argentine, and the British Government stopped the importation of cattle from that country into the Home market. In consequence of this the value of cattle in Australasia, particularly in New Zealand, went up to such a price that the meat business was one of the most profitable industries in this colony. If we had had that system continued it would tion could be made and the doctor's advice ob- have given security to our agriculturists, and insured a bright future for the development of this country. As an exchange, we ought, of been with their families who are now lost to course, to grant facilities to them to send their manufactured goods here which do not prevail politic policy that demands from every com- at present. At present all nations under the sun have the same facilities for getting their munity that requires a telephone a guarantee goods into our markets as Britain has. We extend the same facilities to those who have sent from the Post and Telegraph Department was their sons to assist in driving us out of South Africa as to the sons of the Empire who have stood shoulder to shoulder with our boys in VOL. OXVIII .- 16. maintaining our influence in South Africa. To my mind, this is a system that should not the question of the Post and Telegraph De- partment. We have now a Statement of the Hon. the Minister, in which he says that the Postal and Telegraph Department is to be used for the public convenience as much as possible. the people than for revenue - producing pur- poses ; yet, notwithstanding the many unpaid services, there are certain profits. Last year the profit was £84,000, and it is anticipated that the profit for this year will be £44,000. Well, first of all, I say that I think the honour- able gentleman did a wise thing to promote the penny postage, and for that I congratulate him. But it is one of those benefits that are enjoyed much more by the city people than by people who live in the country, especially the big mer- chants, some of whom save as much as £100 a year. In my opinion, a farmer would sooner plough an acre of land than write a letter once a month. I am not quoting that in disapproval of the penny postage, but my contention is that in the outer country districts you ought to extend better telephonic conveniences than at present exist. I know that the Hon. the Minis- ter in charge of the department is in this mat- ter greatly handicapped by his officers. He has had to fight his officers at many points. There is the old conservative red-tape that is hard to get over ; but I venture to think that there is no reform more urgent than the reform of ex- tending better telephonic communication to the remoter country districts. . Electricity, as we know, annihilates distance, and enables those in the remote parts to be at once in touch with the centres, and for no reason is this more necessary than in the case of medical attendance. I have been in many backwoods districts, and I have seen some fearful accidents occur there, where, if the people had been able to communi- cate by telephone with a medical officer and procure assistance, great relief for the sufferers would have resulted. I have known cases of terrible sufferings on the part of women which they have had to endure because they were not able to communicate with medical men. Many of these young women with stout hearts and determination have accompanied their husbands and become settlers in the prim- eval forests and back districts. They are pre- pared to take all the risks ; but I say, if there were telephonic communication with these places, when illness occurred the communica- tained. If that were made possible to these out - of - the - way places many valuable lives would be saved, and mothers would now have their dear ones. I say it is an illiberal and im. that that telephone shall be made self-support- ing. According to the Minister the profit £84,000, and out of that £10,000 might well be spent in extending the telephone to the outer 