a resolution inflicting a substantial penalty upon this paper, the gentlemen opposite would have at once moved to reduce it to a nominal sum. By so doing, they would, no doubt, ex- pect to receive the support of the Press of the colony. I say it was open, and is still open, to me to put that construction upon their action. I say, Sir, we must always temper justice with mercy. If the House considers, when there has been open and continued defiance of the House, and it is satisfied by simply saving, as has been done, to my knowledge, in a dozen cases, that the House regrets that the member for so-and- so should have done so-and-so, I say, Sir, if that is sufficient in the case of open defiance, then, in a case like this, where there has been an expression of regret for what has taken place --- Hon. MEMBERS .- Where ? Mr. SEDDON .- I say it is in that letter, and any one who fairly and impartially reads that letter will admit it. Mr. W. FRASER .- It is an insult. Mr. SEDDON .- I say it is nothing of the kind. The writer of that letter has been on the horns of a dilemma, and wishes to put himself right before the House by showing that he has not wilfully disobeyed or defied the House : while, on the other hand, his position as a man of honour, and as one belonging to an honour- able profession, prevents him from giving infor- mation that honourable members desire. Mr. FISHER .- That letter is pure and un- adulterated "cheek." Mr. SEDDON. - That is a matter of opinion ; I do not think it is. The member for Wel- lington City (Mr. Fisher) has every reason to feel hurt at the treatment he has received from the Press of the colony, and he is justified, within fair and and legitimate bounds, in taking advantage of his opportunity; but I say that this is not the opportunity. I have been asked why I did not give my authority in the House of Commons case. I should have thought honourable members would have taken it as read, as the authority is Disraeli, and that his views would be taken as a guide. In the case that I referred to there had been a gross viola- tion of the Standing Orders of the House of Commons, so much so that that House, as this has done, decided that a breach of privilege had been committed, and ordered the offender to come before the bar of the House, and passed a resolution that the publisher of the newspaper should come before the House to receive punish- ment ; but this is what happened : In moving the discharge, and the striking out from the records of the House of Commons the reso- lution that a breach of privilege had been com- mitted, Mr. Disraeli said, Mr. PIRANI. - What Committee is that ? Surely you are not going to quote Disraeli's time. Mr. SEDDON .- I have had the case of the 3rd April, 1875, quoted by Mr. Massey, and I am going to quote the 16th April, 1875. He gave us the commencement, but did not give us the finish. Mr. Seddon Mr. SEDDON .- We find that on the 16th April, 1875, the motion was made and the question put, "That Mr. Francis Goodlake, the printer of the Times newspaper, be called in." And, later on, Mr. Disraeli moved as follows :- "I now move, Sir, That the order for the attendance of Mr. Francis Goodlake, the printer of the Times, and Mr. W. R. Hales, printer for the Daily News, to attend at the bar of the House be read and discharged." The House of Commons affirmed that a breach of privilege had been committed, and then Mr. Disraeli moved that that order be dis- charged. But, to show you the opinion held by him, on the motion of Mr. Lewis that these gentlemen be called in, Mr. Disraeli said :- "It is not at all wonderful that either the honourable gentleman whose conduct is im- pugned, or his friends, or any gentleman influ- enced by a sense of what is due to the House, and by what is for the general interest of the House in which he has a share, should have felt, as the honourable and learned member for Londonderry did, that something should be done to vindicate the character of the indi- vidual member, and give him that oppor- tunity of vindicating his honour and character which we all desire he should have. Having arrived at that resolution, they would, and they did, naturally avail themselves of the privilege of the House, which cannot be impugned, and which the highest authority has pronounced to be violated in the present instance ; and though it is one that has been fortunately in disuetude, still it is not an obsolete one, and I must remind the House there are many which are seldom had recourse to, which are often referred to in debate and described as oisolete. but which the House has steadily and studiously refrained from abolishing, in order that they may on occasions guard the House and its mem- bers from abuse." In other words they kept this on the Stard. ing Orders, and the committal would be a breach of its Orders, but the Standing Order was kept there so that occasionally it might ix prevented from being abused. Now, that is the position that was taken up by the leader of the House of Commons on that occasion. Mr. Disraeli said, - "That, I am sure, the House will take into its consideration. Accordingly last Tuesday the honourable and learned member for London- derry brought the question before the House as a breach of privilege, which it cannot be said it is not. I had occasion to address the House after the honourable and learned gentleman. and being myself very adverse to having re- course to this privilege except it is unavoidable. I indicated to the House, in observat ors I made with little preparation, as the matter bad come suddenly upon us, a course which I thought would save us from the painful one of asserting this ancient privilege, and that was : that some member of the Committee, or Ris most important member, should place the matter clearly before the House without at all entering 