will be less novel, but it will be more impres- sive, if he first learns how to pronounce the in the amber, and I would suggest that they names. It will be no disparagement of the speeches of the two speakers that have pre- ceded me when I say that they are not the chief contributors to this debate, and it is no disparagement to all the speakers on the Go- much alive; and I really wish the right vernment side when I say that the most im- portant contribution to this debate has not been made in the House, but outside of it. The speech I refer to was made at a hole-and- corner meeting in this city on Monday night last by the Premier. The nature and circum- stances of that address are surely without pre- cedent in this or any other country. The Premier had been absent from the House for a week. On his return to Wellington he under- seems to me that this marvellous Budget is not took, out of the House, to reply to the criti- cism, not on this side of the House, but to that of his own followers. If that was not a gross contempt for constitutional procedure, and a gross contempt of this House, I really do not know what it was. The so-called Eighty Club, which held the meeting, is no political association ; it does no political work and has no political propaganda ; it is simply a little coterie, run by hotelkeepers and hotel-brokers for their own purposes. It would have jubilated appropriately enough over the elevation to the of that officer of the Bengal Lancers in the Upper House of the representative of a " detest- able traffic," who has been recently placed Indian corps which recently visited this country. there by the Government ; but there was no He was very much astonished to learn that this propriety in its jubilation over the "distin- guished and eminent services " of the Minister of Education. However, the Premier was there and made a speech, the most notable to give " the same old jibber-jabber " all around the country. Of course, the big man is paid for part of which was his reference to the criti- cism of certain members on his own side of the it, but he is paid at something better than House, and he expressed his surprise as to how a penny a line; and it is a pity that he cannot they ever got there. He wondered how on do something better than " the same old jibber- earth they got there, though in less parlia- jabber " in what should be a formal State paper. Now, the most notable speech in the mentary language than I am using. He likened them to the fly in the amber. The debate is, according to the Wellington cor- honourable member for Palmerston corrected respondent of the Auckland Star, the speech him by stating that the poet he was perhaps of Mr. Napier, the senior member for Auckland unconsciously quoting was not referring to City. All gentlemen may not have had the oppor- flies, but to other forms of life,- tunity of reading what that correspondent had to say about it, so I will read the paragraph. Pretty in amber to observe the forms Of hairs, or straws, or dirt, or grubs, or worms. This is from the Auckland Star of the 26th Those are the items. Now, the gentlemen August :- whom the Premier was so indignant about he certainly would not complain of as "hairs, or bies is Mr. Napier's speech on Friday night. straws." Straws go with the current or the All agree that the first portion of the speech, breeze, and have no original powers of motion ; being a reply to the leader of the Opposition, was he has nothing but praise for the straws who a splendid specimen of parliamentary eloquence. go exactly as he blows. He would hardly Mr. Lawry, M.H.R. for Parnell, says the first reckon them as dirt, and yet I can see a cer- half-hour of the speech was the best piece of tain propriety, even from my point of view, if political invective he has ever heard since he he had made the comparison, because the most entered the House. Mr. Napier was in fine philosophical definition of "dirt " with which form, having recovered from an attack of bron- I am acquainted is that " dirt is matter in the chitis. His voice was clear and resonant, and wrong place." And I am firmly convinced that he threw an amount of fire into his delivery that gentlemen of intelligence, independence, and surprised the southern members." backbone are very much out of place just now in the party that the Right Hon. the Premier which follows is no laughing matter-at any has the honour to lead. Then, are they " grubs, rate for this side of the House. It runs: "The Opposition visibly winced." The extent to or worms "? Probably they are in some cases which we have winced and wilted under the grubs with some ambitions for development VOL. CXVIII .- 13. time singing, " I'd be a butterfly," but have not got there yet. At any rate, they are not flies are flies in the Premier's ointment, and that is why he makes such a fuss about them. Nor are they dead flies in the ointment. The Premier's trouble is that they are so very honourable apothecary joy of them. Now, my junior colleague, Mr. Fisher, has dealt very well with the literary side of the Budget, and has asked why Her Highness the Duchess of Corn- wall and York should be selected for praise as "amiable," and why the Minister for Railways alone of all the Ministers should be described as " worthy," and he did this so admirably that I shall not attempt to imitate him. But it only the longest paper of its kind in our history, but also the most undignified. It starts off in an exultation over the "penny-a-liners," whose chief error was taking the Premier at his word. And it spreads this exultation and its general remarks over the country's affairs for twenty-six pages in the most approved penny-a-liner style possible to be imagined. Why, even my junior colleague wished the Premier had had some sub-editor of the old school to prune his periods. and strike out his epithets. It reminds one big gentleman who had been following them all over the colony was the Premier. He thought he was some official paid by the Government "The current topic of conversation in the lob- Honourable members laugh, but the sentence 