burst up. We could not burst it up if we | colony is as prosperous to-day as it ever was ; and I also believe that it is largely due to the wished to do it. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Time is up. good work the Government have done. Now, Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui) .- It is not my in- supposing nothing had been done by the Go- tention to take up unnecessary time, but there vernment in the way of raising money for the are various questions in connection with the purpose of acquiring lands upon which to place Financial Statement that I think it is only settlers, and suppose money had not been right that I should speak about. Sir, the most obtained to advance to settlers at a low rate important question that has been discussed by of interest, and suppose nothing had been done to assist the local bodies in the same this House is the question of the increase of the loans of this colony. This question has become direction, I say the colony would not be as a sort of game of battledore and shuttlecock, well off as it is at the present time. The House and the battledore of finance has been alter- will remember that, when the discussion took nately pitched backwards and forwards; and, place on the question of a further loan of a though a great mass of figures has been quoted, million for the purpose of purchasing lands for I think honourable members are no wiser re- settlers, how lengthy that discussion was, and specting the Financial Statement than they how plainly it was indicated by some members were when the discussion commenced. What that they had no faith in this proposal to raise money. Not only did such expressions of has taken place reminds me of the season when bees are swarming from their hives. These bees opinion come from the opponents of the Go- during the debate have taken the form of vernment, but, I am sorry to say, objections figures, and they have been swarming to such an were raised from our own side of the House as extent that some members have them in their well. Now, one might reasonably have sup- bonnets, and I am inclined to think it will take posed, if those members had been consistent and honest in their convictions, they would some time before those bees are got out. have been found voting against that measure. An Hon. MEMBER .- Flies, you mean. Mr. WILLIS .- No, there are no flies on the But, Sir, it was pitiful to see the result. Why, not even the members of the Opposition had Government, anyhow. But I was going to say, when I was interrupted, that I think if there is the pluck to go into the lobby against it, simply anything this Government can pride itself upon because they knew that their constituents it is the excellent work they have undertaken would have censured them for having prevented by means of the loans. When we consider the further sums being lent to assist settlers. When the division took place, we found two state of stagnation the colony was in when the solitary members out of a House of seventy- present Government took office, and when we four marching into the lobby to record see how year after year the colony was improv- ing, and that the Government were always pre- their votes against that measure, and those pared when it was necessary to raise money for two would only have been too glad if they the purpose of assisting the people and for the could possibly have got out of the difficulty. purpose of acquiring land upon which to place It was only by the Government forcing the division that those two members were com- settlers-I say the Government did their duty pelled to be consistent, and found it neces- when they fearlessly went into the money- market and obtained money for this purpose. sary to vote in the way they had spoken. We We have heard some of the members-candid heard one gentleman on the Government side, friends of the Government-railing at them, who spoke for an hour in the very strongest although these members helped to increase language, condemning this million being raised, the amount of those loans by their votes, be- but when his speech was over he found it con- venient to go home, so that it would not be cause they said they were increasing in a necessary to record his vote. I must say that I way that was most injurious to this colony. They have alternately warned and threat- have a contempt for members who act in this ened the Government, but without effect. way. If a man believes in a thing, why should My opinion is that if those members had he not honestly vote for it ? It should not be a been consistent, and if they really believed question as to whether he may lose a few votes by it at election time. Members should be this colony was going headlong to destruction, their place was no longer as supporters of the consistent, and record their votes in the way Government, but on the Opposition benches, they have spoken. I believe the money that has been borrowed and that has not been where there is plenty of room to receive them. But what shall we find with regard to those mem- interest-producing is very small indeed ; and bers ? Having once relieved themselves of their never in the history of the colony have non- opinions, we shall find them by-and-by, when interest-earning loans been so small as in the the different measures come up, quietly follow- last ten years. I am not going to trouble the House at length with figures. I would like, ing their leaders into the lobby, and nothing more will be heard of the tirades that they have however, to read the following table with re- hurled against the Government. If I held the ference to the loans raised :- opinion that some members of this House have expressed, I should feel it my duty not only to Native land purchases raise my voice in protest, but I should also feel Land settlement (including Cheviot) it my duty to find my way on to the opposite Loans to local bodies side of the House. I do not believe in these Lands improvement prophecies of evil. My opinion is that this Interest-bearing Investments. £ 649,700 2,075,566 1,205,900 .. .. 500,000 .. .. 