that the travelling - allowances for Judges of , certainly entitled to an extra allo . ance for it. . the Supreme Court are fixed by Ministers, and He may have to sit for a hundred days, and for not by Act at all. If members will look at the Civil Service Act of 1886, and at the regulations of 1873, they will see that the power is in the hands of Ministers. Here is what you have : - " Ministers and Judges of the Supreme Court to receive travelling-allowance at the rate of two guineas per diem. Transport by land or sca to be provided by the Government. At sea, an allowance of five shillings only per diem will be sanctioned." The Legislature in the year 1888 took the matter of the payment of Ministers' allowances out of the hands of the Ministry and fixed it in I did not think, belonging to the profession you the Act ; but in respect to the Judges it is still left in the hands of the Ministry of the day. Why, then, all this virtue about not letting the Government fix the allowances for the Judge of the Arbitration Court? I say that we can either give the Judges 5d. or $5 per day. This has been the Act since 1866, and there has been no word about it on the floor of the House. An Hon. MEMBER. - What regulations ? Mr. SEDDON. . That is the regulation made in the Civil Service Act on the 18th January, 1873. The Premier at that time was Mr. G. M. Waterhouse. Mr. HUTCHESON .- You are mixing things up Mr. SEDDON .- No, I am not mixing things up. The honourable member said the Ministry should not have anything to do with anything that was to be paid to the Judges of the Supreme Court or the Judge of the Arbitration Court, either as allowances, fees, or anything else, and used that as an argument. Now, I say it should not be fees at all ; it should be an allowance. If the word "allowance " had been put in instead of "fees," then it would be in accordance with the regulations that applies to Judges. That is the complete answer to all that the member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson) has been saying. I wish now to say that I made a promise, and I actually passed an Act providing for the payment of fees to the members of the Arbitration Court other than the President, and then I find I am upbraided with a breach of all I have promised, and am told that I have done something terrible because the Judge of the Arbitration Court is put in a position that will entitle him to receive more than his brother Judges. Well, I do not like to say anything about the matter, for I wish to keep the Judges off the floor of the House as much as possible. Sir, members have taken the opportunity at a strange time indeed to make comparisons between the Premier's salary and the salary of the Chief Justice, and the salaries for those officers in the other Austra- lasian colonies. It has also been said that by giving fees for the time the President of the Arbitration Court is doing his duty he may draw more than the Chief Justice, and that on that ground he should not have any allowance at all. Well, I say it is monstrous. If he is called on to do his duties in different parts of the colony, and is away from his home, he is that term he would get two hundred guineas, and I say he is entitled to it. From January to March is the Supreme Court vacation, and if during that time the Judge of the Arbitration Court is sitting and working, surely he is en- titled to something : and yet it is proposed by the member for Wellington City (Mr Hut- cheson) and the member for Bruce (Mr. Allen) that he is to get nothing for it. Mr. ATKINSON .- Limit it to payment for the vacation. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, you may do that ; but do, you would have suggested that. In this re- spect I may say I have in the past had ditti- culty in the way of satisfying the employers and the employés. There has been derangement of business and delay in dealing with the cases, and, as members know, there was a good deal of difficulty in getting a Judge for the position of President of the Arbitration Court. Then, the moment I get a Judge for the position and he is doing the work well, adverse criticism in respect to the fees payable takes place in the House. Now, Sir, what is underlying the whole thing? I know what it is, but I do not want to bring it on the floor of the House. I have said before-you will find it in Hansard - that the Judges of the Supreme Court are underpaid ; but that is no reason why, when you have the case of the Judge of the Arbitration Court before you, the other question should be brought up. In good time it will be for us to deal with the matter, but to have the Government attacked in the financial debate, and on this question, and at other times, I say it is irksome and nauseating, and cannot be pleasing to the Supreme Court Bench, and it is not to the advantage of the cause for members to take the course they have adopted. At all events, I have met the matter fairly by saying that under the Act as we passed it I do not think fees can be paid. On the other hand, whether you call it fees or allowances, some- thing extra must be paid to the Judge while he is doing the Arbitration Court work. It is un- reasonable to expect him to do that work and not receive some extra allowance, or whatever you like to call it. If you say it should be given by statute law, then pass an Act dealing with all allowances to the Supreme Court Judges as well as the Judge of the Arbitration Court. An Hon. MEMBER. - It is for you to do that. Mr. SEDDON .- It is not for me ; it is for the Legislature. Then, Sir, I come to the question of the appointment. It has been said that I have not made the matter very clear. I think I made it as clear as I possibly could. An over- sight occurred, and I have taken the responsi- bility of it, and I am not going to name anybody else, or to put the blame on anybody else. The Act which was quoted by the member for Bruce says that in the case of a vacancy caused by death or resignation the Judge who takes the place fills for the remaining time the office in the Arbitration Court. There have been two vacancies caused by resignation, and, taking it 