are really doing good work and making sales at a fair profit, than see the thing wound up sud- denly and our having to face a very big loss. Now, just one or two words in connection with the San Francisco mail-service. I should not have alluded to it in this debate had it not been for the two Auckland members, Mr. Napier and Mr. Witheford, having had some- thing to say in connection with it. I have asked for a return which I have been promised at a later date, and which will enable us then to discuss this matter thoroughly and fairly, and I do not intend to say very much more about it at the present time. What I do say is this : that when people say we are not subsidising the San Francisco mail-service they say that which is not correct, because, from the information I have, the Postal Union rates of this year would be 2s. 10d. per pound, whereas for the San Francisco mail-service this colony has to pay over 14s. per pound. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. Mr. MILLAR .- I have the figures here in detail. Sir J. G. WARD .- 10s. 8d. per pound. Mr. MILLAR .- I say the San Francisco mail-service costs 14s. per pound, as against 2s. 10d. I do not wish to imply that the San Francisco mail-steamers are getting 14s. 5d. per pound. They are getting 10s. 5d. per pound, as against 2s. 4d. The postal rates are on a sliding scale, and those are the figures which I have given. But what is taking place with this mail line that we are asked to subsi- dise? The bootmakers are complaining that American boots are competing with the Eng- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 lish and colonial article, and yet these subsi- dised San Francisco steamers are bringing American-made boots into this colony. Prison- made doors are also coming in. It has been said that we are prepared to shed the blood of our sons in order to maintain the integrity of the British Empire ; but the British Empire is apparently not good enough to get our goods from, and we have to go to America, and have those goods brought to the colony by the San Francisco mail-steamers. We have to go to America for railway engines and carriages, when we know that they can be turned out equally well in Australia. Sir J. G. WARD .- No. Mr. MILLAR .- The evidence given before the Federation Commission by the firm of Martin and Co. was that they were prepared to take a contract for the whole of the railway engines and carriages. An Hon. MEMBER .- We would have had to wait two or three years to get them. Mr. MILLAR. - I am not throwing any blame. I desire simply to point out that the Government profess that they desire to en- courage local industry, that they are in favour of a Pacific cable-an "all-red " line - and sundry other things of that description, and that there is a patriotic and British-blood sentiment running through our policy; but when it comes to a question of getting some friends outside this House, expect from him an article which could just as well be got from see what action is taken. For instance, there is paint. The Union Shipping Company use locally made paints, but the Government send their orders elsewhere. Notwithstanding the fact that the saddlery manufactured in this colony for some of the contingents which went from here to South Africa was highly spoken of by the authorities, yet it was announced lately that all the saddlery required for our local forces had been ordered from an English firm. Those are concrete instances of what has been done in this matter. I trust that this practice will cease. We have any quantity of men in this colony who are able to do such work as well as any one outside the colony, and I think the Government expendi- ture ought to be kept as much as possible within the colony. I have simply to say this, in conclusion : that I believe in the words of the late John Ballance, which I quoted in the earlier part of my speech-that the position of the colony to-day warrants any sane man pausing and considering the position ; and I believe, as he said, that self-reliance is the true policy to make this into a great State; and I think if we relied a little more on ourselves-reduced expenditure-instead of rely- ing entirely on the London money-market, it would be a great deal better for the country. I think the Government ought to come forward and say which are the most important works in the colony, and, whether it pleases or displeases, they ought to say that is the work which should be done before any other work, and then the whole of our attention ought to be concentrated on that work to make it reproductive. Any business-man would concentrate the whole of his attention on making any investment he has reproductive, and I ask the Government to do the same thing, instead of frittering away thou- sands on a little piece of railway-line here, and bits of roads there. The whole of their atten- tion ought to be concentrated on certain given lines, and on certain roads that are of the greatest importance in opening up the country, and I do trust that the Government will, for the sake of the colony we represent, for the credit of the party that we have always been members of, pay attention to what is said ; and for our own self-respect, and for our own reputation, if we believe that the condition of this colony is what it is, I trust we shall with no uncertain voice let the Government know that the time has arrived when they will have, in respect to expenditure, to go slower. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City) .- I should like to add a few words to this important debate. It is not my intention to spend long in referring to what has been said by previous speakers, but there are one or two remarks I would like to touch upon before going on to deal with the Statement in general. I was sorry to hear the speech we had last night from the honourable member for Parnell. Of course, that honourable gentleman's opinions on prohibition and Prohibitionists are well known to the mem- bers of this House, and we, along with his 