the member for Wellington City, and he or onlooker ? Was he thinking of something quoted from it. else at the time? Is he a gentleman with a Mr. PIRANI .- No, he did not. strong memory and a recollection of the past ? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes, he did. I saw you give Yes; every one knows it to be so. The oppor- the Hansard to the messenger, and the mes- senger give it to the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), and I thought the member for Palmerston was making the balls that the cided that there had been a breach of privilege. member for Wellington City was to fire. There At the time the House did not trouble itself as was a time when we did not see that going on in the House. But it shows the good sense of the asked the question. There was no necessity to member for Wellington City, for, if what the do so, for the reason that the publication had been made. There was the paper containing member for Palmerston is now saying is correct, Mr. Fisher was not prepared to be the mouth- the evidence. The whole thing was complete. piece of the member for Palmerston, and I There was no question as to how the document think all the more of Mr. Fisher if he took that was obtained, and the House at once asserted dignified position. Then, Sir, we have parallel that there had been a breach of privilege. cases in the House. I could name several, but Then, Sir, I would like to know whence came I do not want to bring in the names of those who have passed away, who have committed did that come? Why, Sir, it came from the breaches of the privileges of the House. honourable member for Franklin, Mr. Massey And what was the attitude of the House the general manager of the Opposition for the then ? It was not a question of privilege, but time being. That is the gentleman who sug a case of defying the Speaker in respect to a gested the Committee, and why did he do so ? grave breach of privilege. And the House said, I will tell you : my colleague this morning in- "That this House regrets that the member for formed the member for Franklin that it was he -should have done so-and-so." The honour and dignity of the House was considered to be able gentleman did not deny having made the vindicated by the House itself expressing its suggestion -- regret. That is to be found in the records of the House time after time. Mr. FISHER .- Why do not you give the vent the reporter and the publisher coming before the bar of the House. I am now placing case ? Mr. SEDDON .- If you want the case, that the position before honourable members. First of all, you adjudged the publisher of the Even- was all that was done in the case of Mr. ing Star guilty of having committed a breach George Hutchison, the late member for Patea. Mr. FISHER .- I did not ask for that case. of privilege. If a Court has decided that a per- Mr. SEDDON .- You thought I could not son has been guilty of offending, that person is give a case. I have told the reasons there are, brought up to receive the decision of the Court. Instead of that, the matter, in this case, was of a delicate character, for not bringing up the sent to the Committee. I would ask, What names of those who are not here now. What has the House done? Has the House gene- for ? and would answer, To try to "get at " rally or in every case guarded its privileges? I some one else besides the publisher. say it has not done so. This session members of the House must have known, week after week, the proceedings of Committees have appeared course, I cannot cast any reflections upon mem- in the public prints throughout the colony, bers of the Committee, but my own opinion is, and I think I am pretty well within the mark, and not a single member has brought it up before the House. And why? Because the evi- that they wanted some one else. They were dence suited them ; the evidence was against not satisfied with the offending newspaper and the workers of the colony, and it suited the the reporter for that newspaper. They wanted majority of the members, and because it suited to get some one else; and now, because they have not got some one else, they want to inflict them there was no question of privilege. There a heavier punishment upon the newspaper. I was no question of privilege, because they would say, Sir,-and I say it with a due sense of re- have had to bring in every newspaper in the sponsibility,-that had Mr. Cohen given the colony, and there was not a single member who name of the person who supplied him with the would have the boldness to do that. Hon. MEMBERS .- Why did you not do it ? information, or allowed him to get it, and if that person had proved to be a member of the Mr. SEDDON .- You are gradually getting to where I want you. Who brought this matter House, a resolution exonerating the paper would have been carried without a single dissentient. on the floor of the House? Was it the leader of the House, or was it the member for Bruce that raised the question of privilege ? the matter. Having failed to do that, having Mr. ALLEN .- The Chairman of the Com- failed to get the reporter to do a dishonourable mittee brought it up. action, they cry, Shylock like, "Blood, blood !" Mr. SEDDON .- I say the member for Bruce was the person who brought it on the floor of Sir, I have been a long time in this House, and I know what goes on, and I know what the House. So far as the Star is concerned, was has been done in the present case. If, Sir, the the member for Bruce an impartial observer tunity arrived, and he brings the matter up, and the result is " privilege." And 4.0. then, what did the House do? It de- to how the information was received. It never the suggestion of a Committee? From whom who suggested the Committee, and the honour- Mr. MASSEY .- I do not deny it. Mr. SEDDON .- And he said it was to pre- An Hon. MEMBER .- " Fossicking." Mr. SEDDON .- I believe that is so. Of Mr. PIRANI .- Question. Mr. SEDDON .- I have got my opinion on 