should suffer for it. Surely, the first thing a to move an amendment when the Bill comes man should do, before he pays away money, is to before us in Committee. see that he really has property in respect of which he is paying away his money. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- That is what the directors are for. Smith, this Bill is practically a copy of the The Hon. Mr. BOLT .- Yes, that is what the Companies Act of last year of Great Britain, directors are for ; and the shareholders should see that the directors carry out their duties and that the Bill is intended to have a general in that respect. Why is the thing allowed to go by the board until it has become a public mining companies. Honourable members have scandal? It is extraordinary that this in- dustry has been carried on for many years, and that there should be no irregularities reference to mining companies in certain parts outside that one office. I do not know, of the colony. Now, I call their attention to however, that there is much objection to the Bill. I believe this, though: that it will have a tendency to limit the amount of - namely, "The Promoters' and Directors' capital put into this industry. Possibly that Liability Act, 1891," and "The Mining Com- may be looked on as a good thing. I believe panies Act, 1894." It appears to me that what there are so many harassing restrictions now is required to be done to remedy the abuses embodied in the Bill as to retard people from to which honourable members have referred taking up ground, or inquiring whether it is is that some amendment of the Mining Com- auriferous or not. As to the question raised by panies Act should be made, by which it the Hon. Mr. Twomey, that there should be should be compulsory for all companies re- a strict investigation into the nature of the lating to mining to be registered under that ground before it is put on the market, I believe Act. We may mutilate this Bill, or, rather, put that in some cases that would be beneficial. I provisions into it which are altogether foreign may mention this, however : that some reports to the idea which the framers of the Bill in that have appeared in the prospectuses of England had, and practically spoil the Bill for mining companies have been made out by men colonial and general purposes here ; whilst by whom everybody knows more or less. The a judicious amendment of the mining company whole of the public in Otago know their names law the abuses to which honourable gentlemen as, in many cases, the names of men of irre- have referred might be remedied. For instance, proachable character. And these men in some here is one matter which the Hon. Mr. Lee cases have attached their names to reports Smith referred to, in reference to directors: which were not substantiated when the dredge he says they have received fees whilst still came to work. Mr Don, father of Dr. Don, of indebted to the company for shares and calls. the Otago University, is one, and no one will Why, Sir, under "The Mining Companies even hint that Mr. Don ever connived at any- Act, 1894," it is impossible for a director, thing improper. He is a man of irreproachable if the company be registered under that Act, character ; and yet, with respect to several of to remain a director whilst he is indebted the companies with which he was associated, to the company at all ; and it is also im- the results have not come up to what was ex- possible for a director to continue a director pected from his reports. So you will find in " of any company working or holding ground regard to this industry mistakes will inevitably abutting on or next to the company which arise. I myself was told by a man on the West may be engaged in litigation with the company Coast that when out shooting one day he found of which he was first appointed a director." himself in a gully, and merely for curiosity he The case related by the Hon. Mr. Twomey in tried the gravel and found an extraordinary which he was apparently victimised, as he put quantity of gold in it. He marked the place it, is also provided for. If the person who and revisited it later on, and again found gold. made that representation was an expert re- He spoke to a friend about it and his friend said ferred to in the prospectus of the company, that if the gold was such as was described to under the Promoters and Directors' Liability him they had a fortune in it. But when he Act of 1891 he is liable to three years' im- came a third time he could not find a speck. prisonment. If honourable members would An Hon. MEMBER .- It had all been carried take the trouble to look they would see that away by a flood. many of the matters they have referred to are The Hon. Mr. BOLT .- It had been carried provided for either under the Mining Com- away ; it never was there in any quantity, and panies Act or under the other Act to which just in that way auriferous ground is frequently I have referred ; and, if they are not sufficient, found to be very patchy. You might light on I hope that, by a judicious amendment of that a patch here and there, which might give a branch of the law, a remedy will be provided, good return, and after all you may be dis- and in a more convenient way, for the evils appointed. Therefore I do not think there has which have been referred to, rather than by been so much roguery so far as prospecting the mixing up mining companies law with the ground is concerned. There are one or two general company law, to which this Bill refers. points in the Bill in regard to which I intend The Hon. Colonel PITT .- I hope it will be borne in mind by honourable members, when dealing with this Bill in Committee, that, as I think was pointed out by the Hon. Mr. Lee where there are few mining companies at all, application to companies apart altogether from discussed this Bill having regard to certain grievances and abuses which have existed in this fact : that there are two sets of Acts upon the statute - book relating to such matters The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- The trouble 