authority-some person who formed one of a deputation to the Right Honourable the Pre- mier-gave to the Press a most gloomy and depressing, and, withal, an incorrect report of what was alleged to have been said by the Premier to the deputation that waited upon him ? Surely not. Our confidence cannot forsake us upon any such flimsy pretext. If, as I say, it is in consequence of this that we have found honourable members taking fright and trying to create the impression both at home and abroad that the country is going backward, I say, let them look at the real solid facts of the case, and, if they do, all such grounds for fear will disappear. Mr. DEPUTY.SPEAKER .- Time is up. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) .- Sir, however gloomy the temperament of any mem- ber of this House may be, he certainly must be cheered after listening to the ultra-optimistic speech we have just listened to from the Hon. the Postmaster-General. When one is in the "blues" a little bit, although the advice tendered may not exactly stand the logic of hard facts, it is. at any rate, pleasing to have a rosy picture delineated to one, and certainly we have had a most rosy picture of the colony's finances from the Hon. the Postmaster-General. But I must also note that it was distinctly at variance with the whole spirit of the Financial Statement of his colleague the Hon. the Premier. The key- note right throughout the Financial Statement is caution and prudence; and not until the last half-dozen words of the Postmaster-General did he utter a single word of caution, or admit for a single moment that there was any necessity for caution or prudence. However, as I propose to deal with the various items in the Budget a little later on, I shall first of all refer to "Do you include the Maoris ? " " Mr. Seddon : some of the statements made by the Hon. the Postmaster-General. He took the member for Franklin to task for having made a state- ment in his speech to the effect that the Pre- mier had understated the amount necessary for the payment of old-age pensions, and he alleged again, as the Premier has already alleged and reiterated by interjection this afternoon, that it was not anticipated that pensions would have to be provided for impecunious Maoris. Well, if the records of the House are true records, it will be interesting to read to the House what they say on that point. Before I do that, I wish to say that the Premier knows my atti- tude towards the old-age pensions. In his inmost soul he knows he had no more ardent, enthusiastic, and thick-and-thin supporter of the Old-age Pensions Act than I was, and there- fore I do not refer to this matter by way of im- pugning the principle of the Old-age Pensions Act. This is what I find in Hansard. In 1897 the Premier took the floor to speak on the second reading of the Old-age Pensions Bill, and there were a few passages-at-arms between him and measure is being drafted. Therefore the Pre- various members. Mr. Heke asked,- " Will the Premier explain in his speech how it is the Native race is excluded from the sions for the Maoris. Bill ? ber should first make himself sure that they are excluded. "Mr. HEKE .- I am satisfied of that. " Mr. SEDDON .- Then, I inform the honour- able member that he knows nothing what- ever about it, for they are not excluded, but are included." Sir J. G. WARD .- Look at subclause (1) of clause 63. Mr. HUTCHESON .- The honourable gentle- man's explanation of Mr. Massey's charge was that, in the first instance, the Premier had not anticipated providing old-age pensions for Maoris. I am simply quoting the evidence as I find it. Subclause (1) of clause 63 of the Bill as originally introduced in 1897 says,- " This Act, in so far as it provides for the grant of pensions, shall not apply to, (1) Abori- ginal natives of New Zealand to whom previous pensions are paid out of the sums appropriated for Native purposes by 'The Civil List Act, 1863.'" So that all indigent Natives other than those already provided for out of moneys voted for Native purposes shall be eligible for pensions. Going a further stage, we find that the Bill says- Mr. SEDDON .- What are you reading from ? Mr. HUTCHESON .- I am now quoting from the Bill of 1897, as it was reported from the Committee of the whole House. Sir J. G. WARD .- It was not in the first. one. Mr. HUTCHESON .- It was from the first Bill, as originally introduced, that I have just- quoted. Now, the amended Bill says precisely the same thing. Now, Sir, let me refer to Hansard of 1898. I find that while Mr. Seddon was speaking Mr. Herries interjected, The Maoris are conditionally included." As- suming that reply to be couched in diplomatic language, yet the Premier must have been aware that, in all probability, he would have to provide pensions for the Maoris. Mr. SEDDON .- You should look up all that I said. I gave the census returns, and based my calculations on them ; but I had no census returns with regard to the Maoris. Mr. HUTCHESON. - I do not undertake to cross-examine the Premier on this question ; but I must revert to the original statement I made-namely, that in introducing the mea- sure the Premier, in the Bill and in his speech, declared that the Maoris were included. Mr. SEDDON .- One Bill said "No," and the other said Maoris might conditionally have pensions. Mr. HUTCHESON .- In any case, the Bill had to be perfected before it was submitted to the House. The sinews of war are the first essential to the success of any scheme, and ways and means must be considered when any mier must, in his original Bill, have had in view the probability of having to provide pen- Mr. SEDDON .- No. 