Taranaki is leading the van in this direction. Therefore, if honourable members have any friends who want to better their position men with some means, possessed of energy, and also possessed of industrious wives and families- they should advise them to settle in Taranaki. If honourable members have the welfare of their friends at heart they will certainly advise their friends to go to Taranaki and take up land there. There is certainly no place where a man of energy and small means can make a living as he can in l'aranaki. Sir, I am suffer- ing from a cold, as honourable members must have noticed, and for that reason will bring my remarks to a close. I thank honourable mem- bers for the patient hearing they have given me. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) .- Sir, I have no intention of referring in detail to the finances of the colony as submitted to us in the State- ment now under discussion. Speaking broadly, it seems to me that the Statement shows that the position of the colony is perfectly sound. Some honourable members who have been at- tacking the various proposals of the Budget have complained that the amount we have bor- rowed since the present Government came into office has been largely in excess of the amount that ought to have been borrowed ; but, Sir, if the honourable gentlemen who adopt that line of argument will have the fairness to deduct from the total sum borrowed the amount that has been invested in real estate-in the pur- chase of land under the Land for Settlements Act-the amount re-lent at interest, and the amount expended in interest-earning services, they will find that the balance of the money borrowed, and which may fairly be called an addition to the public debt of the colony, is not at all disproportionate to the increased popula- tion and the increased wealth of the colony. Sir, I look upon the question of the settlement of the lands of the colony as the most impor- tant question to which the Government can ad- dress themselves or which this House can discuss. It, Sir, is at the foundation of all possible pro- gress and prosperity that we should have an increase of land-settlement. Sir, the present Government, if it is deserving of credit for any- thing, is deserving of credit for the manner in which it has endeavoured to place, and has suc- ceeding in placing, people upon the lands of the colony. Mr. WITHEFORD .- Except in the North Island. Major STEWARD .- The honourable gentle- man is very anxious that I should refer to the North, and I will do so presently. I have endeavoured, Sir, to find out from two state- ments that we have before us precisely what has been done in this direction during the past year ; and I find, Sir, in the Budget, at page vii., a tabulated statement which runs as follows : "The purchase of land for close settlement is being vigorously pushed forward." I shall have something to say as to what I think about that passage presently; but in proof or at- tempted proof of the fact that it is being pushed vigorously forward, we have the table to which I refer, and which states as follows :- "The following table gives the names of the provincial districts in which the land during the year has been purchased, the acreage, and the prices paid therefor :- Price. Acres. Hawke's Bay- £ Hatuma 26,350 141,618 .. Mangatoro 19,550 87,975 . . . . Wellington- Langdale 9,406 30,669 . . Mangawhata 1,226 16,129 .. Maungaraki 423 3,000 .. Epuni 103 9,146 Marlborough- Waipapa 3,600 8,250 Canterbury- 4,243 Lyndon 15,750 Kohina 3,864 28,093 .. Raincliff 745 2,424 . . .. Taranaki 2,858 32 .. Pukaka 39 981 Mrs. Delargy . . 100 300 Otago - Earnscleugh .. 1,152 3,000 .. Total .. $350.193 70,833 .. Now, Sir, although this table professes to give the amount of land purchased during the past twelve months, I think it is obviously incorrect, inasmuch as the very first line, "Hatuma, 26,350 acres, £141,618," was, I believe, pur- chased during the previous year, and only came up for payment during the present year. If that estate were omitted. it would leave a balance of £210,193 as the total that has been expended in land purchased for settlement pur- poses during the year 1900-1901. But, Sir, these figures do not tally with the figures in the Lands Report itself. These, curiously enough, are also given on page vii. The figures in the Lands Report, which was laid on the table yesterday, are these,- "During the present year ten estates, con- taining 43,942 acres, were dealt with. The cost of the land purchased was #168,193." Now, whether the #168,000 or the £210,000 is the correct figure, and giving the Govern- ment the advantage even of the statement of the Treasurer that the amount is $210,000, it will be seen that that does not bear out the opening statement that "the purchase of land for close settlement is being vigorously pushed forward" ; inasmuch as this House has granted authority for the expenditure of $500,000 a year for the purpose of purchasing land for settle- ment, while even on the very best showing not more than two-fifths of that amount has been so expended. Sir, it seems to me, indeed that a partial paralysis has fallen upon the Lands Department in connection with this very im- portant branch of the duties of the Govern- ment. Mr. WITHEFORD. - More espe- 5.0. cially in the North Island. Major STEWARD .- My honourable friend says, " Especially in the North Island." Well, that may be so, though I am thinking of the South myself; but I am quite prepared to hear from the honourable gentleman that this acqui- 