(Mr. Fisher) will not be embodied in the New Zealand law; and I think he miscon- strued entirely the attitude of the honour- able member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkin- son), who is not friendly disposed towards the introduction of Sunday trading. However much the honourable member his colleague may desire that, I am sure the country is not in favour of any such measure. The honourable member who has just addressed the House on behalf of the temperance people of this colony would make it appear that the introduction of Sunday trading will get away with a great deal of the evils of the trade. He also questioned my experience of such legislation in the Old Country. Why, if there is anything that is dis- graceful in connection with licensing in the Old Country it is the Sunday trading you see there on a Sunday afternoon. I lived in one of the suburbs of London, and saw men and women-and as many women as men-flocking in and out of hotels between one and three o'clock in the afternoon. It is a perfect disgrace to the whole community. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why does not England alter it ? Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Because there are too many people in England of the honourable gentleman's mind supporting liquor legislation. If there were more people there like the honour- able member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkin- son), I venture to say it would be removed from the statute-book. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) -I wish to make a personal explanation. I wish to call the attention of the House to the fact that I proposed no amendment, as stated by the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 member for Waihemo. The honourable mem- ber, in his short speech, referred to " Mr. Fisher's amendment." I reiterate that I pro- posed no amendment. The honourable gentle- man also said that " however much the honour- able gentleman," referring to me, " might desire to see such an amendment introduced into the New Zealand law." Sir, 1 expressed no desire of the kind. I merely asked the honourable gentleman in charge of the Bill and the honour. able gentleman, my colleague, Mr. Atkinson, whether, when we were beginning to take certain parts of the English Act, we ought not to adopt - I did not say the Act as a whole, but various other provisions of that Act. I merely wish to repudiate the ingenious sug- gestion of the honourable member for Waihemo that I had proposed "an amendment," which I wished to see adopted. I proposed no amend- ment. The honourable gentleman's ingenuity is therefore thrown away. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I hope honour- able members will now see that there must be a compromise arrived at if there is to be any Licensing Act Amendment Bill passed this session. But I do trust members on all sides will not lead the outside world to believe that they are insincere. There are several de- fects in our existing law which I say ought and must be removed ; and if we do that, and give members time to mature their ideas upon the larger questions, we shall be doing the right Mr. T. Mackenzie to be said that those who are in favour of tem- perance, and who on every platform preach that there ought to be an amendment of our licensing laws, were the means of blocking the legislation when an opportunity came to im- prove the law. I hope they will not put them- selves in that position. On the other hand, I would say to the honourable gentlemen who differ from them, and who are asking for extreme amendments in another direction, not to put themselves in that position either when they have an opportunity of perfecting the ex- isting unfortunate position of affairs by making the necessary alterations of the Act, and which I say, both in the interests of temperance and in the interests of the trade, are absolutely neces- sary. In cases of this kind there must be give and take, leaving the larger questions which are involved in the licensing question for a future period. I hope that the Bill I intend to bring in will receive careful consideration, and that these defects will be removed. Leave granted, and Bill read a first time. LIBRARY ACCOMMODATION. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he intended to move the adoption of the report of the Joint Library Committee, which was as follows : "That all the accommodation within the outside library doors be devoted to library business," with the following addition : " but not to the exclusion of the present postal arrangements ; and, further, that the room now used as the staff room be used as a writing- and reading-room by members." If they gave effect to the report without the adoption of the first portion of his addition, members' letter-boxes would have to be re- moved, because at the present time they were within the library. However, the matter at issue was whether that particular room now used as a staff room should be used as mem- bers' reception-room. To force that room from the Library Committee would probably cause a conflict between the two Chambers, which he wished to avoid. At the same time he held a very strong opinion that that room was really the best room and the most con. venient for the purpose of a reception-room. He knew that honourable members would agree with him in saying that really we had not a decent room in which to take visitors. Unfortunately, there was some force in the con- tention that the entry of strangers to that room might be an invasion of the privacy of the library, and, as he disliked to bring about any conflict with the other Chamber, he would not press the taking of that room, but he would see what could be done in the recess to provide better accommodation for members in the matter of a reception-room for next session. In the meantime he wished members to come with him and assert that this room, which was the most convenient room to the House and the lobby, should not be used simply as a store-room or staff room, at all events during session. He did not know how it came to be taken away from members, and he said that 