1 them ; and, as a commercial transaction, they | should sit on a Committee at all, or at all would have had the best of the bargain. Nor events on a Committee that takes evidence, be- would it benefit the House to any appreciable cause a stigma rests now and will continue to extent to receive the £40; but by enforcing a rest on the Mines Committee until the whole penalty the House would have logically carried matter is cleared up. When people are defend- out its Standing Orders, and while they exist ing a newspaper for getting information-in- it seems to me we cannot allow them to be set formation which the reporter must of necessity at detiance. And I altogether object to allow- well know cannot be published without causing ing any person who commits a breach of our a breach of the Standing Orders- does it not .. Standing Orders to be placed in the position of occur to honourable gentlemen that there must a judge as to whether those Standing Orders have been some temptation held out : that the should be amended or not. Why, if we carried reporter must have acted the part of a tempter, such a doctrine into effect, this would follow : and that the delinquent who gave the informa- A man might annex £5 belonging to some tion was tempted for some reason or other. Wealthy person - I use the word "annex " That a member of the Committee should give rather than some stronger term-because he such information is dishonourable, I think no wished to contribute it to some charitable ob- member of the House will deny. It must be ject. or some object excellent in itself and sorely so. Any honourable member who commits a in need of that $5. He might say that the breach of the Standing Orders knowingly and person from whom he annexed it could not wilfully does commit a dishonourable act. But, have missed the money, while the person to Sir, why does he do it? It must be for some whom he handed the $5 had been saved, it reason, and though the reporter may with per- may be, from starvation. Would the law take fect justification to himself say that he is not act- comisance of any such plea ; or would the ing dishonourably, and that he has got it by Judge, who tried the man, admit as a plea honourable methods, yet at the same time he his (the offender's) opinion that the law should must have tempted some one to do what all be amended ? Certainly not. And no matter the members of this House recognise to be what Mr. Cohen's motives in regard to the a dishonourable act. Now, it has been said publication may have been, and, no matter that in this case it is quite possible that it how clearly it may be shown that it was to was not a member of the Committee. I quite the public advantage that the evidence should agree with that. But Mr. Cohen, in his evi- be published, still I say that it is this House dence, pointed towards the Committee when he which is alone to be the judge as to whether exonerated from any implication the Clerk of its laws should be amended, and that so long the Committee and the shorthand reporter. as those laws are not amended and in force It is quite possible it may be said that there the House is simply stultifying itself if it does were two witnesses who were present, and who not insist that there shall be some penalty for may have given that evidence. The two wit- their infraction. nesses were Messrs. Cook and Easton. I ex- Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- It onorate Mr. Cook, because I believe that the 2.30. was easy to see from the speech of the first day's evidence was entirely against Mr. Minister for Railways, who it is that is really Cook. It was the statement-in-chief by Mr. the author of the motion. The Premier has Easton, containing all his charges, and there executed during the last two or three days was only a short statement by Mr. Cook, who quite a somersault. At one time he was admittedly had had no time to prepare. It altogether in favour of fining the proprietors, of was only a hurried statement denying most of fining Mr. Cohen, and, generally, of dealing the charges. Is it likely that Mr. Cook would have given the paper evidence against himself ? out justice in connection with this matter of privilege. But since then a change has come Then, there remains Mr. Easton. Well, we have Mr. Easton's own evidence before the over the scene, and, I suppose, owing to the blandishments of his colleague, he has receded Committee that he did not get the evidence to from the position every leader of the House correct until the 21st, and that would be too late, as I take it, to send it down for publica- ought to take up, and has succumbed to the influence of his colleague. This is not the first tion on the 23rd, because it was the whole time that has happened. Honourable members shorthand reporter's report of the evidence that was sent. I do not believe it was tele- will remember the matter of the map being put into Hansard, when the Premier, against his graphed ; it was sent down in bulk. And I have sufficient faith in Mr. Easton ; I do not better judgment, had to succumb to his more powerful colleague, the then Minister of Lands, believe that he did it. It seems to me that it must have been a member of the Committee, and the same thing has taken place now. The Minister for Railways, for some reason or and that is where I feel it. I cannot point to other, has considered the honour of a news- any member of the Committee, because I can hardly believe that any member of the Com- paper as greater than the honour of this House. mittee did do it. But there is always the But there is more than the honour of this stigma that rests on us. Why should the House affected : there is the honour of the House not assist the Committee it set up to Committee to which I have the honour lock after mining matters? I say the House to belong-that is, the Goldfields and Mines is lacking in consideration for that Committee Committee ; and if this matter is taken up if it takes no steps to punish those who got the in the manner the Premier proposes to take evidence. it up, it will become a moot point whether we 