who defends it? The very person who of all members in this Parliament ought to be the first to stand by the maintenance of its rights and its privileges and its dignity. Again, let us reflect. The honourable gentleman this morning, amid a rumble of thunder, asked us to say, in his resolution, that the course adopted by this person is satisfactory. What does that mean? If the honourable gentleman was of opinion this morning that the course adopted by this newspaper reporter was satisfactory, why does he now ask the House to alter his resolution and declare that it is not satisfactory? How does the honourable gentleman explain that? Of course, the honourable gentleman cannot explain it. But what are we to do? How are we to explain it satisfactorily to ourselves ? We can- not follow-that is to say, I cannot follow-the serpentine course pursued by the honourable gentleman. If the circumstances have altered, if the honourable gentleman finds that he can- not sustain his position, if he wants to defeat the action of this House as he has defeated it, why does he ask us to follow him in blowing hot one moment and cold the next ? We were asked this morning to say that this explanation is satisfactory, and to-night we are asked to say that it is not satisfactory. Now, what are we to do? The honourable gentleman kindly endeavoured to explain that I had placed myself in a false position, and he also kindly endeavoured to extricate me from that false position. But will the honourable gentleman kindly explain his own position ? So much as to one case. I will deal with the 9.0. other, the Beaconsfield or Disraeli case. Was it not obvious and palpable that the honourable gentleman, in referring to that case, must have taken his version of it from the erudite leading article which appeared in the New Zealand Times this morning, which was completely upside down. These are the actual facts of that case : A Committee of the House of Commons was set up. A version of the pro- ceedings of that Committee was reported by two newspapers. This was deemed to be a breach of the privileges of Parliament. It was after- wards found that the version printed in the newspapers was an authorised version, or, to use the words of the Committee's report, it was not " an unauthorised report." Therefore the House of Commons agreed to expunge the record. Again, does it not show how ill-informed or how weak the honourable gentleman is when he quotes two cases which are decidedly dead against himself? I never saw the honourable gentleman put himself into such a hole before. I do not go so far as the member for Bruce, who says that the honourable gentleman is weaken- ing in power and character, but I do say that I cannot account for his action in any way what- ever. Now, this is the honourable gentleman's resolution as it originally stood :- "That, in the matter of the breach of privilege that has arisen through the publication of the evidence given before the Goldfields and Mines Committee in respect to the promotion and flotation of certain dredging claims by Mr. Mr. Fisher accepts as satisfactory the expression of regret by the representative of that journal, and this House resolves to proceed no further in the matter." As we understand now, the explanation is not satisfactory, for the words "as satisfactory " are to be struck out ; but still the House, accord- ing to the resolution, is asked "to proceed no further in the matter." I suppose we are going to stop there. An Hon. MEMBER .- No. Mr. FISHER .- No, I do not think we shall stop there. My amendment of this morning proposed that the offending person should be fined in two separate sums of $25 each-#25 for each offence, making £50 in all. Without doubt that amendment would have been carried by two to one, but the Premier, finding himself in a serious dilemma, convened a caucus, and so I have the honour of being the cause of the first caucus of the year being called together. An Hon. MEMBER .- You might have been sent for. Mr. FISHER .- No, there was not the least probability of my being " sent for." At the caucus the honourable gentleman submitted a proposal, so we hear, to take the wind out of my sails; not that I care how it is done so long as the rights and the power of this House are maintained. The honourable gentleman, I am told, has resolved that the principle of parliamentary law shall be maintained by the imposition of a fine; but I understand the honourable gentleman insists that it shall be done by him, and not by me. Very well; I do not care how it is done, or what the amount of the fine, so long as this Parliament is predominant in the governance of its own proceedings. That is all I care for, and I repeat that the House has one duty, and one duty only, in such a matter. It is a pity that upon a .question of this kind the members of the House should have taken sides. It is a thing utterly new to me, for I never saw anything like it in the House before. I said, when the honourable gentleman drew a red-herring across the scent by referring to the commercial transactions of Mr. Cook, that I would make a passing reference to the matter myself. Now, Mr. Cook was liquidator of the Guthrie Companies. We know that the Bank of New Zealand lost some hundreds of thou- sands of pounds through the Guthrie Com- panies, and that Mr. Cook made a very strong report to Mr. Justice Williams, sitting in the Supreme Court, Dunedin, upon the subject. and asking for the direction of the Judge. More particularly did he call attention to one of the Guthrie companies-the White-pine Company, with which Sir Robert Stout was chiefly con- nected as a director. And as this Government had committed the country to a liability of two millions to lend stability to the bank, and as the Guthrie Companies had robbed the bank of so many hundreds of thousands of pounds, I asked the honourable gentleman in this House, as leader of the Government, whether he deemed it his duty to intervene in a matter so 