is under consideration. If I voted according to party interests either one way or the other I should be guilty of a distinct breach of faith with the six thousand people who sent me to this House. I told them that on every question that came up I would vote accord- ing to my judgment in the matter, and ac- cording to my conviction. I do not set myself up as being the only member who is actuated by such motives; but I do say there are mem- bers in this House who do consider, and that they have told their constituents, that their first duty is to vote according to party in- terests, but my conviction lies in the opposite direction. My first conviction is to vote ac- cording to what I told my constituents I would do irrespective of party, and that is why I voted in this lobby, although the Government party voted in that lobby the other evening. I did not know party in the matter ; I did not vote against the Government. I voted on the motion according to my own views. The heated tone of the debate was first set on foot by the flippancy chiefly of the Hon. the Minister of Mines ; and all round the House there was no doubt about this : that there was a general protest-a murmur of pro- test-by a great majority of the members of the House against the light tone in which the offence was treated. It was felt that, so long as our Standing Orders are there, some greater respect should be paid to those Standing Orders. If the Standing Orders are wrong, let them be altered. They are there, and it is our duty to see that respect is paid to them. When the member for Wellington City moved his motion, then the party question came up. It then https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 became practically a question of Government versus Opposition, and from that time till the division took place the talk was about the tactics of the Opposition-that they wanted to have a slap at the Government. That was distinctly disclaimed by the member for Bruce - he dis- claimed that there was any party feeling what- ever. The member for Wellington City is a man who believes in a member giving a pledge, either to one party or the other, yet he said and I think he was perfectly right- that this should not be treated as a party question, but that we should vote on it according to its merits, without any feeling either in the direction of the Government or towards the Opposition. I think the member for Wellington City was perfectly right in the attitude he adopted. It may be said that in stating that I consider the member for Bruce to be in earnest I am very innocent. Well, I do believe, Sir, that the member for Bruce was in earnest. Now, what I want to come to is this: Is the dignity of responsible government to be assailed because the House wants to take its own way as to how it shall deal with a question of privilege ? Then, Sir, I say that the sooner we sweep away responsible government the better. That is what it is coming to. It has given rise to a senseless and stupid debate for the last two days-a struggle between the Opposition and the Government-on this question. An Hon. MEMBER .- The elective Executive. Mr. ELL .- Yes; and I venture to say this to the Premier : If we could bring the whole of the electors of the colony into the gallery to see the present pitiful exhibition of our lovely system of constitutional government they would insist on having the elective Executive in operation after the next election. But the fact is that the rottenness of the present system cannot be brought home to the electors of the colony, but I am positive we will get rid of the present system, and the sooner the better. Simply because it has obtained in the Old Country for a little over a century, and because it is in operation in other British colonies, we are to have it in operation here for all time. Because it is good, it is good, is the only argu- ment in support of it. Then, Sir, the amend- ment moved by the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) would not do, because a number of members of the Opposition might \---- have supported him, and, with the members on the Ministerial side who chose to vote according to their own convictions, it might have brought about a defeat of the Govern- ment. Therefore the whipping up was done - a caucus was held, the party machine was put into operation in full force, and a pro- position was brought in by the Hon. the Minister of Mines. We had a pretty spec- tacle of the dignity of the Executive of the country. The usual course adopted when cer- \------ tain words are struck out is that the member who moves to strike out those words states other words which he intends to substitute for them, and these words are, of course, intimated to the House at the time the proposition is made, so that members may know what the member intends to do. But when the Minister of Mines sat down he refused to give the House the words it was intended to add, and giggled at those he considered his opponents, while the Minister for Railways rubbed his hands with glee. What was the result ? It gave rise to a further discussion. "Would you not like to know what we are going to do ? but you will not hear "-that was the tone adopted, and as the result another lengthy debate ensued. Members do not want to be played with in that manner, especially by a member of the Execu- tive ; and I regretted to see a member of the Executive lower his dignity and refuse to take the usual course, but instead should keep the proposed amendment up his sleeve, and chaff the Opposition and all those who consider they should have been told and have been en- lightened as to what should have been put in the place of the words that were to be rejected. Sir, I have no more to say. I simply rose with the object of putting on record my protest against the tactics which have been adopted during this debate, and I hope that we will not have a similar unseemly scene such as we have had here during the last two days. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) .- I am not going to delay the House by attempting to make a speech, but I feel I must say a word or two to explain the action I am going to take. I feel that I cannot vote on this occasion at all ; I cannot vote for the amendment, because it is 