tion of 1891. Why, Sir, it would be absolutely impossible for the colony to go on in the way we have been doing. It may be said that the colony has not suffered very much, and has been able to stand the taxation. That is per- fectly true up to a certain point. We have been going through a succession of prosperous years, but one requires to look to the cause of that prosperity, and likewise ask whether there will be a continuance of that prosperity. And I think if one looks into that question he will find that there are reasonable grounds to doubt its continuance. I do not desire to be looked on as a pessimist in any shape or form, but I think that, as practical men endowed with common-sense, it is our duty here as repre- sentatives of the people to endeavour to look into the future as far as we possibly can. In 1891 we had, as members will remember, a big boom in Auckland which made things very good in the North Island ; and, although at that time things were not so bright in the South Is- land, latterly, at least after a year or two, things gradually improved in the South. and one im- portant factor, in my opinion, for the prosperity of the colony was undoubtedly the inauguration of the Advances to Settlers Act. And why I say that is this : that the Advances to Settlers Act brought down the price of money all round, and people who had large sums of money lying invested, and were only getting a very small rate from the banks, looked for better avenues of investment, and one of the most promising at that time seemed to be mortgage on freehold land, and the result was that hundreds of men in this colony went and took advantage of the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 lowering of the rates of interest to borrow money for the purpose of building houses. That did not apply to any particular district of the colony, but all round, and therefore it made a lot of employment for all classes of artisan labour in this colony. But I ask honourable members, will they say that to-day there is anything like the amount of building going on that there was three years ago ? An Hon. MEMBER .- Yes. Mr. MILLAR .- An honourable member says "Yes." Well, I do not know where he is going to show it to me. It may in some of the outlying districts where an estate has been cut up; but 1 am talking of the colony generally, and I say that there is nothing like the amount of employment now that there was then. Then, again, so far as the South is concerned and the West Coast, there was a dredging boom, which likewise made things very busy, and that em- ployed a large number of artisans. The outlook of that industry is not so promising as it was twelve months ago. Then, again, was it not a fact that the price of butter kept up to what you might call abnormally high rates in the Old Country ? Was it not a fact that last year the prices realised for meat were higher than for a considerable time past ; and is it not a fact that the South African War made a fresh market for our oats ? These are staple products of our country. But I ask, does the outlook for the future promise as well as a retrospect that the rate we are going at, in adding to the obligations of this colony, is far in advance of the ability of the people to pay. If you look at the returns you will find that it takes every penny-piece to keep things going at our present rate of expenditure; and if we get one bad year, what will feel it soonest? Will the revenue of the Customs Department not fall off at double-quick time; will the railway revenue not fall off ? If there is a falling-off of the revenue we cannot reduce our obligations to the foreign money-lender, and what is the posi- tion we are in then? It seems to me that the Government are not looking into the future as they should be. It seems to me that it is time for this House to take things in hand, for it is not the Cabinet that are responsible to the country, but the Parliament. I trust sincerely they will take the lesson, if my figures are correct ; and if they are wrong I will be only too glad if they will show me that my statements in regard to the financial position of the colony are wrong. Take the interest-charges for 1901 -- I will not take those for this year, for they are considerably increased : the interest - charges are $1,745,615. Some honourable members will doubtless tell me that that is a lower amount than we paid in 1891, and they will turn up those figures and apparently prove that we are paying less to-day than we were paying in 1891. But there are two things in the interest-charges of 1891-interest and sinking fund. In 1891 there were heavy charges on the consolidated revenue forsinking fund which do not exist to- day. Sinking fund is almost a dead amount to-day. If members will turn up Table 3 they will find that there are only three loans with sinking funds. One of these loans matures in 1907, and the longest matures in 1914. So that, whilst on the surface it would appear that we are paying less interest-charges, it will be seen that the interest - charges are very materially increased. Then, again, we are told, "Look at the increased assets of the colony ; we have borrowed a lot of money, but we have got assets against it." I ask any honourable member to show me a single free asset we have for our borrowed money. In- stead of having free assets, we have reduced the amount of our free assets in the colony by selling Crown lands to the value of $1,085,000. Then, if you take the advances to settlers, will any one say that is a free asset ? We merely act as a middleman between the money-lender in the Old Country and the borrower here, and the asset we hold is simply held as security for the debt we have incurred in the Old Country. Therefore, from the purely colonial point of view, there is nothing in it. The same applies to the Land for Settlements Act. We have been borrowing money, and added it on to our debt, and bought estates ; but will any one say that is a free asset? Till the loan is extinguished it is purely a cross- entry from beginning to end. But I will tell you a free asset that has been taken away by the Government. I refer to the loans to local bodies. Under the Loans to Local Bodies Act, 