to be labelled, for instance, as ' A L.D., Napier,' instead of 'The Hon. Mr. A. L. D. Fraser, the representative of Napier.' And be it enacted that all these profiles shall be strung on a string, marked 'For the use of the Premier on divisions, and on such occasions he shall hand them over to Mr. Otterson to count for the Speaker." I have no doubt honourable members will feel horrified at the picture, but I say it is a reasonable burlesque of the facts as they now exist in the House, with regard to the speeches inflicted on the Governmen supporters who have criticized the Ministerial Statement. If I were a Minister on those benches I should feel glad to have such criticisms - the more the better ; and if I had sound principles at heart and a patriotic loyalty to the welfare of the colony, the more they rubbed it the brighter it would shine. It is their weakness that causes those honourable gentlemen to dread this criti- cism, which I desire shall be the rule of this House instead of the exception. Now I shall take a glance at the Financial Statement. Hon. MEMBERS .- Hear, hear. Mr. MONK .- Probably I shall not address myself to it in the form that honourable mem- bers expect, for I feel myself in this position : I do not like to repeat ; I like to contribute my mite in this debate in different form to that adopted by other members. That shall be my effort ; and I am going to address myself in any remarks I may make on the Budget from the point of my own perceptions; and any language I may state as having emanated from the Pre- mier will be only my own impressions of the language he used. He can accept or ignore them as he pleases. We noticed when this Financial Statement was being prepared the worn look on the Premier's face, and we had some regret for him. I like as I sit on this seat to scan the faces around me and form my opinion on what is taking place in their in- most thoughts. I dare say honourable members will have read some books in which the lan- guage of the writer is ambiguous or mysterious, and they have pondered over it to try to find out the meaning of the author. I have done so with this Statement. I pondered over it, and tried to find the purpose lurking in the inner soul of its author. I saw him come out in the afternoon before he delivered it. He had a smile on his face, and I knew the Financial State- ment was finished and we were to have it that evening. And as I have it now before me I can fancy that just before he came into this Chamber to deliver it -in that inner sound - proof chamber of his, from which no secrets are supposed to escape -I can fancy him, Sir, lifting up the Budget with a smile of approbation, and soliloquising in compli- mentary language somewhat like this: " Tis finished, my latest achievement in the art of writing a great deal from which as little in- formation as possible can be obtained. I have no doubt there are those in opposition to me who will try to introduce sentiments known as ' public ethics' into the discussion on the Financial Statement. What nonsense. What Mr. Monk are prosperous and things are running smoothly as a marriage-bell? Besides, do I myself believe in ethics? See how I have succeeded, and my dearest friends never accused me of feeling the pressure or force of ethics ; and yet I am certain that there are very few qualities essential to this modern Liberalism of which I am not personally possessed. Look on this Statement : that is proof of it. Not one of those who will cavil at this Statement to-morrow can produce one like it. Of course, they will talk about public honesty. Let them talk. Until the bubble bursts there is an aureation in this document that will influence the public more than all their speeches, and when I have read it to-night members will be so dazzled that they will have a difficulty in finding their way to their lodgings. I have the opinion that the Financial Statement is the one great effort on which the decorative art of a Liberal Premier can lavish its skill with the utmost advantage to the artist. Of course, in a great policy like mine there are necessarily pills that are difficult to swallow, but my skill is to sugar-coat them over to the largest dimensions that the public can swallow, and they are so intoxicated with my financial Bac- chanalia and the millions I have borrowed and the manner in which I have gulled them that they do not know where they are, and are ready to swallow anything I place before them if I only call it 'Liberal.' How it does catch the people to appeal to the traditions of Liberalism -but, thank the Lord, the majority do not know the difference between the spurious and the genuine article. Oh, what a blessed word this word 'Liberalism' is, and what luck is mine to light on such a tide of times that beneath the agis of the word 'Liberal ' I can do almost anything and everything that is illiberal. Of course, there are some that I cannot beguile, no matter what I place before them. They will talk about principles: so do I talk about principles. They are capital show words. I use them on Sundays when I am laying the foundation-stones of churches, and doing a little saintly simulation for the purpose of tickling the groundlings, by stirring up the clergy, and showing how they should permeate the young and rising generation with religions principles, how the parson should take them in the afternoon when they are done with school. When the young things have had pumped into them all that the teacher can jamb, then the clergy should take them for half an hour and give them easy lessons on the doctrines of the Trinity and original sin. But my opponents want their principles for every. day wear. Rubbish ! My supporters do not want principles, they want money that they may not have earned, and departments that are not needed. My opponents are a minority-a submerged minority. My love is for majorities. I am a great political merchant -a wholesale dealer in noses. It is a special business, and I have a special capacity and adaptation for it ; and, besides, I have 50 attuned the thoughts of the public in accord with criminal leanings, induced by some 