Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will arrange that privilege tickets issued to the members of the Railway service shall be available by any train when such ticket is issued? This was a ques- tion which he had been asked to bring before the Minister, and he hoped the honourable gentleman would be able to give him a satis- factory reply. It was rather disappointing to the employés of the Railway service when they obtained privilege tickets for their holidays to find themselves debarred from using these tickets, while others had the advantage of using He trusted the excursion trains, and so on. honourable gentleman would see his way to give him a satisfactory promise, on behalf of the rail- way servants, that when they got a ticket for the use of themselves or their familes they would be able to use it like the rest of the public. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) would be very glad to give all possible facilities to the railway employés. However, he would explain the position. Privilege tickets were available for use by any train except by the through passenger trains on the following days : The day before Christmas Day, Christ- mas Day, Boxing Day, the day before New Year's Day, New Year's Day, Good Friday, the Saturday before Easter Monday, Easter Monday, Queen's Birthday or the day upon which the Queen's Birthday holiday was held, and the Prince of Wales's Birthday or the day on which the Prince of Wales's Birth- day was held. It was considered that this afforded ample facilities for the holders of privilege tickets, and, in view of the serious in- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 convenience caused a few years ago by holders of privilege tickets and free passes monopolizing a very large portion of the seating accommoda- tion on through passenger trains during the holiday season, he could not recommend the removal of the existing restrictions, which," while protecting the interests of the general public, were not of such a stringent nature as to seriously interfere with or inflict hardship on the holders of privilege tickets. Privilege tickets were issued at one-fourth the ordinary rates. He had named the days on which the holders of these tickets could avail themselves of any train. He thought it would be recognised that where the department was carrying out general holiday excursion work they could not afford, with the accommodation available on the trains, to carry an undue proportion of people who had privilege or free tickets given to them to the exclusion of the general public. There must be some regu- lation, and, on the whole, he did not think the regulation which existed was a harsh one, con- sidering the number of days on which there was no restriction imposed. There were a great number of these tickets issued, and if they did not have some regulation where a large conces- sion of that kind was given there would be some difficulty in carrying on the ordinary traffic. POSTAL ARRANGEMENTS AT KAITUNA. Mr. RHODES (Ellesmere) asked the Post- master-General, If he will confer with the one of the platelayers removed from Birdling's Flat to Kaituna, in order that the platelayer's wife may act as Postmistress at Kaituna, the postal arrangements at that place being alto- gether inadequate for present requirements ? He understood that when a previous appli- cation was made for a platelayer to be sta- tioned at Kaituna there was a difficulty in regard to acquiring a site for a house, as the land in the vicinity was held in trust. Now that the estate had been cut up. and the owner of the land adjacent was willing to sell, he thought that difficulty would be overcome. Formerly a shepherd on the estate had acted as mailman, but the postal arrangements were anything but satisfactory, and now they were even worse. He had received a letter from one of the settlers, in which he said, - " Since our post-office has been shifted to a new office it is just next thing to useless. Our mails are now overcarried to Little River. and. instead of 10.30 a.m., are not distributed tili the afternoon ; no chance whatever of replying to letters coming by the day's mail, nor for three days afterwards. Besides, the office is entirely out of the way for all hands." He hoped the Postmaster-General would take into consideration the fact that settlement had increased in that locality, and would give a favourable reply. Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) was advised by the officers of the department as follows :- "No facilities are provided which would enable a platelayer to live at Kaituna, and the erection of a house would be necessary if it is decided to accede to the request. Platelayers are at present residing at the ends of the length, which is the most convenient arrange- ment for the Railway Department's purposes. I cannot recommend the department to in- cur the expenditure necessary to provide the- cottage at Kaituna, as it is not, in my opinion. warranted." He was quite prepared to look into the matter. both in regard to postal and telephonic com- munication, and if some person was found to undertake the work for some small fixed con- sideration, so as not to impose a loss on the department, he would endeavour to give effect to what was asked. Mr. RHODES hoped it would be somebody in the vicinity of the station. # SUBSIDIES FOR PROMOTION OF ATHLETICS Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) asked the Government, If they can see their way to agree to the suggestions as to granting small subsidies for certain purposes of athletics con- tained in circular letter of Messrs. Kesteven, Harley, and Boulton ? He presumed the cir- cular referred to had been received or seen by members of the House. It was addressed to the Premier by representative men in cou- nection with cycling, rowing, and athletics generally. It was pointed out that, unfortu- nately, the expense of holding the champion- 