ber on this side of the House to do so ; our sole slightest. I saw there was something under- intention was to uphold the privileges of this lying this, and I say still there is something underlying it. An endeavour has been made House. It is a pity that the Standing Orders, not only in regard to this matter, but with by some honourable members to fasten the regard to many other grievances of members of giving of this evidence upon the member for Waitemata. the House, have not been amended. There was last year a report from the Standing Orders Committee, but nothing has been done. I think it is fair to show to the Premier the members on that side of the House, how they go round a member and shield him, but on this necessity for taking proper steps to revise the whole Standing Orders while the matter is side of the House they take a broad view of fresh in the minds of honourable members. If these questions. We get nothing from that this thing is passed over and nothing is done, side at all. They watch every opportunity. Breach of faith ! They think nothing of vary- the same grievances probably will crop up again, ing from every tenet of what should be and the House will be just as far from a proper observed in this Chamber. They would violate settlement of the matter as it has been during the whole thing and laugh over it, and think it the last two sessions. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- It is very amusing a smart thing. There are half a dozen mem- to see when gentlemen are foiled. bers on this side of the House who have An Hon. MEMBER .- Who is foiled ? conscientious objections on every question Mr. SEDDON .- You are foiled ; and it is under the sun, and you find them drawn into the net thrown by those honourable members amusing to see how easily they accommodate themselves to the circumstances of the posi- opposite. My experience is that there is no tion. All those gentlemen voted for a penalty conscience in honourable members opposite, of $50- and my opinion is also that if there was a An Hon. MEMBER .- No, we did not. conscience there I would not like to be its Mr. SEDDON .- I was going on to say, except keeper. However, Sir, I am digressing. My Mr. J. Allen, Mr. Thomson, and Mr. Massey. friends opposite are not prepared to admit, as Kindly allow me to finish my sentences. And far as they are concerned, that any of those the member for Palmerston, Mr. Pirani, saw an members of the Committee connected with opportunity of giving Mr. Allen a slap in the them might have accidentally been the cause face. He saw, of course, that Mr. Allen was of this information leaking out-they would trying to assume to himself the position of scorn it if I were to make such a suggestion : leader in the absence of the honourable member it would be like putting a stick in a hornet's for Hawke's Bay, and Mr. Pirani wished to nest ; but who is it at whom the petition was show that he could not fittingly fill the position. aimed ? The gentleman at whom the petition He is not much in figure, although in form he was aimed is named Cook. Who is Mr. Cook's supporter at the present time? The member is almost beyond my proportions. He stood on that side, and he said, " You must come this for Wakatipu and the member for Bruce. way ; if you don't, the member for Wellington City will say we have been misleading him. Don't stop : go this way." And there were only three members of the Opposition who had mantle of protection around Mr. Cook ; their the courage of their convictions. Even the sympathies are with him. The point has been honourable member for Wakatipu had to follow raised as to who gave this evidence, and they Mr. Pirani. said the evidence given up to this time was Mr. FRASER. - No, I did not. unfavourable to Mr. Cook, and, therefore, it Mr. SEDDON. - And all this, if you please. was impossible that Mr. Cook should give the when the House is asserting its dignity in evidence to the Press. respect to a breach of privilege. Dignity ! Where does the dignity come in? Where do the privileges of this House come in when you noon. Who is Mr. Cook? Have we not had find members endeavouring to use an occasion that name before the public in this colony of this kind for party purposes ? I never had for some time past ? What is his work ? With what has he been connected ? Can members the least doubt about it myself. Even the honourable member for Wellington listened opposite say in connection with some of the positions that he held that they have been with astonishment to the remarks of the honourable member for Bruce, and he used satisfactory ? I say it cannot be said. these words : "You are surely falling in, and the further you go the worse you get." Why, but will the member for Bruce tell me that he Sir, I was just looking at the honourable mem- ber for Wellington, and I said to myself, " So does not know him ? at last it dawns upon you what has been going on." here. An Hon. MENBER .- He meant the opposite. read of him ? Was he ever in evidence at Mr. SEDDON .- He meant nothing of the Dunedin ? Was he the receiver and liquidator sort ; and from start to finish those who are of the Guthrie and Larnach Companies ? Was away are the best judges of what is going on. VOL. OXVIII .- 25 Hon. MEMBERS .- Oh ! Mr. SEDDON .- The moment you touch the Mr. J. ALLEN. - No. Mr. W. FRASER. - Absolutely incorrect. Mr. SEDDON .- I say, Yes ; they wrapped the Mr. W. FRASER. - I did not say so. Mr. SEDDON .- That was said this after- Mr. W. FRASER .- I do not know the man. Mr. SEDDON .- You may not know him ; Mr. J. ALLEN .- Never, until I saw him up Mr. SEDDON .- Did you ever hear of him, or 