out the session we might extend to them, and be a little kindly in dealing with a question like this, in which no human being has been injured by the action that has been taken. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) .- I do not intend to delay the House at any great length. But, considering the speeches that have been made on a question of this sort, it appears to me that it has not been dealt with on what I would term fair lines. To my mind, a good deal of feeling has been introduced into the debate; and, with respect to establishing precedents, we all re- member very well that in the last Parliament, when a member of this House divulged what had been done in Committee, he then defied the House. Why did not those honourable gentle- men on the other side, who are now protesting so loudly and almost demanding that the Pre- mier should introduce a motion to this House which would impose a fine in this instance, take up a similar attitude on that occasion to which I refer? There is no doubt, in my opinion, that the publisher of the' two lots of evidence in the Dunedin Star has undoubtedly committed a breach of privilege. But is it not a fact that we have almost invariably overlooked cases of breach of privilege ? Why, then, bring the re- porter and the publisher up in this case and impose a heavy fine? My own opinion is, if we were more in earnest in carrying out our Standing Orders, we should be justified in this instance in showing to the newspaper people of the colony that we are determined, as a Parliament, to adhere strictly to the carrying-out of the Standing Orders. If we were to meet this case with a slight fine we would, I think, be doing our duty. If, as I have already stated, matters of this description have come before this House and the country before and been overlooked, there can be no doubt this Dunedin journal thought the pub- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero lica ion of the Committee's report would be overlooked, as similar publications had been previously. In looking through the papers I came across a paper published in Wanganui which gives very briefly and succinctly its views on this question. I will read them to the House, as it is my desire to hansardise the article :- "The Committee set up to deal with the breach of privilege case connected with the Dunedin Star - Mr. PIRANI .- I rise to a point of order. The honourable member is quoting the com- ments of a newspaper. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .-- The honourable member cannot be allowed to quote from any newspaper an article commenting on the pro- ccedings of this House. Mr. O'MEARA .- It is not commenting on the proceedings, but simply, as the question of privilege has been raised, whether the reporter was within his rights in reporting what he heard for his paper in Dunedin. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- That is not in order. 4. Mr. O'MEARA .- Very well, I shall not read it. The effect of it, however, is this: this Mr. Withetord to be commended for his smartness in obtain- ing the information. I certainly commend him also, and if I were his employer I should imme- diately give him an increase in salary. because, there is no doubt about it, every journalist who knows his business is always ready and eager to receive information. And, as far as some of the Committees are concerned, I think the information about their proceedings leaks out much in the same way as it does about our caucus meetings. We meet there as a party in privacy, but, strange to say-and I refer to caucuses held in the past-the whole of the business brought before us has been published in the same evening's paper. So it is with many of these Committees. Many members fail to recognise that in the duty they are per- forming their position is one of secrecy. Their business is not only discussed in the Committee- room, it is discussed also in the lobbies and in the streets, and what is done is sometimes easy to ascertain. I think our Standing Orders ought to be reformed, so that in questions of this sort, which affect the public interest, the reporters should be allowed to attend the Com- mittee meetings. and should be allowed to re- port day by day what is done by the Committees. For instance, what is the result of this publica- tion ? We know very well what a large num- ber of mining ventures have been put on the market in Dunedin. We know also that the people of the colony have simply been " had " by the floaters of these mining ventures in very many instances, and this publication we have been discussing has been in the interests of the people, so that they may be protected and warned to look after themselves. I say that a breach of privilege has been committed ; but I think it is very unfair that this House should make a scapegoat of this particular reporter, who by his cleverness and dexterity obtains a report that was no doubt at the time invaluable to his paper. I, Sir, will be against the im- position of a very large sum by way of fine ; and if you will permit me I shall place this paper- I do not know whether it is in order, but I would like to place this paper on the table of the House. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- It will not be in order. Mr. O'MEARA .- Then, I may be at liberty to use it on another occasion. As I have already stated, a precedent has been already established. In my opinion, a more flagrant and far more serious breach of privilege than this was the one committed by the late member for Patea. He personally defied this House ; and honour- able gentlemen on the other side of the House -and more especially the honourable member for Bruce - allowed that to pass without de- manding that the then leader of the House should take steps to have that member punished for his breach of privilege. Mr. PIRANI .- What was his breach ? We have heard such a lot about it, but you have not told us what it was. Mr. O'MEARA .- You ought to know as well as anybody. 