people that it is injurious, and to ask men to set them an example by refraining from the use of tobacco. Now, some of these boys of the age of seventeen are big enough and strong enough to "lick " their fathers, and fancy a man trying to punish a vigorous youth of seventeen ! My honourable friend tells us he is to be whipped on the third offence. I should like to see him try to whip some boys of seventeen. He would get whipped himself. The thing, to my mind, is simply ridiculous ; it carries one back to the days of Elizabeth and Henry VIII. The regulations then were much on the same lines as are now proposed by my honourable friend. I say you cannot teach children a proper course of conduct in life except by set- ting an example of right conduct. That is the way to teach them. I believe, so long as men smoke, boys will smoke also, as they consider it a manly accomplishment. With regard to smoking generally, I personally feel it to be very offensive. As my honourable friend Mr. McLean has said, people go smoking about the streets, and puff tobacco-smoke in your face, and there is no doubt it is very dis- agreeable. Then, again, although there is ac- commodation in the railway-carriages for people to smoke, they do not confine themselves to the smoking-cars ; they must go into the general carriages ; and they say, " I suppose you don't object to smoking ? " They puff tobacco in your face in the most detestable way ; and unless some person rises and says, "I object to smok- ing," they will persist in doing it. Only the other day, coming down from New Plymouth by train, I had to speak to two or three persons who would insist on smoking in a first-class carriage ; and it seems to me simply abomi- / https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 With regard to the opinions of nable. doctors, well, if you wish it you can get an opinion that tobacco-smoking is very injurious, and, on the other hand, you can get an opinion / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero that it is the reverse. Tobacco, no doubt, is a very strong narcotic, and to certain constitu- The whole effect of it tions is very injurious. depends entirely upon the constitution of those who use tobacco. I think, therefore, that a Bill that endeavours to restrict tobacco-smoking by boys under seventeen years of age will be quite inoperative if it is carried, and I strongly object to placing on the statute-book any more inoperative measures. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND .- I agree, Sir, with the honourable gentleman who moved the second reading of this Bill, to a certain extent, but I must say it is a very small extent. Had he fixed the age at twelve, we will say, I cer- tainly would go with him unreservedly, but to make the age seventeen seems to me to be out- rageous. Why, youths of between sixteen and seventeen are practically men. They earn their own living, and are doing the work of the strongest men. To say that these big fellows are not to smoke a cigarette without rendering themselves liable on the third conviction to be whipped is preposterous. Public opinion would not allow such a thing, and I am only surprised at an honourable gentleman with the extensive Hon. Mr. T. Kelly his knowledge, as a lawyer, of the world, for one moment proposing to place such a measure upon our statute-book. The honourable gentle- man is certainly modest in one thing : he does not go to the extent of James I., who launched his counterblast against tobacco in general. He limits it to smoking of cigarettes by boys- very big boys some of them certainly - of from sixteen to seventeen. Now, if you stop these big fellows from smoking cigarettes, what would be the result? Why, they would be driven to cigars and pipes. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Very much better. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND. - Cigars better ! Why, we were just now told that the smoking of cigars had produced cancer of the mouth-ard that is perfectly true. What carried of General Grant, one of the most remarkable men of the age, twice President of the United States ?- Cigar-smoking. He was seldom seen from morn- ing to night without a cigar in his mouth, and he, in consequence, fell a victim to cancer. Sir, I have been very much disgusted at seeing mete children in the streets of Wellington and Auck- land smoking cigarettes. I have often felt tempted to go up to a little fellow and knock the thing out of his mouth ; but I suppose if I had done that I should have got myself inte trouble. No, Sir, I am sure this is a well-mesut Bill, but even if it passes this Parliament it will turn out to be a failure. You cannot- and I am quite sure the Hon. Colonel Pitt will agree with me-you cannot make men, or even boys, virtuous by Act of Parliament. I think we shall be reduced to this position : to have to admit that it would have been better to have left things as they are. I trust that these little fellows, when they arrive at years of discretion- I do not suppose they are going to be cut of altogether by smoking cigarettes- will see the error of their ways, and either leave off the habit altogether, or take it in moderation. It is astonishing how early some boys, even in my young days, began to smoke. I remember when I began smoking in a public school. I smoked a piece of cane. This was reported to one of the masters, and he called me up. He said. "I understand you have a taste for the cane. Of course I was speechless. He added, " Hold out your hand, and I'll give you a taste of the cane." And he did so to some purpose. This Bill no doubt will go into Committee, and it is, perhaps, for us to do the best we can with it under the circumstances ; but I do not expect very much from it. The Hon. Mr. JONES. - Of course I shall support this Bill. I will support any measure which has for its object the improvement of the race, and I believe in beginning early. There is one clause, however, that I entirely disagree with, and that is the one which desh with whipping-whipping when the offence has been committed a certain number of times. If the whipping were left to the discretion of the parents it might be a different matter. but I understand the honourable gentleman means that the whipping is to be done by the 