money was borrowed for the purpose of lending to local bodies at a certain rate of interest, in- cluding in the repayment charges a sinking fund of 1 per cent. Now, whilst we borrowed money and lent it out to local bodies, we had a security against the loan borrowed in England; and therefore, from a financial point of view, we were quite secure, because the local bodies had to repay the amount borrowed, and the amount of sinking fund was handed over to the Sinking Fund Commissioner. But what do we find to-day? If we look at the public debt we find, out of a total of $1,530,900 which has been borrowed under the Loans to Local Bodies Act, there is only $109,100 standing against that account ; the whole of the balance has been inscribed into consolidated stock. Now, what is the meaning and object of converting it into consolidated stock? There can only be one object : to en- able the I'reasurer to take the sinking funds which had to be paid by the local bodies and use them as revenue, as he has done in the past. Therefore, when honourable members say that under the present Administration we have enormously increased the assets of the country, I say, without fear of contradiction, we have reduced our free assets by £1,085,000, sale of Crown land ; we have reduced them under the Loans to Local Bodies Act by €1,421,000; and the advances to settlers and lands for settle- ment are merely cross-entries. Until such time as the indebtedness is cancelled there can be no such thing as free assets. I know it is quite easy for any member to point to the increase of wealth and the increase in the national estate, and all that sort of thing ; but I ask any honour- able member how many times they have read an account of a bankrupt's estate where the bankrupt has put the position in such a rosy way that you would imagine him to be per- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero fectly solvent ; but when it comes to a question of realisation, where does he come out ? It is very easy to say we have enormous securities as against the loans. I grant you all that ; I do not maintain that the colony is insolvent-very far from it ; but I maintain, under the method we are proceeding with at present-namely, requiring over two millions to administer the colony in addition to the revenue-we are living far beyond our means. What is the position, as I said before? I will give one more com- parison : Whilst the population of the colony has increased 19 per cent. in ten years, the national debt has increased by no less than 33 per cent. And I would ask again, whether we should con- tinue to go on at the rate we are doing at the present time? Then, Sir, in regard to this great security that we have in the lands which we have been purchasing, I would like to devote a minute or two to see whether we are so abso- lutely secure from a monetary point of view. I am not now talking about the indirect advan- tages to the colony. I thoroughly believe in the settlement of the land, but I am going to look at the position from a thoroughly practical business point of view, and I would ask honour- able members if it was not a fact that land- values have been hardening in this colony Mr. Millar during the last few years ? Is it not a fact that land-values have been hardening because of the price produce has been bringing ? And is it a. wise policy-would any private individual go and buy if he thought it was at the top of the market ? That is the position to-day : that we are buying lands in this colony now at a price which can only pay provided products keep up to present-day prices. If one looks round the world they will find that the staple products of this colony are going to have a harder time in the future than they have had in the past. Let us take Australia, for instance. At the present time Victoria is exporting over one million pounds worth of butter; and in New South Wales, where a few years ago they did not milk five hundred cows, they are now milking close on fifty thousand. That condition of things is not confined to any one portion of Australia, but, from the evidence that we got over there when I was on the Federation Commission, it was general throughout the length and breadth of the whole of Australia. Everywhere they are gradually increasing the output of the very same things we produce. In New South Wales alone, during the last ten years, more land has been put down in agriculture than in the previous hundred and twenty years. And what must be the inevitable result of that? Year by year not only will our market be shrinking in Australia, but we will find Australia entering into competition with us in the Home market ; and, according to the evidence we have, the Argentine is going to do the same thing. If that competition takes place, which it must do -it is inevitable-then 1 say the price of our produce will be bound to be affected, to my mind, as against the producer, and the moment it comes to that pitch then, Sir, it is impossible to pay the rents on their present values. That they can do so now is admitted, but, I say, is it wise under the present conditions to go on pur- chasing land if we believe it to be at the top value? Then, again, there is another factor which is going to affect us, and it is-as honour- able members know-that the price of money is hardening locally all round. Now, with the price of money hardening all round it simply means that the Government have to give a higher figure for their money or they have got to do with a little less land for settlement. It will mean this likewise, that money will not be available for manufacturers now to go and extend their business as they could if the rates remained low. It will prevent many persons from going in for many things which at the former rate would have paid, but which will not pay at the higher rate of interest. Mr. PIRANI .- There are twenty-two millions in the banks. Mr. MILLAR. - Yes, there are twenty-two millions in the banks, and let any one go and ask for an advance, and they will find that the rates have hardened since last week even. Therefore, I say that the outlook is anything but promising, and we ought to take it as an in. dication and shorten sail at the present time. I know it will be most unpopular, but I say it is not a question of whether it is unpopular or 