For. Against. Morrison Allen, J. Duncan Herries Smith, E. M. McGuire. Majority against, 13. Amendment negatived. The House divided on the question, " That the motion, as amended, be agreed to." AYES, 35. Allen, E. G. Hornsby Seddon Smith, G. J. Arnold Houston Steward Bennet Laurenson Buddo Lawry Tanner Carroll McGowan Thompson, R. Colvin McNab Ward Millar Wilford Ell Field Willis Mills Fowlds Napier Witheford. Hall O'Meara Tellers. Hall-Jones Palmer Carncross Parata Hogg Stevens. NOES, 16. Lethbridge Atkinson Symes Fraser, W. Thomson, J. W. Massey Mckenzie, R. Graham Meredith Hardy Tellers. Haselden Hutcheson Rhodes Lang Russell, W. R. Pirani. PAIRS. For. Against. Duncan Herries Morrison Allen, J. Smith, E. M. McGuire. Majority for, 19. Motion, as amended, agreed to. The House adjourned at twenty-five minutes past twelve o'clock a.m. # LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Thursday, 12th September, 1901. Election of Chairman of Committees - H. von Blaramberg-Companies Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. # ELECTION OF CHAIRMAN OF COM- MITTEES. The Hon. Mr. REEVES asked the Hon. the Speaker, Chairman of Standing Orders Com- mittee, When the report of the Committee on the election of Chairman of Committees will be presented to the Council ? The Hon. the SPEAKER stated, in reply, that the Committee had agreed on the main points of the report, but they desired to give it some further consideration before bringing it up to the Council. Probably it would be brought up next week. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS moved, That the report of the Public Petitions Committee on the petition of H. von Blaramberg, of Palmerston North, be referred back to the Committee for fur- ther consideration. In moving this motion he begged to disclaim any intention to cast a reflec- tion on the Committee who reported on the matter. He believed that, on an analysis of the Committee who reported on the petition in 1895, it would be found that the members who were present on Tuesday last were the same, with the exception of one new member. The Committee in 1895 who dealt with it consisted of the Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker, the Hon. Mr. Barnicoat, the Hon. Mr. Bolt, the Hon. Mr. Jenkinson, and the Hon. Mr. Swanson. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Did I deal with it in 1895 ? The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- You were on the Petitions Committee that year. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I do not think you will find that I was present. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS said that, on looking up the records, he found that the names he had mentioned were on the Peti- tions Committee of 1895, and on Tuesday last those members were all present, the only new members being the Hon. Mr. Twomey and the Hon. Mr. Pinkerton. He would again say that he did not cast any reflection on the Commit- tee ; but he had gone into this matter fully, and had read the details in connection with it, and he was satisfied that an injustice had been done to Mr. Von Blaramberg. This gentleman held the highest educational cre- dentials. He was educated at the University of Gutenberg, and held the highest certificates and medals from the educational departments of Germany and Italy. On Tuesday this gentle- man, who had suffered so much from what had taken place, had come from a bed of sickness, having been ill for some weeks with influenza ; and one could see that he was ill and nervous. He (Mr. Jennings) was of opinion that one member, at any rate, of the Committee did not allow the old gentleman to give as full an explanation on the various matters as might have been expected under the circumstances. He found, on reading through the papers presented with the petition, that Mr. Von Blaramberg's prospects had unquestionably been blighted through what had occurred. The petitioner proved in one of his letters-and this was a substantial fact that he would ask honourable members to note-that the phras- ing of one of his letters had been altered by one of the officials of the Wanganui Education Board. The word "promise," in a letter to the Board of Education of Wanganui, had been altered by one of the officials to "persecution." There was no doubt about that statement : and the fact was not denied. The petitioner showed also that his position in the education service of the colony had undoubtedly been prejudiced by a misstatement by an Inspector of the Wanganui district. The petitioner was bring. ing out this very strong point : that the In- spector in his report stated that when he was 