members on the Government side our finances no less than £369,439, and to 31st March, 1901, are all right and satisfactory. The land-for- to £420,239." settlements policy has exercised the minds of the people in my district for a considerable my opinion is this : that if the rates had been time, and I must say that very little attention kept up for a few years, and the revenue spent has been paid to the requirements of the people in opening up lines into the back country, it in that district under this Act. The Treasurer would have been better than reducing the rates says in the Budget,- at the present time. The Minister for Railways "The purchase of land for close settlement does not think that the railways should be run is being vigorously pushed forward, and it is on commercial principles. Well, I differ from him. I think there should be always some- pleasing to know that the estates which have been hitherto purchased have been satisfactorily thing coming out of the railways to help to settled. During the last year approximately make branch lines and feeders for the railways, 177 farms were provided, and about 170 work- or in making railways into the interior. In men's homes." this way we would give assistance to those who Now, I think that all members of this House are helping to construct the railways, but who at the present time are getting no benefit for will agree with me that the cry that has always been raised that the South Island is getting all themselves. No doubt a great many people get the money is without foundation. I will give a benefit from the railways, and so long as the members the figures here showing the acreage reduction in rates increases the revenue there of the land and the amount paid for it, and I is nothing to be said. But I have some little think it will be seen that nearly all the money doubts as to whether that will continue. I say has gone to the North Island :- that even at the present time some of the pro- duce that is carried on the railways is charged Price. Acres. twice the rate it should be- and that is wool. £ Hawke's Bay 45,900 229,593 And it is not only that the railways are losing .. Wellington 11,158 58,946 by the extortionate rate that is charged for .. Marlborough 3,600 8,250 wool, but in my district the teams are taking . . Canterbury 50,398 9,023 the wool down to Dunedin at the present . . Otago .. 1,152 3,000 time for the same money that the rail- way is charging, and they are going off the That is all we have got in Otago, and members road to get it. I think when this can be here in the North Island have got nearly the done there is something wrong somewhere. whole of the money. And when the teams go down to Dunedin they Mr. FOWLDS. -- What about the railways ? bring goods of all descriptions back, and the Mr. BENNET. - The North Island got railways lose that freight also. I think wool more for railways last year than the South should be charged in the same way as grain Island. Mr. FOWLDS .- We did not get much more -namely, by weight. At the present, from Lawrence to Dunedin, a distance of sixty than half last year. miles, wool is charged at the rate of 5s. 4d. a Mr. BENNET .- Well, we shall see by-and- bale, and it does not matter whether the bale by. I think there are no grounds whatever weighs 2 cwt. or 3 cwt., and the teams de- for the complaints made in the North Island. liver it at the stores. Before the railways were We have been longer settled in the South Is- made the carriers went considerable distances land, and no doubt there has been more ex- off the road to the stations for wool, delivering penditure in the South Island than in the it in Dunedin at 5s. per bale. I am sorry the North up to the present time. We will all Minister for Railways is not present, because admit that; but, on the other hand, as time he would sce the neces-ity for making an altera -. went on, the North Island has been getting its tion in this case. I do not know whether the share of the expenditure. same thing applies to the North Island or not. Mr. FOWLDS .- We are only getting half of Now, the honourable member for Auckland what is spent nowadays. Mr. BENNET .- I do not know who is get- City was complaining about the small ex- penditure on railways in the North Island. ting the other half ; it is not coming to the Sir, I think that will apply to the South South Island, at all events. Therefore I think Island also. At the present time in my this shows conclusively, so far as the settle- district the' traffic on the railway stops at ment of the lands of the colony is concerned, Lawrence, and has to be carried to the interior that the North Island is getting the lion's by teams. At the present time the machinery share. Of course, the North Island cannot get for dredges is stacked nearly as high as the the railways and the lands as well ; you cannot railway-station, and they cannot get it re- get all the money, that is certain. In connec- moved on account of the bad state of the tion with the railways the Statement says,- roads. Yet they have never got a railway " In connection with results of working the there, notwithstanding all the money that has railways for last financial year the large con- been received from the sale of land and all the cessions in rates granted by the Government gold that has been got. So I do not think the since resuming control of the lines should not district has been fairly treated. be lost sight of, as they have a very material effect on the results for the year. The total than the North, and we have the greater popula- reductions made since the Government took over the railways amounted, up to last year, to tion. VOL. CXVIII .- 20. Well, Sir, so far as the reduction is concerned, Mr. FOWLDS .- You have two millions more 