some means or other to prevent those settlers from being loaded with the rates struck by the various local bodies in the districts of the colony. At the present time many of the settlers were heavily rated for the construction and maintenance of roads, and he hoped the Premier would prevent heavier burdens being imposed upon them unfairly. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said in all probability there would be an amendment of the Rating Act this session. The levying of rates such as the honourable member had described was practically levying blackmail on the back-block settlers. He knew a case in point where a local body-it was in the case of the Hatuma Estate -got a valuation from the Commissioner of the Valuation Department, and while the land was actually Crown land, and while the Crown was making all the roads, they struck a rate for it. It was, of course, discovered in time, and they had to withdraw it. Then it was said that, the rate being once struck, it could not be with- drawn. He thought there ought to be some power given under the Rating Act to the local body to exempt settlers from rating under these circumstances, and if the local body refused to grant such exemption there ought to be the right of appeal to some tribunal-probably the Stipendiary Magistrate. He knew of districts in which these rates were collected from the unfortunate settlers when they had not seen the sign of a road for four or five years. He thought some alteration should be made in the law. # SOUTHLAND VOLUNTEERS. Mr. HANAN (Invercargill) asked the Minister of Defence, If, considering the large number of Volunteer companies in the Southland Sub- district, he will consider the advisability of declaring Southland a Volunteer and Militia district, with independent control, and Inver- cargill as a centre and headquarters ? Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said he had considered the matter, and he saw no reason at present for altering the existing condition of things. # NEWTOWN PARK. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the -Government, When they intend to perform their undertaking to put Newtown Park in a proper state of repair after the damage done by camping the various contingents there ? He took a fatherly interest in Newtown Park, as he had it laid off very many years ago, when Mayor of the city. It was a recreation-ground of extreme value to the people of Wellington, and it had also proved to be a great convenience to the Government during the formation of the con- tingents which had been sent to South Africa during the past two years. The Corporation had cffered the Government every facility, had offered no objection to the use of the park, and the Government entered into an undertaking to leave the ground in a state of proper repair when the contingents had done with it. A most voluminous correspondence had taken place between the Government and the Corporation, but it had had no effect in inducing the Go- This was very vernment to do its duty. unsatisfactory to the city, because if the Go- vernment had made the repairs at first, when they could have been made, the work could have been done for about £200; but, owing to the delay of the Government in not standing by their undertaking, it was now estimated by the City Engineer that it would take £614 to put the park in a state of repair. If the work was not done soon a whole season would be lost, and the park would remain in the condition it was in now. Whatever settle- ment was arrived at, it should be arrived at at once. He hoped the honourable gentleman would impose upon the Corporation no further delay in the matter, because, however much he might desire to adhere to his own views in the matter, surely he would not allow his tenacity to cause the city to lose the use of that park for an entire season. When he (Mr. Fisher) first had the ground laid out there was a sub- soil pipe-drainage system carried out, which alone cost $600. He hoped the honourable gentleman would undertake that there should be no further delay in carrying out the agree- ment with the Government. Mr. SEDDON said, if they wanted anything done in the way of business they should have nothing to do with the military, otherwise there would be a mess made of it. In respect to this matter a very wide undertaking was given, and he might say that just after the Seventh Contingent went away the amount of claim made upon the colony for damage to the park was £140-that was to say, after seven contingents had camped on Newtown Park £140 was considered a reasonable amount. An Hon. MEMBER. - Did you pay it ? Mr. SEDDON said he had offered to do so. Then, when the park had been used for one week by the Volunteers recently the bill sud- denly came to over $600. The thing, of course, was absurd. What they had done was to esti- mate what it would cost to put the park, which was in a flooded condition, in a state of repair. Mr. FISHER. - No. Mr. SEDDON said the honourable member did not know anything about it. Mr. FISHER .- I do not know anything about it ! Mr. SEDDON challenged the honourable member to mention a single item of that $600. The City Council were going to turf all the slopes, and were going to do a good deal of work which did not concern the Government at all. He reckoned he had made a liberal offer to the Mayor : that was, that, as they had only charged £140 for the contingents, he would give ₺160 for the one week, making a total of ¥250 altogether. They could have that cheque to-morrow, but beyond that he would not give a single shilling. PHYSICAL DRILL IN PUBLIC AND NATIVE SCHOOLS BILL. A message was received from the Legislative \-- Council stating that the Council had passed this Bill with certain amendments. 