tunity, and, through it, attempt to injure the Government. He held he was right in coming to that conclusion. It was known that any patriotic cry was a popular one to take up with the masses in the country, and an endeavour was now being made to show the country that the Government were assisting parties who held opposition views. He had no doubt an attempt had been made that night to injure the Govern- ment : it was shown in speeches in which refer- ence was made to the connection of the Go- vernment with the publication in question. Well, he would repeat that, months before this article appeared, the Australasian Review of Reviews renounced the connection with the English Review of Reviews. He was himself acquainted with Mr. Fitchett, of the Austral- asian periodical, and he knew that that gentle- man was not one who would descend to sub- terfuge. At all events, when the matter came to the Government it was decided to adver- tise. They had on a previous occasion decided to advertise in London in the British Austral- asian. The House voted the money for that purpose. The House, the Government took it, appreciated what was done in that respect. Then, in the last edition of the British Austral- asian Western Australia had an article simply for the purpose of bringing before the people of the Mother-country the advantages of that colony. Queensland had advertised itself, or, at any rate, had brought itself before the world in the same way. He did not think it was right to speak about it as a matter of "advertising' -to apply that term was inappropriate and mis- leading; but the colony had brought before the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 world its resources, its industries, and its capa- bilities in a manner that seemed to the New Zealand Government to warrant them in fol- lowing the example. The article was sanc- tioned in good faith. The responsibility as far as the plates were concerned must rest with the Government, although he (Mr. Seddon) had not made the selection. He never threw responsibility on others ; as the head of the Government he was responsible, because, of course, the editor of the periodical had to select from what the Government submitted to him. As for the Rev. Mr. Berry, he believed that gentleman had a thorough knowledge of the affairs of New Zealand. He was a capable and conscientious writer ; he had kept himself in touch with New Zealand, and it was thought that an article from his pen would be in the interests of the colony, circulated as it would be through this medium. From begin- ning to end no fault could be found with the article on its merits. In the debate no fault had been found with it on its merits. And why should the integrity of the Government be im- pugned ? Why should it be said they were aid- ing and abetting disloyalty ? Reference had been made to the case of Mr. Grattan Grey. Now, he said Mr. Grattan Grey was never at- tacked by a single member of the House for his writings. What happened was this, and it was well known to honourable gentlemen : that a certain resolution had been passed by the Re- Mr. Seddon that no Hansard reporter should write on political subjects or identify himself with con- troversial matters; that that resolution had been communicated to Mr. Grey and to all the officers of the House by Mr. Speaker; and when Mr. Grey, in defiance of that order, per- sisted in disobeying it, and practically would neither express regret nor promise he would not do it in future, it simply remained for the House to affirm that over its servant it had control. That was the position the House took up, and the world ought to know it. They never did and, he hoped, never would in this country interfere either with the liberty of speech or the liberty of pen. At the same time order must prevail, and no parliamentary officer could be allowed to defy Mr. Speaker and the Parliament. Mr. LANG (Waikato) said, With reference to this particular vote of $260 for the Review of Reviews, he believed it was unquestionably wrong to use the taxpayers' money in this direc- tion, because it was not used for advertising the colony so much as for advertising the Premier and his supporters. Another reason why money should not have been spent in this direction was that there were many just claims which could not be settled because it was said there were not sufficient funds for the purpose. In the case of many petitions in which Committees of the House had recommended payment of certain sums, the Government could not be got to settle them. There were also numerous cases in which roads were urgently needed in order to give settlers access to markets, and yet for want Then, the of funds these wants were not met. Premier spoke as if the Government adver- tisements were equally divided between the papers which supported the Government and those which were opposed to them. But this was not the case. There were two papers in his own electorate called the Waikato Argus and the Waikato Times. The Argus was not always a strong supporter of the Government, and in consequence of that had got the large sum of £7 18s. 5d. for Government advertisements, whereas the Times, which was always a strong Government paper, and which he believed was either owned or partly owned by a late Minis- ter of the Crown, who was now in the Upper House, received the sum of £61 18s. 10d. in that way. The two papers were filed in the library, and honourable members could see them and judge for themselves. As for the circulation, it was generally admitted in the electorate that that of the Waikato Argus was by far the largest. The position the Premier had taken up in trying to stamp out that paper had done it more good than anything else that could happen, because the settlers of the Waikato, above everything, liked fair-play, and it was only natural that they should sup- port a paper which the Government were trying to stamp out. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) said that anything more extraordinary than that the Australasian Review of Reviews had pro-Boer tendencies he had never heard in that House. 