4.30. way to the House: The Government desired to get the work through ; they desired to bring the session to an end, at all events, about the first week in October, and he believed that that could be done if members applied their minds to it, and they could give justice to the work as well. At all events, in former sessions he had endeavoured to force the pace, and force work through ; but, for very cogent reasons, he could not stand work as he could at one time, and he had been taking things easy, and he intended to go on doing so. Therefore, if work did not proceed as rapidly as otherwise, members must not blame him if the House sat until the end of November. He thought it would facilitate the business of the country if this motion was carried. He might say at once, in respect to this question, that his strongest reason for moving it was that he knew from the Chairmen of various Committees, and par- ticularly the Petitions Committee, the amount of work before them, and that if these morning sittings continued it would not be possible to do justice to that work. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) was sorry the Pre- mier had deemed it necessary to take away a privilege they had enjoyed so far this session. The Premier should not forget that he had still two nights on which he could continue the business of the country right through the night until daylight ; but it was felt that having two nights in the week during which there was a certainty of being able to go home at half-past ten p.m. was only a kindly, sensible privilege. He would like the Premier to point out how other countries got on. He believed the right honourable gentleman could point to no Par- liament in the world where there were such harassing and improper hours as had been http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero maintained by the Premier during last session of this Parliament. And he believed there was a considerable number of members who re- turned to their homes in a condition of health that was anything but creditable to sensible men in continuing hours that brought them to a palpable degree of physical prostration. He did not think it was at all necessary to sit late hours. Personally, he would rather go to work at half-past eight or nine and keep on until five p.m., and conduct the business of Parliament in these hours, and give the neces- sary evenings in the week for the manage- ment of Committee business, because we would feel there was a certainty of Com- mittees not sitting after half-past ten p.m. The motion that was before the House was a reflection upon the Premier. It was a confes- sion that we were not able to conduct our business as sensible men should conduct it, and as the ordinary business of daily life was practised. We were making laws which were imposing all sorts of hours and restrictions on private enterprise. Nothing now seemed too trivial or officious to escape our legislative interference ; and yet we could not conduct the business of the State properly-and that confession to come from a gentleman who boasted that we were leading the van of civi- called for he must vote against it, feeling that it was his duty to do so. The Premier last session got measures through in the last hours of the last week of the session, when mem- bers were exhausted, though the Premier was not, because he would work in watches with his colleagues. How was it that we had so many laws which required amendments in the suc- ceeding session ? Simply because we had not carefully thought them over-because, so to speak, they had been punched through, not upon their merits, but because the Pre- mier was determined to have them on the statute-book. He thought the Premier could not contradict the few remarks he had made on this motion, because the right honour- able gentleman knew there was reason for his statements. He would prefer the Premier to withdraw the motion and say, " Well, I will try this session at least to see if it is not possible to do the country's business within reasonable hours." Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) hoped the Right Hon. the Premier, being strong, would also be merciful. He thought what the Pre- mier said now about doing away with morning sittings was only reasonable. He thought the necessity for good Committee-work was evident to everybody, and that the impossibility of doing our Committee-work and having morning sittings was such that the work of the Com- mittees, which he maintained was essential to the proper production of Bills eventually in this House, was impossible under our present con- ditions. But he thought it would be a good thing if the Right Hon. the Premier would agree to substitute later hours in the evening for the hours we sat in the morning. For in- stance, on Tuesdays and Fridays, instead of the morning sittings, we could easily substitute the hour of midnight for rising, or half-past twelve, so far as he was concerned, so that we might have a regular hour at which to go home. He believed this would conduce to the rapid passage of business. He was extremely sorry to hear that the Right Hon. the Premier himself felt incap- able of doing heavy night-work. It had always been to him a matter of the most profound as- tonishment that the right honourable gentleman had been able to get through the work he had. But we knew the Right Hon. the Premier, and we knew that when once he had steam up the engine would run on ; and, whether the right honourable gentleman wished to leave off at certain hours or not, he would drive on. He (Captain Russell) did not want to see the boiler burst, and, unless we had a safety-valve by closing the establishment at certain hours we knew the Right Hon. the Premier would keep members sitting all night. He would suggest in all sincerity, and not with any desire to oppose the Premier's wish in the matter, that we should fix a reasonable hour for ad- journing on Tuesdays and Fridays-say mid- night or half-past twelve-and he did not think that would be a great hardship to anybody. All those who believed in early closing, he thought, ought to join with him in saying that 