the question, why should he not do it ? Let me tell the Premier this : he had good authority for sounding the note of doubt, because the Minister of Justice, who was in charge of the Bill, raised the doubt himself on the second reading. Mr. SEDDON .- No. Mr. W. FRASER .- I beg the honourable gentleman's pardon ; I will refer him to his speech in Hansard, if he wants it. Mr. SEDDON .- Only as to the necessity for the Bill. Mr. W. FRASER .- The right honourable gentleman is not the interpreter for the Minister of Justice. Mr. SEDDON. I know well what he said. Mr. W. FRASER .- So do I. I was here ; and I have read it since in Hansard. I say that I have no desire to raise an acrimonious debate, and I see no necessity for it. Those of us who are speaking on the third read- ing are doing so in order to enter our protest against what we think is an illogical and im- proper proceeding. The leader of the House has assumed the responsibility of refusing to allow the validating clause to be introduced into the Bill, and with him will lie the blame should he prove to be in error. We are putting our protest on record, so that if hereafter it should turn out that we are right and the Pre- mier is wrong we shall be able to turn to the records of the House to show that we did our duty. It is not always a pleasant task we have ; to perform, as often discreditable motives are attributed to us ; but let me say for myself, and for those members on this side of the House, that, unpleasant as the task may be, we shall still continue to perform it to the best of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 our ability. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) .- I would like to say one or two words, and, un- like some of the honourable members who have spoken. I am not going to introduce anything personal at all. I at once say that the honour- able member for Bay of Plenty made the very most of some remarks which he says I made on the second reading, but which I have not looked up since. No doubt the honourable member has taken out that which suited the particular view he wanted to express. Mr. HERRIES .- There is some left, and I will give it to you if you like. Mr. McGOWAN .- There may be some left, but at any rate I do not want to take back any- thing I said then, and I do not want to take anything back I said when sitting at this table. The honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson) seems to think I have broken a promise. Mr. ATKINSON .- Oh, no; not you. Mr. McGOWAN .- The honourable gentleman said so in his speech, and I interjected that he was wrong. What took place? It was this : My first statement in regard to this matter was that it was not necessary, but that I would make inquiries, and if I found it was necessary the matter could be rectified later on. That did not satisfy the honourable member for Franklin, who brought up a particular case for some years. Mr. MASSEY .- That is quite wrong. Mr. McGOWAN .- Well,. a Justice of the Peace that had been struck off the roll, and yet had sat; and that honourable gentleman said he had informed me of the fact across the floor of the House, and officially ; but I do not take that as official information, nor would I take the statement of any honourable gentle- man across the floor of the House as official information. Mr. MASSEY .- What do you call official information ? Mr. McGOWAN .- Information that can be put on record ; and the honourable gentleman cannot give me a single instance of neglect of official correspondence. Mr. MASSEY .- Yes, I can. How about the gentlemen who have been recommended for the position of Justices of the Peace in country districts ? Mr. McGOWAN .- That is a different thing. If I agreed to appoint all the Justices that were recommended, every second man you met would be a Justice of the Peace. Now, we come back to the promise. When I made the state- ment that I would make further inquiry, it did not appear to satisfy members on both sides of the House. I made inquiries, and I was told that the clause was not required, but that it would do no harm. I made the statement that it was not necessary, but that it would do no harm, and that if the House wanted it I would not object. That was the promise, and I have kept it. Why, then, should there be an endeavour made to sow dissension between the Hon. the Premier and myself? All I have to say about the promise is that I have carried out all I promised the House that I would do. I do not wish to prolong the present discussion. We know the Bill is through, and the new clause is not added. The Premier mentions to me that if the amendment had been carried we should not have been able to' read the Bill a third time to-night. Well, I did not know that, and if I had known it I certainly would not have listened to the amendment. However, I thought the House wanted it, and, being advised it would do neither good nor ill, I did not object to it. But, to say, as the member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson) has said, that I promised to put the clause in the Bill is saying rather too much. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- Sir, I wish to make a personal explanation. The last speaker told the House that I was one of those who was attempting to cause trouble between himself and the Premier. That statement is absolutely in- correct. I purposely refrained from making any reference to any trouble that has arisen between the Minister of Justice and the Premier. That is one point. Then the Minister challenged me to show any instance of neglect either on his part or on the part of his department. Well, the instance I was going to quote when I was stopped was this: Some time ago I recom- mended a gentleman living in a populous district for the position of Justice of the Peace 