he should be glad if the House would allow the honourable gentleman's proposal to recommit the Bill to be carried. Motion negatived. On the question, That the Bill be recommitted to consider a new clause, Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) thought the honourable gentleman should explain the pro visions of the new clause. The honourable member in charge of the Bill was entitled to fair - play. and the consideration usually ex- tended to honourable members. The Bill had been shorn of its main provision, and he would . recommend the honourable member to with- draw it until public opinion had been created upon the subject. There was nothing now in the Bill except a mongrel clause that no one could understand. He did not think it would reflect credit on the honourable member, and believed that the better course would be that he should ask leave to withdraw the measure. Mr. BARCLAY said that the only provision in the clause which was now introduced was that the chemists might open from seven to nine in the evening of the half-holiday. Bill recommitted to consider a new clause. # IN COMMITTEE. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) moved, That the following be added as a new clause :- " All chemists' shops may be opened for the supply of medicines and surgical appliances only between the hours of seven and nine o'clock in the evening, but not longer, on the day appointed for the closing of shops ; and any chemist may, at any time in the afternoon of a day appointed for the closing of shops, supply any medical or surgical appliance which is urgently required, but he shall then open his shop only for such purpose." Clause added. Bill reported, and read a third time. # EIGHT HOURS BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 3 .- " All persons engaged in domestic service, or as servants in hotels, boarding- houses, or in any similar form of service or occupation, shall be exempted from the provi- sions of the preceding sections, but such persons shall be, under the provisions of this Act, en- titled to a holiday from twelve noon on one week-day in each week, and from two post- meridian on each alternate Sunday. No such persons shall be required to work longer than twelve hours in any one day, and shall be entitled to reasonable rests for meals, being not less than one half-hour for breakfast and tea and one whole hour for dinner." Mr. G. W. RUSSELL'S ( Riccarton) amend- ment under consideration, That, after the word " engaged," the words " in employment on any farm, run. or sheep-station," be inserted. Amendment agreed to. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) moved to strike out all the words after " preceding sections." Amendment agreed to. Mr. Barciay the Chairman do leave the chair. The Committee divided, AYES, 21. Allen, E. G. Pirani Lang Rhodes Allen, J. Lethbridge Symes Bennet Massey Thomson, J. W. McGuire Hall Hardy Monk Tellers. Haselden Hornsby O'Meara McNab. Heke Parata Herrics NOES, 18. Russell, G. W. Bollard Guinness Thompson, R. Buddo Hall-Jones Willis. Collins Kaihau Tellers. Laurenson Colvin Ell Arnold McGowan Tanner. Fisher Napier Fowlds PAIRS. For. Against. Hanan Carnecross Gilfedder Houston Mackenzie, T. Lawry Smith, G. J. Meredith. Majority for, 3. Motion agreed to, and the Chairman left the chair. CYCLE BOARDS BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 2 .- Interpretation. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) moved. That progress be reported. The Committee divided. AYES, 16. Buddo Herries Tanner Hornsby Willis. Carncross Carroll Lethbridge Tellers. McGowan Guinness Mackenzie, T. Bennet Hall Meredith Thompson, R. Hall-Jones NOES, 15. Smith, G. J. Allen, E. G. Hardy Heke Ward. Arnold Laurenson Tellers. Bollard Ell Collins Massey Rhodes Napier. Field Fowlds PAIRS. For. Against. Lawry Houston Palmer. O'Meara. Majority for, 1. Progress reported. The House adjourned at a quarter past twelve o'clock a.m. 