Times. However, yesterday I received a memo- randum as follows : - " Headquarters, Wellington, New Zealand. "Memo. re Trooper Seymour. " With reference to your letter re above- mentioned trooper's rifle and bandolier, I have the honour to inform you that the Defence Minister has not yet come to any decision re- garding the rifles and bandoliers of returned troopers: "J. GETHIN HUGHES, Captain, Staff-Officer, New Zealand Forces. "To C. A. C. Hardy, Esq., M.H.R." Well, Sir, I do not know whether the 10.0. Premier has a knowledge of this. I am satisfied that he was as open and clear in his promise to me, when he said, "Yes, they will get them," and I am just as satisfied as ever I was that he will keep his promise. But this delay shows mismanagement in one cf his departments. This gentleman was a staff officer in the New Zealand Forces. At any rate, I hope this promise is not like some of the other promises of the Government, which, like pie-crusts, are made but to be broken. Throughout the length and breadth of the country there is a widespread feeling that the Government is very extravagant. I do not know whether any satisfactory explanation has been given on this point by the honourable gentlemen opposite. I would ask the Premier, Is it not a fact that last year you drew nearly £4,000, or, rather, I ask you, Sir, if the Premier did not draw nearly $4,000 last year from the public purse for salary and travelling-expenses ? This is, at any rate, the current opinion, and it is for the Premier to say that he did not do so. But if he did so, I say to him, as well as to the members of the party, for the future try and act squarely. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - Sir, I rise to a point of order, for I have never listened to any- thing like this since I have been in the House. Honourable members may smile, but I have never heard a question put to the Speaker such as the one you have been asked to answer. I have never known the Speaker to be asked a question with regard to Ministers' salaries and. expenses, and I have never yet heard a Minister of the Crown told to "go square." I say, Sir, that the honourable member's remarks are an insult to Ministers of the Crown ; they convey a grave reflection on the Ministers of the Crown, and if Ministers are not protected by the Chair, I would ask, Where is their protection to come from? I ask, Sir, that the words be taken down. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - I must first rule as to the question asked by the honour- able member. The custom of Parliament is that members when speaking must address themselves to the Speaker I understand that the honourable member's remarks were ad- dressed in the ordinary course of debate to me, and in addressing me he asked the question of the Premier and not of me. The question as to whether the words "act on the square "- Mr. Hardy use of ; but the statement was that he hoped that the Premier and the members of the party would "act square," and, as far as I can see, no reflection has been cast upon the right honourable gentleman. Mr. HARDY. - I thank you again, Mr. Speaker, for your protection. I must admit that I am a Freemason, and have been one for many years. I also say I never wore a masonic charm at my chain. The only charm I wear is the pass for the New Zealand railways. I draw the attention of the members of this House to the fact that the Right Hon. the Premier him- self wears a masonic charm, and I consider, Sir, it would be a disgrace and that I would be act- ing scandalously to the profession I try to adorn if I threw anything like that on the floor of the House. I thought I had made myself clear when I said "squarely," and not "on the square." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, I submit if the honourable member says that members of this House have not acted squarely it is ex- actly the reflection I complained of. To act "squarely " is to act honourably, and to express the hope that in future the Premier will ac: squarely leaves the inference that in the past he has not done so. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I do not think the honourable gentleman should take the word in that light. I am satisfied the honourable member did not mean to cast any reflection on the Premier. It is a parliamentary expression that has often been used in this House. Mr. HARDY. - I thank you again. Mr. Speaker, for your further protection. Now. Sir, in conclusion, I wish to say that not long ago the Right Hon. the Premier made 3 striking allusion to the fly in the amber. It was a beautiful simile, and I do not know that I could apply it better than to ask the honour- able gentleman to look alongside him at the members who form his Cabinet, and let honour- able members say if those gentlemen are not like the fly in the amber,. and ask themselves how they got there ? Mr. PARATA (Southern Maori) .- Sir. I have a few words to say on the matter now occupying the attention of the House. I look upon this financial question as a matter which im- mediately affects the welfare of the colony : in saying that, I refer to the welfare of both the Maori and European races. Therefore I do not stand up to refute or to deny the remarks that have fallen from honourable members who have so far spoken in the debate. I do not pro- pose to go into the figures set out in the Budget. or to deal with the Statement item by item to show that the information therein contained would be for the welfare of the colony. Honour- able members are aware that I have been in this House for a number of years, sitting here year after year consecutively ; and it has been my lot to listen to the debate on each Financial Statement that has been during those years brought down, and I do not see that the present Financial Statement differs in any material point from similar documents brought down to 