Postal are for the revenues actually received doomed, and disaster was upon him. And so it is, Sir, with the country. Some honourable during the five months of the present financial members of the Opposition have all along been trying to ruin this country ; they have been running it down continuously by decrying the the Postal Department for the five months is Government and all its works and actions, and there they have sat silently by during this that the revenue is only £8,400 to the bad ; and debate and allowed a few members on this the Customs, £11,000 short ; while the Excise is side of the House who have fallen into the able members-and the member for Franklin trap to criticize and condemn the adminis- tration of the affairs of the colony in re- gard to what they call large additions to the debt of the colony. And, Sir, who helped to make those additions to the debt of the colony ? Did the honourable member for with responsibility on their shoulders, they can Dunedin City, did the honourable member for screw themselves up to such "blue" predictions Ashley, did the honourable member for Nelson with the actual facts the other way. And yet, Sir, I have no doubt the honourable member is City, the honourable member for Wairarapa, and the honourable member for Riccarton, a million of money for the North Island Trunk since they have been in the House, not support the Government in these matters ? Undeniably Railway, and as much more as he can get for they did; and yet we have these honourable other works. Now, one word about the public gentlemen, after the Government in their debt. Honourable members have had com- Financial Statement have clearly indicated that parisons made for ten years-the ten years the colony is in a solid and sound finan- previous to 1890, and the ten years pre- cial position, but that it is desirable, owing vious to 1900. Now, I am going to tell the to circumstances over which we have no con- House what that means. For the ten years trol, to exercise reasonable precautions, im- previous to 1890 the colony was borrowing mediately trying to bring about a financial £240,000 per year gross and £260,000 net more crisis, if they could do it by preaching to the than it had been borrowing during the ten years people of the trouble in the financial world, from 1890 to 1900; and if those honourable knowing very well that if such a disaster members believe that ten years ago it was an were brought about it would not only affect improper thing for the colony to borrow money the colony, but that private individuals and all for making railways, roads, bridges, and the private undertakings would suffer most, absolute hundred-and-one other things which it is the ruin probably overtaking many. Now, Sir, duty of the colony to undertake, why did they I want to say a word about the financial not oppose that policy before their constituents ? position. We have heard predictions that They did not simply because they knew per- the colony is retrogressing, that it is going fectly well that the development of all new or backwards and downwards-everything but young countries cannot be effected without forging ahead. How do they coincide money, and if the people themselves had not with the indication we have had from the the necessary money it became a necessity to Commissioner of Customs giving us the position borrow it. Out of these loan-moneys invested, of the Customs Department, showing it is only almost eight millions - made up of land £11.000 behind what it was last year, although settlement, £2,075,566 ; advances to settlers, the Customs duties remitted were over $150,000? £2,380,000; loans to local bodies, £1,205,900; lands improvement, £500,000; Bank of New The excise duties are ahead of what they were for the same time last year by $2,600. What is the position of the railway revenue, which is land Consols, £459,389 ; district railways, £47,000 ; additions to open lines, $625,000; another of the great departments of this colony? The railway revenue is $65,800 more than it was dairy industry, $1,781 -- is direct interest-earning to the colony; and there is no honourable mem- last year, although we reduced the railway rates by some $75,000 for the year. The revenue ber on that side of the House-and certainly not the member for Nelson City, the member for the corresponding period last year was, in round figures, $642,000 ; for this year up to date for Ashley, and the member for Riccar- it is $708,000. Now, what is the revenue of ton-who will say that the advances to the Postal Department for the same period ? local governing bodies, running up to Why, notwithstanding the enormous conces- £1,205,000, as against $250,000 for the previous sions that have been made by the introduction ten years, is not to meet the necessities of local government. Now, as to the question of the of the penny-postage, which meant giving away public debt, I am one of those who has always $80,000, the revenue is already $193,900, as believed that it is most desirable that this colony against $202,300 for last year-only £8,400 less should not borrow excessively. I believe so still. than it was for the same period last year before At the same time, I am most distinctly of opinion that enormous concession was made in regard to that for many years to come the colony will the penny-postage. An Hon. MEMBER .- How long is the period ? require to obtain the necessary moneys to meet the many functions the people themselves have Sir J. G. WARD .- It is for the five months decided that the State is to discharge. And up to the 31st August. All the figures I have year. Now, Sir, honourable members know that the position of the railways for the five months is £65,800 to the good ; the position of £2,600 better. And yet we find some honour- among others-telling the House and telling the country that the financial position of the colony is not sound and that the colony is going to ruin. It is almost pitiable to realise that, at the same time prepared to take a quarter of Zealand preferred shares, £500,000; New Zea- 