the Court ? Is the House of Representatives a Court? I say it is the High Court of Parlia- ment, and the parties before this High Court are, firstly; the publisher, and secondly, the reporter. Now, these two parties are before the Court, and the Court says, We accept your explanation, and on payment of the sum of $15 we will not take any further action. Then, Sir, I have been told in this debate that we shall not receive the money. Ah, that will be flouting the House ; but I think you will find that the leader of the House, if that attitude was taken up, would do his duty, hoping to be supported by the whole of the members. There is nothing of that kind yet. I say, Sir, the attitude I have always taken up in respect to these matters has been a somewhat merci- ful one. I could name instances where mem- bers opposite were prepared to go to the fullest extreme; and in one case, in which the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) himself was wrongfully before the House, I took up the same attitude with him as I am taking with the reporter at the present moment. That being the case, I would ask now, Why delay the business of the country ? I am forced to the conclusion that this is an attempt, for the second time, to prevent my reply on the financial debate. I believe that there is behind this a determined attempt to stop the business of the country proceeding. should, Sir, have had an opportunity to reply on that debate to-night ; and in fairness to the finances of this country, in fairness to the colony itself, and in fairness to myself, that debate should be ended. That reply should be given, and the country should know how we stand. That is preventing it, and those who are doing it should take the responsibility. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- I do not intend to address the House at any length, having already given my views on the question. The Premier has expressed regret at the debate being continued so long. The right honourable gentleman is the chief offender. Every time he gets up and he has spoken five times-he has taken his full half-hour on each occasion. If the right honourable gentleman and his col- league the Minister for Railways had sat tight the debate would have closed at about twelve yesterday. I am quite satisfied of that. But every time he has got up or his colleague has got up they simply induced others to speak. There are many things I should like to answer in the right honourable gentleman's speech, but I shall not do so, considering the lateness of the hour ; and to prove that we do not want to prolong the debate I shall only ask members to consider the amendment. It is to strike out the words "expression of regret." Well, we hold that in Mr. Cohen's letter there has been no expression of regret. There has been an expression of regret that he has not been able to publish the evidence owing to the forms of the House, but there has not been an expression of regret at his having offended; and before this House agrees to any motion such a definite ex- pression should be obtained. I would ask the Mr. Seddon Mr. Cohen's letter is not an expression of regret, and that it is a letter that should not have been sent to this House, to- Mr. SEDDON .- Yet you are going to vote to accept it. Mr. HERRIES .- Unfortunately, the House has already decided to put in the word " ac- cepts." You put the question down " including the word accepts" when we were taking the division on the member for Wellington City's amendment. and, unfortunately, we have to accept something. But I am sorry to say that we cannot accept an expression of regret, because I do not consider it is there. Weought to accept the letter just as a letter is received by any ordinary local body. The words "letter received " means that nothing more is to be done with it, or that you receive it simply because you do not return it, or throw it into the waste-paper basket. The word "accepts" is in the motion, and therefore we cannot help accepting something ; but I say we ought not to accept the expression of regret, which. I am sorry to say, is not in the letter. Therefore that is the reason for this amendment ; and all those who disapprove of Mr. Cohen's letter, all those who think he has been flouting the House, should vote for the amendment, and thus preserve the honour of the House. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .--! should not have spoken again on this matter but for the strong remarks made by the Premier when he was dealing with the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher). It appears to me now that whenever a member of the House speaks in op- position to the wishes of the Government the strongest retort that can be urged against that member is that he is a "disappointed man." We hear that not only from the Premier, but from other members of the Ministry. The same remark was made a few evenings ago by another member of the Government. 1 do not know what the Government hope to gain by hurling at honourable members when they speak on principle, as the honourable member for Wel- lington City (Mr. Fisher) has done, that their speeches are the result of pique and disap- pointment. The Premier probably knows better what his own motives are than any of us who are able to interpret the operations of his mind. However, Mr. Fisher will now understand some- thing of the meaning of those words be used himself the other night- Give me the avow'd, the erect, the manly foe. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable gentleman is quoting from Hansard of this session. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .-- I am quoting from Canning, but I will give the honourable gentie- man the quotation without looking at it, - Give me the avow'd, the erect, the manly for. Bold I can meet perhaps may turn his (dos. But of all plagues, good Heaven, thy wrath can send, Save, save, oh ! save me from the candid friend It is purely a coincidence, Sir, that my friend the member for Wellington City began his speech on the Financial Statement a few evenings ago with these words, but the quotation was so apt that I 