adduced valid argments which cannot be con- troverted in support of my application, and I cannot yet get altogether satisfaction. An Hon. MEMBER .- A new gaol ? Mr. HANAN .- Yes; a new gaol is much needed ; the old structure is now the crumbling ruins of ancient days, and not adapted to the necessities of the present time. It is very difficult to get Ministers to carry out any sub- stantial improvement. The Minister of Jus- tice has been down there recently, and saw the building, and has, I understand, decided to have a new gaol. Then, as regards the police district, I have pointed out to the Minister over and over again that we should have Southland constituted a separate police dis- trict ; but so far I cannot get a definite reply, although if the honourable gentleman knew the volume of business transacted in the dis- trict he would see the necessity for it. We should also have a separate Volunteer district, by reason of the number of the Volunteer com- panies. An Hon. MEMBER .- More gold lace ? Mr. HANAN .- Not more gold lace, which, I take it, refers to members of Volunteer corps. But I should like to remark in this connection that during the time the present Commandant has been in office we have seen him twice in Southland during the five years. What is the use of appointing a man if he is going to sit in his office, write letters, and endeavour to trans- act the business of the colony from Wellington ? We want a man to visit each locality, see the Volunteers, and ascertain what the officers are doing. But this has not been done in the past. I hope the new Commandant will go through the colony and come into contact with the local Volunteers, and utilise his knowledge and ex- perience in putting our Volunteer system on a better footing. It is not my intention to occupy time in dealing with the matter of the speedy erection of railway workshops, as I have already urged the same upon the Minister ; but, in passing, I might say that a great injustice was done by the removal of the workshops from Invercargill years ago ; and when we consider the fact that an engine has to be sent to Dun- edin for a coat of paint, or to have trifling repairs effected, it must appear quite obvious that the time has arrived when some alteration in this state of affairs is necessary, and when machinery will be provided for doing such work at that important railway centre. 1 hope, Sir, to obtain substantial votes to improve the roads in the Seaward Bush district, part of my electorate, which is a new settlement. These roads are in an exceedingly bad state. ## BREACH OF PRIVILEGE. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- 7.30. Sir, before you start I wish to inform you of a breach of privilege, or what I think to be a breach of privilege. I have here before me a copy of the Dunedin Erening Star of Tues- day, the 27th August, and I find five columns of the evidence that has been given before the Mines Committee. I am a member of that Mr. Hanın mittee, that we are still subject to the suspicion of having divulged evidence to this newspaper .. This seems, so far as I can judge, to be the whole of the evidence taken on the second day that the Committee considered Mr. Easton's petition. Sir, I think some steps should be taken, otherwise it seems to me that the whole of the evidence that has been taken before this Committee will day by day be disclosed in the. Evening Star. I asked the Chairman of the. Committee whether he was going to take. any action in the matter; and he said he- would do so if he was directed by the Com- mittee. But it appears to me, if we wait until Thursday, the day on which the Mines Committee meet, that the whole of the. evidence that has been given might be pub- lished in the Evening Star. I submit it is wrong for this House, and wrong to the people who have come with evidence, to have the evidence published in any paper in the colony, besides being a breach of our Standing Orders. It is quite possible that the Committee may not lay the evidence on the table of the House .. The Committee have not resolved to lay the evidence on the table of the House, and it is quite possible they may not do so. An Hon. MEMBER .- It may not be correct. Mr. HERRIES .- No, this is certainly not & corrected copy ; and, Sir, it seems to me that the leader of the House at present should take some steps in order to prevent any further publication of the evidence taken before this Committee. I only call your attention to it : it is for the leader of the House to move it as a breach of privilege, which I presume he will do, otherwise I should move it myself. A special Committee has been set up, and I pre- sume he will also move that this be referred to it. The CLERK read the extract from the news- paper, as follows :- " William Holsted, giving evidence before the Mines Committee on a recent occasion, said, ' I am the secretary of various companies, and reside in Dunedin. I know Mr. Cook and Mr. Easton. I was managing for Mr. Cook at Dunedin up till the 13th April. Dealing first with the Tucker Flat Company, I find, on consulting the share register, that Mr. Cook holds 800 contributing shares. Vendors' shares were not allotted. I am not aware of the number of vendors' shares that he was to have obtained. The agreement gives the number at 1,500 fully paid-up shares, which apparently, according to the prospectus, were to have been distributed between the vendors. Six thousand contributing shares were taken up. All were fully subscribed.' " Will you explain why the vendors' shares were not allotted ?- That was a matter for the directors. The company's solicitor advised them not to allot the vendors' shares until certain documents had been completed. " According to the share register, Mr. Cook owes #65 in calls ?- Yes ; there have been two calls struck-he owes one call. 