grants should be handed over to local bodies to expend. For the most part, where the local bodies have grants handed over to them they are expended better and cheaper than when the Government do it, because when the Govern- ment expend it a large amount is deducted for office and other expenses; but if the money is handed over to the local bodies generally they expend the whole of it without deducting any- thing for expenses, and they often add some- thing to it also. They also know where the expenditure of the money is most wanted, and they expend it cheaper and better. Now, with reference to the system of disposing of the Crown lands: at the present time there are three systems in vogue-occupation with right of purchase, lease in perpetuity, and the cash system. Now, I want to point out one peculiar thing in connection with these systems. In occupation with right of purchase there are " thirds " granted, and also under the lease in perpetuity, and when tenants under occupa- tion with right of purchase convert their lands into freeholds the "thirds " are available. But in the case of cash sales there 12.0. are no " thirds " devoted to the roads. I think this must have been an oversight, and the Government should alter it. It is to their advantage from a financial point of view to get the cash purchase, and surely it is only fair that a third should be handed over in the same way as in the occupation with right of purchase and the lease in perpetuity. With regard to the leasehold system, I would point out that, in spite of all we have heard of the popu- larity of the lease in perpetuity, the occu- pation with right of purchase is far and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 away the most popular form of taking up land. Honourable members need only look at the Crown Lands Report of this session to see that fact for themselves. Settlers are so anxious to have the right to procure a freehold that they will pay 1 per cent. more rent to be able to procure it; and I venture to say that, if the rent under the occupation-with-right- of-purchase scheme were reduced and put on even terms with the lease in perpetuity, we would find few settlers, if any, taking up land under the lease in perpetuity. Then, Sir, I consider that all tenants of the Crown should have the privilege of converting a leasehold into a freehold. It has often been said by members who oppose this plan that those of us who advocate it wish to urge the settlers to convert their leaseholds into freeholds. It is nothing of the kind. We only wish them to have the privilege of doing so if they feel so inclined. They should have the right to acquire the free- hold by paying instalments, their rent being reduced in proportion to the instalments paid. Now, with reference to the ballot system, it has been acknowledged by the members of the House generally that that system is nothing more nor less than gambling. If honour- able members will look at the speeches of the Right Hon. the Premier, Captain Russell, and others delivered in this House on the 19th July last, it will be seen those honourable gentlemen spoke strongly against the ballot VOL. OXVIII .- 19. Under that system the bona fide system. settler has little chance of taking up a section ; and, on the other hand, the speculator who draws a lot will immediately get a large sum of money for his lucky draw. With reference to the tele- phones to the back blocks, I agree with what the member for Waihemo said in that respect. I think there should be more accommodation given to settlers in the back blocks, and I can- not see why, if the Government are making new roads to freshly opened-up country, they should not erect a telephone line along the road at the same time as they are constructing it. It would mean very little extra expense, and it would be a great boon to the pioneer settlers. I wish now to say a few words about our rail- ways. In the first place, the Hon, the Minister for Railways and his department are to be congratulated on the manner in which the railways were managed during the visit of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York. There was great stress laid on the Minister and the department at the time, and as far as I have heard everything ran smoothly and well. I also wish to congratulate the Minister on the general improvement of the railways since he has had the control. I venture to say that more improve- ments have been made during the time he has had control than in many years previously. As far as the reduction of passenger fares is con- cerned, I would point out that the concessions have been of little benefit to the farmer and the country settler, because the farmer and the country settler, who probably live many miles . from a city, generally used to take a return ticket, and the reduction on that return ticket for, say 100 miles, means only a few pence, whereas the single-fare reductions are greater and of more advantage to the tourist and the stranger in the country, who is usually well able to pay a higher price for his ticket. But if the Minister could see his way to reduce the freight on farmers' produce he would be doing far more good. A very little reduction made in that respect would put the farmers in a better position. In the case of a farmer going into town the small difference in his railway- fare is not of so much importance as the loss of time and the expense he has to bear when he is in town. Since I have been a member of this House I have continually urged on the Minister the importance of fencing in the railway-line. Speaking now more particularly with respect to my own electorate, I am glad to see that the Minister for Railways has now started the fencing-in of some of the most dangerous parts of that railway-line, and I hope he will continue the work of fencing in that line. I think the time has now arrived when we should have two trains a day, at any rate, on the line from Frankton Junction to Te Awamutu. I wish to protest against the manner in which the Railway Department treat applications for goods-sheds or stock-yards. When a member of the House sends in an application for a goods-shed or a stock-yard he usually gets a formal reply from the department giving the amount of stock and goods shipped, and stating that the amount of traffic at that place does not justify it. But 