into the merits of the case which was before the believe a person who says he refused to do F: Committee. That suggestion was received by a dishonourable action, and expressed regret ; the House with favour, but it was not produc- yet that, because some one had been guilty of tive of success in the quarter to which it was a dishonourable action, you would still insist addressed, and we were informed subsequently on his being penalised ? I say the two things in the debate by the noble lord the leader of the are glaringly inconsistent. We have heard, Opposition that the Chairman of the Committee again, respecting persons being interested. My declined to assist the House in the manner I answer to that is that the person interested had suggested, because it was a rule of the in this matter was Mr. Easton. The person House that transactions of a Committee should interested in this matter said he had been wronged, and he wanted to take up the same pcsi- not be discussed while it was sitting upstairs. That is an excellent rule as a general rule, and tion ; and if they had done what had been done I trust it will always be observed." by the Evening Star, I should not have taken But the point I want to make is this : that up the same attitude with respect to the matter ; but as they have expressed their regret, I would here you have a parallel case where the- Mr. PIRANI .- It is not a parallel case. ask the House to accept that without anything Mr. SEDDON .- I say it is, because it was further being done. I say you cannot possibly in- flict a penalty without bringing the accused per- the case of a most important letter, and this letter was given in evidenco before the Com- sons to the bar of the House. To bring any one, mittee, and it was published in the papers to under present conditions, to the bar of the House which I alluded, and then, although the House is little less than a farce. I said so this morn- had affirmed that that publication was a breach ing, and I repeat it now. There is usually on of privilege and called upon these publishers to these occasions a little badinage by members appear before the bar of the House, yet, with- of the House with the counsel for the person who appears at the bar of the House, and it out any further explanation-no expression of generally ends, as far as I know, in some reso- regret either, such as we have here to-day, and no letter explaining or extenuating it-without lution being carried something on the lines of anything further being said, the leader of the the resolution which I have moved. I must, in House moved to expunge from the records of conclusion, say this : that the one who gene- the House the order calling upon them to rally profits in a case of this kind is a member attend. I say if that is not a parallel case I do of the legal profession. He has to get a very not know where you can get one. I would not handsome fee when he comes before this House. have troubled the House with this if my word It is the highest Court of the colony, and being had not been called in question. the highest Court of the colony the lawyer ex- pects a fee correspondingly. Now, Sir, I wish Mr. FISHER .- Why not move to expunge in this case ? to say a word as to who is at the bottom of this Mr. SEDDON. - I generally like to do as I resolution. I must, in justice to my colleague, think best myself. Now, we had this case of say that it is not his responsibility at all. It Mr. Watson's brought up several times. I say is not his suggestion. It was carefully come to by Ministers, after we had gone into the that that is on an entirely different footing. Mr. Watson was appointed by the Government matter fully and carefully, and, that being the of the colony to his position at a very high case, I simply say now to honourable members salary-he was practically the representative of that to carry the amendment without giving the colony in the position he held ; and, that the parties an opportunity of coming before the being the case, when Parliament, which was bar of the House would be laying down a most his master, asked him to answer its questions, dangerous precedent. I challenge any member and he declined to obey it, I say his offending of the House to say that there has ever been a case where a penalty has been inflicted without was great. And that was considered when we decided to inflict the penalty we did. On the the person charged being given an opportunity other hand, there was this to be said : that he of coming before the bar of the House or without had probably taken, as bankers do, a declara- making an explanation. If, therefore, you negative the amendment, the resolution is still tion that he would not divulge the business of before the House, and it will be for the House the bank, and, as it might have injured their purposes, he refused, in the interests of the to deal with it. I make these few remarks as bank, to give evidence; but it should not be I should like to see the House get on with the forgotten, at the same time, that he was occupy- business of the country, and not waste any more ing a position to which he had been appointed time over it. by the Government of the colony. Now, it has been said that I lauded the witness who refused have very few words to say, Sir. The position in the present case to give evidence. I did no- as 1 regard it is this: Standing Order No. 229 thing of the kind. I said if I was in his place I states :- would not have given evidence. I do so now, of the House, and documents presented to such and I do not think there is a member of the Committee, and which have not been reported House but who feels that if Mr. Cohen had to this House, ought not to be published by divulged who his informant was he would have any member of such Committee, nor by any lowered himself in the estimation of every other person." member of the House. I believe that is the general sentiment. Well, then, if that is the an offence has been committed; but the whole case, is it consistent for you to say you would Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) .- I "The evidence taken by any select Committee Now, every member of the House admits that 