nor have I ever asked for their assistance; but I say, in all sincerity, that the people of that district should be placed in exactly the same position as their fellow - settlers. are in other parts of the colony. If a man is living in the South Island, and he thinks fit to come to the North Island to reside in the King-country, he at once loses the privilege he enjoys in other parts of the country ; and I do not think that is a right or proper state of affairs. Now, with regard to national edu- cation, capitation, and teachers' salaries: So far as the scheme recommended by the Com- mission is concerned, there is no doubt it im- proves the position of the town teachers, and also of the female teachers in most cases in the Auckland Education District. But in that education district it is of little or no advantage so far as the male teachers of the country schools are concerned ; that is to say, the schools whose average attendance is small. In the Auckland District there are a large num- ber of schools of this kind. Now, those schools are conducted for the most part by married men with families, and, though they have responsibilities quite as large as the teachers of the larger schools, their salaries are miserably small. And yet, Sir, under this scheme they are not considered at all, or at any rate very slightly, and I hope some considera- tion will be given to this class of teachers. I regret that the Government cannot see their way to adopt the second scale recommended by the Commission, which I think would be far the better of the two. With reference to technical instruction, I think a great deal more might be done in the country schools. Some Native schools set a good example in this respect. There is one school established at Kawhia, where the master and his pupils have erected a substantial building, which is well furnished with tools and appliances, and where he teaches the Maori boys carpentering and leather-work. Now, I would like to say a few words about the old-age pensions. I think the Premier, if he is fair, must admit that many of us who prophesied that the scheme would cost over $200,000 were right, and that the Premier him- self was wrong. He appears to have treated this matter in rather a light-hearted way, with- out considering the consequences. My reason for speaking on this subject is that I regret the Premier cannot see his way to amend the Act in the direction of making it more fair. The Premier seems to me to be quite satisfied if he can only get an Act on the statute-book. In this respect he is very like some globe-trotters who go to different parts of the world, not to see the beauties or the wonders of the places they visit, or for any scientific reasons, but simply to be able to say that they have been there ; and all the Premier seems to care about is to be able to boast that he has placed a cer- tain Act on the statute-book, and he is indif- ferent as to whether it is going to work well or otherwise. Now, in the Budget he says, " There are reasons for believing that imposition is practised, and that evasion of the law to some extent prevails." Sir, it is time some altera- Mr. Lang tion of the law was made. There is no doubt that there are many deserving cases, but, on the other hand, there are a lot of pensioners who have rich relations who could well support them if they desired to do so. As to those who are deserving cases, and yet do not get pensions, I know the case of a poor old man aged about seventy-five, and who has been in the colony about sixty years, and, simply because he has been out of the colony for a few years during the last twenty-five years, he is debarred from receiving the pension. Now my time is nearly up, and I had several other matters to deal with, so I shall not be able to devote as much time to them as I should have liked to. First of all, as to the public debt : There is no doubt that since the Government have come into office they have increased the public debt out of all proportion to the increase of population or of trade. But the point I want to lay stress upon more than anything else is the fact that we do not get fair value for the money expended. If the same care was bestowed upon the disposal of public money by Ministers as they would bestow upon their own private affairs, our finances would be in a more satisfactory con- dition. The debt per head of population has now reached the highest point at which it has ever been. It is £62 16s. 10d. per head. Then, as far as cutting down salaries is con- cerned, I regret that the Premier hints he will have to go back to the old days, and again attach himself to the skinflints for the purpose of cutting down the salaries of the Civil ser- vants. I regret he hints at such a thing being possible. I assert that if the Civil Service is to be maintained in an efficient state its members should be paid a good and fair salary for the work they do, and such as will compare not unfavourably with what is paid in the other colonies. Otherwise, we shall lose our good men. I should like to have said something more at length in respect to the North Island Main Trunk Railway, but I will congratulate the Minister for Public Works on the fact that during the last year he has pushed that work on to the best of his ability, and has endea- voured to carry out, and I believe has carried out, the promise he made. The honourable gentleman deserves credit for that. It shows what might have been done in the past. I only wish the present Minister for Public Works had been on those benches in 1894. Mr. HALL-JONES .- Or in 1890 ? Mr. LANG .- I will not go so far back as that. I should be quite content if the railway was completed now, and if five or six years ago the same progress had been made as that of last year, I think Wellington and Auckland would be connected at the present time ; but I am afraid, notwithstanding the energy that has been shown, the railway will not be com- pleted within the four years as promised. I congratulate the Premier on the good hours that we have been keeping this session, but I do hope it is not the calm before the storm. and that he does not intend to make up for it at the end of the session. But while con- gratulating the Government upon the hours 