the suggestion that it should be used for mem- bers' purposes entirely, and there could be no harm in the House passing a resolution to that effect. He did not want to go into the matter referred to by the member for the Bay of Plenty further than to say that he thought the honourable member was rather difficult to please. When the matter was before the Library Committee the Premier expressed him- self to the effect-and he (Sir J. G. Ward) expressed similar views-that there should be some comfortable place to which members could take visitors who wished to see them on public or other business. At present there were only two pokey little rooms at the foot of the stairs, one of which would be wanted shortly for the Serjeant-at-Arms. The Premier had intimated that they would be wanted for the purposes he had indicated, and that they should not be used as tea-rooms, and the honourable member would bear him out when he said that he had emphatically ex- pressed an opinion in the same direction. He was of the opinion that the room should not be used as a tea-room, and the refreshments should not be carried there on any account. That suitable accommodation could be got for the staff irrespective of that room was beyond all question. In a conversation he had had with the Librarian yesterday that officer expressed himself to the effect that suitable accommoda- tion could be obtained for the staff with a little readjustment, and he felt sure that if his colleague the Minister for Public Works would go into the matter and confer with the Librarian he would be able to make such alterations as were necessary to meet the requirements of the staff, and at the same time to provide further necessary conveniences for members. He did not think it was necessary for the House to take further action in the matter, excepting to pass the resolution of the Premier. The Library Committee would, he felt sure, not object to that. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) desired to call attention to the peculiar circumstance that, be- cause the Chairman of the Library Committee was Deputy-Speaker, the member for Avon had moved the adoption of the report. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The Premier has moved that the report be adopted, with the addi- tion of certain words. Mr. FISHER said the report was the report of the Joint Library Committee, and the House might wish to adopt it. He would not speak further to the point of order, but later on he intended to speak at large on the subject of the report. He would like to know what position the House would be in if it wished to adopt the report as presented by the Chairman of the Joint Committee and to reject the amendment of the Premier. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - Any member wishing to reject any portion of the words proposed to be added by the Premier will move an amendment accordingly, and endeavour to persuade a majority of the members to agree with him. Sir J. G. Ward Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City). -- I suggest putting the question down to the words recommended by the Committee. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - Any one can move to omit any of the words in the Premier's motion. The question is that the words of the report be adopted, with the addition of the words following proposed by the Premier. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Might we ask you to put it down to " business " ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - If somebody moves to reject the rest of the motion I will do so. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Time and again the question has been put to certain words. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Yes, that is so, if an amendment is moved to omit the words. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) said, The House Committee had taken steps to pre- vent the intrusion of members into the lobbies, and at the last meeting the Speaker attended Sir Maurice promised to give effect to the Com- mittee's recommendation on the subject. His indisposition however had prevented his moving in the matter. The proposal of the Premier was a most reasonable one, and, as it has been supported by such authorities as the member for Bay of Plenty and other honourable mem- bers on his side of the House, nothing was to be gained by prolonging the discussion. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) thought the report that the House had been asked to adopt was not satisfactory. As time went on they found that the arrangements of the new library build- ing became more and more unsatisfactory. A door was wanted leading from the porch to the large reading-room in the front for the ad- mission of strangers. That large room should be divided into four rooms, for writing, and for the convenience of members desirous of seeing strangers on business. The providing of such accommodation should be the first considera- tion of the House. At present an immense amount of space was wasted in the large room, and proper provision had not been made to secure the conveniences necessary for the dis- charge of a class of duties that members couid not avoid. He thought that Ministers should agree to the suggestion that the front room be divided, and that an entrance be made to it from the outermost anteroom next to the orderly, for the convenience of members and strangers. He did not agree with the state- ment made against the supply of refresh- ments. He believed it was quite reasonable that members should be at liberty to pro- vide tea for friends who called on them if they desired to do so. He had at times seen honourable members surrounded by a bevy of lady clients. No doubt they would be glad to have a quiet room to which they could take them for a cup of tea. Some people came great distances to interview members on what to them was important business, and at present there was no room into which they could be taken. Some provision should certainly be made. The two rooms -the room occupied by the staff and the one next to it - would be sufficient, and more than sufficient, for read- 