several could not possibly attend to the duties they were asked to do. Members, like himself, who were only on one Committee, of course, could carry out their duties. But some mem- bers were on fourteen Committees, and it was impossible for them to attend the sittings of each Committee, even if there were twenty days in the week instead of four sitting-days as they had at present. He did not object so much to the motion if the amendment were added, because that would prevent sittings after twelve o'clock. He knew very many members of the House who were not as strong as he was himself physically who suffered very much from late sittings of the House. But at the end of the session any member who looked round the House and saw the washed-out ap- pearance of members would think that, instead of being under the electric light, they had been bleaching under the sun and the wind by day and night for months. He hoped the late sittings of last session would not be counten- anced by members, and even if they had to sit a month longer it would be better to do so than to attempt to rush through the business as they had been doing in the past. Mr. BENNET (Tuapeka) wished to make a personal explanation. He thought the honour- able member for Palmerston was wrong in say- ing there was not a quorum at the meeting of the Counties Committee this morning. Mr. PIRANI .- I said there were only three members present and the Chairman. Mr. BENNET said Mr. J. Allen, Mr. Her- ries, Mr. Lang, Mr. Stevens, and Mr. J. W. Thomson were present when he left. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) hoped the House https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 would not agree to this amendment. If the House wanted the business of the country to proceed it would negative this amendment. Ex- perience had taught him-and he had felt it with http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero regret-that repeatedly, when they had a fixed hour at which the business must be closed, a very few members, who perhaps had been beaten in debate or for some other reason sometimes not apparent to other members, would talk to that time and stop business going on, so that the House practically did nothing. Now, this so often occurred that, leaving out of sight what happened on Friday night last, unless they had some way of dealing with the business which would prevent any three or four members blocking the business of the country the same thing would happen again and again. His ex- perience had taught him this, and they had examples of it every session. They had it now with respect to new business after twelve o'clock. In his opinion, if that rule was not in the Standing Orders private members would get more of their Bills through. As it was, mem- bers talked to one Bill, and stopped it going on ; and yet it was not apparent to the public at all what was going on, because the blocking occurred on some of the preceding Bills. He said, if this time-limit was agreed to it would have the same effect. He would be frank with honourable members. Say the estimates were under consideration next Tuesday night and Mr. Pirani first item through : members would talk till twelve o'clock, and that was all they would do for that night. The next night something would be said in respect to an item of the esti- mates, a discussion would ensue and continue till midnight, and that would be all they would get that night. He said, if members wanted to get the business of the country done-and he did not think the country expected members to be here for four or five months in the year - members must give reasonable con- sideration. But at present it rested in the hands of a small minority to block business. The remedy for the whole thing was for the large majority of members, who really did the business of the country, to say, "After we have done a fair amount of business we will close up and go to bed." Now, as things had been, there were a few members who, as a rule, did not stop during the late hours, but they were always here when the galleries were full, and had a lot to say between these hours, but after midnight their names would not be found in the division-list, while the workers were kept here with a few others. There had been a good deal said about the incident of Friday night, but he clearly and properly abstained from giving that as his reason for this motion. What he said this afternoon was that he wanted the resolution rescinded because morn- ing sittings interfered with the Committee- work that had to be done, and a great deal of which was now held in abeyance. Unless Com- mittees got a chance to deal with their business, which was equally as important as the ordinary legislation, a great many people who were in- terested in these petitions would be dissatisfied. because the House would not be able to attend to their business. He had not said anything about blocking the Supply debate on Friday night, as mentioned by the member for Pal- merston, and he gave a reason for the honour- able member for Selwyn obtruding in the de- bate. He had been advised that arrangements had been made that he was to reply on Friday night, and he had made arrangements accord- ingly. This was what he believed caused the member for Selwyn to make that speech :- " Selwyn Electorate. " To the Editor. "SIR,-Can you tell us, the electors of Sel- wyn, what has become of Mr. C. A. C. Hardy. M.H.R., as we are getting very little for our money ? " Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) would like to ask whether the Premier was in order in intro. ducing matters which had nothing at all to do with the business before the House. The honourable member was reading from a letter in a newspaper commenting on a member of the House. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said he did not think he could stop the honourable member. because the question had been raised as to what occurred on Friday night, and as to whether i: stopped the reply on the debate. An Hon. MEMBER. - Can you read a news- 