now intended to propose an amendment in- flicting a small fine upon the Dunedin Evening Star for the breach of privilege that has been committed. I do not know whether that is so or not, but, at any rate, I have been informed that is the case. So far as I am personally concerned, I wish to say that, although I have not seen the amendment, such a course would probably satisfy me, because what I have con- tended for all along is that we should give the public to understand that breaches of privilege, whether committed by members of this House or by people outside, will be punished. It is not the amount of fine I contend for, but the affirmation of a principle. However, if there is one thing more than another that would in- duce me to advocate the imposition of a heavy fine, it was the stupid letter which we heard read this morning, and which, though it was supposed to come from the gentleman im- mediately concerned-Mr. Cohen-I do not believe Mr. Cohen ever wrote a word of. How- ever, I think we have wasted sufficient time over this matter, and we ought now to dispose of it as soon as possible, and get on to more impor- tant business. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- Sir, I under- stand the motion before us has been moved by the Minister of Justice. I would like to know whether an amendment that I wish to give notice of now would take precedence of any further amendment ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- As soon as this amendment is disposed of, whoever catches my eye next will have the right to move whatever he pleases. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I will not keep the House long, but I want to refer to one https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 point in reference to the words "is satis- factory." I am very glad indeed that the Ministry, by the moving of this motion, do not think the explanation satisfactory. We have had the most positive assurance from the Chair- man of the Committee this afternoon that he did not give the evidence to the reporter of the Dunedin Star. We have had the assurance of the representative of the Dunedin Star that he did not get the evidence from the Clerk of the Committee or from the shorthand reporter, but that he got it in an honourable way. Well, as I have said before, there is only one way he could have got it that could come within that category, and that is from the Chairman of the Committee. He has not got it from the Chairman of the Committee, he has not got it from the Clerk of the Committee, and he has not got it from the shorthand reporter ; and every member of the Committee except the Pre- mier-who could not have given it, because he was not at any meeting-has also denied giving it ; and therefore the House is asked to strike out the words " that the explanation is satisfac- tory," because they do not, I suppose, believe that the evidence was obtained in an honour- able way. Now, those who made such a fuss about the honour of the Press, and about main- taining a certain position in regard to a breach of privilege like this as a matter of honour, Mr. Massey the representative of the Dunedin Star. To tell us in a letter and tell us in evidence that he got this information in an honourable way when he did not get it from the Chairman of the Committee, or any official, or any member of the Committee, certainly places him in a most peculiar position ; and I should not like to be a representative of the Press, if my honour was at stake, when I was placed in a position like that which exists at the present time. I say this, that if any man who has denied giving this information to the Press has given it, then the person who received the in- formation is not, by any Press precedent, nor by any code of honour, prevented from disclosing the source of his information, if that source be one of those who have denied giving it. I could quite understand a man refusing to give infor- mation if those who had given the information had stated so; but I cannot understand the position as it stands now ; and, therefore, I quite concur with the resolution, or amend- ment, moved by the Ministry that the explana- tion cannot be accepted as satisfactory. The Premier will remember that this morning I told him what he was going to do this afternoon. The Premier will remember that when he was speaking somebody suggested an amendment, and I pointed out that the Premier would get one of his colleagues to move an amendment to his own motion. That was scouted by the Government supporters; they seemed to think that my statement was a very good joke. I de not see.where the joke comes in now. Mr. SEDDON .- I do. Mr. PIRANI. - Yes, you do; because you were at the caucus, and I was not. Mr. LAWRY .- You knew all about it. Mr. PIRANI .- I am very glad to get con- firmation from the honourable member for Parnell, because he was not here this after- noon when the Premier declared my statement to have not a tittle of truth in it. Now, the member for Parnell says I knew all about it. Now, what an extraordinary thing to get con- firmation from such a source. I would advise those honourable members who were at the caucus not to talk so freely about it. But I maintain that if the words that are moved to be struck out be struck out, and if an addition is made to the motion defining the penalty that is to be inflicted, then the whole of the argu- ments on this side of the House will have been met, with the exception of the fact that the offender has not been called to the bar of the House before being punished for the offence. So that, therefore, when the Premier teils the House that our arguments were intended to give him a slap in the face, he admits that the arguments that were used on this side of the House were correct. Personally, I care not whether the motion comes from the Premier himself or from the Ministerial benches. & long as it is a correct motion, and I do not think there is any tendency on the part of any member on this side of the House to deal with it as a personal matter. If the Premier likes he can make it as personal as he pleases, but 