that there has been a large increase in lunacy. I do not say for a moment that education is causing children to go mad; but the increase, as I have said, is remarkable, and it is difficult to 1 know what to attribute that increase to. think this is a matter which is worthy the attention of every member of this House. I notice that the vote for lunacy and charitable aid has increased some 70 per cent. in ten years. It was supposed that the old-age-pension scheme would reduce the vote for charitable aid. The prisons vote has in ten years increased 10 per cent. That, however, is a nominal increase which one cannot complain of ; but the noteworthy feature in connection with the estimates is the enormous and, in my opinion, unjustifiable in- crease in the police and defence vote. The total increase, therefore, during the past ten years amounts to .€1,300,000 per annum; and I think it is time the Government went in for a more extended system of economy than they have hitherto faced. And in connection with this there is another department which I think we ought to call attention to, and that is the Pub- lic Works Department. In 1891 the expendi- ture on this department amounted to £326,000. Last year it amounted to £1,307,000, which is an extraordinary increase-too large an in- crease altogether -- and it shows that our pub- lic works expenditure has increased to the extent of a million a year in ten years. And what do these figures show ? They show that we are living on the proceeds of borrowed money to a very large extent. An Hon. MEMBER. - What are the liabilities also ? Mr. LAURENSON .- I am not dealing with https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 the liabilities, but simply with the amount of money expended last year on the public works of the colony; and the position shows that there must be a very large proportion of http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero our people who are living on the proceeds of borrowed money. We also find that there are now nearly six thousand men emploved on the public works of the colony, and whenever we begin to experience a tightness in the money- market, and find that we cannot get borrowed money with the facility that we have been lately able to obtain it, we shall find that these men will be thrown out of employment ; that they will then come into the towns, and will start an agitation that will result in an uproar that will shake the strongest Government that ever sat on those benches. To prevent all this misery from coming upon us, what is wanted ? I will tell you what is wanted. The Govern- ment must go in for a more extensive system of settling the people of the colony on the lands of the colony. I do not believe in asking them to borrow moneys for the purchase of more estates. I believe there are plenty of public lands, especially in the North Island, that could be cut up now with advantage. There are also plenty of Native lands that can be dealt with and settled with large numbers of people, who would then be wealth-producers, instead of being, as they are at present, a source of weakness to us. Instead of the Government spending so much money on public works, if they spent half as much in purchasing some of the large estates in the South Island they would be relieving the great pressure which is being felt at the present time down South, and they would be permanently curing the "unemployed " diffi- culty. I think it is high time the Government began to face the position in real earnest, and realised that, after all, the first thing to do is to live within our means. I believe we cannot suddenly cut off our public-works expenditure, but I believe we can do this by degrees ; and I believe that the sooner we do this, and set about it in real earnest, the better for the country and for the Government. I am not going to detain the House at any further length, as I have now said all that I wished to say respecting the Budget ; but, as I indicated when I began my speech, I intend to move an amendment in the direction of expressing a wish that the Govern- ment should now begin to deal with the ques- tion of issuing notes of their own. Mr. Ell, the member for Christchurch City, has already laid before the House a number of statistics showing the note-issue of this colony. I believe that if we had a note-issue in the colony under the Government we would not interfere with our ordinary financial arrangements, and it could be done without disturbing commerce in the slightest degree. I believe we could have a currency now of two millions, and if we had behind it-because so many people insist that we should have- a gold reserve of, say. 2 per cent. or 5 per cent., we would then have that 5 per cent. and the gold reserve behind the note- issue, and we should then be able to issue notes within our own domain to the extent of two millions. That would enable us to carry through a very large amount of public works that at the present time we are not able to carry through, because we have to go on the London mar- ket and borrow money at a very disadvan- tageous price. I know a number of people say, " Yes ; but if you have your State issue you will have your State making default, the same as other States have done before." Sir, we might as well say that we ought not to have a private note-issue, or a note-issue in connection with our banks. We know that banks have suspended payment, and that the Bank of Eng land had practically to suspend its charter and suspend the specie payments four times. There is hardly a bank in the world that at some time in its history has not had to suspend its charter and to suspend its specie payments. In view of the advantages to be gained, I do think that it is not an unreasonable thing to ask that the Government of this country should be prepared to take the responsibility of issuing notes of its own, and I do not think there would be the slightest risk of the Government having to sus- pend their payments. People would know that they had not only State security be- 5.0. hind their notes, but also that they had behind that the gold basis. You would then find that the notes were as good as gold in any part of the colony ; and, as we have already circulating in the colony a million and a half of paper money, I think it is high time the 