Nelson Harbour Board Bill the honourable really tangible and strong in the suggestion of the honourable member, because he is cutting member said, - "It was hung up till late in the session, and the ground to some extent from the party he is he said the Premier had said he would have presumed to represent. As to the honourable opposed such a present had any one asked for member's attack on the Government, I under- stand the doctor's opinion is that, though pro- it but Mr. Graham." The fact that Mr. Graham asked for it was strate, the Government will probably recover sufficient to overcome all obstacles. And this from the severe attack of blank cartridges, and I do not suppose that it will make much differ- is the honourable member who tells the House and the country that the state of the finances ence to the party or the Government of the day. is rotten, and at the same time he told his I cannot understand the honourable member constituents that he was going to get a big for Nelson City in making that statement, share of the £100,000! The honourable seeing that he has been so long in the House. gentleman wound up his speech by saying When I read the speech he made to his con- that he recognised the assistance of the Pre- stituents between last session and this, I was mier (Mr. Seddon), the Minister for Railways, dumbfounded at his attitude. I will read and Mr. Hall-Jones; and the local paper it to honourable members, and they will then - which I am sure he had no influence in- be able to judge as to whether he has been put, in brackets, "Great applause." Need the consistent or not. When an honourable mem- Government fear that sort of criticism ? Need ber makes a denunciatory speech against the they trouble their heads a snap of the finger finances of the party to which I claim to be- about it? Is it the kind of criticism Go- long, then I say-and I say it feeling a good vernment supporters need be afraid of refuting deal of responsibility-that it is time for that when they meet their constituents. I say, honourable member to declare his allegiance Sir, there is nothing to be afraid of in it. to some other party. The foundation of good I shall have the utmost confidence in standing government is its finance, and when members before my constituents and demonstrating from of a party find it necessary to declaim against the very figures the honourable gentleman used the finance of the party they belong to it is the that his statement was inaccuracy itself. duty of those honourable members to at once Now, I want, first of all, to ask, in regard change their side if they believe there is cor- to this debate, what has been the position of ruption. Now, sir, let me read to honourable the parties in this House on the Budget. We members the speech of the honourable mem- have heard the criticisms in the early part of ber for Nelson City, who has raged against the the debate of the honourable member for Government in such unmeasured terms. The Hawke's Bay (Captain Russell) and of the honourable member is a political Vulcan, honourable member for Bruce (Mr. Allen). We raging, and fuming, and throwing his thunder. have heard the soft insinuations of the honour- bolts- harmless as in the days of old-right able member for Bruce to the honourable mem- and left, with the view of disconcerting the ber for Hawke's Bay ; and I cannot help thinking Government. Let us remember what he said of the old idea of history repeating itself, and from his place in the House a few days ago, that members on the Opposition benches fur- and then let us read what he told his constitu- nish a very apt illustration of the condition of ents between last session and this. He said,- things that existed, perhaps, in imagination, in " More had been done for Nelson than in any previous session he could remember. Provision had been made for continuing the line by way of the Tadmor, and for bridging the Motueka River. A vote of £100,000 has been passed for the various sections, and he hoped that they might get a considerable share. The next thing was to get authority for the money. He was about to visit Wellington, and one mission would be to get that line. Speaking of the Nelson Harbour Bill, he said it was hung up till late in the session. During the interval the Premier told him the Government could not give up the waste lands, and he was staggered for the time. Mr. Seddon suggested a rating- area. One member told him that the Act meant a present to Nelson of £45,000 in respect to cash endowments, and a total present of £87,000, and that he would have opposed such a present had any one else asked for it but Mr. Graham. He recognised the assistance of the Premier (Mr. Seddon), the Minister for Rail- ways (Mr. Ward), and Mr. Hall-Jones." Just fancy the honourable member asking for that sum out of the £100,000, and at the same time telling us that the finances are rotten, that the Government had no right to be there, and "folk-lore," we may call it, in the early ages. We will imagine, for the purpose of illustration, that the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, Captain Russell, and the honourable member for Bruce, Mr. Allen, are desiring to hold the reins of government. They desire to turn from these benches the Premier and his colleagues ; and, with the exception of one member of the Opposition, the member for Waitemata, Mr. Monk, they desire to see the Government out of office. The reason why I except the honourable member for Waitemata is because during one of his flowery orations, which took place some little time ago, he told the House and the country that he did not wish to see the present Govern- ment out of office. We all knew that that was the case, but we did not expect to hear any of them say so. We understand perfectly well that the honourable members do not want to see the Government out, because they will be like Othello- their occupation would be gone. Were a reconstruction to take place, were a new Ministry to sit upon these benches, the honour- able members opposite could not expect to be included. If another party held the reins of 