give his reasons for that. . There had been several adjournments of the House, owing to certain sad circumstances which had recently occurred, and they had been promised that the private members' work would not be interfered with in consequence of that. Then, on two occasions a debate had overlapped the private members' day, and they were distinctly pro- mised by the Premier that private members' business would not suffer in consequence. Now, just at this particular time, when they were to have the private members' day taken away, he thought it was only due to private members to point out that, through no fault of their own, they had been deprived of the opportunity of getting through their business earlier in the session. For example, at the time of the death of Sir John Mckenzie, a Bill of his own was on the top of the Order Paper, and was to come on on the following Thursday, but in consequence of that death it was put on one side, and dis- appeared to the bottom of the Order Paper. He withdrew the Bill, reintroduced it, and had it placed on the Order Paper again, and to- morrow it was really the first Bill to be considered. There was first the considera- tion of the report on Mr. Pirani's Bill, and then his (Mr. Hornsby's) Bill would come on, and he might say that as he had telegrams and letters from all over the colony with regard to it, and more especially with regard to the flour-mill trust of this colony, he thought members ought to be afforded an opportunity of discussing that matter on the second reading of the Bill. There was also the question of tied houses which was agitating the minds of a great many people, and he had had letters from Auck- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 land, Christchurch, and Wellington, dealing with that subject, and impressing on him the necessity for doing all he possibly could to get the House to go into this particular question. It was a burning question in Auckland, as it was here in Wellington, and in other parts of the colony. He thought it was hardly fair that the private members' day should be taken away just at this particular juncture. He, for one, would not oppose the resolution if the Premier would take into consideration the promise he had made to members, and he hoped the right honourable gentleman would see his way clear not to take private members' day away until to-morrow week. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) hoped the Premier would not give way on this question. The honourable member who had just sat down had called the attention of the House to some- thing that it was quite impossible for him to succeed in achieving. He had introduced to the House a Bill that was utterly and absolutely unworkable in its character, and if the time of the country was taken up in discussing bis im- possible theories in order to please the honour- able gentleman and to alarm industry, then it was time that members went home altogether. When the honourable gentleman last year in- troduced his Bill to deal with meat-freezing companies, did he desire that it should become law ? Mr. HORNSBY .- Certainly. Mr. Hornsby Mr. T. MACKENZIE said the honourable gentleman knew in his heart that his whole object was attained in gaining notoriety, which he hoped to achieve on the opportunity of the first reading of that Bill, by making a speech upon it, a most unusual thing at that stage of a measure; and, to his (Mr. Mackenzie's) mind, it was a matter for great regret that members did not have the opportunity of replying to the statements the honourable gentleman then made on that first speech with regard to the industries of the colony, when it would have been shown how absurd his legislative attempts were. If the industries of the colony were to be threatened in this manner they would not find men of stability to embark in these enter- prises, or to come into the colony. They must be given some guarantee of permanence. Mr. HORNSBY rose to a point of order. Was the honourable member in order in dis- cussing the provisions of that particular Bill ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER did not think the honourable gentleman had got so far as that. Mr. T. MACKENZIE said the honourable member was super-sensitive. He had alluded to the necessity of discussing and passing this Bill, and if he (Mr. Hornsby) opened the dis- cussion he could not object to another member throwing some common-sense light on the sub- ject. The honourable gentleman spoke of dis- cussing the merits of the Bill. Why, his Bill had no merits, and therefore it was no use wasting the time of the House upon it. He supported the Premier's motion, so that they might get on with the real business of the country. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City) said the people throughout the country were most anxious that the Cycle Boards Bill should pass this session, and that end might be attained if private members' day were not taken away this week. He had arranged to meet every objection that had been raised so far to the Bill ; and if the Premier stood true to his promise to give another day to private mem- bers, the Cycle Bill would be passed into law. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) asked whether, if the resolution were passed, the Government would promise to take up the Cycle Bill in their own hands. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) thought they ought to have some assurance from the Premier that, in the event of Wednesday being taken from private members, they would place Mr. Carncross's Libel Bill on the top of the Order Paper. There was a greater demand for that measure than there was for the Limitation of Profits Bill or the Cycle Bill ; and if the House was going to take away private members' day he thought it was unfair that the Libel Bill should not have an opportunity of becoming law. He therefore asked the Premier if he would make provision for the Libel Bill being considered at an early date. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said that on top of the Order Paper for to-morrow was the School Attendance Bill. It stood at its last stage in the House. If an opportunity were given to pass it on at once to the Council 