Mr. PIRANI did not think any member of the House had said the Premier had acted in this way other than innotently. He considered that if the Premier had taken that fact into consideration he would not have given the order. It was one of those things which were done without consideration, and yet were dan- gerous things to do. The Government had made a great mistake in circulating .this pub- lication broadcast as they did. What they ought to have done was to have sent Home some of the much better printed, much better written and illustrated publications which were produced in this colony. Mr. SEDDON asked if Mr. Pirani 12.0. would give his version of the separa- tion of the Australasian from the English pub- lication. Mr. PIRANI said his recollection was that it did not occur until after the January publication. He was, however, quite sure that that phase of the question never entered the mind of the Premier, and that the Premier erred uninten- tionally. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) said that he moved . the amendment, first of all, be- cause the Review of Reviews was not a New Zealand production, and the effect it would have on the mind of any one reading it would be that we in this colony had no one with the literary ability to write the article, and had not the mechanical appliances for the preparation of the blocks. That was his first reason. His second reason was that the pictures given were absolutely misleading, and had no relevancy with the letterpress. No one unacquainted with the colony would know whether Levuka . was in New Zealand or New Zealand was in Levuka. Mr. HASELDEN (Patea) intended to vote against the item because it was utterly useless. No advertisement would do the country any good. The country had been advertised so badly by enormous loans and its labour laws, resulting in industrial strife, that no advertis- ing would do it any good. He acquitted the Premier of knowing that Mr. Stead was con- nected with the paper when he inserted the article ; but he should vote against the item, as he believed the expenditure useless. If Mr. Stead and a few others who thought with him had been hanged, then, no doubt, a great many lives of both Boers and British would have been spared. The money would have been much better spent on roads and bridges. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said that, though the article which had been referred to was headed " New Zealand," it roamed all over the Pacific. Other articles mentioned dealt with the countries respecting which they were written, but this was not so in the case of the article on New Zealand, and, as had been pointed out, a large portion of the Australasian edition of the Review of Reviews had been taken direct from the English edition. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) concurred in the expression of opinion given by the member for Nelson City, and he hoped the Premier would take the advice of the honourable member for , . Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), because there were several members of his party who were not going to surrender their liberties. Per- sonally, he was absolutely independent, to take ' what course he thought best in the interest of the colony, and was under no obligation to the Premier. In regard to the article in the Review of Reviews of January last, he knew Mr. Berry personally and held a high opinion of bim. The article was a fairly .good one, but the pictures were more in keeping with a second-class Christy Minstrel entertainment, and did not do credit to the manly form of the Premier. He would vote for the striking-out of the item. New Zealand did not require to be advertised in this way, as it was already sufficiently adver- tised by her contingents-whose praises were spoken of in every part of Britain-also by the annual issues of the "New Zealand Official Year-book," which was largely circulated in the Old Country, and by other statistical publica- tions. He also understood that Mr. Loughnan, a journalist of high standing, was now engaged on a work in connection with the Royal visit. What more then, was wanted, and where was this expenditure going to end? On behalf of his constituents he protested against it. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) was under the impression that the sending of our contingents to South Africa was a proof of our patriotism, and it was a most contemptible thing to de- scribe it as an advertisement. The Committee divided on the question, "That the item be omitted." AYES, 19. Atkinson Rhodes Hardy Haselden Russell, G. W. Bollard Smith, G. J. Collins Lang Lethbridge Ell Tellers. Fisher Massey Fraser, W. Hutcheson Monk Pirani Graham Meredith. NOES, 37. Allen, E. G. Hall-Jones Parata Arnold Seddon Heke Barclay Hornsby Stevens Houston Bennet Symes Kaihau Buddo Tanner Carncross Thompson, R. Lawry Carroll Ward McGowan Mckenzie, R. Willis Colvin Witheford. Flatman McNab Fowlds Millar Fraser, A. L. D. Mills Tellers. Gilfedder Hogg O'Meara Hall Laurenson. Palmer PAIRS. For. Against. Field Allen, J. Herries Duncan Mackenzie, T. Morrison Smith, E. M. McGuire Russell, W. R. Mclachlan Thomson, J. W. Wilford. Majority against, 18. Amendment negatived. 