the previous ten years, and compare the one with the other. But that was not done. I will do it now. I will give the figures for the four quinquennial periods from 1881 up to 1901. In 1881 our net debt was £27,108,269 : Sir John Hall was Premier. In 1886 it had increased by $5,155,287, when the Stout- Vogel Government was in power. In 1886 the amount of the debt was $32,263,556. In 1891 it had increased by a further sum of £5,079,752 : Sir Harry Atkinson was in power. In 1891 the debt was £37,343,308. In 1896 it had increased by $4,928,581 : Mr. Seddon was in power. In 1896 the total debt amounted to $42,271,889. In 1901 the net debt of the colony had increased to £48,557,751, Mr. Seddon being still in power -the increase for the last five years being £6,285,862. I have now referred to the last ten as well as the previous ten years. The increases during the whole of these quinquennial periods do not vary very much except in the last five years, when Mr. Seddon was in power. In addi- tion to this $6,235,000 which the Government have raised by loans, they have also raised by taxation for public works-the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) made it £2,445,000; perhaps I may have missed out something, but I put it at my figures because they are less than those of the honourable member for Dun- edin City, and I know they are not over- stated. I have put it down that they have raised from taxation and transferred to the Public Works Fund £2,225,000. That is less than what the honourable member makes it, but his figures are a good check, at any rate, against mine. That makes a total of $8,540,862 in the five years. But it is only fair to say that out of this amount the sum of $2,350,000 has been borrowed for advances to settlers, and that money is apparently self-supporting, as are also the sums borrowed for the Land for Settle- ments-$1,800,000. Now, it is only fair to say that. But. Sir, the difference between what we have raised for advances to settlers and what has been actually raised and spent is very large, and it is absurd for my friend the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) -- who, I am sorry to see, is not in his seat now-it is absurd for him to say that a large portion of the increase that we have to pay for interest this year is for the purpose of paying interest on the ad- vances to settlers and the land for settlements loan. That is absolutely incorrect. Now, the £1,819,225 total estimated interest and sinking fund for the current year does not include interest to be paid by the colony on account of the advances to settlers and land for settlements, although it ought to be included in the state- ment, as I will show presently; but I have pointed out the increase of the debt that the Treasurer desired as a comparison between the last ten years and the previous ten years. But the main point in this business is not how much more or less this Government has borrowed as compared with other Govern- ments, but how its huge borrowing compares with the policy which brought this Govern- ment itself into power in New Zealand. That is the point, to my mind. It is not unfair, VOL. OXVIII .- 4. therefore, for me to quote Mr. Ballance on the subject, after he had ousted the Atkinson Ministry from power, and the lever by which he ousted them from pover was that he promised the colony was going to cease borrowing. I am going to quote Mr. Ballance, and also a gentle- man present in the House at the present moment, with reference to this matter. Mr. Ballance, in his first Financial Statement in 1891, when he had ousted the previous Govern- ment and decided to go in for a policy of economy, said,- "If we are to maintain our credit and financial independence, borrowing in the Lon- don market must cease." Has it ceased ? No; it is going on more rapidly than ever. During the last year we increased the public debt by £1,627,675. Mr. Ballance went on and said,- "The welfare of the whole community de- mands the most rigid economy in the adminis- tration of affairs.' Are we exercising economy in the adminis- tration of affairs? Sir, no autocratic Govern- ment could spend money more lavishly in the administration of affairs than has been done by the present Government during the last few years. In the same Statement Mr. Ballance said,- " Retrenchment to be effective must go on continually. Thus, when an officer dies or retires the question should always be asked, Has an opportunity occurred for promoting greater economy and efficiency ? We believe great reductions can still be made in the cost of the service, but they ought to be made in the way I have mentioned-gradually, and with system." Are we exercising care and economy with reference to the Civil Service ? I do not think we are. Are we giving effect to this principle ? The present estimates answer "No." In the present estimates there are increases to the amount of $45,000 in salaries this year, besides the automatic increases that occur under the Classification Acts. Does this look like eco- nomy? We have not only increased the amount of salaries, but we have increased the number of officers, and we are continuing to in- crease them. I suppose these figures are not denied. I have a list here-a list of the in- creases in every department-but I do not wish to take up the time of the House unless the Government denies the fact that increases to the amount of $45,000 are proposed. Mr. HALL-JONES. - It is not a fact. Mr. GRAHAM .- I have the details, but I suppose the honourable gentleman, who is not the Treasurer, only wishes to take up my time and thus prevent me dealing with other sub- jects. Mr. Ballance and this Government held the same view in 1892 that I hold now, when he said,- " Our object is to bring borrowing to a con- clusion as fast as we possibly can, except from the legitimate sources from which we should borrow - namely, surplus revenue." Has this principle been carried out ? If it had been, I think the position would have been 