honourable gentleman himself. The Hon. state of alarm, and that they may be seriously interfered with if particular judgments are given by those Courts ? What is the condition of our woollen-factories to-day ? They also are in a great state of uncertainty as to whether actions now pending may be so decided as to make that large industry unproductive. All this is as well known as I am standing here, and yet we go on with this insane legislation. Sir, I say that if we did our duty, instead of bringing in Bills of this class, we should set ourselves to work at once to pass such legislation as would restrict the operations of those Courts, and the opera- tions of those unions. I would restrict the unions first, and then the Courts, from doing further damage to the country. That being our duty we should do it. I feel sure that the country is arriving at a true knowledge of the state of affairs, and is determined to stop fur- ther mischief being done. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- In reply to the most extraordinary jeremiad we have just listened to, I hardly know how to address myself to the Council. One would have thought we had brought down a new Bill, a Bill of pains and penalties, that was going to change the whole course of labour ; whereas, to begin with, it is only a consolidation Bill. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI .- What about clause 2 ? The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I would be much obliged if the honourable gentleman would cease his very rude manner of interjecting. At any rate, I shall speak to you, Sir, if he does it my word, how he has lashed himself, or how again. All the honourable gentleman's state- ments are exaggerated, and quite outside the mark. To begin with, he challenges the pro- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 priety of bringing down measures of this kind to the Council. Well, I say this Council is a very proper place in which to bring down consolidating proposals. We have plenty of time in the early part of the session, and I see no reason why we should not consider con- solidating measures. I have yet to learn that other Chambers of the same sort do never originate legislation. I know that I some- times cast my eye over the pages of the Times newspaper, and I read about the debates in the House of Lords, and I frequently find there that the Imperial Government finds it con- venient to bring in very important measures in the House of Lords, and so also in other Parliaments in the colonies. It is a matter of convenience; and, although I certainly do not recommend or approve the bringing-in of measures which amount to a reform of a root- and-branch kind that might possibly only be practicable by the express approval of the electors of the colony deliberately expressed through their representatives, on the other hand there are very many measures which mav reasonably and properly be introduced in a Chamber of this kind where there is plenty of time to be devoted to their consideration. As regards this particular Bill, the matter which apparently has caused more trouble than anything else is the clause relating to offices and banks ; and, curiously enough, that clause was introduced into this Council by the VOL. CXVIII .- 18. Mr. Ormond inserted in the Bill of 1894, when going through this Council, the inclusion of offices, and put it into the interpretation clause :- "' Office ' means any building or place used as a banking office, insurance office, or for any other commercial purpose." And really, with the exception of one or two words, the Bill now before us for the third read- ing is going backward rather than forward from the legislation of 1894. 1 cannot say I under- stand the change of mind. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND .- There is no change of mind. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Well, per- haps some gentlemen have got no mind to change. I think that must apply to some honourable gentlemen. I should say that the Hon. Mr. Ormond's condition is that he has got a sympathetic soul which sometimes carries his mind away from him and makes him express himself in extravagant language, because 1 con- tend that the honourable gentleman's remarks regarding this particular Bill, and the particular time he chooses to make them, prove to me that he does not know the value of words. Long before I met him in Parliament I heard that the honourable gentleman was a little too cold-blooded for live politics. He did not exactly know what the kinship of warm blood meant, and if he made mistakes he erred on the side of being too cold-blooded. Well, upon some one else has lashed him, into this extrava- gant state of excitement in regard to this Bill and the present condition of things is more than I can understand. We are justified in having this Bill here, and, more than that, we are perfectly justified in considering Bills of a much more original nature if the times are suitable. Now, the honourable gentleman referred to the fact of the Workers' Compen- sation for Accidents Bill having engaged our attention for two or three years, and he endeavoured to make out that was a mea- sure we should never have considered. Why I cannot imagine. It was a measure that was put on our statute - book after it had been adopted at Home. It was a beneficial mea- sure. It was a measure into which party politics in no shape or form entered, and it was a measure that would commend itself to any person who had got generous instincts and a desire to see the people properly pro- tected. It was really, therefore, reduced to a question of machinery. Was the prin- ciple a good one; was the principle a bene- ficial one ; was it a principle that could be ex- tended in the interests of the workers of this colony, aiding both employers and employés -because I contend we cannot aid one with- out helping the others ? Was this Council not thoroughly competent to consider the machi- nery of that measure ? I say we were : and the trouble we took over it, and the manner in which we turned it out, reflected the greatest credit on the Committee and the intelligence of the Council. The honourable gentleman has 