Health Department was; he objected to no- thing in the direction of the cure of disease, but he did object to the setting-up of another disease. One could not visit a railway-station or a post-office throughout the country without being confronted by one of these awful placards dealing with disease. It seemed impossible to turn a street-corner without falling foul of a microbe or getting hold of a handful of bacillus. He thought the daubing of these placards all over the country would lead people to believe this was the most unhealthy country in the world, whereas he was under the impres- sion that New Zealand was the healthiest country in the world. He thought the Govern- ment were running the Health Department to death. He asked the honourable gentleman if he could not see his way to pull these pla- cards down, or at least to put no more up. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) said he could not help thinking they were running riot a little in the matter of extraordinary diseases in this colony. Somehow or other people seemed to forget that the circumstances of climate and other conditions were different in New South Wales to this colony. It was true there was a supposed case of bubonic plague in Auckland, although this was not admitted by Auckland members, and, owing to the alarming report, this expenditure was about to be incurred. He did not wish it to be understood that it was not necessary to conserve the public health, but he questioned very much whether the ap- pointment of district officers was going to meet the object in view. He thought it would have suited the intention of the Health Act much better to have a visiting staff, and that a visit every quarter to each of the large cities and boroughs would be much more effective. He considered that resident Medical Inspectors were apt to become associated with the district in which they were stationed, and better service might be expected from Inspectors who made periodical visits. The cost to the colony was increased by some £9,000 by this proposal, and departments had a habit of growing, so the colony expected full value for the money spent. He was aware that the passing of the Public Health Act necessitated some expenditure if the health of the people was to be safeguarded, but he saw no reason for panic measures, as he very much doubted if it was possible for eastern epidemics, such as the bubonic plague, to make progress in the latitude of New Zealand. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) would like to ask the Minister if some of the informa tion which he said was being sent out daily by the Public Health Department, and which, no doubt, contained the researches of the medical men and experts connected with that depart- ment, could not be made public, because it seemed to him that if this were done the Department of Health could be continuously doing good work, while at the same time acting in a manner likely to prevent the spread of disease. He imagined that this department could do as was done by the Stock and Agri- cultural Department : issue health leaflets, tion than that sent out at present by request. Personally, he did not take exception to the money spent in this Health Department. He thought the colony never did better work than when it determined to set up this department. Sir J. G. WARD said he quite agreed with the member for Christchurch City as to the desirability of giving publicity to information in regard to health matters, and he was sure the honourable member would be gratified to know that health circulars had been sent all over the colony upon the disease of consump- tion, and also in connection with the feeding of infant children. In dealing with this de- partment the honourable member for Kaiapoi wanted to realise what was going on in other countries. In this colony they were dealing with tuberculosis very extensively and firmly Now, on the Continent and in England there were over a million deaths from consumption per annum, and there were many cases in the colony to his own personal knowledge. The Health Department was now dealing with this very serious disease, and, he believed, was coping with it successfully in many instances. Mr. BUDDO .- Why not spend the money on a sanatorium ? Sir J. G. WARD said the Government pro- posed to erect a consumptive sanatorium before very long. The honourable member for Wel- lington City (Mr. Fisher) must realise that some time ago a number of countries were de- clared to be affected ; there were Honolulu and Capetown and one of the Australian Colonies. A number of people were coming from those countries here. and it was very desirable that some information should be given to the public to call attention to this very fell disease, and, though these placards might be distasteful to our own people, yet there was good reason for them. Now, with regard to Mr. Parata, who had been inspecting the Native settle- ments in the North Island chiefly, he might say that it required a Native to whom instruc- tion had been imparted to give directions to the Native people, to prevent them, perhaps, creating or spreading diseases or sickness. In the first instance the Government put on two or three Native Inspectors : there was one in the Wanganui district, and Mr. Parata was ap- pointed to go over a more extended district, and from the reports that had come to hand, he had done an immense amount of good. They required Inspectors in addition to the ordinary doctors. No doctor could overtake the work with forty or fifty thousand Natives. No one could deny that it would be a good thing to prevent deaths amongst the Natives in the way he had stated if that could be done by an ex- penditure of a few hundred pounds. The desire of the Government had been to make the work as effective as possible. An Hon. MEMBER .- Have you any power over the Natives ? Sir J. G. WARD said the Health Depart- ment could only give directions and instruc- tions. The Maoris had their Councils under the Maori Councils Act. 