and it has heavy timber, and the difficulty is to get settlers to go back to these lands at all. For some years after they take up the land they have no income from it, and unless they have means it is impossible for them to get a living and pay rent. I hope, therefore, that before this session closes an amending Land Act will be introduced, and that those settlers who have taken up the poor lands of the colony will be exempt, both from rates and rents, for at least the first four years, but that they will be placed under strict settlement conditions. I do not desire to suggest any proposal that will en- courage men to take up land merely for specu. lative purposes and to sell it again. It must be under conditions that they must spend a cer- tain amount on the land, and then at the end of four years they should be called upon to pay rent and taxes the same as any other settler. Let me point out to the Premier that in the Hokianga and Mongonui Counties, and Bay of Islands, there are large tracts of Crown lands which were surveyed into sections twenty-five years ago. Owing to the high values placed on those lands, and the small sections into which they were cut up, no one would take them up. The honourable member for the Bay of Islands, through his efforts for a number of years, has been enabled to get money from the Government to run roads through that country. There are large areas that are now well roaded, with every convenience for settlers to go and take up those lands. If an amending Act as I suggest is passed I believe that in a short time large areas of second- and third-class bush land in those counties will be taken up and settled. But un- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 less there are concessions of this kind to tempt them to go there I am afraid it will lie idle for another twenty years. I am pleased the Go- vernment have promised to bring down a reform, http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero and I can assure the Premier if he does so a great impetus will be given to the settlers in the poorer bush lands in the extreme north. I should like to say a word or two in connection with the settlement of the lands in the King- country. The Government have 100,000 acres of land there. I cannot say it is ready for settle- ment, because it is not roaded yet ; but if there is one district more than another where the Government should make an effort to road and open up the country, I think it is this large block of land in the King-country. Large areas would be taken up immediately, and it would not only supply a want in the Province of Auckland in enabling young men to get homes for themselves, but would give employment to large numbers of working-men who would have to be employed to get the land under grass. I trust provision will be made for roading it and throwing it open as soon as possible. I am sorry it is allowed to lie idle so long. I am aware that, until the last year or two, there has been some difficulty in completing the title; but I understand the title is now completed, and the only thing to stop settlement is the want of roads, and I trust the Government will see their way to provide sufficient money for roading and put it on the market as soon as possible. To show you how keen VOL. CXVIII .- 32. the desire for land is in the Province of Auckland-although a great deal of it is poor land-last year in the province of Auckland 182,236 acres were selected by 472 settlers. This shows the demand for land there is greater than the supply ; and I have no doubt if this land could be roaded and opened for selection the whole would be taken up by a thriving class of settlers. In speaking of the ques- tion of land, I congratulate the Government on their purchase of Hoffman's farm, near Auckland. I believe they have made a good purchase, and I believe if it is properly cut up and placed on the market for working-men, it will do a great deal of good and be a great success. Everything, of course, depends on the administration. In the City of Auck- land you have one of the best class of working-men in any town in the colony ; they are all steady, plodding men, as a general rule, and men who desire to secure homes for themselves, and who do not care to concen- trate themselves in towns, but have a strong desire to become owners of their own cottage and section ; and no doubt if it is cut up there will be keen competition for it, and it will be a great boon to the working-men of that city. I hope it will be put on the market as soon as possible. I wish to refer to a remark made by the honourable member for Franklin when speaking a few days ago. The honourable member complained that the Province of Auckland is not fairly represented in the Cabinet ; that may be from his point of view ; but I am an old member of this House, having been here for fourteen years without a break, and I have no complaint to make as to the absence of Auckland Ministers on the Cabinet. I do not wish to raise the question of provincialism. The honourable member for Thames fills his position well in the House and in the Cabinet. I have never heard a word against him since he took office, and, so far as I am concerned, as representing an electorate in the far North, I have no reason whatever to complain of the present constitu- tion of the Cabinet, neither do I know of any one instance where the district I represent bas ever been benefited by the presence of Auckland members in the Cabinet. I would go further, and say that I believe that at the present time the Ministry are doing as much, or more, or are showing a greater desire to do justice to the Province of Auckland than any Ministry we have had for years on those benches. Looking at the whole question, so far as the Ministry is concerned, there is no reason why any Auck- land member should grumble because there are not more Auckland members in the Cabinet. At the present time the Ministry are doing everything they can to push on the con- struction of the Central Railway-line. They are doing everything they can to go on with railway works in other parts of the colony ; and yet it is asked. Who is it that delayed the con- struction of the Central Railway-line to Auck- land ? Was it the Government ? No; it was the people of Auckland City themselves. An Hon. MEMBER .- The Auckland members? 