For myself, I have not heard sufficient explana- tion from the Premier as to how this error was made. The same thing has happened in another measure with which we had to push through this session-namely, the Rotorua Validation Bill. These errors of the Under- .Secretaries or departmental officers seem to be getting more frequent, and yet on the estimates we are asked to increase their salaries. Is it the fault of the Under-Secretary of Labour or of the Under-Secretary of the Colonial Secre- tary's Department ? Evidently a grave fault has been committed. It is not only the second time this session, but a similar fault has been committed before this. I consider the Premier should more fully explain the position. Mr. SEDDON .- I did fully explain it. I do not think you were in the House. Mr. HERRIES .- Yes; I heard the honour- able gentleman's explanation, but I did not think it very clear. I understood the Premier to say there was a technical fault-that Judge .Cooper was wrongly gazetted, or was not gazetted at all. I understand he was not .gazetted at all. Well, every one knows the Act provides that the Judge ought to have been gazetted, and I cannot understand the omission to do so. The Bill, of course, natu- rally raises the question of the fees as well ; but the honourable member for Wellington City will deal with that. Mr. SEDDON .- He was not gazetted. An Hon. MEMBER .- Was he gazetted a Judge "of the Supreme Court ? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes ; the appointment as a Judge of the Supreme Court is quite in order, but he ought also to have been appointed by the Governor, and gazetted as President of the Arbitration Court. Mr. HERRIES .- Who is responsible for it ? Mr. SEDDON .- I am taking the responsi- bility. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) .- The right honourable gentleman has taken more re- sponsibility than that in his time and come through it all right, but I must say there has been a muddling in connection with the posi- tion of President of the Arbitration Court from start to finish. In 1899 the member for Christ- church City (Mr. Lewis) drew attention to the impropriety of paying the President of the Arbitration Court fees as part of his salary. The Premier, as has already been pointed out, pleaded that it was only a temporary expedient, and that it would not occur again. He said he would fix the matter permanently by statute .early next year-that is, last year (1900)-but that has not been done. A special Judge was appointed for the work, and evidently, through a blunder, his appointment as President of the .Court has not been properly made. I think this is an opportune time for me to draw atten- tion to the continued irregularity in the matter of the payment of the fees. In reply to the member for Patea the honourable gentleman said this,- "Mr. SEDDON said, Yes, he was to be paid by fees. But he (Mr. Seddon) wanted the matter Mr. Herries to pay the President (Mr. Justice Edwards) for the incoming year, and also for the eighteen months that had elapsed. The question had never been definitely settled. After seeing the way in which the work had been carried out in the past, and from what he gathered, it was thought there would be no necessity for making any other appointment. The .Government therefore decided to go on with the work until next session, and see how the thing worked out. The delay that had arisen was owing to the fact of the Supreme Court work taking Mr. Justice Edwards away from his Presidential work. He expected that the Judge would be able to pro- ceed south about the third week in November, and would then take the Court work down south. He hoped the delay that was happening now would not recur, because it was bringing the whole working of the Act into disrepute. "Mr. G. HUTCHISON (Patea) said it was entirely contrary to the spirit of our law that Judges should be dependent upon a vote of Parliament for any part of their salaries. The Judges' salaries are fixed by Act, but here was an amount of something like $500 a year for the Judge who acted as President of the Arbi- tration Court-a payment subject to annual appropriation. "Mr. SEDDON said the position was very unsatisfactory, and this must be looked upon as merely a temporary arrangement pending legislation, which could be brought in next ses- sion. An Act should be passed next session fixing the fees payable to the Judge of the Arbitration Court, and that was understood by Judge Edwards when he undertook the work." Although I am not permitted to refer to a previous debate, I may say that earlier this session the right honourable gentleman assured the House, in reply to a statement of mine, that he had ample power in the consolidated Con- ciliation and Arbitration Act of 1900 to provide fees. On that occasion I read the particular section of the Act which prohibits the right honourable gentleman from gazetting fees. I will again read section 112, subsection (8). It says,- "The Governor from time to time may make regulations for any of the following pur- posos : -- "(8.) Prescribing what respective fees shall be paid to the members of the Court (other than the President) and to the members of the Board." There is no statutory power that I am able to discover whereby the right honourable gentle- man was authorised to gazette fees to the President of the Arbitration Court. Apart alto- gether from the absolute impropriety of making a Judge of the Supreme Court dependent for any part of his emoluments on the pleasure of Ministers or the good-will of Parliament, I say it is absolutely in violation of the law, and it could only have been made possible by a know- ledge of the special and far-reaching powers be- stowed by this House on the honourable gentle- man in the Public Revenues Act, or the right honourable gentleman even would not have 