made the lands have to be roaded, in order to put them in such a position that Europeans will care to take them up. This is a very grave and serious injury that has befallen the Maori people. But, Sir, these are not all the mis- fortunes that have befallen us under this measure. Add to all this that when a man has improved his land the original value of his improvements is required to be reduced. And now, Sir, the interest on the money that the Councils will require to borrow for the purpose of surveying, subdividing, and roading these blocks will have to be paid, and I do not suppose it will be obtainable under somewhere about 5 per cent. This matter requires very careful consideration, and 1 do most strenuously urge upon honourable members the necessity of amending during this present session the Act of last year, in order to remedy to a certain extent these evils. A great sorrow, Sir, has been felt by, and a great cry has gone up from, the Maori people because their wishes have not been met by this Act. During many years past the principal hapus and tribes of the Maori people and their principal men have recog- nised and believed that this House was the place to which they should bring, and before whom they should lay, their grievances, their de- sires, and their views in connection with matters in which they thought they might be advantaged. Here is another matter about which we have been in trouble : The district divisions into which the northern end of this Island is divided under that Act are six in number. Some of the hapus that did not attend here in Wellington last year when the Bill was under consideration are now taking part in the laying-down of the boundaries, and we find petitions coming here now objecting to the boundaries as laid down under the Act http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero of last year. I say, in my opinion, the solu- tion of the difficulty is this : Hand over to the Maori residents of the various parts of the Island affected by the Act the laying down of the boundaries of the various districts to be constituted under it. If it should happen that an amending Bill should be brought down this session, it will be a matter of very extreme difficulty, for this reason : There are many evils in the Act, and many misfortunes which under the Act the Maoris are called upon to bear. I heard the Native Minister say that the Maori people were greatly pleased and satis- fied with the Act passed last session. Perhaps so-the people with whom he has conversed ; but I desire to point out to the House that there are other Maoris in other districts. The people in the Western Maori electorate, I know, are greatly dissatisfied with that Act, and will not under any circumstances accept its opera- tion over them. I will point out to the House a matter with which the people whom I repre- sent are extremely dissatisfied-the question of The people in my district confiscated lands. have been suffering under this misfortune from the time of the confiscation up to the present. And, I ask, where have the Government con- sidered the grievances of these people ? I must admit that previous Governments did show con- sideration, and that consideration commenced with the late Sir Donald McLean, who decided to give back certain lands to the Maori inhabitants of Waikato, all of whose lands were confiscated. Subsequent to that other Governments showed similar consideration. The Grey Government decided to give back to the Maoris certain lands, and subsequent to that again succeeding Go- vernments promised to give back certain lands to the people who had been the heavier sufferers under the confiscation. And why should they not have some land reserved to them? I can- not see where the justification of the confisca- tion of their lands comes in, for this reason : As far as I can ascertain, the Act under which their lands were confiscated at the time of the war was created at that time for a special purpose. I cannot see why the lands of the Waikato Na- tives should have been confiscated as a result of the war, when we remember previous to that war the lands had been handed over to the keeping of Her Majesty the Queen under the Treaty of Waitangi. The treaty was made in 1840 and the Waikato war did not take place until 1863. Why, then, should the hand of the Government intervene and take the land away from these people, when previous to that war they had handed over the lands for safe keeping to the Queen of England ? Mr. CARROLL .- What Government was it that confiscated the land ? Mr. KAIHAU .- I must ask the Minister to put that question to previous Governments. Mr. MASSEY .- What Government gave back the Maori lands at Mangere ? Mr. KAIHAU .- The land at Mangere was returned to the people now in occupation by the Mitchelson Government. I myself took part in that transaction. Now, I ask the House this : If the Government is really doing what it professes to be doing-administering for the welfare of the colony at large and for the Maori people-why do they not hand these people back the land to which they are entitled, or why do they not give effect to the suggestions and promises made by previous Governments ? Sir, I am hoping and still waiting to see the Premier carry out his promise made some time ago, to this effect : that he would probably be able to see his way to give lands back to the landless Natives in Waikato. If that is done I may be able to say, " Yes, I am beginning to be- lieve that something will eventually be done for the benefit of the Maori people of this colony." I desire to impress upon the Premier and the Native Minister the urgent necessity for their doing right by the Maori people during this present session of Parliament. And, Sir, I feel that, if those honourable gentlemen do not carry out the suggestions and promises made by them when they visited the Macri people at the various places at which they interviewed them through the Island, I do not think they will long remain at the head of affairs in the government of this colony. The Maoris feel very deeply and very keenly the evils and troubles that they are called upon to bear. Under the injuries they are suffering owing to the Acts that are pressing mercilessly 