premium on insuring the mortgagee against his risks under the Act, it practically made the interest 5 per cent. That was the case of a working-man who had a small property. It is an instance like the indirect operation of a tax : the poor man had to pay the cost of the ma- chinery established for the assistance of the poor. Then, again, honourable members will see that the holders of the small properties, or small mortgages, are imperilled, while the big men are comparatively safe. If a property is worth £6,000, and the mortgage is £4,000, there is a margin of £2,000, in comparison with which the maximum claim of $400 under the Act is a small matter either to the mortgagee or the owner. If, however, the mortgage were £200 on a £300 property, where would either the mortgagee or the owner be in the face of such a claim? Surely that is class legis- lation which is hitting the poor much harder than the rich, and, in my opinion, its want of principle, and the uncertainty it makes in regard to investments, do the humbler classes more harm than good. Another Bill I should like to see reconsidered is the Imprison- ment for Debt Limitation Act of last session, which was passed for the protection, or, at any rate, which has the effect of protecting the fraudulent debtor. Its proper title would be "The Fraudulent Debtors' Protection Act." It was founded on fraud, it was passed by fraud -I have no hesitation in saying that-and it has resulted in fraud. It was aimed originally at the extinguishing of the debt-collecting agencies, but the malice of the promoters over-reached itself, and, by putting the private creditors https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 in the same position as the debt collecting agencies, they have imposed the same disability on both, with the result that the debt-collecting agencies are able to get precisely the same If the proportion of the business as before. Bill had gone through in its original form, so that it altogether hampered the debt-collecting agencies but left the private creditors certain advantages, it is clear that that object of the measure would have been secured. Now, let me hurry through a few examples of the actual working of the Act in the period of less than twelve months in which it has been in operation. A professional man gets $1,000 a year ; his pro- perty is in his wife's name; he owes a trades- man $40, says that bankruptcy will not injure him, and defies any law in New Zealand to get that $40 from him. A clerk in the Civil Service borrows $80 to send his daughter Home ; he admits he had no prospect of repay- ing the money when he borrowed it, but says there is no law in New Zealand to compel him to repay it. A clerk in the Civil Service was bankrupt in 1899, and has since been pro- moted; since then he has run up a debt of $20 for drapery, et cetera; he says there is no law to compel him to pay, and that another bankruptcy will not hurt his position in the Civil Service. The Government which passed an Act giving security to men of that stamp is acting consistently when it retains them in their billets. My last case has been Mr. Atkinson bers who know the strong line that the Magis- trate here has taken against the judgment summons will appreciate the value of the opinion. The Magistrate, Mr. Haselden, has made a dead-set against judgment summonses for some years, and has referred to the Act as strengthening his hands in this respect. Now, the Evening Post of the 13th June last reported the following decision of Mr. Haselden with regard to the Act :- "The far-reaching effect of section 3 of the ' Imprisonment for Debt Limitation Act, 1900,' was illustrated in the Magistrate's Court this morning, when an order was sought against an express-man for a judgment of $3 6s. It was stated that since the date of the judgment de- fendant had given his wife a bill of sale over his horses and expresses, and he was now with- out property. Mr. Haselden, S.M., said that this was the first case he had heard under the statute of 1900, and he could not see his way to make an order, though he would have done so under the old statute. Under section 3- except in cases of default in connection with penalties, trust moneys, or moneys obtained by fraud - no order of committal to prison can be made, except 'where it is proved, or by the debtor admitted, that he has money of his own which he has refused to pay to the judgment creditor.' It seems that in the absence of present possession of property, the debtor escapes scot free." . That is the opinion of one of the strongest opponents of the judgment-summons system in the colony, and that is a case in which even he would have made an order under the old Act. I intended to quote a passage from last year's Hansard, where, at the conclusion of the debate on the motion to agree to the proposed com- promise with the Legislative Council, all the legal gentlemen in the House who spoke having insisted that the Bill in the form in which it was being put through was practically repealing the operative portion of the original Act, the Premier insisted that it did not, and that he did not desire the repeal of that section. I there- fore suggested the insertion of a proviso to the effect that nothing in the Act should affect the operation of section 8 of the principal Act. The Premier refused to agree, on the plea that to do so would be to confess that he was wrong in his contention. Not a single Magistrate has held that he was right in his contention ; and within a month after the passing of the Act every Magistrate and lawyer knew that section 8 of the old Act had been in effect repealed, though it was only on the assurance of the Premier that that was not the effect of the Bill in its then form that the House accepted it. I should like now to say a few words on the Public Works Act Amendment Act of last session. Section 20 compels any owner of land on subdividing his land, to dedicate, and, if in a borough or within three miles of one, to form and metal a road 66 ft. wide. That section, which we passed without much consideration. is causing something like a dead-lock in the matter of land transactions. Where it applies. 