of speech sometimes becomes license. We learn | fully and truly express the opinion of the now, as far as the news has reached us, that what caused this unfortunate being to commit this dastardly act was some speech delivered by a lady anarchist lecturer in America. I can only wonder that such things should be allowed. An Hon. MEMBER .- Did you say "lady " anarchist ? Mr. SEDDON .- Well, it is said a "lady ecturer " ; you may say a "female lecturer," if you like : at all events, I can only say that if lectures of that kind are delivered it shows that great freedom of speech is allowed, and if free- dom of speech is to bring about such deeds it can only mean that there must be a limitation of that freedom of speech, and there may be a limitation probably to the detriment of the people of the country. However, my object in proposing this resolution is to demonstrate, as far as we can demonstrate, to the outside world -first, that we are shocked and horrified at the dastardly act ; secondly, that we sym- pathize sincerely with the sufferer, and with his good wife and relatives ; and thirdly, that we also sympathize with the American nation, and that we feel for them in this their hour of trial and sorrow. Then, we further desire to show the outside world that dastardly deeds of this kind will not be tolerated, and those aiding and abetting must be dealt with by a strong hand. I say it is impossible for good to be attained by such means, even if tyranny existed. That is one reason why I am asking the House to adopt this course. It may be said that we are only one of the British https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 colonies, but if throughout the world organized society strives by its moral force to check this evil-and the course I am asking the House to take will have a moral effect-I trust it will http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero have some influence in preventing these societies from flourishing, to check their crea- tion, and to let those belonging to them know that we must, as a matter of self-protection, in the best interests of good government, prevent as far as we can anything of this sort taking root. Sir, I feel sure that the resolution will be carried unanimously by the House, and that it will be conveyed to the suffering President and to his wife and family, and that it may cheer them to some extent to know that in far-off New Zealand we sympathize with them in this their hour of tribulation. It will also let the people of the United States feel and know that we sympathize with them. I may say that on my way Home to the Jubilee of 1897, I had the pleasure of a long inter- view with President Mckinley; and when I state that he is a great man, I am not coming to that conclusion simply on what I have read, or on what has appeared in the Press. I am satisfied from the interview I had, and from the matters discussed, that he is a far-seeing and advanced thinker, and that his heart is really with his people; and I can go further and say, Sir, that he has a great liking for New Zealand, and that this colony stands well in his estimation; and I am sure, Sir, that the passing of the resolution I have moved will people of this colony, as I am sure it does fully express the feelings, the views, and the wishes of the members of this House. I move the resolution. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay). - The occasion undoubtedly is a solemn one, but we may all hope that it will not prove an unhappy one. I feel confident that surgical science is so advanced that the President of the Great American Republic will make a complete and satisfactory recovery. And, if it is so, I would add that to a great extent it is on account of the inherent greatness of the man. Suffering great pain, great mental distress and physical shock, his courage never for an instant has given way. The telegrams from first to last have reported that he is calm and collected, that he is even cheerful, and, as mind dominates matter, I have no doubt that his own courage will greatly help his own recovery. " Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown " is an old adage ; but it is the ruler, whether it be the democratically elected or the autocrat by succession, that we have great cause to pity. For the ruler's life, whether he inherits a crown or is elected by the people, is one long parade before the public, and con- sequently of great private self-denial. Sir, I maintain that the Presidency of the United States bears with it responsibilities which no autocratic Government places upon the shoulders of any monarch. It is scarcely a figure of speech to say his only diadem may be compared to a "bonnet-rouge," yet it is more weighty than the heaviest crown ever posed upon the brow of an Emperor. I am glad to see by the cablegrams that accomplished lawyers of the United States assert that all per- sons connected with a conspiracy to murder can be held guilty of the crime committed by one of the conspirators in the same manner as he who commits the deed. I do hope sincerely that that is so. No maudlin sentiment for con- spirators who advocate murder, and have not even the brute courage to commit the deed, should animate us-not even if it be for a person un- worthy of the name of woman. They who conspire against constituted authority, and en- deavour to assassinate the head of the State, should all alike be brought to justice ; and, if needs be, by an alteration of international law, any scoundrelly conspirator who is accessory to murder should himself be responsible and liable to extradition; notwithstanding that the crime is political, he should be made responsible and caused to pay the capital sentence, even though his hand has not struck the blow. It seems to me that those who object to this proposition might just as well say that only the knife with which the murder is committed shall be burned by the public hangman, and that the murderer who used it himself should go scatheless. Let us punish all those who conspire to commit these crimes. If there are certain persons unworthy of the name of women who lend themselves to disseminating doctrines of murder, I say let them suffer also. I join with the Right Hon. the Premier in hoping that this motion of con- 