latter is a breach of its privileges ; and the Privileges Committee, to whom the subject was referred, have reported that, with regard to certain questions put to me as a witness, I declined to answer the same. " With respect to the first point, I wish to state that matters of the greatest interest to the people of New Zealand generally, and of Dunedin (where the publication took place) in particular, are involved in the question of the promotion and flotation of companies concerned in the dredging industry. "Your honourable House was petitioned to make the fullest inquiry into alleged grievances, and I believe the Select Committee were en deavouring, in the public interest, to sift the whole matter thoroughly. Nothing, in my judg- ment, could aid them so completely in prosecut ing their investigations as the publishing of the evidence, for thereby the public knew what were the subjects being inquired into and .what were being omitted, and what evidence therefore remained to be supplied to the Committee in order that they might have the whole facts before them before making their report to your honourable House. From information received, I can state that the report in the Dunedin Star will have the de- sired effect, and the Committee have tendered to them evidence which will enable them to make a far more searching inquiry than would otherwise have been the case. It was simply with the desire of enlarging the scope of the Committee's investigations, and thereby of assisting your House and one of its Commit- tees, that I published the evidence. It was not with any view of transgression against the wishes of the House or the Committee that the report was made. Proceedings of the Com- mittees on the Counties and Factories Bills have been published by most of the papers of the colony, and with beneficial results. From the views enunciated in the House on these two measures, it is the desire of the present Parliament to make these Bills suitable to the wishes of the inhabitants of New Zealand ; and by the publication, before the Committees have concluded their labours, opportunities have . been afforded of obtaining the consensus of opinion of the people directly concerned in the passage of both measures. " For the above reason I would suggest that the meetings of Select Committees be thrown open to the Press, except in the cases of secret Committees, when members are deliberating, or at such times as it is deemed inadvisable by the Committee concerned for their proceedings to be reported. This is the rule in vogue for very many years in the Mother of Parliaments. A reference to the London papers will show that the Imperial Parliament allows the evi- dence and proceedings of its Grand Commit- tees to be made day by day, and I hope an out- come of the present proceedings will be that the New Zealand Legislature will recognise the reasonableness of falling into line with the English rule. What transpires before our Select Committees is frequently of great public Mr. Deputy-Speaker Press Gallery are placed in a difficulty by having to accept information in a manner not altogether to their liking, and which techni- cally constitutes a breach of the privileges of your honourable House. I venture, therefore, to suggest that the present restriction be amended, by the Standing Order in question being repealed to the extent of admitting the Press to the proceedings of Committees, or, if the Committee should decide that reporters be excluded, the Chairman or some other person be authorised to supply to the Press an official report of what transpires. "That a technical breach of privilege was committed by a premature publication of the evidence I frankly recognised before the Privi- leges Committee, and that admission is repeated to your House. The rule, however, is almost daily disregarded ; and the question naturally suggests itself whether the better course to pur- sue under the circumstances would not be to adapt our practice to that of the Imperial Parliament rather than to enforce a penalty for disregard of a Standing Order which has been more honoured in the breach than in the observance, and previous offences concerning which have never before incurred the dis- pleasure of your honourable House. In regard to the published evidence, it has been admitted that the report was impartial and accurate. One witness, Mr. Holsted, was accused of cer- tain irregularities by Mr. Easton, and immediate publication of his answer to these charges was deemed by my editor an act of common justice to that witness. This evidence, it should be borne in mind, was published by my paper before the House had been asked to consider whether its There was abso- privileges had been invaded. lutely no subsequent publication of evidence. "As to my attitude before the Privileges Committee, I contend that there was no con- tumely nor disrespect to that body. Though practically on my trial-the House having already affirmed that the Dunedin Star bad been guilty of a breach of privilege-I refrained from declining to answer questions which I might have done on the plea that it was un- British to ask a witness to give evidence which might tend to criminate himself. On the con- trary, I made a frank and honest declaration as to the publication of the evidence, and accepted personal responsibility of an act per- formed in what I believe to be the public interests. It was only when pressed to state the source of my information that I declined to answer the question, holding that, as a matter of honour, and following one of the first tenets of my profession, the source of information given me in good faith must be kept absolutely sacred. I should like members to carefully peruse my evidence on this point, so as to satisfy themselves as to any absence of intent to set at defiance an order of your honourable House. "I regret that my bona fide endeavour, through the medium of my paper, to assist in the prosecution of a searching inquiry into a matter of the greatest concern to the mining 