smoking, puffing out their smoke so that he got whiffs of it which made him bilious for the rest of the day. But, Sir, he forgets that, if he stopped these men from smoking in the streets, he would be interfering with the liberty of the subject, which is so dear to the honourable gentleman, and upon which he has dilated so often and so eloquently in this Council. And I would point out that this liberty of the subject affects not only those who smoke, but also those who drink. I have myself on many occasions been annoyed by people who drink. Far greater annoyance has been given to me by people who drink than by those who smoke, because those who drink are not only redolent of the horrid stuff that they have taken into their internal organism, but they lose their intellect for the time being, and with it their self-respect. Though they may have been gentlemen before they took the drink, they are no longer gentlemen when they are under its influence. They obtrude them- selves and their conversation upon one, and their conduct is most disgusting. Now, I say this: that honourable gentlemen who speak as the Hon. Mr. McLean has done about the prevention of smoking should certainly advocate that the nuisance caused by excessive drinking should be abolished. The honourable gentle- man said he wished that Prohibitionists would give up their fads and go in for preventing smoking by adults. Why does not the honour- able gentleman himself give up his fad against smoking, and go in for preventing people drink- ing, to the annoyance of others ? An Hon. MEMBER .- He does not smoke. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 The Hon. Mr. JONES .- I say, why does he not give up his advocacy against smoking as he wants others to give up their advocacy against drinking ? The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- Let drinking alone. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- Let drinking alone ! I can quite understand the honourable gentle- man saying, "Let drinking alone." Then, Sir, the Hon. the Minister told us that he quite agreed with the remarks made by the honourable gentleman who introduced the Bill, and, indeed, with the Bill itself ; but while he was doing so I can quite understand that the honourable gentleman had his hand lovingly and longingly on his pipe in his pocket. Now, that is not consistent. If we want to prevent people from smoking, more especially young people, we must do what we want them to do - we must not smoke ourselves. I came to that conclusion recently myself. I do not say I gave up smoking entirely because I wanted to set an example, but that is what guided me as seriously as any other consideration in aban- doning the smoking of a pipe. Then, the honourable gentleman representing the Go- vernment in this Council mentioned to us that he had known boys to be cured from smoking throughout all their lives by sucking a good old cutty pipe; and he went on to say, after having dealt with the injuriousness of Hon. Mr Jones let them smoke a pipe." That is most incon- sistent. I think that honourable gentlemen who want to prevent smoking among the youth of the colony should first set the example them- selves, and I am quite sure that example would be much stronger in the case of the youth than their precept. The Hon. Mr. REEVES. - Sir, on hearing the honourable gentleman's extraordinary flow of language, I was very much tempted to move that the galleries be cleared, so that we should not have all this -- I can scarcely find words to characterize it-in Hansard. I almost began to think that instead of being here in the Legislative Council we had got into the Mount View Asylum. Now, we talk about the abolition of smoking, and of cigarette-smoking in particular. There is no doubt I have every sympathy with the honourable and gallant Colonel Pitt in respect to this Bill. There is no doubt that cigarette-smoking among the youth is a great curse to the country; but I believe we could get over this simply by prohibiting the importation of manufactured cigarettes into the colony ; and you cannot get over it in any other way. The more you try to prevent these cigarettes from being smoked the more the practice will be carried on. As to the injurious effect of smoking, I do not think there is anything injurious about it. I commenced smoking when I was twelve years of age, and it has not stopped my growth ; in fact, if I had not started smoking I might have been smaller. I know that when I was about twelve or thirteen I smoked my cigar and my pipe, and I have never smoked a cigarette in my life. I have every sympathy with the object of this Bill. I say this cigarette-smoking by our youths is the most pernicious practice they have. I do not think there can be anything worse to the rising generation than having these most obnoxious mixtures of tobacco made up into cigarettes. I have myself seen boys of seven or eight years of age going about smoking cigarettes. I have even seen girls smoking cigarettes. I do not wish to take up the time of the Council any further, but I do not think this Bill will come into operation. I should very much like to see it so, but I do not think it will. I only wish my honourable friend the Minister of Educa- tion, who has spoken so strongly against this evil, would, as the mouthpiece of the Govern- ment, bring in a Bill prohibiting the manufac- ture or importation of cigarettes in the colonies. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK .- Sir, with re- gard to the speech of the Hon. Mr. Jones, I could not help thinking, when I heard him read that extract, supposed to have come from Dr. Forbes Winslow, that it must have been taken from one of those advertisements we see so frequently, of Mother Seigel's Syrup, Carter's Liver Pills, or something of that kind. I am rather afraid the honourable gentleman must have been taken in by one of those adverti .. ments. I doubted the genuineness of the whoir thing, because I cannot think that Dr. Forts Winslow would have committed himself to 