terms with respect to the salaries and allow- | for Ashburton says the farmers have got so ances of Ministers. His words speak for them- many concessions that they must be con- selves, and, so far, they are still unanswered. sidered a favoured class, and he painted a rosy The member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar), description of their prosperity, mentioning the prices of pork, lambs, and other commodities. quoting the late John Ballance, says that we have marched for twenty years at a furious | But he forgot to tell the House about grain, pace, too severe to last, and that we have piled and entirely overlooked the oats contract. He did not say anything about a few favoured up obligations which should make any sane man friends of the Government making large sums pause. If those words were applicable in 1891, when Mr. Ballance was alive, they are still more of money, when the direct interests of the farmers were neglected. I think the honour- applicable in 1901. Mr. SEDDON .- I desire to call attention to able member did not study the railway tariff, or he would not have found the concessions as he the fact that the honourable member is reading has painted them-at least, so far as his con- his speech. Mr. HARDY .- I am not reading my speech. stituents were concerned. Take, for instance, Dunedin to Oamaru, seventy eight miles : These are my notes. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable Classes A, B, C, and D are carried for 12s. 6d. member knows that it is contrary to the Stand- per ton, and for a similar distance in my own ing Orders for any honourable member to read constituency the charges are nearly double, his speech. simply because we have no water-carriage to Mr. HARDY. - Such, I believe, are the Stand- compete with. Lime, certainly, is free. It is ing Orders, but I think I am right when quoting used largely in Otago and Southland, and members to read exactly what they have said. sparingly in Canterbury, where patent manures Of course, I have to learn a good deal from the and other necessary farm requisites have Right Hon. the Premier ; but I can assure you to pay full freights. And, as for the car- that I am here as a novice, and much of the riage of stock, I venture to say that there teaching I have had from him has not been is at the present time quite as much stock such as to commend itself to me. I am quite travelling alongside the raidway-lines as the prepared to catch it. The Premier's $40 shot railways are handling themselves. I am per- has never reached me vet ; and even if he adds feetly satisfied and clear in my own mind of that. And, also, for general reduction of pas- that £60 one, which I presume is going on to members' salaries, I am afraid it will take senger and season tickets, $68,000 of remissions, as mentioned in the Budget, is misleading. more than that to bribe me. And so the criticism goes on, until I am sure the right Surely the honourable member has not been honourable gentleman must feel his position paying for his own tickets, or he would have keenly. The member for Ashley says, "It is discovered that the bona fide farmer, travelling government bv Royal Commission," but I to the town and back, only receives a remission think it could much better be described as of between 9 and 10 per cent. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 " government by balloon." The Premier denies the statement that has been published, that Sir. whether a member of the House has a right he told a deputation that "our finances are to quote another member's speech absolutely in a very bad state, and that he had grave from Hansard, for that is what the honourable gentleman is doing? This speech is taken doubts about making ends meet," or words to that effect. We accept his denial, but from Hansard, and he is simply reading it. at the same time feel assured that the pub- lic will not be so easily dealt with. Now, honourable gentleman as to that. Sir. I am satisfied in my own mind that this Hon. the Premier's statement an unqualified was only a balloon set up for the purpose of denial. I took notes of what the honourable deceiving others. Why, Sir, the honourable member for Ashburton said, and I congratulate gentleman has members of this House who are actually engaged in flying balloons, and one the honourable member-I am sorry he is not sent up for my information just before the here-upon having so placed his speech in celebrated reply was to the effect that " our Hansard that he has not had to alter it as so affairs are in a very bad state ; the Premier is many other members do. worrying his life out. and his private friends do not know what to do with him," and much took the notes he is reading himself? I do more of this sort of gammon. The report deal- not think he is competent to take them. ing with the railways is fairly satisfactory, and I think, under the present management, leaves honourable gentleman would not make a state- little to be desired. The Minister in charge is ment like that unless it were true. The statement an able man, and the men under him are of the honourable member must be accepted. capable; but I must take exception to the statement of concessions, which may be correct my statement. I have not been sufficiently long in the House to be able to put my words so far as the figures go, but are misleading, as they only show how unfair the charges in such a way that it is a matter of extreme doubt whether they may be believed or not. were in the past, and prove conclusively that Probably, if I return to mv constituents again further reductions might be made in many and again, I may come in time to even imitate ways for the purpose of increasing traffic and the Premier. benefiting the public. My friend the member Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I want to know, Mr. DEPUTY.SPEAKER .- I will hear the Mr. HARDY .- I desire to give the Right Mr. SEDDON .- Do you believe, Sir, that he Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - I assume the Mr. HARDY. - Thank you, Sir, for accepting 