SAFE ACCOMMODATION FOR PUBLIC DOCUMENTS. Mr. E. G. ALLEN (Waikouaiti) asked the Minister for Public Works, If he will, at an carly date, take steps to erect a fireproof strong-room adjacent to the Government Buildings to accom- modate the public records of the colony ? This was a question which concerned every one in the country. There had been a serious fire in Auck- land, and also in Blenheim, which had destroyed a considerable number of public documents, and he thought it would be wise on the part of the Government to put up a large fireproof structure adjacent to the public buildings in which to preserve the valuable records of the colony. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) had mentioned, in reply to a previous question, that the Government were erecting new Railway Offices near the Government Build- ings, in Wellington, in which there would be ample safe accommodation for the Railway De- partment. It might not be within the know- ledge of members that on each of the four floors of the Government Buildings there were three strong-rooms, and in the Parliamentary Buildings they had in the cellar very excellent accommodation, in which a great many of their reports and records were stored, with fireproof outer walls, ceiling, and floors. The records deposited there were at present surrounded with a wooden partition, but those wooden partitions would eventually be replaced by brick walls, so that each section would be isolated. It would be seen, therefore, . that they were doing fairly well. Some time ago there were proposals for erecting a series of strong-rooms at the back of the Government Buildings, but the work now in hand would largely meet their present requirements ; but as time went on they would undoubtedly have to make further provision. WIDENING OF NARROW STREETS. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) asked the Minister for Public Works, If he will amend sections 20 and 21 of " The Public Works Acts Amendment Act, 1900," by bringing in a Bill this session to do so ? The amendments made in the Public Works Act last session, especially the clauses mentioned in this question, had caused a great deal of dissatisfaction in Auckland and other towns, and, he believed, throughout the colony. The provisions of the Act so far as new streets and roads were concerned were all right ; but an amendment of the Act of last session affected narrow streets, and where property was divided they had to go back a certain dis- tance from the centre of the street, with the result that, after some time, they would have the buildings standing like the teeth of a saw, so that it was impossible to get true lines ; and this caused a great deal of inconvenience, and some properties that had a certain amount of land taken off them were left comparatively worthless. He would suggest some such pro- vision as that which was made for the City of Wellington under the Betterment Act, where, when a piece was taken off the property on one side of a street, the property-owners on the other side were made to contribute to the cost of it, and in that way a straight line was obtained. Something like that would be very much better, so far as narrow streets were . concerned, than the provisions they had at pre- sent in the Public Works Act. If the Minister went into the matter he would find that it was utterly impossible to get the buildings on a straight line. The present state of affairs was very unsatisfactory, and he hoped, therefore, the Minister would see his way clear to bring in a short Amendment Bill this session to deal with the matter. They all liked to see wide streets; they did not object to having narrow streets made wider, but better provision should be made for that purpose than was made in the Act to which he referred. Mr. HALL -JONES (Minister for Publio Works) hoped the honourable member was not an advocate for narrow streets. Mr. BOLLARD had said he was not. Mr. HALL-JONES said, Very well, if the honourable member was not an advocate for narrow streets, the whole question was in the hands of the local authorities. With regard to the Act referred to by the honourable member, which dealt with the widening of a certain street in Wellington, he might explain that the City Council brought forward a Bill enabling it to purchase land on one side of a certain street for the purpose of widening that street, and charging the property-owners on the op- posite side whose land would be increased in value by the widening with a proportion of the cost. It was open for every Town or Borough Council to bring in a Bill similar to that, and he believed 90 per cent. of the members of the House would gladly lend their assistance to any local authority wishing to widen their streets in this manner. Mr. BOLLARD did not believe there were five members in the House who approved of an amendment like the one that was made in the Act last session, to which he had referred. Mr. HALL-JONES said he had been congra. tulated from one end of the colony to the other on the provisions of the Act. They had to look ahead, and not adopt any mere temporary expe- dient for the purpose of getting over a difficulty that any local body or particular set of property- owners might have to contend with. They must look ahead to the time when our cities would be very much larger than they were at the present time, and every step should be taken to obviate the inconvenience caused by these narrow streets, or blind alleys as so many of them were. As regarded some buildings being set back and others standing forward on the street-line, that was a simple question : it was a question of each property-owner, when rebuilding, setting back his buildings, and then for the local authority to arrange for the setting. back of the buildings as opportunity offered where the land had not been subdivided. The whole cost would not be great for the muni- cipality or district affected, and the conve- niences so far as the citizens were concerned would be very great. However, the whole mat- 