mier has not attended any meeting of farmers, and that he has dropped the whole question as the proverbial Irishman is said to drop a hot potato; and I have no doubt that in time we shall find the Premier, instead of denouncing farmers for having the hardihood to organize, at- tending socials and other gatherings of the farm- ing community. Sir, when recently reading through the Financial Statement made by the late Hon. Mr. Ballance in 1891 I could not help noticing the leading features of that Statement and comparing them with the leading features of the Statement now under the consideration of this House. I am grieved to find such a departure from first principles. The people of this colony are indebted to the originating mind of Mr. Ballance for many useful measures on the statute-book which con- tribute to the well-being of the people of this colony. In his first Statement he sketched out the penny post. One would have thought the question had never been heard of, much less that Mr. Ballance had expressed himself in favour of it, but that it was entirely the out- come of the gentlemen who now occupy the Treasury benches. I do not want to detract one iota from the credit due to the Postmaster- General for bringing into operation the penny post, but credit is also due to the man who originally thought it out, though others have carried his idea into effect. Government advances to settlers originated with Mr. Ballance. In 1891 I placed a ques- tion on the Order Paper asking Mr. Ballance if he was prepared to adopt some cheap-money scheme to take up farmers' mortgages when they matured, and suggested that from the accumula- tions in the Post-Office Savings-Bank, Public https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 Trust, and other departments of the public service advances might be made to farmers at a lower rate of interest than at that time obtained. I received an answer from http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero 3.0. Mr. Ballance to the effect that he had given the matter careful consideration, and that he was entirely in sympathy with my question, and that he had little doubt but that in a short time a scheme would be established in the direction I indicated in my question. Then, the same with regard to labour legislation, for which we are indebted to the Hon. Mr. Reeves. Then we had honesty of administration, clean- handed administration. We had economy in the public service, and we had a non-borrowing policy. Alas! how are the mighty fallen! I have here copious notes, but I am not going to read them, as the several subjects have been already referred to by honourable members who have preceded me. So that the most popular and useful planks in the Liberal platform were originally in the programme of Mr. Ballance's policy. Sir, I now come for a few minutes to the consideration of the question of our public debt. Sir, pre- vious speakers have dealt very largely with this question, and figures have been given almost surfeiting members of the House. I shall en- deavour to refrain from that as much as possible ; but I would point out that the public debt according to the Statement at the present time is £49,591,145. The registered mortgages are $35,032,110, and the unregistered mortgages five millions. Here we have under the head of mortgages a sum of forty millions. The rate of interest paid on these goes as high as 7 per cent., 6} per cent., 6 per cent., and 5 per cent. We will take it at an average of 5 per cent., the interest on £40,032,110 amounting to $2,001,605. Under the head of local bodies' loans we have £5,478,300 borrowed outside the colony, and borrowed inside the colony £1,579,050, or a total of $7,057,350. The interest on the public debt amounts to £1,946,523; on mortgages, $2,001,605; and the interest paid by local bodies to the sum of $398,590 : being a total amount of interest this colony has annually to meet, both public, local, and private, of £4,246,718, and that is an increasing quantity. There is not included in that the interest on short-dated Treasury bills, the interest on temporary loans from departments, et cetera. The public debt at the present time is truly alarming. The debts I have enume- rated, including overdrafts and accommoda- tions, reach the sum of a hundred millions of money, upon which we have to pay an ave- rage of 4} per cent. interest. This, divided amongst the people of the colony, reaches a sum of $125 for every man, woman, and child in the colony, and for interest £5 6s. 2}d., or for a family of eight persons £1,000 of princi- pal, with interest at #42 9s. 8d. Sir, I now come to the question of our railways, and I have to compliment the Minister in charge of this department. I have no fault to find with him. As a representative of the farming com- munity, I am satisfied he has done his best in the administration of his department to meet the requirements of the community. The Statement discloses the fact that the total capital sunk in the construction of the rail- ways of the colony has now reached £17,207,328. The excess of profits over expenditure is $599,389, which gives £3 9s. 8d. per cent. on the capital sunk in the construction of our railways. The rate of interest we are paying for railway loans reaches an average of 4 per cent., so that the excess of revenue over expenditure falls short of interest by about £125,000 a year. During the present Administration reductions have been made on the haulage of goods, in the interest of both the producer and the consumer, to the extent of £420,239, but these concessions have been brought about by the expenditure of large sums of borrowed money on our railways. I look upon loans as a legitimate expenditure on the extension of our railways, and on all new works ; but my contention is that all renewals, all rolling-stock, all buildings, and repairs are a legi- timate charge on the revenue. If $300,000 of revenue had been devoted last year to renewals and rolling-stock, instead of having a surplus in excess of revenue of $590,389 there would have been a credit surplus only of £299,398, which would only give interest at the rate of £1 14s. 3d. That would disclose the true posi- tion of the railways of the colony. As a farmer, if I have repairs to machinery, or purchase of new machinery, or any expenditure in the 