to me, "Feegures will prove onything "; and | way-train which leaves the Wellington station so they will. It all depends upon who is handling them, and the way he does the handling. What I want to know is this : Is the whole financial position of the country disclosed in the Financial Statement? I do not think it is ; and if we make any mistakes in our criticisms - and I only intend to go through the matter in a general way-I say if we make mistakes in our criticisms, the re- sponsibility for those mistakes must rest with Ministers, for they have not provided those de- tails which we are entitled to have as members of this House. We hear a good deal about " trusting the people," about trusting this and that ; but I say the members of this House have not been trusted in the present instance by the Colonial Treasurer. He has not given us those facts that he ought to have given us. He has not made what I choose to term, in a colo- quial way, " a clean breast of it." If the Pre- mier thinks that he will gain anything by keep- ing back any of the facts as they are known to him from the members of this House I think he is making a serious mistake. Sir, I be- lieve that such a course of conduct helps to give colour to the widest and wildest state- ments that are made by the opponents of the Government. Now, what, for instance, was the cost of the ducal visit to this colony? Was it $55,000, or how much was it? Possibly we shall never know. Then, are there any details in any of the documents which have been laid upon the table of this House as to the cost of the demonstration at Rotorua-the hiring of hotels, and several other things of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 that kind, many of them of considerable magnitude in the matter of expenditure? We do not know what the whole thing has cost, but we have a right to know ; and I venture the opinion that it will come to nearly double the http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero amount that has been represented to us. I say this fearlessly and frankly : that if the Colonial Treasurer had come to this House and had said in his Financial Statement that the ducal visit had cost us $120,000, I do not believe that a single member of the House would have ob- jected. Now, however, that he has said that it has cost $50,000, should it come out afterwards that the cost is double that amount, then he may expect a good deal of criticism of a very warm character. Mr. MONK .- It has been shunted to the various departments. Mr. HORNSBY .- But I want to know where it has been "shunted " to. In this connection, a grant is to be made to His Excellency the Governor, if the House allows it, of something like #2,250. When, last session, we were pass- ing the Governor's Salary and Allowances Bill, we were told by the Hon. Sir J. G. Ward-I think in reply to a question put by myself- that the #7,000 per annum to be paid to the Governor was to cover all expenses and allow- ances. Notwithstanding this, we have here £2,250 as a special grant to His Excellency, together with #40 for special trains on the Mid- land and Manawatu railways. And then, Sir, very now and again we see put on to the rail- for Napier a gorgeous carriage. It was built, I believe, for the use of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York. Their Royal Highnesses went out in it as far as Petone, and now the carriage is used to run up and down the Go- vernment line for the convenience of Lord Ran- furly. I should not have said a single word against that but for the fact that every time that carriage is hooked on to the train the com- fort of the general public is narrowed down. The American carriages and "smokers" are knocked off, and we have to revert to the old system of travelling up and down the line. Now that is not right. It should not be done, and I, for one, protest against it. An Hon. MEMBER .- Who travels in the Royal carriage ? Mr. HORNSBY .- Well, I would rather not go into that. Now, Sir, the Treasurer tells us there is no extra taxation upon the people of the colony. Quite so. But is anybody foolish enough to believe that this is more than half a truth ? What is the position ? The position is this : More loans ; more expenditure ; more increases in salaries and allowances ; more ex- travagance in every department of the State. And if I were an older member in this House I would here to-night move that the whole of the estimates be referred back to the Treasurer, so that he should recast those estimates and knock off a very large sum-as was done in the case of Sir Harry Atkinson some years ago. At any rate, I make this declaration as far as I am personally concerned : that I intend to con- test every one of the increases when we are in Committee of Supply, and we shall see who the members are who are in favour of this ex- travagance and who are not. I shall give them that opportunity. Sir, we have heard a good deal during the course of this debate about the country members demanding this and that from the Government; but when we go as country members and ask them for votes we are met with the answer that we are not to ask for too much. The Hon. the Colonial Treasurer, in making his Budget State- ment, asked members of this House not to be too eager to get votes for their constituencies. The members of the city and suburban con- stituencies also require votes, and they will bo met with the same statement. What are we told ? 'That there is no money. Very well, then, it has come to this : that there is little or no money for roads or bridges for the back- blocks people, but there is any amount of money -tens of thousands-for follies and foibles if it so please the gentlemen occupying the Treasury benches. The time has come-and I tell Ministers that it is so, and they will soon come to know that it is so if they do not believe what I say now-when the people of this country have made up their minds that the sort of thing I have complained of is going to stop; and the sooner it stops the better will it be for the party of which I am a member. Now, Sir, the Treasurer's Statement is full of words of hope for the back-block settlers; but what of the fulfilment ? He " keeps 