subsections (1) and (2) of section 15 of the Act of last year, where it enables the Council to deal with offences where the Maoris desire to bring in their own custom of obtaining payment for some wrong, or little offence. I think it advisable that the Councils should be given some judicial power to deal with minor offences of this kind. And there is also this : I think we shall find it difficult to start the operation of these Councils be- cause of insufficiency of funds ; and it would be just as well for the Government to take this matter into consideration and let the Councils have some little advance. I would ask the Native Minister to have this matter considered, and set aside a little money on the supplementary estimates for this purpose. In reference to the dog-tax provision contained in the Act of last year, it appears to me there will be conflict under the Act. It constitutes the Maori Council the local authority. Now, under the Dog Registration Act Amendment Act of 1882, and the amending Acts, the local bodies are constituted the local authority, and it appears to me each of these local bodies can levy a tax on Native or European dogs, and such persons can play between the two, and avoid being fined for not paying the tax. To avoid this, some provision ought to be brought down to specify that the Maori Council, in deal- ing with this power, should deal entirely with dogs owned by Maoris, and the local authorities should deal with dogs owned by Europeans. I think I have said enough on the two Acts of last session. It is not my intention to go into the dif- ferent phases of the Maori land question, as I will https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 no doubt have another opportunity of doing so. I do not intend to follow up the remarks made by the honourable member for Napier, Mr. Fraser. Unfortunately he did not have time to express his strong views on the Native land question, but I can realise what those views are. They would no doubt be a denunciation of the Act of last year, supported by old matter raked up from the Government departments. Since I first entered this House I have always condemned the old system of Government land purchase, but I am glad to say that I am not now so strong on that question, for, as I have already said, provision has now been made for the retention by the Maoris of their lands for the benefit of themselves and for the future generation. I hope that that provision will not be interfered with for a long time to come. The member for the Western Maori District, Mr. Kaihau, waxed rather eloquent last night in reference to the conduct of the Government in connection with the visit of their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York. The anger of the honourable gentle- man was not only directed against the Govern- ment, but it was also directed against the Maori people of the colony other than his own. Now, I was waiting for that all the even- ing. I was under the impression that the honourable member would refer to that particular subject, as it is one he feels particularly sore over. The honourable gentle- people nearest to the place that visitors first pass to have the right to receive them first. If that contention is good, then the only tribe that had that particular right, and has, therefore, a complaint, is the tribe I represent-that is, the Ngapuhi Tribe. The Royal party came right round the North Cape, and, according to the contention of the honourable member, Russell should have been their first port of call. Rus- sell was the first seat of Government. Im- mediately after the rising of the House last year, I convened a representative gathering of my people at Waitangi to discuss this question of the arrival of the Royal party in New Zealand waters. We passed a resolution to the effect that we should inform the Government that the first port of call for the Royal party should be Waitangi, Bay of Islands. And our reason for doing that was because it was the first seat of Government and because the Treaty of Waitangi, binding the two nations together, was made at that particular locality. But, unfortunately, I got a reply from the Native Minister intimating to me the reply of the Governor in respect to our invitation, that it could not be entertained on account of the insuffi- ciency of time. I believe the Ngapuhi people made the first petition of invitation in that connection for the purpose of the Royal party visiting Waitangi. We had very good reason for complaint; but we did not complain. I realised then that, no doubt, the time was limited, and that the arrangements for the ports of call had been already made. I there- fore laid it down and explained it before a mcet- ing of our people, and although a large number of the elders of the tribe felt annoyed, I con- vinced them in the end that our object was to show to the son of our present King and to Her Royal Highness that the Maoris in that part of the island are loyal to the British Crown. In this they all agreed, and they also agreed to the invitation which had been sent to me by the Hon. the Native Minister when he invited all the tribes to go to Rotorua and make Rotorua the central Maori gathering for the purpose of receiving their Royal Highnesses. Now, the statement made by the honourable member for the Western Maori District is this : that the Government knew that there was a man up in his district who was looked upon as being on a par with any king. Well, no doubt, in his mind, that is the case. And then he went on to insinuate that this man -not naming him, of course-was the king head of the Maori people. Goodness gracious me! we never knew anything of the kind. And then he went on to complain that because of an old-time custom of his people he could not agree to the invitation sent to him by the Government to go on to Rotorua, but he also gave members to understand that this man up in his district was the King of the Maoris. Well, assuming that to be good-which I con- tend it is not-it does not matter where the reception is to be made. If he was really the King of the Maoris it was not for him to grumble, because any place in the Island would 