would be the effect with regard to the objec- tion of the honourable member for Kaiapoi to the appointment of a Medical Officer of Health at $500 per year. The effect would be this : that instead of the charge coming on the local bodies out of rates, it would come out of consolidated revenue, because the local body, when they found that the Govern- ment were providing these Health Officers, would not provide any Local Health Officer- they would simply come on the central de- partment to do all the work that they should do. He was very glad to see that the Government were stronger in sympathy with the suggestion that provision should be made for taking steps to prevent the spread of consumption, and he (Mr. Ell) took some small amount of credit with regard to that matter. He believed it would be the means of relieving many a home of a considerable amount of anxiety, and might obviate many a young man or young woman dying at an early age, where, if their parents had the means to send them to establishments properly equipped, these young people might be saved to their families ; but on account of the high charges which were made by private institutions which provided curative treatment, which had been proved to be the only successful treatment, these young persons were prevented from going to such institutions. He might state that he inquired on account of a young person in Christchurch, and he found that the charge of a private hospital of this character was four guineas a week, and it could be readily understood that no poor family could afford to pay that amount. He knew of a case, and the member for Lyttelton also knew of it, where a young man, who was at death's door, fortunately had the means to go to Colorado, in the United States, and he had come back com. pletely restored to health. When he went away the doctors absolutely gave up all hope of his recovery, yet he had come back to the colony completely restored to health, and might live on to a good old age. That was one instance of what could be done. There were eight Sanitary Inspectors, and he would like to ask the Minister what the duties of these Inspectors were. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) said he no- ticed that there were six District Health Offi cers at $500 each. He wished to draw the . attention of the Minister to the fact that, whereas the other Health Officers received £500 per year, the officer at Christchurch only re- ceived $150. Sir J. G. WARD .- He is allowed private practice. The others are not. Mr. LAURENSON would like further infor- mation with respect to the distribution of leaflets in connection with the preservation of the health of infants. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) said, In order that the Health Department should be carried on efficiently, there was no doubt they must have the necessary money ; but they all knew this : that the value of any service in a department was, after all, judged by the stan- dard of results ; and when the Auckland mem- ! have been done out of " Unauthorised expendi- climate, where the air was so sweet and where the entire energy of the Health Department could not find a single case of plague-and when members came to Wellington they found in the Parliament Buildings a most vitiated atmosphere. Those buildings covered half an acre of land, and underneath the building there were accumulated large quantities of musty papers and numbers of decomposed rats. This was an important department, and they had very distinguished men in charge of it. He thought that these gentlemen might start nearer home, and report upon the insanitary condition of the Parliament Buildings. Some- thing should be done to prevent the horrible stench which came into the Chamber and lobbies from the passage near the telegraph- office. Sir J. G. WARD said the duties of the In- spectors would be to examine houses and drain- pipes and premises generally, so as to insure that there was no connection between the drains or sewers and any part of the dwellinghouses. In reply to the honourable member for Lyttel- ton, he might say that the circulars referred to were being left at the post-offices and railway offices in bundles, and they would also be sent to the local bodies for circulation. In addition to those circulars relating to consumption, there was now in print a leaflet dealing with enteric fever, rules for the selection of sites, and for the pumping of water in country places. It had been found that ordinary pumps had been put down in the ground where there were sewers intersecting. There were also leaflets regarding scarlet fever, and one or two other matters which had been mentioned, such as the feeding of infant children. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) said, in connection with the disparity between the salaries paid to Dr. Symes, at Christchurch, and the other District Health Officers that had been appointed, it was certainly true that Dr. Symes was allowed private practice, but he would like to point out that Dr. Symes had done much good work in connection with the department. Recently he was called upon to make an in- spection of the district round about Waimate on account of some cases of illness having occurred there. He believed he spent about eighteen days in the locality studying up matters in connection with the sanitary state of the district. He believed Dr. Symes to be a very conscientious and painstaking officer. Now, his idea was that the Public Health Act had not been administered during the past year in the spirit in which it was passed last session. Sir J. G. WARD .- You do not know what has been done. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL said it was only within the last few weeks that the District Health Officer had been appointed, and the Sanitary Inspectors had not yet been appointed. Mr. HALL-JONES .- We could not do it without a vote. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL said it could easily 