and the honourable members opposite know But at the time he was endeavouring to create, perfectly well that when the matter was rele- gated to the Committee this was done in order and improperly so, in my opinion, and unfairly to prevent the stupid proceeding of dragging so ; and there is no member on this side of the House-I should be very sorry to suppose there the representatives of the offending journal to are many members on that side of the House .- the bar of the House. Notwithstanding this, who would in any way support the honourable those honourable members now want to take this further action, or to have them fined member's unmerited statement regarding the health of the Premier-what he was trying to wholesale without being heard at all. Take do was to draw invidious distinctions between the case of the breach of privilege with which the members on the Treasury benches, and in Mr. Richardson was charged in 1891. Here, this particular case between the Premier and again, the member for Wellington City- Mr. FISHER .- There was nothing in that myself. That sort of thing does not go down. It is not the kind of thing a member of ordinary case. common-sense would be expected to do, and it Sir J. G. WARD .- At any rate, I am going does not do the honourable gentleman any credit to show the honourable gentleman how party entered into that case, as he says that it did to make a statement like that. There has been not come in. In Hansard of that year I find no pressure brought to bear by me so far as the that "Mr. O'Connor moved that the explana- Premier is concerned in the matter. The reso- tion of the honourable member for Waikato is lution was not promoted by me, as the honour- sufficient and satisfactory to the House." What able member says, but the resolution came up in Cabinet for consideration, and it was decided occurred ? It will be seen by referring to Han- sard that the members opposed to the honour- that it was the best course to be adopted ; and able gentleman referred to voted en bloc against because that resolution is not acceptable to the him. Surely there is party in that. That was honourable gentleman, and to some other a breach of the privileges of the House, and it honourable members with him, they immedi- was discussed at very considerable length ; and ately impute motives. then, when Mr. Rees moved on the same occa- sion, he moved that the words of Mr. Rees's caucus. amendment be inserted ; and there, again, a di- vision took place-thirty-three against twenty- caucuses, we are quite able to take care of our- four-and every member of the twenty-four was selves in caucus, although Paul Prys may think proper to give distorted statements of a member of the Opposition without an excep- tion. I glance down the list here and I what takes place there ; and although occasion- find that every member of the then Op- ally some member from the caucus may have position voted against the motion moved dropped a word here and there to give them a by Mr. Rees. The honourable member for lead, we know perfectly well how to conduct Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) was very eager and what we do in caucus. We do not make this evening to suggest there was somebody any of the reflections that they indulge in when behind all this, and it appeared to me, looking they hold a caucus. We do not put our party at the matter impartially, and wondering who in the position of catamarans in heavy weather, was behind the honourable gentleman-using when they throw everything about. At our his own expression-I wondered when I heard caucus our members are not trying to usurp the honourable member for Bruce, Mr. Allen, the position of their leader. On that side every speak, if there could have been a conference member finds fault with his leader, and finally between the two honourable members. What they strike, and the Opposition is ruled by a general manager, and those who were in the was the gravamen of the charge that Mr. Allen urged ? Why, it was that this particular catamaran are thrown overboard, and they are journal, which ought to be, according to his all at sixes and sevens. own views, an out-and-out supporter of him caucuses, let them look to their own caucuses. and his party, had done something like this : We can look after ourselves very well. They that it had at different times said that it be- really did imagine that upon this occasion they lieved in the administration of gentlemen such "had " the Government. posal of the Opposition ; it was moved by the as we were, and had given the support of its leading columns to this party, I under- honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), of course, entirely off his own bat, stood. without the slightest suggestion of any kind Mr. J. ALLEN .- I did nothing of the kind. Your understanding is not very good. having been made by any member of the Sir J. G. WARD .- It is perfectly good, and Opposition, without any lobbying or any at- I shall be able to show the House that it is the tempt on the part of any member to try and honourable member's own understanding that have a cohesion for the time being of some is defective, and that in the short space of half members on the Government side and the an hour the honourable gentleman has for- whole of the members of the Opposition side; but, though so innocently done, they expected gotten what he really did say. What he did say was that this paper supported one member to have this resolution carried by a large of the Ministry ; he was good enough to name majority. The honourable gentlemen now find themselves again in the pitiable condition of that member of the Ministry, and to say that it being in a hopeless minority. They find that supported me. Mr. J. ALLEN .- And me. the good-sense of the House prevails. They Sir J. G. WARD .- He said that later on. Mr. HERRIES .- It was settled at the Sir J. G. WARD .- I say, talking about They talk about This is not a pro- 