a candid friend of the Government. I have been a supporter, and one of the most con- sistent supporters, of the Government ever since I came here in everything that is right and proper. The motion I wish to move, Sir, is as follows : "That the estimates of expen- diture for the year ending the 31st March, 1902, be referred to the Government with instructions to reduce the same by the sum of £50,000." Am I in order, Sir, in moving that resolu- tion ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- One amendment having been moved, the honourable gentleman is not in order in moving another. Mr. MEREDITH .- Then, I regret that the honourable member for Lyttelton outflanked me yesterday. It was my intention to move that motion, not as a vote of want of confi- dence in the Government, but simply as an instruction to the Government from a candid friend. We must have retrenchment. The country demands it. We are going too fast. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) .- Sir, I need hardly say that I am rather sorry I am compelled to take a part in the debate at the present junc- ture, especially seeing I am required to follow a gentleman in this House who has been in the past not merely an associate of my own, but a compatriot on the Liberal side, and a close follower of the Ministry and their party. Not- withstanding the address he has just delivered I am inclined to think he has not very mate- rially altered his views. He is still a sincere supporter of the Ministry, and he will be found, if any important division occurs, travelling with myself into the same lobby. I regret, Sir, that there are some of his views that I can- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 not exactly appreciate, and from which I must take leave to differ. For instance, he has referred to the constitution of the Legislative Council in a way that is by no means flattering to that body. Now, I am under the impression that since the party to which the honourable member belongs obtained power in the colony the Legislative Council has been materially re- formed and substantially improved. Since the system of life-tenure has been abolished, and the members are simply nominated for seven years, what have we found ? That instead of throwing out our Bills without due considera- tion, as occasionally happened in previous years, members of the Council are to be found altering and amending our Bills, and, no doubt, improv- ing them in many instances, but at the same time treating them in a way that is fair and reasonable. The result is that we have the two Chambers working comparatively in harmony instead of trying to strangle each other's mea- sures, as they used to do a number of years ago. Now, we have an illustration in some of the other colonies of an elective Upper House. In the Colony of Victoria, for instance, where I have lived for years --- An Hon. MEMBER .- On what basis ? Mr. HOGG .- On the basis that you will find introduced into this country, very likely, if you try the experiment : on a property basis ; and you have the Houses working in antagonism, with the result that popular or liberal legislation cannot be passed in that colony. That is the effect of an elective Upper House, and that is the reason why I prefer a nominative Chamber in this country. If you want to have an Upper House elected on the same basis as the Lower House, then the proper course is to sweep it away at once. With two bodies elected on the same basis you would have exactly the same representation, and there would be no object whatever attained. Then, the honourable gentleman joined with other members of this House in crying over Ministerial expenses. He thinks they have grown very large; but has he taken into consideration the fact that the great bulk of these expenses are never handled by Ministers at all ? They are distributed by the Private Secretaries. They go to pay the neces- sary expenses of travelling over the country, meeting people in various parts of the colony, and carrying out functions which are desirable if not necessary. I am perhaps as strong a believer in economy as any member of this House, but I am aware that when Ministers travel their expenses are necessarily considerable. These things are inevitable. Then, Sir, he almost got bushed amongst the Royal Commissions. He virtually wept for the Midland Railway bondholders. I should like him to devote a little of his sympathy and compassion to the taxpayers of the colony. If the bondholders are to be satisfied, who is going to pay the piper? Is it not the taxpayers? The bond- holders invested their money in the belief that they were going to reap splendid dividends. Are the people of New Zealand responsible because they have not succeeded ? They have endeavoured to enforce their claims, but have been baffled before every tribunal, and, at last, the Government having appointed a Commis- sion to go fully into the question, I think with the report of that Commission Parliament should be satisfied. I need hardly refer to what the honourable member said about the Producers' Union and the Farmers' Union. I can understand that he wishes to show he is the true friend of the farmer, but I should have thought, as a member representing a country district, that was superfluous. The farmers of the country know perfectly well who are their friends, and who are their opponents. An Hon. MEMBER .- The " National Ass." as you call them. Mr. HOGG .- There is no doubt about the birth of the union ; but I believe the right men have got hold of it at last, and the farmers are going to completely alter it. By this time I imagine the union has been re-formed, and I expect to see some good work performed by it. The honourable member also referred to the Teachers' Salaries Commission in terms not altogether complimentary. With some of his remarks I entirely concur. He found fault with the composition of the Commission. He said it had too many members of the House. There were only four members of the House appointed, representing not one-half of the Commission. And, as regards the charge of bribery and corrup- tion, I do not think these members were in a posi- tion to bribe or be bribed. They only received 