tainly due to some other cause than to the visit South. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) said the member for Wairarapa had stated that the rea- son he objected to the first item being passed was that in the estimates-the honourable mem- ber referred more particularly to the Legisla- tive Council-there were large sums of money hidden away under the title of "Miscella- neous." Now, if they passed the first item of these estimates without any motion such as the honourable member suggested they would forego any chance they might have of getting the details they wanted. Just imagine the thousand and one things that were snugged away under the title of "Miscellaneous." Where was the salary of the Special Commissioner in connection with the Royal visit, which was rumoured to be £100 a month? Then, there was another thing. Comparing the Auckland and Wellington prisons, there was a most re- markable state of affairs. The daily average number of prisoners in Auckland was 154 males and 11 females ; Wellington, 125 males and 13 females. The daily average on the sick- list was : Auckland, 1.8 males and 0.18 females ; Wellington, 0.8 males and 0.7 females. The cost of medical comforts and medicines in Auckland was £84, while in Wellington it was £209-three times as much, for one-third the number. There was something wrong 3.30. in connection with that matter, and honourable members should be told what it was. A good many things required to be cleared up in connection with the estimates, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 and, in view of what had happened that night, he thought that a fresh start should be made when members were fresh. Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) said, in reply to the honourable member for Wairarapa, / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero that he would give the details of the Legis- lative Council vote. They were: Clerk of the Council, £400, and Clerk of Parliaments, who acted in the dual capacity, $200. The salary was a combined one, and it had not been in- creased for some time. Clerk Assistant, £350, which was the same as before ; another clerk, £250; interpreter, £200; extra clerks, £200, but that amount might be £190 or £210. He was not quite sure which was correct. Cleaning and ordinary contingencies amounted to £270. The total vote was the same as that of last year, of which £1,827 had been expended. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said that it was unfortunate that the Minister of Defence was absent just then from the Chamber, for one of his (Mr. Massey's) grievances was that when he wrote official letters to the Minister he hardly ever got an answer to them ; and he had hoped that he would have been able to get replies to those letters now, by asking questions across the Chamber. However, seeing that the Post- master - General was in charge of the esti. mates, he would like to say that there were various parts of his district that were exceed- ingly anxious for telephonic communication. Every year there was a large surplus in this department, but for all that it was almost im- Mr. Hogg many places in this colony. The worst case he knew of was the Island of Waiheke, in Auckland Harbour, with a population of be- tween three and four hundred people, and which was also used as a watering-place in summer by the people of Auckland City. They had never had a shilling of public money spent on the island, and they asked for a telephone connection, and were met with the positively unreasonable request by the department for a guarantee of £71 a year for five years. He took it upon himself to offer the department a guarantee of $50 a year for five years, but this was refused. He now repeated the offer, and sincerely hoped the Postmaster General would see his way to accept it. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) said the ex- planation of the Minister for Railways showed that it was necessary they should have details of every item of the estimates, and he hoped they would get them as each successive depart- ment came up for consideration. He thought. when one compared one highly-paid omcial with another, that it was quite wrong that the Clerk of the Legislative Council, occupying a position to a large extent ornamental, and only working about four months in the year, should receive £600 a year, while men occupying hard- worked and highly responsible positions, like the Secretary for Customs and the Secretary for Agriculture, were receiving £650 and $600 respectively. The Secretary for the Depart- ment of Agriculture had charge of one of the most important departments of State, while the Secretary for Customs had the task of collecting some two million pounds of revenue, and these two gentlemen were getting, one the same and the other £50 a year more than the Clerk to the Council. Why, the thing was preposterous, and he wished to enter his strong protest against it. Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) said that, regarding the telephone communication referred to by the member for Franklin, he might say that the honourable member had brought it under his notice by letter, and aiso personally when he was in Auckland. In the past the difficulty had been the paucity of population in the district, but it was a matter on which he would like to confer with the honourable member, and perhaps they would be able to meet half-way. Regarding the officer of the Legislative Council, spoken of by the member for Lyttelton, there was no increase in his salary, and he was an officer who had been some thirty-eight years in the service. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) recognised that the Clerk of Parliaments had been in his posi- tion a long time, but $600 a year was a very largo sum to pay to a person who occupied somewhat ornamental position. He did not object to a man on account of his being pos- sessed of a little of this world's goods : but it did seem to him an anomaly in a country like this that another officer, who was in receipt of £250 a year as Assistant Clerk in the Legislative Council, should also be a large landed proprietor. This officer drew £250 a year for three or four months' work, and the work was really done for 