you. Mr. HERRIES .- If would stop it in future. That is what I complain of ; and then the Pre- mier comes down and says that he is going to bring in a revision of the Standing Orders which will make this sort of thing impossible. Mr. SEDDON .- I did not say this session. Mr. HERRIES .-- That makes it worse; but, anyhow, what is the use of amending the Standing Orders ? As the honourable member for Wellington City has said, this motion of the Premier's, if carried, will mean an amendment of the Standing Orders ; but, besides, the Pre- mier says that when he moves to admit the Press to meetings of Committees he intends to put in this proviso, "except secret Com- mittees." But if no punishment takes place in this case, how about secret Committees? The evidence of secret Committees will be dis- closed just as much as the evidence of select Committees. What is the use of talking about secret Committees if this sort of thing goes on unpunished ? Now, I am not against the Press in the least. I hope to be found always ranking amongst the chief supporters of a free and honest Press. I intend to vote for Mr. Carncross's Libel Bill, as against the right honourable gentleman over there, who is try- ing to gag the Press. Will the head of the Government vote for that? But this is a case which is quite different as far as I can see. In this case, as the honourable member for Wel- lington City put it, and as all of us on the Mines Committee must know, there must have been the deliberate theft of certain documents. It is not a précis of the evidence. It is not https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 the shorthand report of any person who was present ; it is the actual shorthand re- porter's notes that have gone down to Dunedin. What can you call that except, as the honour- able member for Wellington City put it, "a theft "? And what I would point out is that the reporter must have known this was the way it was got ; in fact, one cannot read his letter without seeing perfectly well that he knew that exactly. And there is another point I wish to draw honourable members' attention to with regard to the publication of further evidence. Now, the second publication was on the 23rd, that is the Wednesday. The Goldfields Com- mittee arrived at a resolution on the Monday that a breach of privilege had been committed, or, rather, they resolved to report to the House that the evidence had been printed, and that they considered it a breach of privilege. That was known in the Press gallery, because on that very Monday afternoon the Erening Post said that the Mines Committee had determined to report to the House that a breach of privilege had been committed. That was known on the Mondayafternoon. Well, Sir, the representative of the Dunedin Evening Star would have had time to telegraph to the paper not to publish the evidence that was published on the 23rd. That was not done, and it seems to me that that was an aggravation of the offence. Techni- cally speaking, Mr. Cohen was right in saying that all the evidence was published before the Mir. Herries practical man he must have known that the Mines Committee had it under consideration, and that they had determined to bring it before the House. It was not brought up on the Tuesday, but that was because of the death of an honourable member of another place. Therefore, it seems to me that that second publication was a distinct aggravation of the first. In the first case a man might have said that he had done it in error, not knowing of the Standing Orders. He knew all about them really - but that might perhaps have been put forward us an excuse; but the second publi- cation was done in full knowledge that it was a breach of the Standing Orders. Then, Sir, we come to Mr. Cohen's letter. How it came to be written I do not understand, but it seems to be a distinct aggravation of the offence in every possible way. It seems to be an insult, not only to the House, but to the Mines Commit- tee as well. The part of the letter giving advice to the House as to how to conduct its business has been referred to by the member for Welling. ton City so well that I will not refer to it except to say that, by parity of reasoning, a prisoner before a Judge might reasonably tell the Judge before he passes sentence that the law ought to be altered, and stealing be not made a crime. Here we have a gentleman who is convicted of a breach of privilege, writing to us and saying that the Standing Orders under which he is convicted ought to be altered ; and because of that we are to alter them and do nothing more in the matter. But he also goes on to advise the Mines Committee that they ought to extend the scope of their inquiry, and he points out that, in consequence of the publication of the articles, a large number of witnesses are coming up to give evidence in this case. As a member of the Mines Committee I do not know of any evidence that is coming up, and if there is I do not know that we will take advantage of it. The petition of Mr. Easton was confined to cer- tain companies, and we have concluded the evidence and will report shortly. Mr. SEDDON .- Will you take no further evidence ? Mr. HERRIES .- We have no further evi- dence. If the honourable member attends the Committee, and gives us the benefit of his advice, we might. As suggested by Mr. Cohen, we may extend the scope of the inquiry. as the leader of the House seems to take all his suggestions from the Press gallery; but the Premier knows the Committee have no power to extend the scope of any inquiry without in- structions from the House. I maintain that we are elected here to go through our business and conduct our business on proper lines, and you, Mr. Speaker, are the proper officer to advise the House as to the alteration of any Standing Order that may be necessary, and not a gentleman who is accused of breaking these Standing Orders. I submit that the question as to whether the meetings of the Committees should be open to the Press or not is quite beyond the question. There are arguments for and against that. What we are arguing at 