reduced to misery? Because her industries were destroyed. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- I rise to a point of order. I have been here all the afternoon with the intention of dealing with the Shop Hours Bill. Honourable gentlemen, and even the Hon. Mr. Ormond, have brought in ques- tions entirely foreign to it. I ask you whether Ireland has anything to do with the Shop Hours Bill. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- I admit the whole discussion is very wide of the mark. But if the honourable gentleman will permit me to say so, I was not the one that first wandered away from the path. I was only just replying to utterances of the Hon. Mr. McLean, and I was working out this free-trade, because one of the planks of the policy of this Farmers' Union is free-trade. I do not know how they will do it. I suppose they want to increase the tax on land. Honourable gentlemen will, I hope, pardon me for the discursive discon- nected utterances I have made. Really when I got up I did not intend to say more than to ask the Minister to reconsider the motion, and give us a chance of putting the Bill in better shape, but somehow I got away. The Hon. Mr. McLean's remarks on finance got me off the track. Debate adjourned. The Council adjourned at ten minutes to five o'clock p.m. # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 Friday, 6th September, 1901. Breach of Privilege-Financial Statement. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past ten o'clock. PRAYERS. BREACH OF PRIVILEGE. Major STEWARD (Waitaki). - Sir, I pre- sume that, as a matter of privilege, it will be my duty at this stage to bring up the report of the Privileges Committee, together with the minutes of the proceedings and the evidence. The report is as follows :- "1. Your Committee have the honour to re- port that they have inquired into the matter remitted to them by the order of reference of the 28th day of August, 1901, in regard to the publication in the Dunedin Evening Star on the 23rd day of August of certain evidence given on the 15th day of August before the Goldfields and Mines Committee of the House of Repre- sentatives ; and also into the matter remitted to them by the order of reference of the 30th day of August, 1901, in regard to the publica- tion in the issue of the same newspaper of the 27th day of August of certain further evidence given before the same Committee on the 22nd day of August. been taken. "3. Mr. Albert Elias Cohen, representative in the Press Gallery of the Evening Star, ad- mitted before your Committee that he for- warded in both instances to the said newspaper the evidence the publication of which is com- plained of. He stated before the Committee that ' the evidence was obtained in a thoroughly honourable manner, and that no amount of pressure would induce or compel him to state the source of his information,' adding, however, that he had not obtained it from the Clerk of the Goldfields and Mines Committee, nor from the shorthand reporter, but that 'the report had got into his hands.' "4. Your Committee beg to report that in consequence of this refusal they are unable to state by whom the evidence was communicated to Mr. Cohen, and, in accordance with pre- cedent, they now inform the House of the fact that a witness-namely, the said Albert Elias Cohen-is in possession of material evidence which he has declined to disclose to your Com- mittee. "5. The publisher of the Evening Star, Mr. John George Moody, appeared before your Com- mittee. He admitted the publication in that newspaper of the evidence on the dates above stated, but said that, as such publisher, he had no knowledge of the contents of the newspaper prior to publication. He, however, pleaded that the publication of the matter in question was in the public interest. "6. Under these circumstances, your Com- mittee submit that the House should now determine as to what steps should be taken in regard to the above matters. "WM. J. STEWARD, Chairman. " 6th September, 1901." Sir, I beg to move, That the report lie on the table, and that the report, minutes, and evidence be printed. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, I have not bad time to look into the report and evidence. I would like to have time to do so. Members of the House should have the same opportunity ; and as the motion is to lay the report on the table, and that, together with the evidence, it should be printed, an opportunity will be given to all to read the report and the evidence. Then, at our next meeting I shall bring up the ques- tion of what should be done. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- I, as one member of this House, enter my protest against the course proposed by the Premier. The Premier understands as well as any of us that a most important question is involved in the report of this Committee. Sufficient time has been given to every member to understand the full import of the question raised in this particular matter of privilege, and the Stand- ing Orders themselves declare that any question of privilege must be taken at once as a matter of urgency-that course being deemed essential to the protection of the interests of members of this House and of Parliament itself. There are no sufficient reasons why the House should 