idle for many years, and until this idea. How is the money their own ? Once it 4.0. road is provided it will remain in a gets into the possession of the Government it useless condition. but if properly opened up I certainly does not belong to the people. It am sure it would be occupied. Now, I wish to ought to be at the disposal of the representa- say I would like to see an alteration made in tives of the people, but since I have been the method in which the estimates are made a member of this House all public revenues up. Another column, I think, should be added have been at the absolute disposal of the Go- to show the proposed new expenditure. As the vernment, to dispense as they please. And estimates are now compiled it is almost im- although I have been consistently an opponent possible for any one to understand them. Last of the Government, I must say that, in regard session, when I asked the Government to take to most of the votes I have asked for, I have over the main roads, the Minister of Lands told been fairly well treated. Still, there is one public work in my district which year after me there was a large amount on the estimates for the work. He said there was $500 set apart year I have advocated, and asked the Govern- for the county boundary. That was perfectly ment to fulfil a promise made of old in regard correct. He also said there was a sum of £1,300 to it. Money was borrowed specially for this for the road to Clyde, but the county got only work, and yet it has never been expended. As $125 of that amount. That shows the position a matter of fact, this money has been expended we are in. Even the department cannot tell, elsewhere. I refer to the Riversdale-Waikaia apparently, what the real position is. I urge, Railway. That line ought to have been made therefore, that another column should be added years ago. Then, again, apart from the old to show the exact amount of the vote, so that promise, there was a distinct promise made by members would know what amount they were the Premier at the last election to the people in really entitled to have spent in their districts the district that the railway would be made. In after the estimates were passed. fact, they were given to understand it would Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) .- Sir, I must have all the better chance if they voted for my say I have been very much amused during the opponent. No doubt a good many people in the progress of this debate. We have witnessed district did vote for my opponent on that under- what I do not think I have ever witnessed standing ; but, so far, the railway has not been before in my experience as a member of the made. More than that, last year I got the first in- House. A number of Government supporters stalment of a redemption of that promise to the got up, one after the other, and criticized the extent of having a couple of thousand put on the Government very adversely, both in regard to estimates for a bridge across the Mataura. But their policy and in regard to their finance and it has taken twelve months to draw the plans for other matters of administration. Afterwards that bridge, and they have not been completed a number of other Government supporters took yet, as far as I can learn. I intend to say more their fellows to task for what they called their on this matter when we are discussing the Loan disloyalty to the Government. But, strange to Bill-for we are informed that there is to be say, these members had not got very far into another loan this year. Now, Sir, I desire to their own speeches when they fell into the same draw attention again-I shall continue to do so error, and commented very adversely on the until a change is made-to the manner in which Administration. I could not belp thinking that the interest and sinking fund is set out in the it was an example of the action of Balaam of abstract of accounts for the year. In 1898 I old, who, when called on to curse the enemies drew attention to it, and the answer I got from of those amongst whom he lived, proceeded to the Premier was that the items were all included bless them. These honourable gentlemen are in the estimates. doing the very reverse. They have been called the interest and sinking fund stated does not on by the Whips to bless the Government, but, represent the whole of the interest and sinking instead, they are cursing them. Why is it that fund paid out of the Public Treasury. We members on the opposite side are acting in this ought to know the exact amount. The amount way? It must be evident that these utter- there set forth is the net amount, and is ances are merely the echo of the murmurs of short of the real amount by close on £130,000. discontent they hear among their constituents, It is perfectly true that from the Advances to and it is this which has emboldened them Settlers Department and the Land for Settle- to speak out. The member for Auckland City ments Department there are recoveries for (Mr. Napier), in criticizing the speech of the interest on the total sum of their loans. Still, honcurable member for Hawke's Bay, began by I contend that the total amount under this saying that the statement that the Premier had heading should appear on the debit side, and bribed the people would cost the Opposition that on the credit side there should appear the something like ten thousand votes. Well, I recoveries from those two departments. I am think if the people of this colony respect one glad to see this year that other members are person above another it is the man who will following suit, and are recognising the import- say fearlessly what he believes to be the truth. ance of this point. Already three or four mem- A man does not lose by it in the long-run. The bers in this debate have urged that this should word " bribery " was not intended by the mem- be done in future. I hope that other honour. ber for Hawke's Bay to be used offensively. able members will follow their example, and The member for Auckland City asked, "How that the pressure will soon be so great that the can you bribe the people when the money is Government will not be able to refuse the de- their own "? Well, that is rather a novel mand. My contention is that the people of the What I complain of is that 