Burns really did excellent work. The connec- tion of his name with the woollen industry of this colony should stand in bold relief. He was never self-seeking-quite the reverse, and as such was respected by all who had the pleasure of his acquaintance. It is only a short time ago that I received from him a very nice letter indeed, and it will be, I think, some consolation to the children who are left to mourn the loss of so good a parent to know that, although he has not taken part in public life for some years, their worthy father's services and good work had not been forgotten. His son, Surgeon- Major Burns, is with our sons who are fighting the battles of the Empire in South Africa ; and that the name of his father should be men- tioned with admiration and respect here will to some extent soften the blow that has fallen upon him and his brothers and sisters. I am pleased that the resolution dealing with the late Mr. Mackenzie should have been chosen as a fitting time to mention the name of the late Mr. Burns. Motion agreed to. THE LATE COLONEL FRASER. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I rise, Sir, to move, "That this House desires to place on record its regret at the death of the late Colonel William Fraser, and its appreciation of his ser- vices as a member of the House of Representa- tives, and tenders to Mrs. Fraser its sincere sympathy and condolence." Just as I was coming into the House with the two other resolutions I received the following telegram :- " Our old friend Colonel Fraser passed away at half-past ten this morning. I know we have your sympathy." Sir, the genial old Colonel has gone to his long home. Good-natured and generous to a fault, we all knew him well and respected him. I have said "generous to a fault." Looking back over the many years of my life as a mem- ber of Parliament, I can say that from the time I knew Colonel Fraser to the time I said " Good-bye," when he was leaving for home & short time ago, the greatest friendship has existed between us. I remember him, Sir, in the past, and, when in 1887 misfortune had befallen our party in the loss of our respected leader, the late Colonel Fraser was the first to offer to resign his seat so that the party might have its leader in Parliament. I also remember him in connection with goldfields matters. There was no member from the diggings, and in the early days, with his experience as a Warden, and there was no member in our Parliament in those times who knew more or could be taken as a safer guide in respect to goldfields matters than the late Colonel Fraser. Then, we must not forget that he fought the battles of our colony, and rose to the rank by which he is known- that is, Colonel. That he was a brave leader one and all must admit. As a genial member for the Thames, and as our Serjeant-at-Arms, members will miss him ; and more especially does the event seem sad under the existing cir- Nr. Seddon good wife, who has been with him for over fifty years, during the session before last met with a severe accident. She has practically been on a bed of sickness from that time up to the pre- sent, and will never again be able to move about. The Colonel suffered very much during the latter part of his days; yet, though weak and ill, members must have seen him here trying to do his duty, and there was a general feeling that he should go back to his home and not remain here, for all could see the end was not far off. Although there was considerable difficulty in getting him home, he managed to get there ; and he has died in his place at home in the presence of her who has been with him so many years. It will be some consolation to her, and tend to soften the irreparable loss she has sustained, if we place this resolution on record, and I am sure it will be carried unani- mously by members of the House. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- Sir, I did not hear until after the right honourable gentle- man commenced his speech of the death of our old friend Colonel Fraser, and it therefore came as a great shock to me, as it must to other mem- bers. He has been living in the part of the colony I live in ever since I have been in the colony, and for many years I was a constituent of his, and he for a long time represented a great portion of the district I now represent. In travelling round my district I can realise the great attention he paid to the wishes of those whom he represented. Throughout the Thames, Te Aroha, and Bay of Plenty districts there is only one opinion, and that is that they have never had a better representative than the late Colonel Fraser. As the Premier has alluded to his sad end, I trust I may be permitted to say how distressing it is to myself and others, who know how he had filled some of the highest offices and had been one of the greatest men a: the Thames, to see him die with his wife an in- valid and he himself in the circumstances men- tioned by the Premier. This adds a tinge of melancholy to the whole affair. I agree with everything that the Premier has said with regard to the personal qualities of the deceased gentleman, and I can only add that no one will regret the death of Colonel Fraser more than will his late constituents in the Thames and Bay of Plenty districts. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) .- During the last thirty years I have perhaps been more intimately acquainted with the late Colonel Fraser than any other member of the House. I may be permitted to say that not only in this House will his erect and familiar figure be missed, but in the district where he lived so long, and where he was so well known. I can only add my testimony to all that has been said by the Right Hon. the Premier and Mr. Herries, the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty, in eulogy of the late Colonel Fraser as a man, a gentleman, a politician, and a soldier. No truer politician could there be than the late honourable gentleman for his party, and that is not a reflection on him, nor is it a reflection 