Captain Russell, and other honourable mem- bers who have a fancy to see the good old sport of horse-racing, will appreciate : "Con- cessions to racehorses, polo ponies, hunters, and hounds returning from races, polo meetings, and hunts, #2,800." Where does the working-man get any benefit there? Are the Government pandering to the working-men, who have put them on the benches, and who are keeping them there? No; they are pandering to the people who wish to turn them off the Treasury bonches. Then, we have "Carriage of goods from centres to ports for shipment, dead-weight instead of measurement, £11,000." Who sends goods to the ports but the farmers? All the concessions, it seems to me, are given to the farmers. This part of the Financial State- ment also shows that reductions have from time to time been made on a very large number of articles of every-day use carried over the rail- ways, and further states, - "The regulations have been made of a more liberal character than heretofore " -- [the mem- ber for Franklin said that all the real Liberals were on the Opposition side of the House ; but I contend that they must be on the Govern- ment side, because it is by the Government the reductions have been made]-" train service is improved, speeds increased, and additional trains, involving an expenditure of many tens of thousands por annum, have been provided ; and, to further meet the convenience of the public, goods and passenger traffic have been separated wherever the volume of business has warranted such a step." When I was interrupted by the half- 7.30. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 past five adjournment I was dealing with the criticisms of those honourable mem- bers who had spoken during the debate, and I believe I succeeded in convincing honourable members so far as I went, and I think it un- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero necessary to proceed any further on my former lines. I will therefore now take a new de- parture by referring to a matter that has not already been touched upon - namely, the reason for the discontent amongst the farmers of the colony, and for the origin of this new Auckland bantling, the Farmers' Union. Auckland is a place famous for producing political organiza- tions of this kind. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is not political. Mr. Mcl.ACHI.AN .- I will show you whether it is or not by-and-by, for I intend to put some extracts into Hansard with reference to it. Before I proceed further I may tell honourable members that the union has even taken root in the great district of Ashburton. A report re- cently appeared in the newspapers of an extra- ordinary meeting held at midday on Satur- day, which is market day at Ashburton. The meeting was reported to have been attended by two hundred farmers, representing the whole of the Selwyn electo ate. Of these I suppose that 120 belonged to Ashburton, and the rest of them to other parts of the district, and very many of the names given were those of persons who supported my opponent, Mr. Harper, at the last general election, so that it does not strike terror into me. Mr. McLachlan Mr. SEDDON .- Who is Mr. Harper ? Mr. MCLACHLAN .- He was the unsuccessful opponent of the member for Ashburton at the last election. The honourable member for Riccarton, with the view of advancing the interests of the working-men, gave notice of an Eight Hours Bill. I do not know who drafted that Bill-probably he did so himself-but it bore the construction that it was applicable to farm servants of almost every class but dairy- maids. As I have already said, this so-called Farmers' Union caused the meeting to be called at Ashburton, which was addressed by a man called Glass. I do not know Mr. Glass, so I am not going to speak disrespectfully of him ; but he addressed the Farmers' Union. and said he considered it the most successful meeting he had ever met, and it was resolved to esta- blish a Farmers' Union there. Now, I heard the member for Franklin ask the honourable member for Ashley what the tenets of the Farmers' Union were. I am going to give you the platform on no less an authority than the Otago Daily Times, as reprinted in the I.yttelion Times. It is this-it is a recent article, and it says this :- "The executive of the Trades and Labour Council has evidently not yet made up its mind concerning the farmers' unions now being formed in various parts of New Zealand. There is an undercurrent of sarcasm, not very obvious, in the references to Mr. Glass's organizations contained in the report adopted by the Coun- cil on Saturday, and we expect that the interest of the workers in the progress of the new body will be mixed with a little alarm. If we had any doubt in our own mind as to the objects for which the farmers are being or- ganized, it would be dispelled by the outspoken comments of that reliable and confirmed Con- servative organ the Otago Daily Times. ' Duly recognising that the interests of the farmers were suffering at the hands of the labour unions,' says the Dunedin journal, ' Mr. A. G. C. Glass, of Kaitaia, Auckland Peninsula, con- ceived the project, some couple of years ago, of a farmers' union.' The spread of the move- ment, we learn, is due to a 'growing alarm at the aggressive character of the labour unions,' and when once the union is thoroughly organ- ized a working political platform will be agreed upon. Then, triumphantly declares the Otago Daily Times, ' for the first time in our political history, the labour unions will have opposed to them a powerful organization.' There is no- thing of all this in the printed ' objects' of the union, but the Times, which evidently has its information at first hand, devotes less than a dozen lines to the printed objects, and a full column to the real intentions of the organiza- tion. We gather from this that the union is formed for the following purposes : (1) To re- sist the political power of the labour unions ; (2) to oppose labour legislation ; (3) to encourage settlement of the land, with a ' freehold' clause ; (4) to reduce freights on produce ; (5) to advo- cate taxation for revenue purposes. and to resist the protection of industries; (6) to ' educate ' the farming community." 