denial, Sir, I have made before, and I now repeat it. The Nelson Colonist of the 8th August, in a leader referring to what had ap- peared in the Lyttelton Times, says :- " His reply seems to have been scarcely cour- teous, and certainly far less consideration was shown for the requirements of the districts interested than has been shown the people of Canterbury and Marlborough." Mr. PIRANI .- Who is it from-"our own correspondent " ? Mr. SEDDON .- I do not know for a cer- tainty who contributed the paragraph purport- ing to be a report of what took place. It was some time after the deputation that the report appeared in the newspapers, so that whoever sent it to them must have given it from memory. The fact of the matter is this: If any statement is made and is heard by several parties, and these parties are asked subse- quently to each give their versions of the matter, it will be found that no one version will agree with another. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- In reply to the Treasurer, I wish to say that I trust the honourable gentleman will admit that I quoted the paragraph correctly as it appeared in the Lyttelton Times. I hope the honourable gentle- man does not deny that ? Mr. SEDDON .- No, I admit you quoted correctly what was stated in that paper. Mr. MASSEY .- Then I can only repeat what I said before : that the member for Nelson City told the House that, having been present at the interview, the report as it appeared in the Lyttelton Times was a correct report of what was said by the Premier, as far as he could recollect. Mr. SEDDON .- I have seen the speech of the member for Nelson City in Hansard. An Hon. MEMBER .- The Hansard with the speech is not out yet. Mr. SEDDON .- I have not seen it stated in Mr. Graham's speech that he vouched for the report being correct, and if the honourable gentleman has said so he is labouring under a misapprehension. Mr. Graham had said he was present when statements were made which would give rise to what was printed in the paper. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) .- Sir, though the time is very limited-less than five minutes-I will say a few words to-night within the short time at my disposal, and finish my remarks when the House meets to-morrow. As the honourable member for Franklin com- menced his speech by giving us a quotation from Shakespeare, " You have an exchequer of words, but no other treasure," I also will com- mence by giving him a quotation from Shake- speare. In all probability he realised that, in consequence of the lame and impotent and very indifferent criticism which four members on that side of the House have uttered against the Statement -- An Hon. MEMBER .- Five. Sir J. G. WARD .- Well, it is a quintette, then. Now, Sir, perhaps he will apply this to himself :- Mr. Seddon ing-more than any man in all Venice; his reasons are as two grains of wheat hid in two bushels of chaff : you shall seek all day ere you find them, and when you have them they are not worth the search." Mr. MASSEY .- That applies to the State- ment. Sir J. G. WARD .- Sir, it applies to my honourable friend's utterances with regard to the Statement, who said that it contained an exchequer of words and no treasure. Then my honourable friend went on to criticize the State- ment. If it contained no treasure, why bother about it at all. And then he complained of the absence of certain public documents from the table. He complained of the absence of the Railways Statement, of the Postal and Tele- graph Statement, and of the Lands Statement, and also of a document known as " B .- 1." Now, for the information of honourable mem- bers, I will give them some idea of the trouble experienced in other countries with regard to laying papers on the table containing informa- tion similar to that contained in B .- 1. They will then be able to realise how much, or, rather, how little, there is in the contention that these returns are deliberately held back by the Ad- ministration of the day. The honourable mem- ber knows that there is no single statement that could help him in his criticism if he had these reports upon the table. In fact, he admitted himself that he was unable to finish his speech, as it was, within the hour limit. The honourable member for Bruce also made a similar statement with regard to the non-laying upon the table of the B .- 1 paper. Now, Sir, in New South Wales, on the 22nd April, 1899, the Auditor-General presented the public accounts of the colony for the year ending the 30th June, 1898; that was, that nearly twelve months afterwards he presented what is equal to our B .- 1 for the year ending the 30th June, 1898. In Victoria, on the 19th September, 1900, the re- port of the Commissioner of Audit upon the pub- lic accounts for the year ending the 30th June, 1900, was presented. In Western Australia, on the 31st January, 1901, the Auditor-General reported on the public accounts for the 30th June, 1900. That was seven months after the date of the expiry of the financial year. There is no use honourable members opposite trying to throw dust in the eyes of members of the House. The very same methods are required to furnish the information contained in B .- 1 as are required on "the other side " to obtain these returns; and in one case it took nearly twelve months, and in the other seven, and in the last case about three months. And yet those honourable gentlemen are everlastingly doing as the honourable member for Franklin has done to-night, stating that these returns are held back purposely. What utter nonsense! The departmental reports are of the most favourable character to the Government, and it is to our disadvantage that they are not on the table. An Hon. MEMBER .- We have had them be- fore. 