now in course of being acquired, permanent offices would be provided there. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) said, In regard to the execution of Imperial orders for oats for South Africa, there was a feeling of gratitude amongst the farming community at these orders having been placed in New Zealand, but at the same time there was a strong feeling that there was some mystery about their execution, as not a line of information had appeared as to who executed the orders, what was paid, or port of shipment, et cetera. Sir J. G. WARD said that he had just given full particulars to the House during the honour- able gentleman's absence from the chamber. Mr. MEREDITH hoped the Government would give some guarantee that a different method would be adopted in future, and that information would be given. He knew of cases where farmers had sold their oats for 13d. a bushel, whereas if they had such information as would have enabled them to hold them they might have received 2s. As it was, the differ- ence between these two amounts had gone into the pockets of the middlemen, instead of into the pockets of the producers. Sir J. G. WARD said he had given the whole of the details in connection with this matter to the House and could not be expected to go over them again; but he could tell the honourable gentleman only two Imperial orders had been so far executed by the Government. The course followed in those two cases by the Government was the only one that could be. followed in the future. If the Government gave the whole information put into their https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 hands by the Imperial Government they would have done a very improper thing, and it might have resulted in the loss of the orders. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) said the farmers alluded to by the member for Ashley, who sold . their oats at 11}d., had nothing to prevent them holding them, and it was ridiculous to blame the Government for their mistake. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) asked if the two orders referred to by the Minister were included in the two sums placed in B .- 6, and in Gazette No. 48. Sir J. G. WARD said the returns included the whole of the orders executed by the Govern- ment up to date. Vote, £8,908, agreed to. Tourist and Health Resorts Department, £16,147. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said he had been informed that the printing for the Tourist Department, which was of an expensive kind, was given out to private offices. If that was so, he was disposed to say that it was a waste of money, because the Lands and Survey Depart- ment was well able to undertake it. Sir J. G. WARD said no printing had been given out at all. Mr. FISHER did not doubt the honourable gentleman's word, but the impression had got abroad among well-informed persons that the printing of the Tourist Department had been given out to private offices. Sir J. G. WARD said the honourable gentle- man might be referring to a postcard which had been given out, and which was to be resold by the Tourist Department. It was given out be- cause they could not get it done otherwise. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said that in the Tourist vote he did not see any vote for Rotorua as far as the new baths were con cerned. Sir J. G. WARD said it would appear on the public works estimates. Mr. HERRIES said there was a subsidy of £100 for maintenance at Te Aroha, and he trusted there would also be a vote on the public works estimates for works now being carried on there. Sir J. G. WARD said he was making pro- vision for Te Aroha as well. Mr. HERRIES hoped the Minister would do so. The £100 subsidy was quite insufficient for the works at present in hand. Then, there was only the small subsidy of $50 voted for the doctor at Te Aroha. That was not enough to induce a doctor to reside in the place. The doctor at Rotorua was to get a considerable advance in salary, but it would have been better if the increase had been given to the doctor at Te Aroha. Sir J. G. WARD said the doctor at Te Aroha also received fees, but the other officer was not allowed to practise at all. Mr. HERRIES said, That might be so, but there was a great difference between £600 and £50, and the latter salary he thought might, at any rate, have been brought up to the salary given to the doctor at Hanmer-namely, £125. Sir J. G. WARD said that, although it was proposed on the estimates to give an increase of £100 to the doctor at Rotorua, it had not yet been finally decided by Cabinet. Mr. HERRIES would like to inform the honourable gentleman that several doctors had gone to Te Aroha at a salary of £50, but it was quite insufficient, and they had all left. It was very necessary that there should be a doctor at the place, and he hoped the Minister would con- sider the question of raising the subsidy. At present there was no doctor there. Sir J. G. WARD said he would make in- quiries into the matter. He knew nothing of it himself, but if $50 was not sufficient to induce a doctor to stay there probably other arrange- ments could be made. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) said that since last session he had visited Rotorua. An increase of £100, he noticed, was to be given to the medical officer at Rotorua. Well, some time ago a vote was passed for the services of a Balnealogist at Rotorua-an officer who would be competent to tell people the value of the different baths and their effect on particular diseases. He believed the colony could make these baths a very great attraction indeed if they would only secure the services of a man who was able to analyse the whole of the waters of the district. Rotorua, he might say, was as nothing compared with other parts of the district. Waiotapu, for in- stance, would wipe out Rotorua easily, and when he was there last year he was given to understand that steps were then being taken to 