department, he recognised, was on its trial, and, for himself, he intended to watch it very carefully for the next year or two, and if results were not satisfactory it would be for the Govern- ment to consider what should be done to put matters on a better footing. A sum of £3,000 was asked for on the estimates for the extension of markets. Now, how was this money to be properly expended ? Whose was to be the guiding mind in the countries to which repre- sentatives of the colony were sent to advance its interests? The Government representative in London was of opinion that the Government should open shops in different parts of Great Britain, so that New Zealand meat might be brought under the notice of the people at Home. Theoretically that was a good idea, but, for himself, he did not think there was much in it. He was inclined to think that the competition of trade would discover what were the most lucrative markets for our meat, and if the sum asked for was spent in establishing shops in different parts of Great Britain, the returns, he thought, would not be commensurate with the expenditure. The Commissioner, to his mind, required to be instructed on a number of matters appertaining to the department in which he was called upon to work. Of course, it was neces- sary that he should be given an idea of the price at which our different products could be turned out, so that on going into the markets of the world he could there furnish all necessary infor- mation regarding the exports of the colony. The Government were perhaps somewhat late in sending a Commissioner to South Africa. At any rate, if the £3,000 asked for was properly ex- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 pended under capable guidance he was sure it would bring good to the colony ; but unless the brains were there for the proper guidance the whole amount might be frittered away use- lessly. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister of Industries and Commerce) said, regarding the question put by the honourable member for Riccarton, as to the desirability of having a commercial man at the head of the department, he would suggest to the honourable gentleman that if he had been in the position of the Government he would have done well to do just what the Govern- ment have done. In establishing a commer- cial department in the colony the House could not be asked for an unusually large sum of money until the project had, at any rate, had a trial. The Government decided to establish a Tourist Department, and to place Mr. Donne at the head of it also. The honourable member, he thought, would recognise that if the depart- ments were divided it would mean the esta- blishment in the colony of two sets of offices and of two independent clerical staffs, and he (Mr. Ward) believed that Mr. Donne, with his suitable training and with the assistance of commercially trained men, would prove him- self thoroughly worthy of the position of head of the combined departments. He did not see the necessity of having two independent heads, one at the head of the Tourist Department and the other at the head of the Commercial De- Mr. T. Mackenzie Mr. Donne, and an opportunity of showing his capabilities should be given him, and next year he thought he was safe in saying the House would admit that the step had been fully justi- fied by events. The honourable member also said that undue speed had not been exercised. It was all very well to criticize him, and very easy to pull down, but the honourable mem- ber must himself admit that it was some- thing more difficult to build up. It was quite true the department was proposed by him some years back. He shortly afterwards went out of office, and it was never in active operation until a few months ago; and, no matter what department was started, it would take some time to get into trim. Instead of judging of the future by what had been done in the past, it would be only right, he thought, that the department should be judged from the present time onward ; and if next year the position was not a satisfactory one, the honourable gentleman could then round the Government up in the orthodox way. In reply to the honourable member for Kaiapoi, he wished to say the Government were now esta- blishing in connection with the department, in the colony and also in London, a commercial intelligence department; and, as soon as that department was in working order, the fullest information would be given to the public. either by cable or otherwise, and any informa- tion received from the department at Home would be published regularly in the colony. A commercial intelligence department of the kind would be of invaluable service to the colony as a whole. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) asked if the department would differentiate between the price of Wellington mutton and that of North Island mutton. Sir J. G. WARD said he did not think that would be fair, because there was a great deal of North Island mutton that went from Welling- ton, and if they attempted to differentiate, as suggested by the honourable member, it would be misleading to the people. In the same way there were thousands of carcases railed to Christ- church from Southland and sent Home as Can- terbury mutton. For the information of those concerned, he wished to say that he hoped to be able next week to announce the weight that the Government had decided upon in the matter of grain - sacks. While strong repre- sentations had been made to fix the maximum weight at 1001b., he might say he intended to gazette it at not exceeding 200 1b. Of course. those who chose to bag their grain in 80 lb. bags, or any other weight, would be welcome to do so. but the gazetted weight would be 200 1b. He would lay on the table of the House the instruc- tions that had been given to the Trade Repre- sentative. For the information of honourabir members he might say that the instructions to the representative, broadly, were these : Before going away from the colony 4.0. Mr. Gow was instructed to go to all the more important towns in New Zealand to make himself known to the mercantile and 