one of the leaders of the Opposition with being the author of the Poverty Bay massacre, did not these honourable gentlemen, who were now so sensitive, applaud the Premier for making that charge against the Hon. Mr. Rolleston ? Mr. HORNSBY .- Not the author. Mr. HERRIES said the honourable gentle- man was not a member of the House at the time. Mr. HORNSBY said he happened to be in the House at the time. Mr. HERRIES said that Mr. Rolleston was charged on that occasion with being the author of the Poverty Bay massacre, and on the flimsy evidence of a publican of Tolago Bay. He had no wish to rake up these things, but if the honourable member for Invercargill would use language such as he had used in his last speech these things would be raked up. Every one who knew the Hon. Mr. Rolleston knew that he could not be guilty of such a thing. Mr. GILFEDDER asked, What has that got to do with the "Tagus " ? [Mr. PIRANI mimicked the honourable mem- ber for Wallace's utterance.] Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) rose to a point of order. Was it in keeping with the dignity and decorum of the House that an honourable gentleman, sitting in his seat, should imitate and mimic in the most offensive manner the utterance of a brother member of the House ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, That the Acting-Chairman call upon the honourable member for Palmerston to apologize f r mimicking another- as he had done another member-when he was speaking in the House. He hoped the honourable member would admit https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 the impropriety, and would at once express his regret to the House. If they were not to have ' more serious things happening, then they must put a stop to such conduct as he complained of. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero To mimic the voice of an honourable member was certainly irritating and disrespectful to the House. He asked the honourable member to realise the seriousness of the position, and withdraw, and express regret for what he had done. The ACTING-CHAIRMAN said it was only for him to point out to the honourable gentle- man that conduct of that kind was likely to lead to disorder and, of course, was not proper. It was impossible to ask the honourable gentle- man to withdraw an objectionable sound ; but he had to say that if it occurred again he would think it his duty to take further steps. Mr. PIRANI said, If the Premier would not so constantly mimic other members every time he got up, other members would not follow his example. Mr. SEDDON said the honourable member was making an unfounded statement; he never did anything so rude, and he would move that the honourable member be called upon to apologize for his conduct. The ACTING-CHAIRMAN said the only method in which that could be done was for the Chairman to report the offending member to the Speaker. He could scarcely ask the honourable member to apologize to the House. VOL. CXVIII .- 35. to order before his attention was called to the matter by the member for Wairarapa. Mr. SEDDON moved, That the matter be re- ported to the Speaker. He had done all he could to endeavour to have the matter settled. Mr. PIRANI rose to a point of order. The Acting- Chairman had already ruled, and his ruling had been obeyed ; and it was only when the ruling of the Chair was disobeyed that a member could be reported to the House. Mr. SEDDON said the Acting-Chairman had ruled the honourable member to be guilty of disorder. Mr. PIRANI .- No, he has not. Mr. SEDDON asked whether the conduct of the honourable member was orderly or not ? The Acting-Chairman had asked him to with- draw, and he had not done so. He asked that his conduct be reported to the Speaker. Mr. HERRIES said they could not ask a member to do an impossibility. The honour- able member had used no words, and it was impossible to apply the Standing Order. The ACTING-CHAIRMAN said he had called the honourable gentleman to order for making an unpleasant noise before his attention had been drawn to it. He hoped the honourable member would not render it necessary for him to take any further steps in the matter. He did not think he could ask him to apologize, and he did not think he could report him as having been guilty of disorderly conduct, as he had not refused to obey the Chair. Mr. SEDDON said, if the Committee was not to report a member for disorderly conduct when the Chairman called attention to the fact that he was disorderly- Mr. PIRANI objected to the Premier direct- ing the Chairman as to how he should rule ; and moved, That the Premier be reported for disorder in the Committee. The ACTING-CHAIRMAN requested the honourable member for Palmerston to sit down. Mr. SEDDON said, If a member was guilty of unbecoming or disorderly conduct, and the Chairman so informed him, then he would have to withdraw the offensive expression, and could be called upon to apologize. He moved, That the honourable gentleman be reported. Mr. PIRANI maintained that, the Chair- man having ruled on the point of order, the Premier had no right to discuss it. The ACTING-CHAIRMAN said he had not stated that the honourable member had refused to obey the Chair. He understood the honour- able gentleman had obeyed the Chair, and that he would not again offend. Mr. SEDDON asked the Chairman if he understood the honourable member to say that he would not again transgress ? The ACTING-CHAIRMAN said he distinctly understood that. Mr. HERRIES said that when he was inter- rupted he was expressing the hope that the in- cident would be terminated. He hoped that the gentleman considered would agree in some way to have a Commission of inquiry into the 