to the remoter parts of the country, how do you expect people with families to go into these back-country districts and to take all the risks? As I have said, the tendency of the people is to concentrate in the cities, and not to spread out, and if you can extend those con- veniences you will be doing that which will be in the best interests of the whole country. Sir, the officers of that department are carry- ing on some rather high-handed work in the manner in which they are closing post-offices in the country districts without giving any notice to the people concerned of what they are going to do. When they are going to close an office the people in the district ought to be notified of their intention, so that they might be able to approach the authorities. There is too much red-tape in the Post and Telegraph Department, and I hope that the Minister, who has success- fully tackled a good deal of red-tape before in connection with the departments he has been in charge of, will do so still further in connection with the department I am alluding to. Now I come to the Savings-banks. The Minister states that the deposits in those' banks have increased from £2,448,000 ten years ago to £5,809,000 at the present time, and then he gives an analysis of the increased deposits and the values of the deposits. Now, under £100 the increased number of depositors is 178,405 ; over £100 and under £200 it is 11,173; over £200 and under £300 the number is 5,151 ; over £300, 2,679. This shows, at any rate, the smaller depositors are not increasing anything like the higher depositors. Perhaps I had better quote the figures, because I wish to hansardise the whole passage :- "Compared with the year ended 31st Decem- ber, 1890, the increase is almost phenomenal, the total at credit having increased from £2,441,876 to £5,809,552, or at the rate of 137.91 per cent., representing an increase in the average amount at credit of each account of £4 68. 3d. The interest paid in 1900 was £146,169, as against £92,319 in 1890, an in- crease equal to 58.33 per cent." There is a point here worth remembering. Although the depositors have increased by 137.91 per cent., the interest has only increased by 58 per cent. That is very significant. Now, coming to the analysis of figures, we have the increase of accounts as follows :- " Classifying the accounts, it will be found that those with balances up to £100 increased from 90,115 to 178,405, or 97.97 per cent. ; from £100 to £200, from 4,750 to 11,173, or 135.22 per cent .; from £200 to $300, from 1,502 to 5,151, or 242.94 per cent .; and above #300, from 841 to 2,679, or 218.54 per cent." The point I wish to bring out in connection with this is that the money going into the Post- Office Savings-Bank is largely money previously invested by the people in mortgages. The Go- vernment has become the agent of the British money-lender, and they have taken the securi- ties away from the people here, who are now compelled to put money into the Savings-Bank at a low rate of interest, with this difference : Mr. T. Mackenzie of interest for the money invested in advances to settlers that they obtain from the British money-lender than they are paying the de- positors in the Savings-Bank. The latter interest averages 23 per cent., and those depositors ought to have £50,000 a year more, because they ought to be getting 44 per cent. instead; but the Government are paying more to the British money-lender, who does not pay any taxes or take any responsibility with us, or take the good and bad weather and stand side by side with us in our difficulties. Mr. HOGG .- Yet the settlers receive the benefit. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- The honourable gentleman had better reserve himself, because when I take him in hand we shall have some fun presently. The Premier stated the other night that those who advocated giving trust es- tates of widows in the colonies the first oppor- tunity for securing investments in the country were advocating for the capitalists. Can it be said we are advocating the cause of the capi- talists when we have 19,000 depositors, with sums amounting to over £100 each-probably averag- ing £200-in the Post-Office Savings-Bank ? Is it not right to give the people in the country the first opportunity of these securities? Limit the amount of interest, if you like, to 4} and 5 per cent. on good securities. The honourable member who preceded me said that the advances to settlers are not adding to our permanent debt ; but they are adding to the responsibility of the country; and if you could secure the money to the farmers without adding to that responsibility it is right that that procedure should be adopted. I wish to allude to the Education vote, but as we shall have the full report of the Commission presently before us I shall not take up a great deal of time, beyond referring to the fact that those female teachers who are complaining should not do so. Con- sidering the difficulties the Commission had to face, it must be acknowledged by every fair- minded person that the status of the great bulk of the women and the salaries of women have been enormously improved under the grants re- commended by the Commission. Of course, I think it is unfortunate the Treasurer this year has not seen his way to support the £4 2s. 6d. vote, because this would have placed the school- teachers of the country in a position such as he would hope to see them enjoy. They are not sufficiently paid. There is no class of skilled labour in this colony so badly paid as the teachers are ; and, when you consider that in their hands is the welfare of future gene- rations of this fair country, I say it is most impolitic to stint these men and women of fair remuneration. What is the result even now of low pay? The result is that you will not get a bright boy in this country to enter a school as a pupil-teacher. You will get a number of girls to do so, but do they become permanent ? A great many just shift away in a few years and get- married. I think it was shown in Otago that three out of every four of the female pupil- teachers left the service, whilst among the 