Statement by the various members who have spoken. This is unlike anything I have ex- perienced since I have been a member of this House. In 1891 the financial debate was taken up by the Hon. Mr. Bryce, who was then leader of the Opposition ; he was replied to by the Hon. Mr. Reeves, Minister of Education ; then followed Mr. Macarthur, a leading member of the Opposition, and he was replied to by the Hon. Mr. Ward, then Post- master-General. In 1892 the financial debate was commenced by the Hon. Mr. Rolleston, and he was replied to by the Hon. Mr. Ward, Postmaster-General. That was what took place during the Administration under the Premier- ship of the Hon. Mr. Ballance. I regret that the same course has not been adopted during the present debate. It has fallen to my lot this afternoon to speak in a very plain manner on public questions, and, to the best of my ability, justly and fairly criticize the Statement that has been submitted to the House for its consideration and acceptance. At the same time, I wish to assure the members of this Chamber that the relationship between me personally and every Minister is of a most cordial and friendly nature; so if I have any- thing to say in the discharge of my duty as a representative of the people that may give pain to the honourable gentlemen on the Govern- ment benches I make no apology. In the Bal- lance Ministry we had some competent Ministers in the persons of the late Mr. Ballance, Mr. W. P. Reeves, and the late Sir John McKenzie - intellectual giants, gentlemen who understood public questions thoroughly, and who were always capable of defending their departments, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 and giving reasons sufficient to satisfy the majority of members of the House with their administration. Sir, I must compliment the honourable member for Riccarton on the speech he delivered last Wednesday night. His facts and figures were so carefully martialled as to render his speech forcible, incisive, and con- vincing. It was a strong impeachment of the Government, which it will take a great deal to meet, and which it is utterly impossible to demolish. How Ministers of the Crown can sit on those benches demurely and placidly, and listen to the strong impeachment made on their various departments, is something I cannot understand. The honourable member for Ric- carton disclosed such a state of affairs in the finances of the colony that the only conclusion an honest man can come to is that we are financially on the verge of a precipice. I listened with pleasure to the speech made last night by the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar). There was a ring of truth and honesty about it, and a note of warning. He clearly demonstrated to the satisfaction of members that the additions to the public debt during the ten-years administration of the present Government had reached the large sum of sixteen millions, omitting there- from the liability to the Bank of New Zealand of £2,000,000 and to the Assets Realisation Board of £2,800,000. Sir, during the recess we have had a number of Royal Com- missions set up-the Federation Commission, the Midland Railway Commission, the Rivers Commission, the Colonial Scale of Teachers' Salaries Commission, and the Coal Commis- sion ; and the expense of these Commissions, I presume, will not be less than £10,000 to the colony. Sir, in reference to the question of a colonial scale of teachers' salaries, the Minister of Education two years ago promised the vari- ous Education Boards and teachers employed in our primary schools that he would formulate a scheme for a colonial scale of teachers' salaries, and last session of Parliament the Hon. the Minister for Public Works, speaking on behalf of the Minister of Education, stated that the scale was completed, and would be submitted to the Education Boards at the close of last session. Finding that none of the Education Boards had received the promised colonial scale of salaries, I communicated with the Education Boards in Wellington, Canterbury, and Otago with a view of ascertaining what had been done -if any communications had been received by them from the Minister of Education re the promised scale of teachers' salaries, and if they had considered the promised colonial scale of salaries. In the course of a few days I received a courteous reply from each and all to the effect that no scale of salaries had reached them so far. I patiently waited, and, to my amazement, later on I found that a Com- mission was set up for the purpose of consider- ing the whole question. I ask, what was the Minister of Education doing in the meantime ? For two solid years he had been considering this question ; he had been actually incubat- ing over the colonial scale of salaries for two years. If that is the correct term to be ap- plied to the efforts of the Minister of Educa- tion, surely he should have brought forth something ? But he brought forth nothing. So that I shall have to adopt, instead of "incubating," the word "hibernating" as more befitting. Though the Minister of Edu- cation knew that this was a very important question affecting the whole community-and I venture to submit to this House that there is no question in which the whole community is so deeply interested as the education ques- tion-yet little or no attention was given to it by the Minister. Now, if the honourable gentleman had set to work he might have arranged for a Conference on this question, consisting of the Minister, the Inspector- General, say four Inspectors of Schools, four Chairmen of Education Boards, two male teachers, and two female teachers. I consider that any Conference or any Commission set up that did not provide for representation of the female teachers of the colony would be incom- plete in itself. If we recognise equality in point of standing in this colony of men and women, I think they were certainly entitled to have a place on any such Conference. I suggest, and had that been done I believe, a colonial scale of salaries might have been formulated at a mini- mum expense to the colony and that might have given the greatest possible satisfaction. I am not now going into the question of the 