Why, by going through the Premier's speech you would cull as extensive a collection of abusive terms as applied to members as you could get in any slang dictionary. And for the Premier to set himself up as a judge to say what sort of language ought to be used in this House, and to condemn another member, is one of the most extraordinary things that could be imagined. Now, the Premier told us, in the course of his speech, that the reason the representative of the Dunedin Star exonerated the officials of the Committee was that they were not in a position to speak in this House in their own defence. Well, if that was the reason-and I accept it as the reason-why did not the repre- sentative of the Dunedin Star treat the wit- nesses who went before that Committee in the same way? They are not able to come to this House and speak in their own defence. Why should he not also have included them in his denial of the persons from whom he got the evidence ? It has practically been asserted by the Premier in this House that one of the wit- nesses. if he did not give the evidence, at any rate was in a position to give it, and that he had the evidence long enough to have given it to the representative of the Dunedin Star. That proves the necessity for the representative of the Star to have gone further in regard to naming those from whom he did not get the evidence, and to have included in the list-that is, if he did not get the evidence from any of those wit- nesses-to have included in the list the wit- nesses who have been before the Committee, and those who were assisting the witnesses- that is, their clerical assistants. If that had https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 been done, his exculpation would have been much more complete than under the circum- stances in which he made it ; and, probably, faced with that we would be in a much better position to judge than we are at present. Then, the Premier also condemned the Privileges Committee for not giving the House a lead in Why, the House had already the this matter. lead. The House had already decided that this question was a breach of privilege. I will ask the Premier, who was a member of the Banking Committee, what sort of a lead did that Com- mittee give to the House when the witness, Mr. Watson, was called before the House for refusing to give evidence ? Mr. SEDDON .- That was not a Privileges Committee. Mr. PIRANI .- No ; but it was a Committee which reported a witness to the House, and the House did the proper thing. The House ex- pected, and we expect, that he as leader of the House would give the House a lead, and in that lead he would naturally state what course he would take. Now, I think the proper course that we ought to have taken was this: We ought in the first place, as we did not get an expression of proper withdrawal --- a proper ex- pression of regret-from the representative of the Dunedin Star in his letter, to have called him to the bar of the House to answer for his refusal to give evidence before the Committee. If he then gave us a complete expression of regret it would have been for the House, I think, to have considered what course they ought to have taken in regard to that; and I have no doubt that the House, in its wisdom, after having received that complete apology, would have allowed the matter to rest there. Then, so far as the publication of the evi- dence is concerned, I do not see anything very grave about that, except that it is a breach of our Standing Orders, and until our Standing Orders are amended it is an improper thing for anybody to get a shorthand report taken for the Committee and utilise that for publication. That, I think, is the proper position to take up. Now, I have been asked by an honourable member, who is going to move an amendment if the amendment of the Minister for Public Works is rejected, to state to the House what his amendment will be. His proposal will be, that after the word "and " where the Minister for Public Works proposes to put in his amendment, to put in these words : " resolves to impose a fine of £10 upon the publisher of the Dunedin Evening Star for committing a breach of the privileges of the House of Representatives, and a fine of £5 on Mr. A. E. Cohen for refusing to answer a ques- tion put to him by the Privileges Committee." Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) .- I think I share the feelings of a majority of members in this House in saying that I think we have had quite enough discussion on this subject. What we want now is to take a vote. Of course, although I seconded the resolution of the Pre- mier I did so with the honest conviction that it was better in the interests of the country to get this matter settled and proceed with the business of New Zealand than to go on arguing this question on the floor of the House, and I am still of that opinion, although amendments are being proposed. The difficulty seems to be what form the punishment shall take. Some want one thing and some another, so we have three forms of punishment demanded by the House. But we should consider that we are fining the country heavily every hour we spend in discussing the question. We are re- tarding the progress of the country, and I am afraid the worst blame lies with my friends of the Opposition. The whole subject has been brought to finality by one of the members of the Opposition, who said that if Mr. Cohen honours the House and gives the evidence he is required to he is a skunk, and that if he does not he ought to be fined. In this way it is proposed to place him between the devil and the deep blue sea. It is evident that we must have somebody's blood or head before the House is going to be satisfied. But suppose we adopt the Chinese method and cut off Mr. Cohen's head, or the heads of all those distinguished members of the Press who adorn that gallery, what good would it do the country? The re- presentatives of the Press in the colony have I know good heads-especially Mr. Cohen. him personally, and have seen him advocating the interests of New Zealand in Australia, and there is not a more honourable, more in- telligent, or more able worker for New Zealand. 