voucher, "Pay out of ' Unauthorised,'" and , the payment is actually made." there would be an end of it. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- I should like to ask when the Public Accounts Committee is going to meet. Some papers have already been referred to that Committee three weeks ago. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I think now that we have done away with the morning sittings the Committees will be able to sit more regu- larly. The honourable member for Palmers- ton has not put these matters clearly at all. There is no fault whatever so far as the Trea- sury is concerned ; and, if what is done is within the law why should I submit the matter to Parliament? Coming under the head of " Un- authorised," the amount might be challenged, and it would look upon the face of it as if the Government were doing something wrong. The honourable member knows that any sum charged to " Unauthorised " has to come before the review of the House ; and, if what we have done is within the law, why should I bring it under debate in this House, or why should I ask to have the law altered when the law gives me the necessary power already, simply because a certain layman official is "pernickety "? The Auditor-General says it is not the law, and the only word to apply in a case of that sort is " pernickety." The time and the money of the country and the time of the 'Treasury is being wasted, and, in fact, we are sometimes quite concerned. When honour- able members see me appear before the House in a perturbed state they say there is some- thing coming before the Speaker from the Controller and Auditor-General shortly. Now, as long as I am on the Treasury benches I will not have the Controller and Auditor- General interfering with the administration. The responsibility of administration must rest with the Ministers of the day, and, I may say, http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero troubles frequently arise from a desire on his part to interfere in the administration. I say it is taking control from the people's repre- sentatives if you allow officials to interfere with your administration. I would not allow His Excellency the Governor, let alone the Auditor-General, to take from the people their rights of self-government. Now, the honourable gentleman did not do justice when he was reading that memorandum. He should have read the whole of the Solicitor General's opinion. He just read what pleased him. It goes on to say, - "The Amendment Act repeals the provisions as to waiver of forfeiture, and in lieu of them empowers the Colonial Treasurer to extend the period within which the instalment may be paid. If the power of extension is duly exer- cised, the payment is properly chargeable to the permanent appropriation under the Act. The po ver is given in general terms, and may therefore be exercised in such manner as the Colonial Treasurer thinks fit. Then, his ap- proval of a payment, or authority to make a payment, would, I think, be a valid exercise of the power, without his specifying a definite period of time. The Audit Office holds, how- Mr. Pirani Now, the honourable gentleman says the point is that the Registrar had sent a notice to do it, and if the Treasurer had done it it would have been all right. But, though the Registrar sent a notice, the Solicitor-General says clearly I can do it either before or after payment : "The point, however, is not free from doubt, but, on the whole, I am of opinion that his power is not thus limited." That is his opinion-that the Controller and Auditor- General is not to be blamed for raising the question, because it is open to doubt; but, though he has raised it, the Solicitor-General is of opinion that I had the power to do it before or after. Then he says,- "The question can only arise in cases where by inadvertency or otherwise a local Postmaster pays an instalment more than a month after its statutory due date without the previous authority of the Colonial Treasurer. It may be that the Postmaster does this by mistake, or because, having regard to the age or health of the pensioner, or other special circumstances of the case, he feels satisfied that the Colonial Treasurer would give the authority if applied to, and therefore makes the payment at his own risk. To hold that the conduct of the Post- master in making the payment in such a case would deprive the Colonial Treasurer of the power given him by the Act seems to me to be unreasonable, especially as the effect would be that the payment could not be charged to the permanent appropriation. If the payment is made but the Colonial Treasurer declines to approve it, then the question of surcharging the Postmaster arises. If this view of the posi- tion be correct, then the vote for forfeited instalments will, as indicated by the Audit Office, be confined to forfeitures occurring prior to the passing of the Amendment Act, and I understand from the department that, as a matter of fact, it was put on the estimates for that purpose." I think, as we got that opinion from the Solicitor-General, a graceful act on the part of the Auditor-General would have been to withdraw his objection, seeing that the amount involved was small. And the Solicitor-General, although admitting it was open to doubt, de- finitely advised that the Colonial Treasurer could give his consent to the extension of the time for payment before or after the payments were made. If he had withdrawn his objections we should not have had our debates interfered with, we should not have had all these papers printed, and the matter would not have had to go before the Public Accounts Committee. The whole thing is a storm in a teacup. His Excellency the Governor in his memorandum for the Premier says,- " In view of the Solicitor-General's opinion that clause 6 of Act No. 28, 1900, may be retrospective, and the statement that the Co- lonial Treasurer has extended the period, the Governor has signed the instrument under sec- tion 9 of ' The Public Revenues Acts Amend- ment Act, 1900,' directing that the expenditure 