specially brought down to deal with them, and the House ought to go into the matter and de- cide how many it would deal with this year, and the next year, and so on until it got through the lot. If a member who had presented a petition on behalf of one of his constituents did not take the trouble to see that effect was given to the recommendation of the Committee upon such petition, and if he went out of the House and some other member came in to take his place, the latter gentleman could not be expected to take the trouble that the former member, who had presented the petition, would take. With regard to the favourable reports brought down by the Native Affairs Committee, his experience had been that it was only such recommendations as the Government chose to give effect to which were ever put into "the washing-up " Bill. In respect to the bulk of the recommendations nothing was done. He would urge on the Government the necessity of bring- ing down legislation this session to meet these cases. He was positively ashamed to say that, in spite of all his efforts in these cases, nothing was done. The Maori members were thus getting a bad name amongst their constituents on that account. But it was not the Maori members who were to blame, it was the Goverment. The Government were to blame for having placed Mr. Sheridan at the head of the ad- ministration of this department. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) might in- form the honourable member that a Bill was in preparation containing clauses dealing with matters favourably reported on by the Native Affairs and other Committees. The honour- able member must give the Government credit for having attempted on several occasions to pass a Special Powers and Contracts Bill for the purpose of giving effect to recommenda- tions from Committees, but their efforts had been opposed by honourable members opposite. Hon. MEMBERS .- Oh, no. Mr. CARROLL said that some members op- . posite opposed the Bill on each former occa- sion. He proposed now to reintroduce the Bill, which would contain further cases for legislative remedy, as the result of recom- mendations since the Bill was last brought down. It had just been suggested to him- and he thought the suggestion was a good one-that the Bill should be introduced under the fresh title of the " Maori Special Powers and Contracts Bill," confining it solely to Maori cases. He might also suggest that the honour- able member should be a little fairer to the Government. The Government had not at- tempted in any way to mystify or deceive the honourable member. The Government was not to blame, as he would put it. The honourable member must know that there were many petitions favourably reported upon by Select Committees which upon inquiry had no foundation at all, or any claim to consideration. It took some time to make these inquiries in order to arrive at a just conclusion. The task imposed upon Mr. Sheridan, the Government officer deputed to test these cases and ascertain their merits, was Mr. Pere no light one. He had to take each report and inquire into the bona fides of each case, and the investigation always covered a wide field and a long journey into the past. Then, each case had to come before the Government for final consideration. Some of the cases were of such a complicated nature that it took years to unravel and set in order. He would ask the honourable member, instead of fault-finding, to give all the assistance he could to the Govern- ment officer in making a selection of the really deserving cases which should be legislated upon. There were cases which must be laid on one side, and others which would have to await further inquiry, but all those that could be made absolutely clear should be settled up to date. He thought they could mutually agree upon the cases to be dealt with this year-urgent cases especially. He thought when the honour- able member saw the Bill he would not be dis- satisfied with either the Government officer or the Government, or anybody else, as he had been very fairly dealt with. Mr. PERE was glad the Minister had sug- gested that he should give Mr. Sheridan his assistance in making a selection of cases that should be dealt with. The inquiries at present made by that officer were not of a nature to enable him to come to a satisfactory conclusion. He never made inquiries from the Maoris in- terested. He practically only made inquiries from the same sources as those from which the Committee derived its information. He thought a Commission should be appointed to inquire into the merits of these cases. Following up the suggestion, he would ask the Minister to instruct Mr. Sheridan to appoint a special day when they could meet together and go into the matter. The Minister knew that he was at present too ill to go backwards and forwards to Government Buildings. LANDLESS MAORIS IN WAIKATO. Mr. KAIHAU (Northern Maori) asked the Government, Whether they will, this session, -(1) Introduce legislation to provide land for landless Maoris in Waikato and other northern districts ; (2) appoint a Royal Commission to inquire into the matter as soon as possible ; and (3) take steps to have sufficient areas of Crown land within the said districts reserved without delay for the above purpose ? Previous to the year 1863 the Maoris in the Waikato and other northern districts were large landowners : in fact, he supposed he was not far wrong in estimating that each individual then owned somewhere between five and ten thousand acres of land. Unfortunately, when the Waikato war took place in 1863 the result was that these lands were confiscated. Of course, that was a very great misfortune to the Maoris. But the confiscation was not confined merely to those persons who had taken an active part in the war. As a matter of fact, certain sections of the Maori people had remained loyal to the Queen throughout the war, but the land of these people had also been confiscated. The Go- vernment had been approached year after year with the request that land should be set apart 