first statement that I propose to criticize-and | grand total of increases of £56,069, you come in doing so I propose to criticize it in no per- sonal spirit, but simply discussing the figures which have been produced by the honourable member in support of his allegations against the present Government-is this: He stated, on the discussion of the Financial Statement, that "in the present estimates there are in- creases in salaries to the amount of £45,000, outside the automatic increases that occur under the Classification Act." Now, I do not pro- pose in any hostile way to suggest that the honourable member who made that statement desired or intended in any way to mislead the House ; but I feel certain of this: that had the honourable member paid any atten- tion whatever to the increases in the estimates he would come to the conclusion and be satisfied in his own mind, if he is fair and impartial, that the statement made by him is absolutely incorrect. Now, I will show honourable members, and demonstrate to them in a few moments, how far the honourable member for Nelson City was wrong in his figures -and one has only to look at the Clas- sification Act and at the estimates in order to discover by a mere simple sum in addition that the figures of the honourable member are, as I say, absolutely incorrect. He stated that the increases in salaries amounted to #45,000 out- side of the automatic increases that occur under the Classification Act. Nothing of the kind. In the first place, the increases do not come to the figure he mentioned, £45,000. The actual amount of the increases-that is to say, the total amount of the increases as shown in the estimates-amounts to $56,069; and if the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 honourable member had looked at and dissected the table of increases, and had considered and added up the total, and checked it with the in- creases under classification, he would have found that, out of this total $56,069, no less a sum than $43,633 is made up of increases in the departments under the various classifica- tions. Now, honourable members will 8.0. understand this : If £43,633 are in- creases under classification, and you deduct from the sum total of £56,069 the sum of £43,633, you have the sum of £12,436, which I say is the sole increase in salaries beyond the classification. That is to say as follows : The honourable member stated that the amount of increases was #45,000 besides the automatic in- creases ; the automatic increases amount to £43,633, therefore the sole increases outside the classification is a sum of £12,436. Now, how is that sum of #12,436 made up? Quite easily. It simply requires a careful analysis of the figures, and a careful dissection of the sum total of those amounts which are to be ex- pended in the way of advances outside the classification, and we will see that it works out in this way : (1) A sum of £1,464, which is to be paid by way of increases to cadets; (2) a sum of $1,120, which is to be paid under regu- lation and agreement to printing and gaols ; and (3) the ordinary increases made by Minis- ters of £9,852. These items make a total of 412,436. Now, if you deduct £12,436 from the back to the £43,633, which is the total amount of advances in salaries under the Classification Act. Do any honourable members venture to suggest in regard to the Classification Acts as passed that the automatic advances to use the words of the honourable member for Nelson City - which have taken place, and which this Par- liament has sanctioned, and which honourable members have approved-does any one venture to suggest that there should be a block or a break-up of this way of carrying out the in- creases which are provided for by law. Honour- able members will see that the statement made by the honourable member for Nelson City that £45,000 of increases have been provided outside the automatic increases under the Classifica- tion Act is absolutely incorrect. Mr. SEDDON .- He is only £30,000 or so out. Mr. WILFORD. - The honourable member for Nelson is £32,562 out. It may not be much to him, but it is a good deal when the total amount of increases is £45,000 according to him. If an honourable member who quotes to the House figures which he sets forth to the country as the "state of the poll "- if an honourable member takes no care to insure their correctness, and is found to be wrong to the tune of ±32,562 in a matter of £45,000, what credence can be placed by the people of the country upon statements made in this House ! I think that answers absolutely the statement of the honourable member with regard to that amount. If I go a little further into detail as to how the £12,436 is made up, I get at it in this way : I divide the increases into three tables, A, B, and C. "A" includes all those in- creases in salaries of £300; "B" increases of salary between $300 and £400; "C" increases in salary between $400 and $500. Then we have an extra table for those over $500, and another table for heads of departments. What do we find? In " A" there are 802 increases, amounting to #1,021 ; in " B" there are forty-five increases, amounting to £1,000 ; in "C" thirty increases, amounting to £675; increase in salaries over $500 six, amounting to $175; under "heads of departments " there are seven increases, amounting to £250: making altogether 880 increases, amounting to £12,131. To that has to be added increases to the number of forty- four in the Printing Office, which makes a total of £315, and you come back to the total I quoted of $12,436, and that, outside the Classifi- cation Act, is the sole amount of increase pro- posed to be made in the salaries of these departments. The next matter I wish to dis- cuss, as far as the member for Nelson City is concerned, is a remark he made in regard to the debts and liabilities of the colony. The fact does not seem to be appreciated by the mem- ber for Nelson City, and it does not seem to have been made plain to many members as to the real difference between "debt " and " lia- bility." From a remark which fell from the member for Nelson City, I cannot help feeling that he does not appreciate the difference between the word "debt " and the word "liability." There are amounts set out in the table of ex- 