this House ; but do not let us have one day a prating about the honour of the House, and the next day giving a very good Falstaffian definition of the word "honour " because of the practices which go on in this assemblage. Sir, to-day we have heard a most 3.30. peculiar doctrine enunciated with regard to the privileges of the Press of this colony, and, indeed, of the Press all over the English-speaking world. We have heard it said in a sneering way that the Press of the country has to take the consequences of the preservation of the secrecy of anonymity. Sir, it will be a bad day for this or any other country where there is a desire for a free and un- trammelled Press when the Press refuses to take that responsibility. To its honour be it said, the Press of this country as a whole is as honourable as any Press in any part of the British world, and I, for one, am astounded at the position taken up by some old journalists in this House. Knowing what they know of the past history of the Press of this country, and the past history of this Parliament, I am astounded at some of the ideas that have been placed before this House to-day by some of the old journalists who sit here as members. We are asked to believe that there is to be no party feeling, that there has been no party feeling Why, Sir, if any- engendered in this debate .. body just casts his thoughts back to this morn- ing, and remembers how the utterances of the Premier were received by certain gentlemen in this House ; and if they will watch the vote presently to be taken, they will see how much party there is about it, and they will see there is a very large slice of party in the whole thing https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 when the members go into the lobby to vote on this question. Sir, I interjected when one mem- ber was speaking this morning that members of this House habitually give away information, which in itself is a breach of privilege; and I say, speaking as an old journalist in this colony, that I know it to be a fact. It is all very well for members to stand up now and preach of "honour " and " honesty," when, as a matter of fact, they know full well that information is habitually given by members to the Press of the colony. I say that the publication of that evidence in the Dunedin Evening Star was more than justified. I feel, myself, that we ought to thank the paper that did it-that dared to do it. I say that the publication of that evidence was a bombshell thrown into a camp of contemptible swindlers, who have been so many vampires working their will upon the public of the colony, and for that reason I say the newspaper has done good service to the people of the colony. I am only sorry that the whole newspaper Press of the colony had not the pluck to copy the evidence from the Star and to publish it far and wide-east, west, north, and south - throughout New Zealand, just to show people what is going on in New Zealand. An Hon. MEMBER. - Rubbish ! Mr. HORNSBY .- What is rubbish ? Sir, if that is rubbish, then let us say good-bye for ever to the exposing of any swindle, or any Mr. Hornsby this or any country. I say the publication of that evidence has done a great deal of good in this country ; and if it goes a little further. and is the cause of legislation being brought down and passed in this House to prevent these gross swindles in future, it will have done a grand thing, not only for the general public, but for the whole mining industry in this colony. And why should we put on kid gloves to handle these creatures ? It seems to me to-day we have lost sight of the whole crux of the question in the matter of this swindling that is going on. Every member who has opposed the motion of the Premier appears to me to have glossed over the villainy and rascality that has been laid bare. I say that every member who has got up ough: to have condemned in unmeasured terms the roguery and rascality that has been going on for some time past in connection with the whole of these claims. An Hon. MEMBER .- How do you know that ? Mr. HORNSBY .- How does any man know it except by the evidence that has been given before that Committee; and possibly it never would have been published if this paper, the Dunedin Star, had not had the pluck to pub- lish it, and to run the risk, as it did run the risk, of a libel action being brought against it. For, in the savage condition of the libel law at the present time, the paper could have been brought up for punishment for the publication of that evidence. If the man who feels aggrieved and says he has been maligned by evidence given before the Committee-if he thinks he has been maligned, and that he has got a good case, let him sue the Evening Star for libel, and then we shall see how much there is in the whole business. But I say, from my place in the House, I do not believe the man referred to dare go into any Court in the country and try and defend himself from the charges that have been made against him. "Damages," says a member, "damages !" That man has damaged a great many people in this country, and now his chickens have come home to roost. Now we are finding out where the friends of that gentleman sit in this House. What is the posi- tion of the newspaper press of the colony with regard to the Standing Orders, in all their purity and excellence, that we have heard so much about to-day? I say there are very few indeed in this House who can get up and say honestly and straightforwardly that they have never broken the privileges of this House by giving away information that they had in their keeping. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is no excuse. Mr. HORNSBY .- No, it is not an excuse, but it shows this : that there is a great deal of hypocrisy in the people who prate so much about the "honour of Parliament " when it comes to a discussion of this kind. Now, I believe, myself, that reporters ought to be ad- mitted to all Committees that are set up in this House, with the exception of what are called, and rightly so, secret Committees. It seems to me that a Committee of Parliament holding an inquiry is very much in the same position as 