charged as therein stated. He desires to point out that the Solicitor-General, in his opinion, states that ' the point is not free from doubt '; but the Governor, in giving his decision, feels that it was the intention of the Legislature that all payments of this nature under the old-age pensions should come within the vote named, and the powers conferred on the Co- lonial Treasurer by section 6 are manifestly given with a view to prevent hardships arising through illness, distance from place of receipt of pension, and other causes ; and it is evident that in some cases it may be impossible for the pensioner to obtain the Colonial Treasurer's extension of time prior to the month of grace having elapsed. The Governor therefore con- siders it must have been the intention of the Legislature that this clause should be retro- spective where occasion needed. "The payments made in the schedule have been done so at payer's risk, should the Co- lonial Treasurer have refused the extension ; but it would be unreasonable to make these old people possibly travel in a long distance a second time to receive their money, and many might have been in the interval in distress. "RANFURLY." The honourable member for Palmerston did not put on record what the whole of the views of His Excellency were; but I now have the opportunity of doing so, and in that way of showing to the House and to the country that when His Excellency is called on to exercise his powers he looks into these matters for him- self, and when he has the information before him he does not hesitate to express his opinion. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 The Governor's memorandum in this instance is a clearly expressed disapproval of the course taken by the Controller and Auditor-General. Motion agreed to. # UNOPPOSED RETURNS. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said motion No. 40 was unopposed -namely, That a return be fur- nished giving the burgess-rolls and valuations of each borough and county in the colony, showing respectively the names and valuation of each ratepayer, amount payable under the capital and annual value, and the amount payable presuming the rating was on the unimproved value. Mr. PIRANI said he objected to that return being taken as unopposed. Mr. SEDDON said, If in the case of an ordinary return like this he was to be treated differently from other members, then he would not agree to any unopposed returns being laid on the table. Mr. PIRANI said he would withdraw his objection if the Premier would grant his returns with respect to expenditure of $7,000 under the Civil List for Native purposes, and with respect to expenses connected with Cook and other islands. Mr. SEDDON said he would not make any compromise, and would grant no more un- opposed returns. Mr. ARNOLD (Dunedin City) asked the Chairman of the Library Committee, If he will provide an extra fifty copies of the Dunedin Evening Star, as, in consequence of the full and correct parliamentary reports appearing in that paper, the few copies received are at once commandeered, and numbers of members who wish to see the paper are disappointed ? Con- siderable inconvenience was felt by some mem- bers in consequence of the few copies of this paper being commandeered almost immediately they were laid on the table the reason being, no doubt, the full and correct reports that usually appeared in that paper. He might state that this question had no connection with the recent breach-of-privilege case in con- nection with this newspaper. Copies of this paper were, no doubt, often taken for the pur- pose of taking cuttings from them. Personally, it did not affect him, because when he was in Dunedin he would not be without his copy of the paper, and arrangements had been made whereby while he was in Wellington he would be supplied with a copy of the paper. He trusted that the Committee, if it could not see its way to have fifty extra copies supplied, would, at any rate, increase the number of copies at present sent to the library. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the question had been brought before the Joint Library Committee, and the Committee decided that, as a similar number of copies of this newspaper were supplied to the library as were supplied of other newspapers, it was not necessary to in- crease the supply of copies of the Dunedin Evening Star. He was therefore compelled to answer the question in the negative. # "GENERAL ORDERS," NEW ZEALAND FORCES. Mr. RHODES (Ellesmere) asked the Minister of Defence, If he will have copies of "General Orders," as issued from headquarters, New Zealand Forces, filed in the library for the information of members? Looking to the fact that there were 155 questions on the Order Paper and only three-quarters of an hour in which to answer them, he would be as brief in his remarks in asking this question as possible. He would merely point out that at the present time, when so many of our fellow-colonists were in South Africa, there was much informa- tion in the "Orders " as to the movements of the contingents, promotions, and so on, which was of interest to all members of the House. He would like the Minister of Defence to accede to the request in his question, and, if possible, to have past " Orders " hled as well. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes. ORDERLIES AT PARLIAMENT HOUSE. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) asked the Minister of Defence, If it is a fact that the orderlies on duty at the entrance of Parliament House failed to salute Captain Napier, member for Auckland City, and that the orderlies have been punished for dereliction of duty ; and will he (Minister of Defence) state what was the 