these questions on a little higher ground, and that both employer and employed were finding that it was better that matters should be settled on such a platform-that the meaner or less worthy considerations might be kept in the background. I think that has been the result, and that labour generally has been raised and dignified in New Zealand by the mere fact of these questions being settled in a way which has conferred dignity on the questions themselves, and rendered the decisions arrived at all the more worthy of respect and support. Of course, I regret that in certain points this Bill is not as perfect as I should like to see it. I contend that it is not a Bill which contains very much that is new, and anything that is new has been inserted after due consideration of the evidence submitted to us, and on the representations of the various parties them- selves. I was sorry to hear the evidence that was given before the Committee referred to as being " of little account." I can assure the honourable gentleman who made the remark that the evidence was most carefully taken, and most attentively listened to. I believe the Bill was very largely modelled on that evi- dence-in fact, from one point of view, it was too largely modelled on that evidence, because I am not prepared to admit that the evidence regarding banks and warehouses was evidence which it was wise to take as intended to ex- press the real mind of those concerned. As for myself, as regards those petitions, I prefer to read between the lines, and from the stand- point of human nature to conclude what I think those young people ought to have said for themselves. I may misjudge human nature, but, still, I cannot help thinking that I am right. Therefore I am sorry that the Bill proceeds without protecting them as completely as I would like to see them protected. At all events, the honourable gentleman who objects to the action of the Committee forgets that the Com- mittee did listen to the evidence, and gave weight to it more than I could accept. As regards the other points, I challenge any one to say that effect has not been given to the evi- dence, so far as it was possible without de- stroying the principle of the Bill. We listened to the freezing companies, and we accepted their suggestions ; we listened to the butchers, and we extended the hours to meet their case ; I think and so right through the whole Bill. the Council will find that the Committee was most careful to give effect as far as possible to all the evidence that came before them. All that I can say with regard to speeches such as that delivered by the Hon. Mr. Ormond is that I cannot understand the motive for it, and I cannot understand what purpose it was intended to serve. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- I was in hopes that before the honourable gentleman sat down he would ask the mover of the amendment to withdraw it, with the view of having the Bill recommitted. It would be an extraordinary thing for this Council to allow the Bill to go to the other House in its present condition. It here if this were done, and I hope the honour- able gentleman, as the leader of the Council, will see his way to have the measure put into something like decent order, and then take a vote as to whether it should be read a third time or not. At the risk of having it said that I am indulging in another homily, I desire to say that I claim the right to speak on this class of Bills more than any other member of this Council. I claim that I have been a good em- ployer of labour, that I have never sought to injure the working-man, and that whenever I could help him I have done so. I believe in a good deal of the legislation that has been passed ; but I have never failed in my posi- tion here to warn the Council of what they were doing when passing measures which could have no other effect than injury to the indus- tries of the colony. No honourable member can say that my predictions have not come true. It would be well, Sir, for us to call a halt with these Bills until those we have already passed have had a fair trial. There is a remark- able clause in the Bill under discussion, that compels the closing of every business-place in New Zealand at six o'clock. This is a serious departure, and may affect a very large number of poor and innocent people. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- It does not compel every place to shut, but only those within defined districts. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- Well, the honour- able gentleman says that they are not com- pelled, but by new clause 2A they are compelled to close their shops at six o'clock. The Minis- ter has excused himself for introducing this measure in the Council, on the ground that it is only a consolidation measure, which may safely be permitted to pass. There would pro- bably be something in that contention if the Bill had not a large amount of new matter in it which this Council should and intended to have excised, but which I doubt whether they have done. At all events, the Bill should be carefully examined to see whether this new matter has been excised before it passes. My friend the Hon. Mr. Bolt asks, What industries have been affected by legislation of this kind. I have only to point out to him that in Dunedin at his very nose there was one large establish- ment alone employing over two hundred hands about a year ago, and I will ask him to say whether they are employing more than one hundred now. What has caused this falling-off in employment ? An Hon. MEMBER .- What industry are you referring to, and was the collapse of the dredg- ing boom responsible for what you say ? The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- I am referring to the boot trade, and the collapse of the dredging boom had nothing whatever to do with the dis- charge of the people referred to. The result of all this will be the putting of these people on the "unemployed " list, or on the co-operative works. I said " unemployed," and that is the right term to use in many cases. I suppose we have nearly six thousand people so employed. 