or five million acres of land should be returned, but up to the present time nothing had been given. He wanted to know what the present Government was going to do in the direction of carrying out the wishes of previous Govern- ments who intended giving this land back. He thought that, as the Premier and the Native Minister had told them some time ago that they were considering the question of making a return of lands to these people, he would suggest that they should do it at once, and hand back a million acres of land to the people. He did not expect this Government would show the same consideration to the Maori people as previous Governments would have shown in making a return of land, and, seeing that the Government was not likely to be prepared to go to the same length of generosity, he had reduced his demand, and had asked for the smaller area he had mentioned. He did not know, indeed, that he had any right to expect the Government would carry out his request respecting even the reduced area asked for. However, as he had said before, the Premier and the Native Minister had given them a sort of a promise that they intended to do some- thing in this direction, and, as he was waiting to see it done, he had put the question on the Order Paper. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) said the honourable gentleman had given them a very large order. On the general question of land- less Natives it was true this Government was sensible of the moral responsibility, in that they had to make due provision for all cases where the Natives were not weil-to-do and were land- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 less. He thought that was a duty that was entailed upon every Government. He would not at the present moment argue with the honourable gentleman the merits or demerits http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero of the confiscation of the lands of his people ; that belonged to the past. The Governments whose generosity he had alluded to in contrast to the present Government were the very Go- vernments that had confiscated those lands ; and, though he presumed they had reasons for so doing, he failed to see how any Government thus culpable should be singled out for com- pliment by the honourable member. Perhaps the people who had their land confiscated.as a result were responsible for the war, or perhaps they were not, but it was well known that that war plunged the country into a condition of things that had left desolation and ruin in its track. It was true, as the honourable gentleman had said, that in some cases not only those who were in rebellion lost their land, but the same punishment had over. taken those who had remained loyal, and these, he ventured to say, were the people who had a real grievance. This was not singular to the Natives of the district the honourable gentleman represented, for all round the colony different tribes had wrongly suffered more or less through the acts of confiscation. It would have been only just for previous Go- vernments to have given back land, because theirs were the hands that had taken it away they given back? Perhaps the honourable gentleman could tell. At any rate, it could not have been much, as the honourable member modestly asked now for half a million acres as the least possible reparation. The present Go- vernment was not responsible for the errors of the past, or those that had been committed by previous Governments. Their duty was simply to consider the present condition of the Natives and see in what way they could assist them. If the Natives had no land, the Government would do what it could to provide land for them. The fact was they were helping indi- gent Natives all over the colony. There was a larger proportion of Natives maintained by the Government in the honourable gentleman's district than any other. There were more re- ceiving aid from the Civil List and draw- ing pensions under the Old - age Pensions Act in the honourable member's electo- rate than in any other part of the colony. Every consideration had been given by 5.0. the present Government to the honour- able member's district. With regard to the question of landless Natives, the yards had first to be squared to enable the Government to see how matters stood, and how far they could go. They could not select his particular district for special consideration. The matter would have to be dealt with as a whole affecting the North Island. They would have to deal with the ques- tion in exactly the same manner as they dealt with the landless Natives of the South Island. In that case a Commissioner, Judge Mackay, was appointed to make inquiries into the condition of the Natives. After he had made his report the Government appointed Mr. Percy Smith, Surveyor-General at the time, as his associate. They together then set aside certain blocks of land, and made a list of the landless Natives to be provided for. The work of allo- cating the different awards had not yet been completed, but as soon as it was completed legislation would follow to give effect to what was done. A similar course would be followed in the case of the North Island Natives. As soon as the session was over the Govern- ment would appoint an officer to investigate the claims and petitions of the North Island Natives, and to report as to how they were circumstanced, and as to what provision should be made for them. As soon as the Government received that report they would consider the advisability of setting aside certain portions of land sufficient for the purpose required." Legislation would then follow. He was sorry that the Government could not at present accede to the honourable gentleman's request to have reserves made at once and handed over to his constituents. The Government would, however, act fairly in the interests of the Natives as a whole, and, as a first step, would make their policy a live and active one. They had on the statute-book now an Act dealing with the administration of Native lands. The machinery prescribed in that Act when set in motion would comprehend the settlement of the landless question with very little cost 