connection with this matter, what would have happened ? An Hon. MEMBER-It did a good deal worse. Mr. RUSSELL .- No, it did not, and I defy the honourable member to find anything in the Manawatu Standard that could be taken as a breach of privilege. Mr. HORNSBY .- I will accept the challenge. Mr. RUSSELL .- Very well, let it be done. Sir, it is a fact that for some months past the Dunedin Evening Star has been the medium by which Ministerial wishes and aspirations have been communicated to the world, and the fact that that paper has of late shown a friendly feeling towards the Government was the cause of this scandalous resolution, now modified by the Premier's colleagues as the result of a caucus. The present proposal of a fine of $15 has come about through the pressure of the House. The Premier's proposal was that the Dunedin Star reporter's letter was satisfactory. As I see that the Minister for Railways is going to have a word or two to say, I will presently speak for his benefit. First of all, I say that In the Cabinet settled yesterday's resolution. due course, that was amended by the resolution of the Minister of Mines, and then we got the amendment of the Minister for Public Works. I now desire to say before the Minister for Railways what I said in his absence just now : that the Premier was ungenerous to his colleague, when in the course of his speech, he said that when the breach of privilege was before the House on a former occasion a certain course ought to have been taken. Now, Sir, that very course was suggested by the honour- able member for Bruce, Mr. Allen, and the I'remier now inferentially blames his coileague for not taking it. The Dunedin Star reporter has affirmed time after time in his letter and in his evidence, that he obtained this infor- mition honourably. I do not know what the term means, so far as a newspaper is concerned ; but I do say this : that, whether he obtained that evidence honourably or not, he knew when he was sending it for publication that he was breaking the laws of Parliament; and that is emphasized still further by the remark in his letter to the effect that, with regard to the statement of one witness's evidence, his Editor invited, as an act of fairness to the witness, that his evidence should be published at once. Words to that effect occur in the lutter. As to the action of the reporter in refusing to answer the questions that were put to him, I say that, as a reporter, he took the only course he could take in refusing to disclose the source of his information. Every- body admits that. The strong term that the member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson) stisted would be applicable to him for having obtained this information would have been perfectly justifiable had he given the source of his information. But is it not the case in the Supreme Court that men are placed upon their sth, and that the Court asks certain questions of them, which, if upon matters of honour, they refuse to answer? They understand that if they persist in their refusal a penalty will be involved, and they accept the decision of the Court in connection with the matter. I say, Sir, it is exactly the same in this House. The House, in fixing a monetary penalty, is acting in accordance with precedent and modern opinion. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - The honourable gentleman said "No." Well, I listened to his speech, and did not hear him prove anything to the contrary. The time spent in connection with this matter will not have been wasted, for I believe it would have been a shocking scandal on the part of Parliament if the Premier's reso- lution of yesterday had been carried. The dis- cussion that has taken place has brought the Premier and the Cabinet down to the necessity of maintaining, even by monetary penalty, the honour and the dignity of Parliament; and, therefore, that much has been wrung from the Government, although the Premier has de- claimed against those whose pressure has com- pelled him to do so. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) .- The honourable member who has just preceded me has been away from the House for the last few days, and it seems to me that he is anxious to put on record the fact that he has again returned to life, and is taking part in the pro- ceedings of Parliament. Had ho not been absent, he would have known that it was declared in the first instance by the honourable member opposite, and later on by the honour- able member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), that this was to be a no-party question. I repeat, Sir, that when the matter was first brought up the suggestion to set up a Committee came from the opposite side of the House, and, to avoid the idiotic farce of bringing the reporter and publisher to the bar of the House, a Com- mittee was set up to deal with it. The honour- able member for Riccarton, like other honour- able members, is now trying to turn the whole thing into a personal attack upon the Premier. He talks of maintaining the dignity of the House ; but I would ask, is it maintaining the dignity of the House to deliver such a speech as he has done to-day? The honourable mem. ber lamented the fact that the decadence of the Cabinet is such that the whole combined wisdom of the Government was only able to propose a resolution such as was submitted yesterday. I would like to know what is wrong with the honourable member. It seems to me that it is not so much a question of privilege that he is concerned with, as the opportunity of trying to discredit the Premier-of trying to discredit the Administration. He desires to create the impression that there are men more capable than the Premier, and more capable than any other member of the Administration, of conducting the business of the House, and that person is the honourable member himself. There can be no doubt, Sir, that the whole thing has been turned into an attack upon the Government. This afternoon I had the plea- sure of being in surroundings infinitely more pleasant than these, and I am exceedingly sorry that, with the exception of two honourable 