" An article in the Lancet on nicotine has a direct bearing upon a subject that is now engaging the attention of the New Zealand Legislature. Many people will learn with sur- prise that the great medical journal inverts the order of injuriousness usually associated with cigarettes, cigars, and pipes. It states that nicotine itself has been proved to be practically guiltless of evil effects in smoking, but pyridine and its derivatives are responsible for headaches, trembling, and giddiness. The degree of toxicity in smoke depends largely on the completeness The combustion of a cigarette of combustion. is more complete than that of a pipe or cigar. A pipe acts as a condenser, but the condensed products do not reach the mouth, while con- siderable condensation must occur in the cigar, the products reaching the mouth and being absorbed. Therefore the Lancet places the cigar first in the order of injuriousness, then the pipe, and lastly the cigarette." And if you smoke a cigarette with a mouth- piece, in my opinion it is a clean smoke every time; and, if you make it from good tobacco yourself, it comes out something like what the Frenchman said about coffee, "You must buy it yourself, you must grind it yourself, you must roast it yourself, you must drink it yourself." The Hon. Mr. BOLT .- I do not see why we should go to medical advice in a question of this sort. Every sensible man knows that, more especially in regard to youths, this is a beastly habit, which may be productive of a great deal of evil. We know that the habit very frequently leads to excess, and thereby becomes dangerous ; and, that being so, I fail to see why there should be any hesitancy in preventing boys below the age of sixteen from smoking. My only feeling in the matter is that this Bill is only dealing with the fringe of the subject. It should have dealt with the whole question of smoking, and I understand that in another place a Bill has been intro- duced disallowing every form of tobacco- smoking by youths of this age, and that, to my mind, is the measure we should have had in this Council. I am perfectly indifferent whether this Bill passes or not in its present shape. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- I think it is neces- sary one should give reasons for supporting this Bill. The honourable gentleman who has just sat down has very properly said that the Bill should have gone a little further, and pro- hibited tobacco-smoking in any form. That is a legitimate course to take ; but I am quite willing to take a half- or quarter-loaf of bread when I cannot get a whole one, and I think this Bill goes in the right direction. The Hon. Mr. Feldwick gave us nothing but a rhapsody on cigarettes. Cigarettes, according to his idea, are all one needs in this life He would give them to his infants and to his grown-up children, and he smokes them himself. I am inclined to conclude that he puts them on the table, and smokes them in bed. and out of bed- asleep and awake-always cigarettes, cigarettes. I do not think the honourable gentleman's view of this matter is acceptable. Now, we Hon. Mr. Feldwick adults, and therefore we cast no reflection on adults who are in the habit of smoking cigar- ettes, cigars, or pipes. We are dealing with cigarette-smoking by children, and I think we are acting wisely in considering this matter from a serious point of view. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK .- That is what I was doing. The Hon. Mr. JONES. - The honourable gentleman, I feel sure, was doing nothing of the sort. He discredited the authority of the great expert I quoted in regard to the in- juriousness of cigarettec -smoking; and the honourable gentleman should not have dis- credited it without showing some cause why. The question we are dealing with, to put the matter in a nutshell, is cigarette-smoking by youths. Is it not detrimental, both physically and morally ? Undoubtedly it is; and, that being the case, we ought to support this measure. The Hon Colonel PITT ..- I would like to say, in reply to the Hon. Mr. Bolt, that if it is the mind of this Council to make this Bill apply to smoking in all forms it can easily be done by the addition of five words in section 2, making the section read this way : "Every per- son who sells, gives, or supplies any cigarette or tobacco in any form." I merely wish to say, further, I cannot understand why the Hon. Mr. Feldwick is so impressed with the idea that I must have been moved to introduce this Bill at the instance of a number of ladies. The honourable gentleman is quite mistaken. What induced me to introduce this Bill was the same, I suppose, as has induced every honourable gentleman to give expression to the views they did, and that is seeing young lads about the streets smoking cigarettes, because honestly I believe it is detrimental to their physical health and development. That was my motive, and there was no other reason whatever. Motion agreed to. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 2 .- " Every person who sells, gives, or supplies any cigarette to any youth under the age of seventeen years shall be deemed to be guilty of an offence against the provisions of this Act, and upon conviction thereof shall be liable to a penalty of not exceeding ten pounds." The Hon. Mr. BOLT moved to insert, after " cigarette," the words "or tobacco in any form." The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK moved, That the Chairman do leave the chair. The Committee divided. AYES, 4. Ormond Feldwick Gourley Pinkerton. NOES, 15. Smith, W. C. Barnicoat Morris Bolt Pitt Swanson Reeves Jennings Twomey Walker, W. C. Jones Rigg Louisson Smith, A. L. Williams. Majority against, 11. 