a matter of dealing with the question of privi- witness to take up that attitude, because the lege there would have been no necessity for Committee has reported ; because the matter delay at all. But, as the other question has now is merely a question of the punishment of been raised, the wisest course to adopt would be that witness, and of the person who has com- to postpone it as I have suggested. In the mitted the breach by the publication. Under meantime I ask members to think over the the circumstances, I maintain that, notwith- course we ought to follow. Sir, I believe we standing the argument of the Chairman of the ought to insist on our Standing Orders being Committee, the attitude taken up by us in our observed, and if people will offend against them, desire that the House should be at once in- then they must express regret or take the con- formed of the position in regard to a material sequences. What has pained me more than witness was a proper attitude, and that in what anything else is the levity with which was re- the Committee has done since it has practically ceived the statement of the Chairman that stultified itself. Of course, it may be possible members going before the Committee are ex- from the evidence to gather a very good impres- pected to tell the truth, as though we did not sion as to who the person is whom this witness consider it proper and honourable so to do. is protecting. I have no doubt in my own mind, and the probability is that other mem- I regret that the circumstances are such as to necessitate delay until the time fixed, and I bers may come to the same conclusion ; but admit, with the honourable member for Wel- still the opportunity of altering the report of lington City (Mr. Fisher), that a question of the Committee has been lost by not taking up the privileges of the House being infringed the proper position. must be dealt with at the earliest possible date. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston). - I wish to say in regard to the statement of the Chairman one word in reference to what the Premier has of the Privileges Committee. The honourable gentleman said it would be impossible, indeed said, as to separating the refusal of a witness to give evidence from the actual thing itself ; and improper, for the Committee to have reported at the stage at which the witness declined to I want to point out clearly the reason why it is necessary and proper that that course should give evidence, because there were other wit- have been followed. In all British communi- nesses yet to be examined. Sir, the point of ties it is understood that before a man is impingement between this Parliament and the convicted he should get an opportunity of offender was reached when one witness, the defending himself. Therefore, if the witness person who received the shorthand report of the evidence taken at the Goldfields and Mines who has refused to give evidence is given an opportunity of appearing before the bar of the Committee, refused to furnish the name of the House. of purging himself of his offence, it person who supplied him with that report. In would probably give the Committee another plain language, in the very plainest language, opportunity of taking evidence from him, and he said -- his evidence is there to prove it-"I coming to a different conclusion from what received the shorthand report of the evidence taken before the Goldfields and Mines Com- they would come to without his evidence. The mittee from a person whose name I refuse to circumstances may be such that a witness, to protect somebody else-because it is not to disclose." Now, what necessity was there to protect himself-refuses to give certain evi- proceed further ? That was the exact point at dence, and when he is brought to the stage which Parliament ought to have been asked to step in and to perform its duty in the of being punished for that refusal, that some- matter. As to the levity with which the body might be manly enough to come forward and absolve that witness from the consequences statement of the Chairman of the Privileges Committee was received in this House this of his refusal to compromise that third person. morning, when he stated that if the word of a. Mr. FISHER .- It is impossible now. Mr. PIRANI .-- Exactly ; but if the consti- member of Parliament were not to be taken tutional course had been followed, and the wit- whose word could be taken, I say, in answer to that-and I feel the whole seriousness of it ness had been brought before the House before as much as the Premier himself - I say, in the final report had been brought up, then the answer to that, what are we to think of the third party would have had an opportunity of evidence of the person who received the short- disclosing to the House that he was the offend- ing person. The witness would then have been hand-writer's report of the evidence taken be- able to go back to the Committee and give his fore the Goldfields and Mines Committee, and evidence in accordance with the changed posi- who says he received that shorthand report tion of affairs, and the Committee would have from a person whose name he refuses to dis- been able to come to a proper conclusion. close ? Who is that person ? Every member I cannot understand any honourable member, of the Mines Committee denies that he is the person. The person who received the short- who has studied privilege at all, not seeing that that is the very reason why a witness should at hand report has kindly undertaken to absolve the officers of the Committee-the clerk and once be brought before the House when he the shorthand-writer. We took the evidence of refuses to give evidence, so that it should have four witnesses. including Mr. Cook and Mr. an opportunity of considering his attitude from Easton, the demeanour of all of whom satis- all points of view, and he has a chance of fied me in regard to the judgment which I changing his attitude and of giving the evi- ought to form respecting them. We have the dence he has previously refused to give. As evidence of every member of the Goldfields. t is now, it would be utterly useless for the Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- One word 