thing else, was the action and conduct and bravery of the men we had sent to South Africa. He would now vote with his colleague, Mr. Hutcheson, in consequence of the change of attitude and sacrifice of principle of the mem- ber for Auckland City. (Mr. Fowlds), and the member for Lyttelton, Mr. Laurenson. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) said, If the Government really wanted to give the colony a good advertisement. the best medium for doing so would be by sending a few thousand copies of the "New Zealand Official Year book "-a book containing most valuable, reliable, and useful information -- to the libraries and reading- rooms of England. As for the article under discussion, he would like to say that the plates were hardly those that were likely to attract people to the colony for settlement purposes. Such plates should have been sent with the letterpress as would have attracted attention to those matters of greatest interest in New Zealand-the health resorts, exports, imports, and manufactures, and such like great charac- teristics of the colony. For that reason, he said the money was unwisely expended. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) said the Premier had accused him of calling the Govern- ment pro-Boer. What he said was that Mr. Stead was a pro-Boer, and the Government ought to have known what his position was before they inserted an advertisement in a paper of which he was chief editor, and of which Mr. Fitchett was only editor of the Australasian edition. He held in his hand the Australian . edition of the Review of Reviews of August last. At the bottom of the table of contents this ap- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 peared : "W. H. Fitchett, B.A., LL.B., editor for Australia ; W. T. Stead, editor English Review of Reviews ; Dr. Albert Shaw, editor American Review of Reviews." Speaking as a printer, he could say from the make-up of http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero the paper that a large portion of the matter in the Australasian Review of Reviews had been taken bodily from the English Review of Re- views. Under these circumstances, what con- clusion was to be drawn except that Stead was still connected with this paper, and that there was a co-partnership. So that, although the colonial edition might have been separated from the parent concern in order to get rid of the stigma attaching to Stead's name, the businesses were identical. He had never accused the Premier of disloyalty. The Pre- mier's career would give the lie at once to such a suggestion. What he complained of was that the Government, which ought to have known all that private members knew of the relation of Stead to this paper, should have been so foolish as to play into the hands of England's enemies by spending #260 on a paper with which a pro-Boer was undoubtedly connected. The Government had not exercised reasonable caution in the matter, but had committed an act of misjudgment. Nor did he think the form of advertisement was the best that could have been obtained. He considered the ex- penditure unwise and extravagant, and that the money could have been better spent through New Zealand journals. Mr. Fisher waste of nearly four hours in the discussion of the motion to strike off the item of $260 for the useless distribution of ten thousand copies of the Review of Reviews. It seemed to him there was no use in members keeping silent in order to permit business to proceed. The matter was one that ought to have been settled within a few minutes. Pro-Boer arguments had nothing whatever to do with this question. He objected to this item quite apart from the question of Mr. Stead's disloyalty, or the Boers, or any- thing of that sort. He objected to the thing for itself, because it was wrong, and a worse than useless expenditure. As an advertise- ment for the colony it was a discredit to us. They had had these same Fiji pictures ad nauseam in all sorts of ways, and they were not references to New Zealand at all. The letterpress, moreover, was written by a stran- ger to New Zealand, and was largely laudatory of an individual. He also objected to its stale- ness ; it was more than two months after the original circulation of the Reri-w that members had received copies from the Premier. He would vote against the item. Mr. SEDDON said this was a deliberate attempt to place the Government in a false position, and they would see when the vote was taken that every member of the Opposi- tion would vote with the member for Welling- ton City (Mr. Hutcheson). In previous years no objection had been taken to the action of the Government in sending thousands of copies of the Christmas number of the Canterbury Times and other newspapers published in the colony Home to England in order to advertise this country. There was no authority for it, and yet not a single protest was raised in the House. He could understand the Opposition trying to discredit the Government and the Premier, but it was no pleasure to him to be defending the Government and himself against those who were in the House to support the If the Government and the Liberal party. alleged offending had been one of great moment he could have understood the action taken ; but, when it was such a small thing as an expendi- ture of $260 for what the Government believed to be in the interest of the colony, it was only to be expected that the Government should resent this kind of thing. Already it bad cost, perhaps, more than $260 to report the debate which had taken place on the question. By striking out this item, seeing that the liability had been incurred, and, as he believed, the money had been expended, what would follow ? Mr. HERRIES said, Ministers would have to pay it out of their own pockets. Mr. SEDDON said, Just so ; that was pro- bably what the Opposition intended. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said, With regard to this vote, he did not think for a moment that the Premier himself had any recollection, when he gave the order, of Mr. Stead's connection with the Review of Reviews. He did not think that had ever entered the honourable gentle- man's head. Mr. SEDDON said, No, it did not. 