will take this to heart and think it out. I say the Government in maintaining that tax are refer to the same closing. handicapping the man who through thrift and energy has amassed a little money and I have looked into this matter. I admit the wishes to put it out at fair interest. Why difference is very small, but I repeat that the should the State interfere with him ? It has figures given here are apt to confuse. I think no right to do so at all. Moreover, it is a it is an error that should be avoided in the distinct disadvantage to the man who desires future. to borrow at a low rate. Then, Sir, I find & proposal to provide cool-storage. Now, I am not going into the whole question as to not say that the figures themselves are wrong, whether it is wise for the State to provide cool- but it is an error to have them so stated in storage in South Africa or not. No doubt the Budget without anything to indicate from before any definite action is taken the Govern- whence they are derived. The task of ana- ment will take the House into its confidence in lysing and discussing the figures in a Financial this matter. I am sorry the Minister of Lands Statement is anything but a pleasant one, and has left the Chamber, because I should like him the result is totally unsatisfactory as far as to hear what I have to say on this subject. I any practical results accrue therefrom. What wish to ask him if he will be inclined to erect happens is this: A member carefully sets himself cool-stores in a certain part of Central Otago to the task, and after a more or less amount for the purpose of storing rabbits for export of research arrives at certain conclusions. If until they could be taken down to the railway, these conclusions correspond with the views and thence to the freezing-chambers. There of the Premier, then the member is styled an are over a million acres of pastoral land there, expert financier; if, however, they disagree, which, I am sorry to say, are overrun with then he is stigmatized as being ignorant of the rabbits ; and I believe if a cool-store were first principles of finance. Figures which may erected in the vicinity of Cromwell or the .or may not have any reference to the subject Ha . ea Flat large numbers of men would be under discussion are hurled at his head. Han- profitably employed in trapping, the cost of sard is filled with tables which no one reads keeping the pest in check would be greatly or understands, and the unfortunate public lessened, and there would be some probability are left in a state of utter darkness as to the of the Government continuing to receive the merits of the case. The only satisfactory way in which you can ever get a reasonable and present rents for such pastoral country. The cost of such a cool-store would not be great. proper discussion of the finances of the colony will be in the way I wish to suggest now. There Sir J. G. WARD .- Why do not the people should be a Public Accounts Committee worthy do it ? of the name, empowered to act on its own ini- Mr. W. FRASER .- Who is to do it ? tiative, and to call for persons and papers, then Sir J. G. WARD .- The people themselves. let the Financial Statement and all the matters You say it would be such a good speculation. connected therewith be submitted to this Com- Mr. W. FRASER .- I did not speak of it as mittee. Let it be a secret Committee if you a speculation. I say it would pay the colony like. The tables in the Financial Statement well. The honourable gentleman knows that having been submitted to the scrutiny of this Committee the report when it came down would trapping for export is not done by the owner have some weight with the House and with the of the property. The trappers do it themselves ; and how can they afford to erect stores? I repeat country, more weight, at any rate, than the un- supported statements of members on either side this matter is worthy the consideration of the or even of the Premier himself. If you adopt Minister of Lands. I desire now to draw atten- some such plan as that it will remove a great tion to what is an inaccuracy in the Statement. many of the confused ideas that now exist in If we turn to page xii. there will be found there regard to the finances of the colony. I cannot in connection with the railways the actual understand why a Government which really proht as compared with that of the former year. knows and feels that its finance is sound and Now, one would fancy when figures are dealt that everything is right should have any possible with in this Statement that they would corre- objection to the clearest explanation being spond with those of the tables appertaining given to every one of the figures in the State- thereto. But the figures here do not fit in with ment. We are told by those honourable gentle- any other set of figures in the Statement. They men that they have no such objection, but if you are really taken from the Working Railways want any information how much do you get out Account. The figures given by the honourable of them ? I do not say they are worse than other gentleman are these : €599,389 for 31st March. Governments that have preceded them in this 1901, as against £571,533 for the previous year. respect. Very possibly they are not, but they The explanation of the discrepancy is : that the are bad enough ; but if you adopt the plan I books of the Treasury are closed each year on a suggested then you would have a clear exposition different date from those of the Railway Depart- of affairs, and the public would feel much more ment, and the consequence is the resulting satisfied and much more secure in regard to the figures do not coincide. Where you find the position of the public accounts. I never have missing link, as it were, is in the estimates, at been an alarmist, and I do not think anything the bottom of the appropriations for the work- I have said this afternoon can be held to indi- ing railways. Sir J. G. WARD .- The two accounts there Mr. W. FRASER .- Pardon me, they do not. Sir J. G. WARD .- It is not an error. Mr. W. FRASER .- It is an error. I do 