table of concessions quoted there :- Insurance Department to the Accident Insur- ance Department. Is the advance from the Reduction- Live-stock rates 25,000 ance a loan repayable in the future? If it is Firewood, chaff, and lime 8,000 not to be repaid it will be a fraud on the policy- Free carriage of lime, butter, eggs, holders in the Government Insurance Office. and fish empties 1,500 If the policyholders of the Government Insur- .. Abolition of extra charge of ance Department are to stand out of their One penny per ton on branch lines 3,000 bonuses for a period in order that the Acci- Agricultural produce 45,000 dent Insurance Department may be properly .. Butter and cheese 5,000 .. carried on, that will be a wrong to those policy- . 1,000 Artificial manures holders. I trust that some fair arrangement .. . . Bricks, clay, coal, &c. 3,000 will be made in this matter. I wanted to General reduction of ordinary pas- speak about the co-operative system, but I senger and season-ticket rates 68,000 am afraid I have not time to do so. From Cheap tickets for workers on Auck- my little experience in regard to co-operative land, Wellington, Christchurch, and labourers, and in regard to the officers in that Dunedin suburban lines ... 1,600 department, I may say that I think that some- Concessions to race - horses, polo - thing should be done in regard to the auditing ponies, hunters, and hounds re - of imprest accounts held by the officers in this turning from races, polo meetings, department. The imprest accounts of officers 2,800 and hunts who pay the co-operative labourers are not Carriage of goods from centres to ports audited. It may be said that the imprest itself for shipment, dead-weight instead is an audit. I contend, however, that it is not of measurement 1,100 an audit, and that has been proved in the pro- secutions which have taken place in our Courts. .. £165,000 Total of The accounts have not been audited for years, At the same time the receipts from the rail- and that is the cause of defalcations which have ways are steadily increasing. We have had taken place. The co-operative system is a new extraordinary things happening, which have system, and I would suggest to the Premier, made the receipts probably more in regard to and to the Minister for Public Works, who has passenger traffic than has ever been the case in charge of the department, that some system of any corresponding period ; but there seems to be audit should be introduced, in order that there no doubt that, as far as the railway finance may be no defalcations and no mistakes. is concerned, "all is well." Now let me turn for a moment to the Government Advances to Settlers Office. In a very few words I wish to have only got it since the last prosecution, which was some ten months ago. The honour- applaud and agree with the Government in what they are doing so far as that department able gentleman says it has just been instituted. is concerned. The amounts authorised up to If that is so, I congratulate the Minister upon the 31st March, 1901, amounted to £3,244,900. it, and claim credit for having urged the neces- This sum was divided among 9,931 applicants. sity for it last session. I can tell the House The advances were made on freehold and lease- and the Minister, however, that the co-opera- hold securities, but a large number of applicants tive accounts have not been audited for years declined to accept the amounts offered by the past, and the defalcations which have taken Board. The securities now held are valued place are no doubt due to that fact. There are at £5,859,039, so the advances of £2,679,520 other matters which I should like to speak recently made are well secured. The amount upon, but they would take up too much time, advanced on leasehold is only a little over and my time-limit has now expired. I thank honourable members for the attention they $500,000. In the statements of receipts and have paid to what I have said. I regret that expenditure for the year ending the 31st March, 1901, I find the chief ' items are : receipts I have not been able to deal with all the sub- for interest on mortgages, £84,454 10s. 4d., jects which I have made notes upon ; and, while the expenditure for interest on loans although I have spoken as quickly as possible, is £66,077 3s. 9d .; thus, after deducting the I have yet been unable to cover the whole of the ground which I had intended to deal management expenses, £3 933 14s. 5d., a clear with. In conclusion, I will say this: I do not profit remains of £14,513 12s. 2d. I regret that the time-limit prevents me going over believe that the colony is on the brink of finan- half the matter which I have in my notes. I cial disaster, or that ruin is staring us in the would like, however, in the last five minutes face. I do not believe that our finance is un- of my time to ask one question. The Govern- sound. I do not believe that those people who cry " Wolf " will be believed, for they have cried ment propose a vote for the Government Acci- dent Insurance Department-that is, there are " Wolf " so long that not much attention is now paid to their cry. They have cried " Wolf" certain increases put down for officers in the Government Life Insurance Department who ever since the Seddon Administration has held the reins of power, and the public are beginning are to undertake the work of the new Govern- to realise that their cry is not to be believed. I ment Accident Insurance Department. I want to know what are the terms upon which the am quite sure that the figures given by the Government Insurance to the Accident Insur- Mr. HALL-JONES .- We have got it now. Mr. WILFORD .- If you have got it now, you 