NEW ZEALAND. PARLIAMENTARY DEBATES.
=== Second Session of the fourteenth Parliament. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. in the service were allowed to vote, and all the employés from the railway workshops through- Thursday, 29th August, 1901. out the colony had the right to exercise their vote. I do not know whether all have ex- Conciliation and Arbitration for Railway Employés ercised it or not; they have all had the -Financial Statement. opportunity. I have simply given the figures I have received from the department. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. CONCILIATION AND ARBITRATION FOR the most noticeable feature in this debate is the RAILWAY EMPLOYES. lack of interest or the hesitation on the part of Sir J. G. WARD .- I would like to make a honourable members on the opposite side of the statement to the House. Honourable members House to discuss the features and proposals of / https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 will recollect that a short time ago I announced the Financial Statement. that a vote would be taken of the railway em- ployes in the workshops throughout the colony ing. as to whether they desired to remain under the existing system of railway classification or merston has been sitting tight on this occasion. come under the Conciliation and Arbitration The Opposition will, I feel sure, before the con- Act of 1900. A vote has been taken, and the clusion of this debate make an effort to criticize the Statement. Are they representing their following is the result : 1,407 votes were cast. Of those, 82 were in favour of bringing the em- constituencies faithfully in allowing an im- ployés under the Industrial Conciliation and portant discussion such as this to take place Arbitration Act, and 1,325 were in favour of without taking some part in it? I have to compliment the honourable member for Parnell remaining as at present. In consequence of upon his versatility, and upon the successful that vote there will be no interference with the manner in which he dealt with the many present system of classification. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- Will the questions upon which he addressed the House. The sound financial condition of the colony as honourable gentleman lay that on the table of disclosed in the Financial Statement must the House ? Sir J. G. WARD .- There is nothing to lay have been a sore disappointment to the mem- bers of the Opposition, seeing that their evil on the table. Mr. HERRIES .- I thought the honourable forebodings that the colony was galloping to a deficit, and was on the brink of financial dis- gentleman was reading from a paper. Sir J. G. WARD .- I have not the official aster, have not been realised. Those honour- poll. I have simply received an official intima- able members have my sympathy in their dis- tion from the department containing the re- tress and disappointment, as we are not galloping to destruction. It will be seen that the good sults, and I have given the figures to the House. ship " Finance," as it is called in the Financial Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) .- Statement, is still sailing clear of those rocks Were the 1,400 and odd votes cast representing upon which the members of the Opposition the whole of the employés in the Railways would like to see her wrecked. One of the most Department ? Sir J. G. WARD .- The position is that the noticeable features in this, as in other Financial Statements delivered during the present Ad- casuals who have been twelve months and over VOL. CXVIII .- 1. ## FINANCIAL STATEMENT. ADJOURNED DEBATE. Mr. GILFEDDER (Wallace) .- Sir, perhaps Mr. PIRANI .- We are doing all the discuss- Mr. GILFEDDER .- The member for Pal- 