but it must be borne in mind that land- 4.0. settlement in the outlying districts and the back blocks of the North Island has recently developed to an extraordinary extent, and that it is impossible to educate children in small numbers in small schools as cheaply as in the larger centres. For that reason the ex- penditure is becoming heavier every year. is also to be deplored that the birth-rate of the colony is not so high as it formerly was. But, in my opinion, there is no reason to be alarmed at this, because I think the reasons are neither economic nor social. This result arises from the fact that between the years 1888-92 a large exodus of our young people took place. As many of them never came back the birth-rate has been influenced by that extraordinary migration from the colony. We have no reason to be alarmed, and the normal state of things will return sooner or later. Immediately on it becoming evident to the Boards that a smaller number of children would have to be educated, the teachers raised a strong agitation against the proposed reduction of salaries. A workman would rather work for another em- ployer at a lower rate of wages than continue in his former employment at reduced wages, and, as the teachers are not in a position of going elsewhere for employment, they were quite right in agitating, the result of which agitation was the appointment of the Royal Commission. I have to congratulate the Com- mission on going, as it were, along the easiest lines of resistance, by trying as far as possible to establish a minimum rate of salary under which a teacher would not have to submit to reductions. In my opinion, they have done excellent service; they have made a general scale for the whole of the colony, and in future I hope the teachers will not have to be confined to any one Board district, but will be enabled to obtain employment in any district in the colony at the same salary for the same work. I do not see why teachers should receive higher salaries on account of the cost of living being greater in one particular locality than another. It is an established fact that the standard of comfort is higher at the present time than it ever was before, while the cost of living has been materially reduced, and the reduction is going on. Mr. J. ALLEN. -- On what things ? Mr. BUDDO .-- On most of the necessities of living, with the exception of coals and house- rent. I feel satisfied of that, and under these circumstances I see no reason for disagreeing with the Commission when they say that the salaries should be general throughout the colony. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Coal, bread, and meat are higher. Mr. BUDDO. - The price of sugar, tea, clothing, boots, kerosene, ironmongery, tools, et cetera, has been materially reduced. There may be one or two exceptions. The honourable member for Bruce has interjected that coal and met are higher, but that is owing to excep- tional circumstances; and I hope that in the near future we shall be able to have coal de- Mr. Buddo livered to us at less than £2 a ton, seeing that we are living in a country where there is so much of it. As to the price of meat, that is entirely a matter of the moment, and I have no doubt that in the near future there will be a material reduction, though I question if it is in the best interests of the colony that meat It should be low in price. I come now to that particular point where the circumstances of the Education Board which I represent has led to a general scale being somewhat out of touch with the circumstances of the large schools in the City of Christchurch. Sir, I admit that those schools have the largest attendance of any of the schools in the colony- ranging from eight hundred to twelve hundred in each school-and also that the boys and girls are taught apart, and that in each of those schools there is an infant mistress in charge of the young children who has always been recog- nised as specially trained and deserving of a higher salary than the female teachers in charge of a single standard. We are proud of our large schools, and good work is being done in them, especially in the infant department ; but in this instance, I am sorry to say, the infant- school mistresses cannot be congratulated on the result of the Commissioners' finding. It is possible that on maturer consideration the North Canterbury Board will be able to provide better for those teachers, but at the present time it seems to me that it will have the effect of lowering those teachers' salaries materially, though I am pleased to say every one of those teachers has the full confidence of the Board, owing to the excellent manner in which they do their work. Then, we have also the question of the exceptional treatment of our first-assistant teachers. Those teachers are in the city schools, and they almost in- variably are engaged in the teaching of one standard only. Very recently the Board of Education came to the conclusion that, with the exceptional advantages these teachers had, and looking to their high attainments and cer- tificates, it would be a good thing to place them in charge of the country schools as head- teachers, and the result was the North Canter- bury Board of Education lowered their salaries very materially so as to force them, if possible, out of the situations they occupied. The effect of that was not what the Board had hoped. It was the hope of the North Canterbury Board that they should get the assistant teachers in the city schools to take the positions of head- teachers in the district schools ; and, although the salaries offered in the district schools are higher than those that assistant teachers are receiving at present, the result was practically nil, and the assistant teachers in the city will not take up work in the country schools, pre- ferring to remain in the city schools at even lower salaries. This is not as it should be. The towns have many advantages of training that is lacking in the country, and the scale of salaries provided by the Commission will natu- rally make the position of first assistant in city schools attract teachers from the head-master- ship of our best country schools. I trust this 