ness of statistical materials at our disposal, guarantee us, for the rest of our natural lives, we see at once that a great birth-rate always or as long as the loans are for. Of course, what is really at the back of the thing is the answers to a great depression of the working- classes, to smallness of wages, to a bad distri- colony itself, its credit, its wealth, its resources. Now, is there not some means or some method bution of wealth, to an absence of social capil- larity. The countries where public wealth is by which this work could be done by ourselves most widely divided, such as France, Switzer- without the intervention of those gentlemen, land, and Belgium, are those where the birth- who step in and say, " If you pay us 3 per cent. per annum for guaranteeing you we will allow rate is least ; while, on the other hand, Russia, you to go on with your works-or whatever is Servia, Hungary, and Germany-that is, where contemplated ? " I need hardly refer, either, here the distribution is worst-are those which have to the question of the gold currency. I pre- the largest birth-rate." sume that nearly every honourable member in this House knows pretty well the facts of the formulates : - case. Our currency is on a gold basis, and everybody knows that our debts could not be the moral feelings of the popular classes the paid in gold if called upon to be so paid. The more restricted are their pleasures to those of amount of gold that is available to pay debts is sense, and so much the more is their birth-rate variously estimated from 1 in 40 to £4 in the abundant and disordered. £1,000. An Hon. MEMBER .- 2 per cent. Mr. BARCLAY .- 2 per cent. Of course, the tion, every diffusion of wealth, every increase holders of the sovereigns have an enormous ad- of wages and of the standard of living exercises vantage in this way. It has been pointed out a useful influence on their birth-rate. over and over again that, the currency being to the birth-rate than high wages and the dif- based upon gold, the gold necessary for business purposes does not increase at the same rate as fusion of ease. the products : the business increases a great many more times than the supply of gold. The consequence is that gold appreciates-that is, gets more valuable - and if you want a sovereign you have got to give for it more goods than you would have if the volume of goods in trade had not increased. The amount of goods in the market increases greatly, and the number of sovereigns does not increase to the same extent; but they have to go round, and obviously you must give more goods for the sovereign, if you want it, than you did before. Of course, part of the decrease in the value of wool, for instance, may be owing to the fact of cheaper production, and so on, but a considerable part of the decrease is owing to the appreciation of the sovereign and the scar- city of gold. Now, in a colony like this, not very much can be done by the colony or the Govern- ment in regard to this particular matter. It is a matter between great nations like England and America ; but the time has come in this colony to seriously consider whether State notes should not be issued, at all events, for domestic circu- lation .. That, I think, could be done. There is a curious point in the Financial Statement about which I should like to say a word or two. The decrease in the birth-rate is deplored. In regard to this decrease in the birth-rate, in the first place it is nothing so very serious in any case. It is rather less than in any of the other colonies. But there seems to be an opinion in some quarters that this decrease necessarily means great disaster. Curiously enough, the opposite seems to be the case. The decrease in our birth-rate is only 5.48 per cent., which is lower than in any other colony. It is a curious thing that a large birth-rate is always coinci- dent with a poor nation. It is always coincident with a bad state of affairs. There is an autho- rity on the subject, a scientist named Francesco Nitti, and this is what he says,- And, again, these are the laws which he "1. The lower the economic situation and " And, on the other hand,- "2. Every improvement of the general condi- "Hence nothing is more certain to fix limits "Countries where the ownership of the soil is much subdivided, as in France ; countries where the working-man has succeeded in win- ning high wages and short days, as in the United States of America, have a slight birth- rate. Even England, a country so naturally prolific, now that the economic causes which heightened the birth-rate have grown less, has a decreasing birth-rate. "It is clearly to be seen that a very high birth-rate always corresponds with slight wages, long days of work, bad food, and hence a bad distribution of wealth. " India, the classic country of abundant fer- tility, is the country where the economic phe- nomena referred to are seen much more in- tensely than elsewhere. " On the other hand, in the United States of America, notwithstanding the traditional fecun- dity of the British and Germans-who form the substance of the population - the birth-rate among the native-born is very slight; and, putting aside the other reasons of a political and ethical kind, the high standard of living, the large wages, the short days of work exer- cise their influence in limiting the birth-rate, and make the native- born population but slightly prolific." Why, it is another argument on the Right Hon. the Premier's side. This small decrease in the birth-rate points probably to an increased prosperity and a better state of affairs in the An Hon. MEMBER .- You do not believe in colony. large families ? Mr. BARCLAY .- Not if the parents are un- able to properly maintain them, and if they are so large as to add to the unfortunates who have not got a proper chance in life through not being properly brought up and properly trained, and properly housed, properly fed, and properly 