and trouble. It could perform all the detail work leading right up to the final stage, requiring only legislative completion. If the honourable gentleman would restrain his im- patience a little, and allow these things to work round in their proper course, he would find that what they had indicated in any public utterances on the question of providing for the landless Natives would be carried out. Mr. KAIHAU desired to say, by way of per- sonal explanation, that he was not asking for special concessions for the Maoris of Waikato district alone. What he desired was that pro- vision be made for all Natives whose land had been confiscated. The case of the North Island landless Natives was entirely different from that of those in the South Island. All of the Maori land in the South Island had been purchased, while the greater part of the land in the North Island had been confiscated. Not only had the land of people who took up arms against the Government been confiscated, but also the land of those who remained loyal or neutral had been taken. That fact ought to be considered, and the question should not be dealt with in the same way as that of the landless Natives of the South Island. The Hon. Mr. CARROLL said that was not the time to discuss the matter. The Govern- ment had answered the question, and would later on decide themselves as to what course should be followed. TEWI KINGI AND OTHERS. Mr. LANG (Waikato) asked the Govern- ment, If they will give effect to the recommen- dation of the Native Affairs Committee of last year on the petition of Tewi Kingi and eleven others (Petition No. 261 ;- namely, "In the opinion of the Committee, petitioners have a just claim for consideration, and it is recom- mended that the Government should bring in the necessary legislation to give the relief prayed for " ? The petition referred to was one of the many that the honourable member for the Eastern Maori District, Mr. Pere, had mentioned when putting his question. It was -one of the many petitions that the Native Affairs Committee had favourably reported upon. The Committee's recommendations were seldom given effect to. To more fully explain the position of this petition he would read the translation of a letter which he had received from the petitioners, Tewi Kingi and others :- " Waingaro, Ngaruawahia, Waikato, 5th September, 1901. To your Honourable Member, Mr. Lang. GREETING. Continuous prosperity to you. Herewith your petitioners again write to you with reference to our petition, which was brought up by you (? presented) in the House -on Friday, the 10th August, 19:00. (Vide Order Paper of the 14th August, 1900, page 308, No. 261,-viz., the petition of Tewi Kingi and -eleven others). Your servants the petitioners hereby pray that you will urgently pray the House to pass legislation to empower a second hearing of our land, in connection with which great injury was done your petitioners. We Mr. Carroll have already waited for a very long time, and our land also has been lying idle during all this. long period, through this petition preventing anything been done, and also through the award referred to. Sufficient .- From your servants, "TEWI KINGI AND OTHERS." He had a copy of the report of the Native Affairs Committee of last year on the petition :- "Petitioners pray that legislation may be passed to enable a rehearing of the partitioning of Lot 66, Waipa Survey District. "I am directed to report that, in the opinion of the Committee, petitioners have a just claim for consideration, and it is recommended that the Government should bring in the necessary legislation to give the relief prayed for." The petitioners pointed out that they had waited a long time to have the Committee's recommendations given effect to. During that time their lands had been lying idle, and it seemed to him of very little use to get a favour. able recommendation from that Committee, because in nine cases out of ten the recom- mendations were altogether ignored. He hoped the Native Minister would give a reply to the effect that, as far as this particular petition was concerned, the necessary legislation would be introduced to remove the hardships under which these Natives were suffering. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) said that he would reply shortly to the honourable gentle- man, that a clause dealing with the case had been drafted for insertion in a Bill which would be submitted to the House this session. Mr. LANG .- Would it deal with this particu- lar case ? Mr. CARROLL said that it would. Referring to the tone of the honourable gentleman's re- marks in condemnation of the Government, he would add that the fault did not rest with the Government, but with the petitioners them- selves. They were responsible for any injustice that had befallen them. The law was at their disposal, and if they failed to take advantage of it they were to blame. Because they had failed to comply with the law they had sought the indulgence of Parliament ; and, as the Govern- ment had taken time to consider the recom- mendations of a Committee, and weigh the merits of the case for their own satisfaction. the Government was to blame! When a Native petition came to Parliament it went before the Native Affairs Committee. The Native Affairs Committee dealt with it, as a rule, merely on a prima facie case submitted, leaving the further and more definite investigations to be carried out in the course of departmental inquiry. Consequently, many of these petitions were referred to the Government to save lengthy investigations by the Committee and as a way of getting rid of the trouble. There might be delay from the time that the Committee re- ported on the petition up to the time that the matter was finally disposed of, but in many cases that was justifiable, and could not be avoided. However, a clause had been drafted in connection with this particular matter, and it would be in the Bill submitted this session. 