made only one solitary reference of any conse- quence, and that not great, to the Budget in his speech, and that was a reference to the rebate of rent to Crown tenants. There was one most extraordinary statement, however, that he made. He said that the squabble between the Wellington and Dunedin Seamen's Unions \- which came before the Arbitration Court was \- practically litigation to which the Government was a party. Now, that is a specimen of the kind of thing said by honourable gentlemen who are not too scrupulous and not too delicate as to the accuracy, truth, or correctness of what they say. Of course, the Government was not in any sense whatever a party to that litigation, and had no more concern in it than they had in any ordinary lawsuit between any two insignificant private individuals in this town or any other part of the colony. It was purely a law point to be settled between the representatives of the two unions of seamen, and, so far as the Government or the Legisla- ture was concerned, it was of no interest and no importance to them in any way whatever. Then, the honourable gentleman referred to the Imprisonment for Debt Abolition Act, which was passed last year, and cited a number of cases, amongst them being that of a clerk in the Civil Service who borrowed £80 and ad- mitted that he had no prospect of repaying the sum when borrowed. Well, I do not suppose that any honourable member could follow the cases brought forward by the honourable gentleman, but I have no hesitation in saying that, so far as the case of the clerk in the Civil Service is concerned, I think the honourable gentleman must be making some mistake about https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 it, because if the clerk did borrow $80 under the circumstances, most certainly he would not come within the provisions of the Act, which provide that where money is obtained by fraud http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero the person who obtains it is not to have the benefit of the Act. Certainly, under cir- cumstances such as those stated, it appears to me it would come under the head of fraud. However, it is impossible here to argue all these cases. All I can say is that the case cited appears to be extremely doubtful, and to cast doubt upon the other cases mentioned by the honourable gentleman. I certainly should like to have more information on the subject before I accept his ipse dixit as to the effect of them. Now, turning to some remarks that I desire to make myself, if any one were to ask me what are the distinguishing characteristics of the Budget, what its key-notes are, I should answer that it was a declaration of the buoyancy of the finance of this country, coupled with what ap- pears to me to be a wise and prudent warning to recollect that, though we have had years of pro- sperity in the past, we may not be so prosperous in the immediate future, and that we should be careful and prudent and not go too fast. That, Sir. seems to me to be very good teaching, a wise lesson and a prudent warning. We are told in the Budget that, in spite of a buoyant revenue and prosperous times, it is not pro- posed to launch out into an extravagant ex- penditure. A Colonial Treasurer who under such circumstances restrains himself and utters such a warning seems to be a wise and prudent man. But the very prudence and wisdom of the Statement has been seized upon by some honourable gentlemen and distorted into a vice and blot ; a warning to go slow they have construed into a danger-signal, and have suggested that the vessel of State is amongst the breakers, if not actually on the rocks ; and the prudent advice to go carefully in the future is regarded as a warning that risk and danger is impending, instead of being merely advice to go steady. in order to economize the fuel in case it may be needed in rough weather to come. Now, it does not appear to me that that is a fair or a proper way of dealing with the Statement. What does the Budget say ? Let us see whether there are any reasons for this cry of alarm which some honourable mem- bers have sent up. Last year, as far as the revenue was concerned, £5,906,616 was the amount, which is a record year. It was an increase of $273,320 on the very favourable return of the year before, and that, it must be remembered, in the face of large remissions of Customs taxation, of railway rates, penny postage, and a number of other remissions, amounting, perhaps, to a quarter of a million. These returns, I submit, Sir, are absolutely phenomenal. They demonstrate beyond argu- ment the splendid public prosperity of the colony. There is nothing, surely, to be alarmed at about them. Now, as to what may be ex- pected next year, the Treasurer estimates that the revenue is likely to be £5,896,000. Now, whatever the faults of the Colonial Treasurer may be, and whatever criticism has been levelled against him, it has never been sug- gested that he is in the habit of over-estimat- ing his revenue. It is a notorious fact that the present Colonial Treasurer always under-esti- mates his revenue. So that I see no reason to doubt, seeing that the amount he has estimated as likely to come in next year is less than he has received this year-I see no reason to think that the estimate will be too much. On all the heads of revenue last year, with one small ex- ception, there is a considerable increase. There is no sign of danger there, at all events, nor any cause for alarm. Now, I am told that that may be all very well, but the public debt has in- creased : " Look at how the public debt has gone up, by twelve, fifteen, or sixteen millions in ten years ; why, that is enormous, the country cannot stand it." Now, I have observed that a number of gentlemen, when dealing with this question of the public debt, have been extremely emphatic about the increase of it, but have never said a word as to how that in- crease has been made up. They have made no attempt to analyse how the increase was brought about, what purpose it was put to, whether it is earning any money in return for the expenditure or whether it is not. They simply content themselves with saying we have increased the debt so-much, and therefore we must be on the point of ruin. Now, for the purpose of putting the matter in its true light, I have been at some trouble to get up a small 