ment, although they might belong to other departments. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) wished to know how it came that this vote was about £650 more than the vote of last year. Sir J. G. WARD said, Because the wages of messengers had been raised 1s. per day. Vote, £4,937 agreed to. Electoral Department, £1,600. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) would like to ask the intention of the Minister in regard to the Regis- trar of Electors at Auckland. Last year the Minister promised to hold an inquiry, and the Right Hon. the Premier also promised a depu- tation in Auckland to hold an inquiry into this officer's conduct. This officer was Registrar for the City of Auckland, Eden, Manukau, and Par- nell. Notwithstanding the promise made by both Ministers, so far as he knew no inquiry had been held, except that the Registrar was in Wellington and gave some explanation to Minis- ters, and they appeared to be quite satisfied. He wanted to know how long the notorious scandal in regard to this officer was going to be perpetuated. On the 23rd October, 1899, the main roll for the electorate of Eden appeared, and a large number of old residents, who had never changed their address nor asked to be removed, were found to be struck off the roll. As soon as the main roll appeared these people immediately filled up claims and sent them for the supplementary roll, which appeared on the 4th December, the election taking place on the 6th. To the great surprise of hundreds of people their names were not on the roll, al- though the Registrar had sent out his officers- the police-and they had reported that the claims were genuine. The total number of names on the Eden roll was 5,706, and of that number 4,510 voted, and consequently the 1,196 who did not vote would have their names struck off the roll. Now, on the 5th March a new roll was compiled for the licensing election, and, notwithstanding that 4,510 voted at the general election, the roll came out with 3,808 names ; so that 702 people who voted three months previously were struck off the roll. The nominations for the licensing election took place on the 13th March, on the roll of 3,808 ; but on the 20th March another roll appeared-only a day before the elec- tion, although it was dated the 17th-with 841 more names on it. Would any one say that 841 people had registered in the meantime ? He challenged the Minister to produce the claims of the people to vote. The rolls spoke for themselves. If the Minister could con- scientiously say that this was not rigging the roll, then he (Mr. Bollard) did not know what to say about it. It was well known the way this man manipulated the rolls. It was a public scandal in Auckland. This officer had lost the confidence of the Auckland people, and therefore the Government ought to remove him. He knew that this man was a pet officer, and that they were anxious to keep him in the Government employ ; but let the Government give him some other employment, and let the matters. If this officer could produce rolls or claims to justify his action, then he (Mr. Bollard) would admit that he had made state- ments that were incorrect. He hoped the Minister would give an assurance that some- thing would be done with regard to this matter. Sir J. G. WARD said this question was brought up last session, and after the House rose the officer referred to was sent for, and he brought the claims to enrolment to Wellington in order that it might be ascertained whether or not there was justification for the charges which had been levelled against him across the floor of the House. After that investigation was made by a responsible officer, it was found that the Registrar had upon the face of the documents justification for the action he had taken, and that he had not transgressed the law by his refusal to allow certain people to be enrolled. There was, no doubt, amongst some persons a strong feeling against this officer, but the papers showed that he was justified in the action he had taken. While it was the duty of the Government to see that officers properly discharged their duties, it was also the duty of the Government to see that officers were fairly treated. He (Sir J. G. Ward) said that he stated at the Auckland City Hall, in the presence of a large number of the public, that the Government would offer every facility to any one who felt that he had a grievance against the Registrar to proceed against him under the' law. As far as the Government could judge at present there was nothing to justify or warrant the Government taking the course suggested by the honourable member. This officer was no more to him than any other officer; but he would not agree, under pressure, to do what he believed to be an injustice to any one. He might state, further, that, if certain cases were proceeded with under the law, it was probable that revelations would be made which would rather astonish some people. He was refer- ring to some things which had been at- tempted to be done, and which this officer had stopped. If the matter was proceeded with, information would be furnished - judg- ing by what he had seen - which was cer- tainly an eye-opener to hm, and which he believed would be an eye - opener to others. For it to be supposed for a moment that this man was acting for a particular interest was quite a fallacy. It would have made no differ- ence in the election at Auckland whether Mr. King was Registrar or not. The honourable member should not ask the Government to do an unfair thing, when the opportunity was open to him or any one else to proceed against the officer in a Court of law, and the whole of the documentary evidence was available for them. Mr. PIRANI said the Government promised an inquiry. Sir J. G. WARD said the Government did make a preliminary inquiry, and found there was not sufficient evidence to sustain any charge. But they had afforded every facility for any individual person to prosecute this officer in the ordinary way, and no steps what- 