the busy season at shearing-time-there were probably not one hundred persons working on the Waikakahi Estate. Now, there are some eight hundred people on that estate, and if you look at the railway-stations as you pass through you will see piles of grain alongside the line, which has been grown by the settlers. Then, with regard to Pareora No. 2, the report says "improvements substantial"; and of Punaroa, " large holders doing well ; small backwards." What that means is this: in a few instances the areas have been too small, and that is a matter which should be taken notice of in the laying out of these settlements in the future. Then, there is the Maerewhenua, of which we read, " heavy loss by hailstorm ; condition sound " ; and Tokarahi, the condition of which is stated to be "very satisfactory." Thus, Sir, we have a satisfactory report with regard to the whole of the settlements in my district. But, Sir, the earth-hunger is by no means satisfied ; there are still hundreds of young men, sons of settlers, who desire to settle upon the land and to have homes of their own, and there is not enough land being put in the market to enable them to do so. Some honourable members say, "Well, let them come to the North Island " ; but what is the use of their doing that? My friend op- posite says that there is not sufficient land there for the demands of their own people, and I believe he is quite right. I contend that whilst there is a considerable amount of land obtainable at a reasonable price-as there still is in the South Island-that land ought to be obtained, and also in the North Island, wherever the same circumstances occur, land ought to be got so that men from the particular https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 neighbourhoods may settle on it. I mean by this that men accustomed to the bush districts of the North Island are far better able to take up areas of bush land, and to gradually convert it into farms, than men from the South who have never seen a stick of timber growing ; and I contend that if the North Island lands are settled by the sons of men who have themselves lived in the North Island, those sons will be well acquainted with the best way of dealing with bush land, and we shall have much better and more successful settlement than if the settlers are brought from the South. Therefore, it follows that land should be opened up in both Islands, and I say that the remark which the Premier has made in his Statement to the effect that this policy is being vigorously carried out is not borne out by the facts. There was certainly vigorous progress two or three years ago, but there has not been the like progress during the past year. It is true that it has been an ex- ceptional year ; Ministers had for months to travel about to attend various functions, some of them being out of the colony for considerable periods, and for that reason perhaps it is not fair to harshly criticize. These circumstances have, however, now passed away, and I wish to give a clear indication of my feeling, and it is that this policy of settlement which I have heartily and consistently supported for years past must now be pushed on vigorously ; and if this is not done, then those who like myself have hitherto given a loyal and unwavering support to the Government will have to consider whether in the future that support should be continued to the same extent. Some honourable mem- bers have urged that this policy of purchasing land for settlement should not be pushed on just now, because they consider that it is quite possible that there will be a slump in the values of land, and that in consequence the Govern- ment will stand to lose. In reply to this I would point out that, so far as I am aware, in the case of my own district at any rate, there has not been during the past two or three years any marked increase in the value of land, and if it was wise to buy land two years ago at the price then paid for it, I say that it is not unwise to buy land now. It is quite true that wheat is selling at a very low price this year, but it is also true that for several years past it has been selling at a low price. It is further true that oats are now selling at a paying price. Mutton is at a good paying price, and though wool is at a phenomenally low rate, I think that that very fact is an argument that that low rate cannot long continue to be main- tained. There is not likely to be any further fall, and I think I can show reasons for the low price of wool, other than that of large pro- duction. I believe that there is a combination for the special purpose of keeping down the price of wool, and I think that this is one of those matters which will have to be dealt with, though it is difficult to say at present in what way these combinations and trusts are to be put down ; one thing is certain, and that is that they are undoubtedly making great mischief. Now, Sir, also in connection with this matter of lands for settlement, I want to say a word or two about the roading of the settlements. The Land for Settlements Act very properly provides that before land is opened up for application there shall be added to the purchase price a sum which, in the Minister's opinion, is sufficient for the purpose of roading the land acquired, and then the rentals are based upon the total sum, including the allowance made for roading, and consequently the settlers pay through their rents for the roading itself. But, Sir, the roads are not always made-the roads in respect to which they are paying this increased rental- and i object altogether, as a member for a dis- trict which contains many of these settlements, to have to go to the Minister and urge him, as a matter of grace, that these roads should be made for the benefit of the settlers placed on any particular block of land, when the cost of the roads has already been actually paid by the settlers for the very purpose of making them. Yet, this notwithstanding, I have found my- self over and over again in the position of having to apply to the Minister of Lands for a grant of a hundred pounds, or a couple of hundred pounds or so, for this or that road on the application of the settlers, backed up by the recommendation of the County Council, and I am usually told that the matter will be taken into consideration ; and when the 