minded he may be, feeling there is a wrong without a remedy. Therefore, it is all the more incomprehensible that misguided men should imagine that they have a right to cut short a life such as the life that has now been extinguished in so melancholy a manner. The late President was a gentleman of most honour- able antecedents, antecedents which did him credit. Not only in a civil capacity, but also in a military capacity, he had done his best to cement the Republic in war, and, since the conclusion of the war, in peace he had devoted his best energies to the good of his country. He had been for the second time returned as elective President of that Republic, and this is the end. Sir, I am quite certain the Council will join unanimously in voting the resolution which I have just read. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- Sir, I beg to second the resolution, and I feel I cannot add very much to the sentiments expressed in the speech just delivered by the Hon. the Minister of Education. Since the a tempt was made on the life of the President, we have all hoped day after day that his life would be spared. He has been a good President, an able adminis- trator, a good husband, and a good citizen ; and it is not well to lose such a man as this, whose virtues were so great as were those of the late President. America, in my opinion, owes a great deal to him, and if he had been spared, Sir, to my mind there would have been a. lot of reforms that would have been fraught with benefits, not only for the people of America, but for the other countries, where his influence would undoubtedly be felt. It is, as the Hon. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 the Minister has said, an extraordinary thing, in a free country, where those in power are elected by the people, that one should be found to com- mit such a dastardly outrage. Such people have http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero other means, as the people of most countries have, of getting what they require, if they wish it, in a constitutional way. Now that these crimes are becoming so common, I hope that severe steps will be taken in every country to deal with such offenders. Under the existing law in America one does not know how long it may be before this man is brought to justice, and one must feel that, if ever there was an occasion when mob law was justified, it would be justified now in getting hold of such a man, for a short death is too good for a criminal of that description. I hope it will be a long time before we shall hear of such another catastrophe as this. I think it is well that we have now the opportunity to express our sympathy with Mrs. Mckinley and the American people. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- I cannot allow this motion to pass without individually ex- pressing my sympathy. It is indeed pitiful that such a man should have passed away under such circumstances. Both the people and the laws of America and England are almost identical, and it will, therefore, come with a very good grace from us to pass the re- solution now proposed. There can be no doubt that the lives of us all are subject at any time to the attacks of fanatics, and no law will Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker meting out severe punishment to such crimi- nals, is to endeavour, by enacting just and equal laws, and by promoting general education, to teach them to do better. Now, I think it would be a grand idea if the son of our King could see his way to visit the United States and represent His Majesty on the occasion of the State funeral. I feel that such practical sympathy would reach the hearts of the Ameri- can people. That nation, standing shoulder to shoulder with ours, would assure the peace of the world. ## THE LATE MR. M. J. S. MACKENZIE, AND COLONEL FRASER. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- In moving the adjournment of the Council, I desire to say also a few words on two deaths that, I am sorry to say, have occurred recently. I refer to the death of the late Mr. Scobie Mackenzie, and also, I am sorry to add-for I have only heard of it since I came into the Chamber-the death of the late Serjeant-at-Arms, Colonel William Fraser. Both gentlemen were well known to most of us for many years. I entered Parlia- ment with Mr. Scobie Mackenzie in 1884, when we were associated at the beginning of that session by having to move and second the Ad- dress in Reply ; and since that time, however we may have differed in politics, we were friends to the day he left Parliament ; and none of us who knew him, either in the House or in his lighter moments, could help enjoying the many shades of temperament of which he was the pos- sessor. It is a terrible thing, to me at all events, that a life that might have produced maturer fruits, had he been spared, should have been prematurely cut off. I feel quite certain that this Council sympathizes most deeply with his family on the present occasion. As regards our old friend Colonel Fraser, who also was an old member of Parliament, as well as an officer of the other House, he has been familiarly known to us for many years : but his services in Parliament were only the end of an honourahje career which he began at the time of the Maori war. I feel quite certain that the sympathy of this Chamber will also be extended to his widow. I beg to move the adjournment of the Council. The Council adjourned at ten minutes to three o'clock p.m. # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Tuesday, 17th September, 1901. First Readings-Death of President Mckinley-the late Mr. M. J. S. Mackenzie and the late Nr. A. J. Burns-The late Colonel Fraser-Funeral of the late President Mckinley -Radways State- ment -Mines Statement-Supply. 