what has been going on ; and I am going to tell the House that some interested parties on the West Coast presented Mr. Cook with a gold brick. My opinion is that some of them, before they have done, will feel inclined to throw bricks at Mr. Cook, for the whole mining industry is injured by the course taken by him. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I wish to make a personal explanation. The Premier, with that disregard for fact for which he is so noted, described what he called the scene that had taken place between myself and the members of the Opposition in reference to the vote that was last taken. All I say in regard to the Pre- mier's statement is this: There is not a tittle of truth in his statements. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- Sir, we have been listening to-1 do not know what to call it exactly-I do not know that there is any word that would exactly describe the kind of talk we have just been having from the Right Hon. the Premier, from the leader of this House and the leader of the New Zealand Parliament. I have always looked upon this Legislative Assembly as one we have a right to be proud to sit in. We have thought we had a leader who was a credit to the colony, but after this exhibition to-night I ask his own followers if they are satisfied with the kind of lead they have had during the course of this debate upon this ques- tion of privilege. An Hon. MEMBER .- Certainly. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Some one says " Cer- tainly." It is the only solitary voice. Mr. SEDDON .- You voted with us yourself. Mr. J. ALLEN. - Exactly. That, Sir, is why the Premier is not satisfied-because I did go with his party just now; and I shall have https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 something to say about that presently. Did any one ever listen to such a tirade of abuse as came from the Premier, and utterly unpro- voked ? He abused me, he abused the honour- able member for Wakatipu, he abused the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson), and the honourable member for Franklin, and without provocation. Fortu- nately, Sir, our skins are thick and we can bear it. It will have no effect whatever upon us. But as to the personal abuse, I do not care two straws about that. I do care that this House should have been brought down to the low standard to which the Premier has brought it during this debate, and in the action he first took in regard to this question of privilege. He has admitted by his action since that he was wrong; and he has had to put up his colleague to move an amendment to the very resolution he himself proposed. That is an ad- mission to the House that he was wrong in the first instance. We know perfectly well that, in some instances at any rate, when he has had to deal with cases of this sort before he has dealt with them as a leader of the House ought to deal with them. Sir, he has not done so to- day, and the reason of it is political exigency, and it is nothing else. Now, the Premier has beclouded the whole issue. The issue is not only a breach of the privileges of this House. Mr. Seddon that a gentleman called before a Committee of this House refused to give evidence before that Committee. He refused to answer the question put to him by the Chairman ; and there is a precedent for dealing with cases of that kind. ' The precedent was established by the Premier himself not many years ago, when a gentleman who refused to give evidence to a Committee of the House was punished by a fine of $500. But to day all this is to be passed lightly by, and the gentleman, who does exactly the same thing in principle-I do not say it is the same thing in degree-is allowed to go scot-free : and that. not in accordance with the wish of the Premier, but because of the pressure brought upon him to do what he has been attempting to do. Now, the Premier said this side have made this a party question. We have no party on this side, and therefore we could not make it a party question. And the other answer to the accuss. tion is this: that when it came to a decision upon the matter three of us, at any rate, walked into the lobby with the Premier. Honourable members know what his move is. There may be some members who have not been so long in Parliament as some of us, who do not see what the move is. I am going to tell them. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is the same old game. Mr. J. ALLEN .- " It is the same old game." Sir, the party question has been raised by the Right Hon. the Premier himself, and by nobody else at all. As evidence of it take the caucus at one o'clock to-day-the only caucus, I believe, that has been called this session. However important the legislation has been this sessier. it has not been necessary in the eyes of the Pre- mier to call a caucus to consider it, and it rests with the honourable gentleman to call a caucus of his party upon the question of the privileges of the House-a question that needed only that the Premier should come down with a resolu- tion to do what he ought to have done. How. ever, it is made the object of calling the party together in caucus. Why? The reason of it all is this : The Premier saw that an amendment was moved by the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), and he realised, as he too well can realise, what was happening in the House. He instinctively knew, within a few minutes of the time the member for Wellington City moved his amendment, that the amendment would be car- ried against him if he did not call the party to gether. He called them together. There are many ways of exercising the party whip, and it was done partly in the caucus this afternoon at one o'clock. All the proceedings since have been under the party whip, and nothing else. This is the method of exercising the party whip: Round them all up by abusing the other side. by attempting to show the Opposition solid. although they do not want to be consolidated. and will not vote solid. It does not matter whether they vote rightly or wrongly, he rounds up the whole of his followers to vote as be wants them to vote. Sir, that is the method by which the party have been called together ca this occasion, and it is a method that has been exercised many and many a time before, some- 