with them ? Nothing but stew over them, and wondered when you got them how you could use them. The honourable member talks about the extravagant expenditure of the Go- vernment as something calculated to excite the alarm of the people. Now, in the limited time at my disposal I will give an idea of the sin- cerity of honourable members in this respect. At the close of last session of Parliament the honourable member for Franklin went north and addressed his constituents, and here is an extract from his own speech to his constituents, and on saying what I am now going to read they applauded him to the echo. And it should be remembered that in this House the honour- able member says he wants economy in our expenditure ; he is prepared to preach economy -to preach, as I understand it, drastic economy. He is prepared now, according to his utterances, to go in for an enormous reduction in the public works expenditure. Mr. MASSEY .- I did not say that. Sir J. G. WARD .- He knows what is coming now. What did the honourable member say to his constituents ? He said this :-- "Possibly the most interesting business that came before Parliament last session was the attempt on the part of Auckland members to have justice done to Auckland, and remove the state of isolation in which she existed, by the completion of the North Island Main Trunk Railway, which ought to have been completed long ago. They had not been so successful as he could have wished, but more progress was made than in any other session. The net re- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 sult was a vote of £130,000 for the line, or nearly double what was voted the previous year, and more than double the amount that was expended." http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero No wonder the House laughs. My honourable friend comes here now and talks about the increase of the public debt alarming the people. He not only has helped to increase it, but he wants more. If he is sincere, and if honourable members who have spoken in the same strain are sincere, such as the member for Nelson City, the member for Ashley, the member for Riccarton, the member for Wairarapa, and the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar)-if they are sincere, let them show their sincerity by sending in a requisition to the Government saying they are prepared to reduce the public-works ex- penditure by half a million, not by spilling their brothers' blood, but by reducing the expenditure in their own districts. Let them set a practical example of economy in this way, and then other honourable members, believing them to be sincere, will join with them and do likewise. If they are not prepared to do that, to have the expenditure withdrawn from their own constituencies, what value can any one place on their professions? None whatever. If they did take the course I am suggesting, what would occur? We would find those honourable members from this side who have formed the preaching economy quintette relegated to another sphere, not in this House, but, along with those on that side of the House, years to come, because we know that in their developing constituencies public money must be expended legitimately for the purpose of providing for their necessities ; and so it is with the country generally. I do not say we should blindly borrow for these purposes, but I do say a careful and yet vigorous policy is essential, and in the very best interests of our colony. Debate interrupted. The House adjourned at half-past ten o'clock p.m. LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Wednesday, 4th September, 1901. Death of Sir John Mckenzie - Death of the Hon. J. Kerr: The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. DEATH OF SIR JOHN MCKENZIE. The Hon. the SPEAKER .- I have received a letter from Mr. John Mckenzie, thanking the members of this Chamber for the kind message of sympathy which was sent to him through the Speaker. DEATH OF THE HON. J. KERR. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, I am sure that every member of the Council will feel as deeply as I do the sad occurrence which has taken place since we last met. The Council has lost the services of a member who was very highly respected, and whom only to know was an honour, and whom every member appre- ciated and held in affectionate regard. I do not think there was any one in the Council who was more closely connected with the late Mr. Kerr than I was, and since the day of his appoint- ment to the Council to the day of his death nothing occurred, either publicly or privately, between him and his fellow-Councillors but what was of a kind which was in the nature of establishing in the hearts of all of us the respect due to him, as regards the sin- cerity of his public opinions and the earnest- ness of his public life. He was a gentleman of warm convictions, but he was able to express those convictions with perfect sin- cerity, and yet never to hurt the feelings of those from whom he differed. It was a melan- choly satisfaction that I and other members of the Council were able to be present at his funeral and show his family and his neigh- bours how much he was respected by the Council, and how much we regretted his death. Sir, I beg to move, without notice, That this Council do now adjourn, as a mark of respect to the memory of the late Hon. James Kerr. The Hon. Captain BAILLIE .- Sir, I rise to second the motion which has been moved by the Minister of Education. The honourable 