reproving sin. Mr. SEDDON .- " Seddon," not " Satan." Mr. MASSEY .- I do not wish to suggest any We all know the Government comparison. have no more intention or idea of acting up to their professions now than they have had at It has any time during the past ten years. been somewhat refreshing to us to hear the ment. criticisms from certain members on the other side of the House. Here, again, it seems to me, a passage from one of the letters of "Junius" applies very closely, and I am going to read it for the benefit of the Premier : "There is a moment of difficulty and danger at which flattery and falsehood can no longer deceive, and simplicity itself can no longer be misled " It seems to me we have arrived at that stage when honest and conscientious men can no longer support the policy or doings of the Go- vernment in the way they have been accus- tomed to do. And there will be some hope for the country, and some prospects of a better state of things, when those members are pre- pared to back up their voices with their votes. any improvement in the Seddon Government Then, we have the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) finding fault with those members who were conscientious enough to express honest opinions upon the Statement before the House -finding fault with them for their want of loyalty, and he went on to tell us that for ten formerly despised. "What a fall was there, years he had been a loyal supporter of the pre- sent Government. The honourable member has a very short memory. I can think of a time- not ten years ago - when the honourable gentle- did believe in them. man expressed himself as freely as those who https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 have spoken in the course of this debate. Speaking of the Seddon Government in 1893, must not forget what he said with reference to this is what he said,- "Sir, already we have witnessed their fatuous folly, and before long we shall be called to jubilation about the success of floating the half- contemplate the fate of a Government which million loan locally, as it was called, although attempted to preserve an existence built upon I am inclined to think that the word " locally " popular applause, regardless of all that tends was not the proper term to use, seeing that the to the true welfare of the country. interest was made payable in London, in Mel- . It is said the country is now in a prosperous condition. Its prosperity is measured exactly try. Then, it has been stated, and in fact it has been admitted-the statement was made by by the extent of the industry of the pro- ducers of the country. To that extent it the Treasurer himself-that he had borrowed a is prosperous. But will it continue to be large sum of money from a company which had prosperous? I hope it may, but, gauged by its headquarters in Sydney. Thus, besides pay- the experience of such Ministries as this, ing the interest, we shall be compelled to pay what is really likely to happen? The Liberal also the exchange between the two countries. Ministry of 1879 ended in complete disaster. Of course, I am quite willing to admit that it In 1887 another Liberal Ministry went would be a good thing for the colony if it out of office, leaving behind a deficiency of was not necessary to go outside for the money which we require ; but there are other circum- £728,000. Again, I ask, can the coun- try be said to be progressing when its ex- stances that have to be taken into account, What are those and if the Government is going to mop up all ports are decreasing ? gentlemen who sit on those benches? They the money at, say, 4 per cent., the effect will undoubtedly be to raise the rate of interest are the accident of an hour. The principles of Liberalism are eternal ; the men are mere acci- to the small borrower, to the man who wants to dents. Liberalism, truly so called, will go on borrow on the security of his land, or the trades- and on in this colony long after those gentle- men who require to go to the bank for accom- men have disappeared from the scene. Liberal- modation. Of course, my friend the Hon. Mr. ism will never die, but that form of Liberalism Mills, who is head of the department con- which is tainted with corruption -- and the cerned, may suggest that the farmers can go Liberal Governments of this country have to the Advances to Settlers Department for the never been free from that taint - that form money they require ; but it will be a sorry state never live. . If the Government were a true and honest Government, they would have my support. They are neither true nor honest. They shall not have my support." Those were the opinions of Mr. Fisher with regard to the Seddon Government. Mr. FISHER. - Not the Seddon Govern- Mr. MASSEY .- His opinion of the Seddon Government. Who was in office in 1893 ? Mr. FISHER. - Not the Seddon Govern- ment. Mr. MASSEY .- Who was in office in 1893 ? Was it not the Seddon Government ? Mr. FISHER .- Give us the names? That will tell. Mr. MASSEY .- Does the honourable gentle- man say that the Seddon Government has im- proved since that time ? Mr. FISHER .- When you have concluded your speech I will tell you who were in office. Mr. MASSEY .- I do not think even the honourable gentleman will say there has been since 1893. The change is in the honourable member himself. The once strong, self-reliant independent member for Wellington City, Mr. Fisher. has now become the supporter of and an apologist for the Government which he my countrymen ! " Mr. FISHER .- I will presently give you the names of the Government of 1893, in which I did not believe. Here are the names. I never Mr. MASSEY .- The honourable member the Seddon Government. Then, coming to the Statement itself, we have had a great deal of bourne, and in Sydney, as well as in this coun- 