stone line was an authorised line, and he would be glad if the Minister could see his way to put the work in hand for the extension to " Hut- ton's." As regarded the second part of the question, the honourable gentleman would re- member that petitions on the subject were pre- sented this session to the House by the member for Waihemo and himself (Major Steward), praying for the extension to Naseby. Those petitions were signed by nearly a thousand resi- dents of Oamaru, Naseby, et cetera, and he hoped that a proper survey of the route would be made during the recess, with a view to ascertain the approximate cost of the work pro- posed. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) said, in answer to the first part of the question, that, as there were some fourteen or fifteen railway-works in hand at the present, he could hold out no hope of any provision being made for this line this year. In regard to the second part of the question, the time was so re- mote when the railway through Danzie's Pass would be constructed, that, notwithstanding the petition that the railway should be con- structed, he thought it would be unwise to spend any money on the surveys. A petition was presented, but it came largely from people living alongside the Otago Central Railway itself, and the construction of the second line to Naseby would certainly come into conflict with the earnings of the Otago Central Rail- way. # RIFLE CLUBS. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said he https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 wished to intimate for the information of honourable members that he had accepted the services of the following rifle clubs : The Waita- huna Defence Rifle Club, the Waihola Defence Rifle Club, the Wairaki Defence Rifle Club, the Bunnythorpe Defence Rifle Club, the Marae- kakaho Defence Rifle Club, the Petone Defence Rifle Club, the Pongaroa Defence Rifle Club, the Mauriceville Defence Rifle Club, the Hamua Defence Rifle Club, the Martinborough De- fence Rifle Club, the Mangaweka Defence Rifle Club, the Waimarino Defence Rifle Club, the Upper Hutt Defence Rifle Club, the Tuhirangi Defence Rifle Club, the Kimbolton Defence Rifle Club, the Opaki Defence Rifle Club, the Kaiwaiwai Defence Rifle Club, the Shannon Defence Rifle Club. # HANSARD. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, That 7.30. the authority of this House be given to the Deputy-Speaker and the Acting Chairman of Committees to go through the reports of the speeches of the member for Bruce, and also of all members' speeches in Hansard on the dis- cussion which took place in the House when in Committee of Supply on the evening of the 13th September, and delete from the said reports any repetition of and all references to the words used by the honourable member for Bruce, and which said words were withdrawn by the said honourable member. ## Major Steward Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said he would like to take the sense of the House on the question whether the present debate should be reported in Hansard. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why not ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Because in the present debate they might have the same thing occurring which was objected to in Committee of Supply. Mr. SEDDON said he did not expect there would be any debate on what was practically agreed upon among members. Mr. J. ALLEN understood that the debate would be reported unless the House decided to the contrary. The House divided on the question, " Whe- ther the debate on the motion before the House or any amendments thereof be reported in Han- sard." AYES, 26. Allen, J. Haselden Rhodes Russell, G. W. Arnold Hutcheson Atkinson Lang Smith, G. J. Laurenson Bollard Tanner Collins Massey Thompson. R. Meredith Ell Thomson, J. W. Millar Fowlds Telier .. Graham Monk Herries Hardy Pirani Lethbridge. NOES, 30. Allen, E. G. Hanan O'Meara Barclay Palmer Hogg Bennet Hornsby Parata Buddo Houston Seddon Carncross Kaihau Steward Lawry Carroll Ward Fisher McGowan Willis. Mckenzie, R. Flatman Tellers. Fraser, A. L. D. McNab Colvin Hall Mills Wilford. Hall-Jones Majority against, 4. The DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The debate is not to be reported. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) moved, as an amend- ment, to strike out all the words after " Chair man of Committees," and to add the words "together with the particular member cor- cerned, to revise the speeches of members de- livered in Committee of Supply on the evening of the 13th September, and to delete from such speeches all repetitions, either in effect or other wise, of the words used by the member for Bruce, and which said words were afterwards withdrawn." Debate adjourned. # CHARITABLE GIFTS BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 2 .- Interpretation. On the motion of Mr. CARROLL (Commis- sioner of Stamps) this clause was struck out. Clause 3 .- Gifts to public or public institu- tions free from duty. On the motion of Mr. CARROLL this clause was struck out. Clause 4 .- Repeal. 