and a correct valuation should be arrived at with regard to the prices at which the sections should be offered for settlement." That was in 1899. Now, Sir, these were my remarks on the Financial Statement of 1899, and I was induced to make them by the ex- tracts I have read from the previous speech in that Budget. The Premier reiterates almost the same thing this time. Respecting the Crown Tenants Act of last year he says,- "Last session the Rebate of Crown Tenants Act was passed. Its working has not been satisfactory, or equitable in its incidence. An amendment of the Act is necessary, and at this juncture it is well to speak plainly, for from facts which have come within my own know- ledge it is quite clear that a person taking up bush land, and having little or no capital, cannot pay rent until the land yields a return. There are practically no returns for two years. By that time two years' rent are in arrear, and the yield is not sufficient to maintain the settler and his family. Another two years pass over, and still find him behind in payment of his rent, or, if he has paid the rent, he has probably had to borrow the money for that purpose. Under these circumstances it is much better that the State should insist upon the improve- ment conditions being strictly complied with, and allow the tenant to sit rent-free for the first four or five years. After that time the tenant would be in a position to pay the rent, and the anxiety and worry caused under the conditions now existing would be avoided. There is also another point worthy of being taken into consideration - namely, that, al- though there is a large area of Crown land available for settlement, most of it is inacces- sible, and situated a long way from the centres http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero of population, and is not of extra good quality ; therefore some inducement is necessary, which, if given, will tend to promote settlement of the people on our Crown lands, and relieve the existing congestion among those who prefer to go upon the lands acquired under the Land for Settlements Act, thus avoiding the hardships which fall to the lot of the pioneer or back- blocks settler." He says also that there is another point worthy of consideration. He is speaking of the large areas of Crown lands not fit for settle- ment. There are many parts of my district where there are large areas of land not fit for settlement, and a person will not take them up at the minimum price hxed by the Land Board. When the Land Act was going through I had many conversations with Sir John McKenzie, and I told him that there were hundreds of thousands of acres not worth a shilling nor a penny an acre, and that if he tried to cut them up into small sections the effect would be ruinous. He said that land that was not worth 1s. an acre was not worth taking up. I contend there is a large amount of land in my district where four or five thousand acres might be taken up at a nominal rent and it would pay. It would be better to have it settled in that way than to small farmers who could take it and run a few head of cattle or sheep on it, while at present it is useless. It would be far better to deal with it in that way than to allow it to remain as it is. I hope the Govern- ment will bring in an amendment of the Land Act, because the Act requires amendment. It seems to me absurd for any one who is a Liberal to say, " Do not touch our Land Act." That is Toryism of the worst kind-to say that the Land Act should remain as it is for ever. I say that, as circumstances alter, so we must alter our land-laws, the same as we alter other laws. I do not wish to refer to any honourable gentleman who has preceded me. I have some notes on several matters that have been touched upon. I am sorry to hear the single-tax busi- ness brought on the floor of this House. I cannot understand a man who is possessed of sound intelligence upon other things being possessed of such foolish ideas regarding the question of the land as to say that it is a crime for any man to possess more land than he can occupy. He might as well say no man should go into the cemetery and get a section 6 ft. by 2 ft. for himself and his family. The thing is the same. It is absurd to take up time discussing such questions. There was also a question raised which I am sorry to hear, though in warning tones, by a mem- ber-the cry of town versus country. I think it is a mistake to raise this cry, for really the time is coming when this cry will be made a great deal of. It has been town all along. Legislation for a considerable time past has been altogether in the interest of the town, and I think it almost time this was stopped. I believe, myself, that the country is going to assert itself and will not put up with this any longer ; it will not agree that everything should go to the towns. I say that what benefits the country must benefit the town, but the reverse does not hold good. What benefits the town does not always benefit the country. An Hon. MEMBER. - Yes, it does sometimes. Mr. HOUSTON .- But not altogether. Many things that benefit the towns to a great ex- tent confer no benefit at all on the country. We are told that " Man made the town and God made the country," and that is quite true. Now, with regard to some of the legislation that appears on the Order Paper at the present time, I hope the Government will see their way to rub out a great deal of the legislation proposed there. I think it will not be to the interests of the country to pass some of the legislation that figures on that Order Paper. For my part, as a country member, I am de- termined to oppose a great deal of the legis- lation proposed by the Government as it ap- pears on the Order Paper if it is not wiped out. I do not say that as being hostile to the Govern- ment, but simply because I think it is against the best interests of the country; and, as a country member, I cannot support any legis- lation which I think will be detrimental to the true interests of the country. I hope the Government will take warning from what I 