his remarks said that, having regard to the important part that Otago and Southland had played in the raising and sending-away of the \- contingents, it was only right that the men of the Fourth Contingent, on their return, should land in the south of the colony, and not in Wel- lington. The remark was received in 11.0. Dunedin with the greatest enthusiasm. It was the desire of the people of Dunedin that the troops should go to Invercargill, where extensive arrangements had been made for their reception. They fully recognised the great part Southland had played, shoulder to shoulder with the people of Otago, in equip- ping and sending away the contingents. How any man in his right senses could for one moment think of associating the unfortunate deaths of some of the young men in New Zealand with the visit of the other members of the troops to. Invercargill was beyond comprehension. Every soldier who went to Invercargill had returned to his home carrying with him pleasant and grateful recol- lection of his visit. The troops were received at Invercargill with the greatest possible hospi- tality and enthusiasm, and in every sense the reception was one that was not only a credit to that town, but to the whole colony. The mem- ber for Bruce had tried to have a slap at him (as member for Invercargill), and at the Pre- mier, but he had ignominiously failed. He felt certain that the people of New Zealand would now have the measure of the member for Bruce, both as a politician and as a man. Mr. CARNCROSS (Taieri) said he felt almost at a loss how to shape his words on the present occasion. He had been in the House many https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 sessions, he had seen some very heated scenes, he had been present during moments of great excitement, but never during a moment of the greatest excitement in that House had he known such charges to be laid at the door of any one as had been laid at the door of the Premier that evening. An Hon. MEMBER .- You are forgetting 1891. Mr. CARNCROSS said he was forgetting nothing. That was not a time for flippant interjections. That was one of the gravest moments he had ever taken part in in that House. Did honourable members recognise what was the position ? Did they recognise the charges laid at the door of the Premier ? In so many words the Premier was virtually accused of manslaughter for the sake of political display. Was there any man in the House who was not shocked to hear that ? Was there any one in the galleries who did not feel shocked when they heard those words come from the member opposite. The honourable member spoke with the cool confidence of a man who believed he could prove his position. If the honourable member really believed he had the facts behind him, had he played the part of a man, had he played the part of even a politician, in connec- tion with this question? Ten weeks of the session had elapsed, and yet the honourable member did not bring up this subject before that evening. It was the honourable member's opportunity after the meeting of the House, when he should have impeached the Premier before the country, and not have delayed bringing up the matter until that late period of the ses- sion. This charge had been made by a gentle- man who had all the benefits of education, who had all the benefits of mixing in refined society, and who knew full well the ter- rible nature of the charges he had made that night, and yet he calmly and coolly made this charge. The honourable member was not performing his duty to the people he repre- sented, nor to himself, nor to the country, in keeping this matter nursed up for this par- ticular occasion. It was his duty to have impeached the Government on the very first opportunity with this extraordinary know- ledge in his possession. They had heard a great deal lately about the honour and dignity of Parliament. He would like to know where the honour and dignity of Parliament came in when a charge of that kind was made for the sake of-should he say, political notoriety. He was anxious to see how the Press of New Zealand treated this matter, and if there was not one universal chorus of indignation throughout the whole of the Press in New Zea- land condemning the honourable gentleman he would feel ashamed to acknowledge that he belonged to the fraternity. No such charge had ever been made within those walls before. The business of the honourable gentleman and of the House was now to go through with this and probe it to the very bottom, and see it through to the bitter end ; and if the honour- able member could not prove his allegations he should hide his diminished head in political shame. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) said it was with feelings of horror and indignation that he had heard the charge made that night by the member for Bruce, and yet this matter seemed to be treated by some honourable members on the other side with levity. It seemed to him that if members could listen to a discussion of this kind and snigger at it they must be men of diseased and morbid minds. Now, as mem- ber for the City of Dunedin, he could say that when the "Tagus " arrived, and when it was known that the troopers would be taken to the Bluff, there was very great soreness throughout the city that members of the contingent who had friends and relatives there should not be able to receive them ; and if there had been any serious complaint of the character now made it would surely have reached his ears, and yet he could say, as to the matters mentioned in the charge of the honourable member for Bruce, he had never heard so much as a whisper. He was member for the City, and he was continually going about the streets and meeting with people who felt sore about the troopers being taken down to the Bluff, and he certainly would have heard something about this matter if there had been anything in it. They had been told that this had been done for political capital. Well, if the right honourable gentle- man had wished to make political capital out 