of my laws, that it is not for persons with It was unworthy, I say, of the honourable principles to rival me in my business." member for Ashburton, when all other classes Does the Premier think I am not right-that I of the commonwealth are forming themselves have not correctly touched his innermost soul ? into unions, to discourage their action. Have I am not going to apologize for it, though I pity they no interests to protect? Have they no the Premier. I believe, if I could go further into aspirations that need to be encouraged ? Are the Premier's soul, I would find that he now there no influences taking place which are feels he is urged on by a Frankenstein he detrimental to their welfare that he should try wishes he had not got behind him, and that to discourage the movement ? Himself a farmer, this is urging him on to a serious brink, and the he knows better, and with the skill he possesses only salvation for himself and for the country he should use it on their behalf. If in any respect is for him to turn straight round and put his they are astray or wrong in their conceptions, let foot down ; and if he does he will find us his him apply all the skill which he possesses him- supporters, and even half of those who are his self and try to guide them right, feeling that supporters now will back him up. Let me their aspirations are to be commended, inas- refer to a passage in the Financial Statement much as it is the order in New Zealand that of which we heartily approve. No one who has all avocations should be formed into unions. hewn a home out of the forest or the swamp The Premier has noticed how that has hap- but must be gratified by the promise he has pened in the country, which he did not expect. made-and which conception he has taken from He noticed that the agricultural classes all over the Farmers' Union-to allow such persons a the colony have heard and felt the jubilant period of grace during which they shall not be sounds of urban unionism. The Labour Bureau liable to the claims of the State landlord. And was never intended to afford them any benefit, I cannot but also admire, Mr. Speaker, the man- or to have any regard for their welfare, or to help ner in which he has gathered around him for them at all. Its policy was the unrestrained favours the family created by his self-con- exploitation of their interests, and to hand them over to the control of urban guilds guided stituted paternity. Of course, it is from their own contributions that he awards his dona- by the noisy drones and the scheming faddists tions; but each one is spurred on by the of the city hive. But there must be something expectation of receiving more than he has wonderful about this word "union." And so contributed, even at the expense of some other there is, for it betokens strength, it betokens member of the communal brotherhood. Now, might, it betokens the purpose of united units ; Sir, another feature which we cannot but ad- and, if the purposes of union are confined to mire in the Premier is his steadfast gaze on their legitimate interests ; if it is controlled by every movement of the political barometer. He the feeling of the equal rights of every citizen has the master's eye for every change of social in the community, and refrains from oppres- weather. It puts me very much in mind of sion and tyranny; if it does not attempt to what, I dare say, some honourable members interfere with the privileges, yea, the inborn have experienced who live near the sea-coast. rights, of every child in the commonwealth ; They may have noticed those times when the if the intention is to defend itself against atmosphere was perfectly calm. Its aspect may the greed of capital that may be in bad have been touched with leaden hues or shades of hands-and there are bad hands; if it is to steely grey, but all was calm and tranquil as a protect from injury and wrongdoing, then its summer's day, save a lingering hollow moan aspirations are noble and we wish it success. that would follow the thud of the waves as they There must be some magic in the word flung themselves on the ocean's beach ; but the "union," for we have all noticed how, with practised ear could detect in those sounds the wonderful spontaneity, it has flashed forth the herald's voice of a coming storm. And, just so, witching abracadabra of the farmers' vocabulary, the Premier's trained ear can detect in the and has had the power to transform the Premier scarcely audible sigh of the Farmers' Union the from an indifferent spectator into an ardent widespread influence of a coming power he lover, and now he offers them the olive-branch must not ignore. I do regret, Mr. Speaker, of peace, clustered round with hollow blooms that the Right Hon. the Premier made use of fresh gathered from the conservatories of Sed- donia. And why should he do it ? Has not the the honourable member for Ashburton. Mr. MCLACHLAN .- No. honourable member for Geraldine, Mr. Flatman, Mr. MONK .- Well, then, let me say that the and the representative of Pahiatua, and the re- honourable member for Ashburton yesterday presentative of Masterton assured him that it placed himself, in my estimation, in an ignoble is non-political? Is it non-political that the position. No man knows better than the farmers urge on the Premier that they are con- tributing so much revenue, and that, instead member for Ashburton that for years the Legis- lature of this country and the Government have of receiving from the consolidated revenue in been trying to induce every class of the com- aid of public works $500,000, they should be getting 1800,000 or $900,000? Is it political monwealth to form themselves into unions, for them to urge on the Premier that loans must except those who pay wages, and the toiling be contracted grudgingly, and the money be farmers. Mr. MCLACHLAN .- The poor farmers. spent with most scrupulous care and professional Mr. MONK .- Yes, "the poor farmers." No skill to make it produce the utmost possible benefit ? Is it political for the farmer to pathe- matter how small their remuneration, for them tically urge on the Premier that their homes legislation has had no relish of salvation in it. 