who were not in a position to pay rent got no assistance at all. That Bill was brought down without any classification as to who should get assistance and who should not. It is pleasing, at all events, to know that the Minis- ter of Lands has now come to see what the position is, and is following the advice I gave the Government last year. I believe if this is carried out it will make Auckland as prosperous as the South. I have not been to Auckland myself, but from what I have heard from others there is a bright future in store for that part of the colony. I think the Government last year distributed the money as fairly as possible on the large works. There is the Otago Central Railway. We have an enormous amount of machinery to be conveyed to the interior, and on that account the railway ought to be pushed on, so that some revenue would be derived from the line. Now, here is another matter :- "In respect to industries, however, the horizon is somewhat clouded, but in a short time this cloud will pass away. The employers and employed should shake hands, and both work together for mutual benefit. What will help our industries more than anything else will be to have complete technical and manual instruction for the young of our colony. This education is being afforded, and the country will be recouped for this expenditure a thousand- fold." Now, this is an important matter. We know that there has been a revolt all over the country, and I suppose this is what is referred to. What is it that has brought about this discontent? I say it is the Eight Hours Bill that was brought https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 down by the honourable member for Riccarton. As it was brought down by the honourable member for Riccarton it would not have had much effect, had it not been that the Premier announced that he would support it. That is what has caused the revolt. The Bill was quite unworkable, and the people would have resisted it by every means in their power. During the time I was in the South not long since a number of people came to me and spoke about this and other measures. There is the Factories Bill : that has had something to do with causing this revolt, and if these Bills were passed into law there would be no end of trouble. Farmers do not come under these laws, but they do not know when they may be brought under them, and they are making arrangements to protect themselves with reference to this Eight Hours Bill. There was one man came to me who has a contract for ploughing. He has twenty horses and some six or seven men, and he had been waiting in camp for some five or six weeks, and up to the present time, I believe, has never had a horse in a plough. He was under contract to have the work finished by a given time, but I do not think he has got any- thing done up to the present time ; and he said that when the men commenced work, if they were restricted to eight hours a day, and he had to pay extra for overtime and give a half-holiday, he could never possibly get the work done. The same applies to farmers who Mr. Bennet threaten for the night. 'Then, there is the case of the mail-contractor. He has about two hundred horses employed to carry mails, and one thing and another, and he said that where he now employs one man he would have to employ two, and where he employs two he would require three ; and the same thing would apply all along. Then, there is the manager of the Blue Spur Consolidated Claim, that em- ploys about eighty or perhaps a hundred men. When there is extra work to be done they have sometimes to work long hours, and he said if he had to pay extra wages for those hours he might as well shut up the claim. In addition to that the men were only too anxious to be allowed to work a little overtime to make up for lost time. The bank clerks that I have conversed with have also said that they are opposed to the Shops and Offices Bill, and say that if the Bill was passed it would do them a great deal of harm. At present they get a week or two off, and if they are sick they are paid, but if this Bill comes into force all that will be withdrawn. And the Act, too, provides that they shall work hours in excess of the hours they are required to work now. These are the things that have brought about this great revolt in the whole If the Premier had not supported it country. it would not have been taken much notice of ; but when he told us that he would vote for the second reading, and would try to improve it in Committee, the whole of the people thought it was going to pass. The Factories Bill. again, has caused some disturbance. There must have been hundreds of people before the Labour Bills Committee giving evidence about it. Of course, I have not been there, and it is only hearsay, but I know a great number of people have come to the room, and I know a lot of them have said that it is impossible for them to go on with their work if that Act came into force. One man stated that he was a tanner, a fellmonger, and he said he was employing some seventy men, and intended to employ double the num- ber, but that if the Factories Bill was passed he would have to shut up his business and get the work done in England-that that would be the result. I think, seeing the effect that these laws have had and are likely to have, it should show the Premier that he ought not to force more labour legislation upon . the people for some time to come. I think that we have had enough of this legislation for many years to come, and that we should now let the thing go down, and the people will then, perhaps, be able to shake hands ; but if he keeps on with this legislation I am afraid there will be a lot of trouble arise through it. Now, we have heard a great deal about the settlement of the back blocks, but there is one road between myself and the honourable member for Wakatipu that would open up a very large extent of country. It would save a distance of twenty miles each way, and an expenditure of about 19.000 would open that road. All that we got last year for it was £1,000, but I hope the Minister of Lands will complete that road this year. Much of the land round about has been lying 