would like to do something, if it were possible. He did not, however, see that it was possible, and he thought his best friend was the man who would tell him straight out to give this up, as there was no hope for it. He was afraid Mr. Von Blaramberg was a man who laboured under mistaken ideas. One instance of that was that he told them that he had brought a case against the Secretary of the Education Board in the Supreme Court, and his lawyer, Mr. Jellicoe, told him that all the witnesses and the jury were bought over, and he suspected that even the Judge had been bribed. Now, he thought honourable gentlemen could appreciate such a statement as that at its true value. If Mr. Jellicoe had said such a thing to him, he thought Mr. Jellicoe had some reason for saying it, not that he believed it was true, but he used this argument in order to induce this man to agree to his wishes. As to the 1881 case, where he sold out here, that was completely condoned by the fact that he got an appointment. He applied for a certain appointment. and the Committee appointed him ; but the Board did not ratify the appointment. Then, the Board gave him another appointment, so that any loss he sus- tained in that respect was wiped out by the fact that he got an appointment. As regards these letters, there was no doubt that the word " per- secution " was substituted for the word " pro- mise," and this substitution made the letter such as would irritate a public body. It amounted to this : that for years he had been subjected to persecution and harsh treatment. There is no doubt that this word was changed, but he did not believe that it was changed with any intention to injure the petitioner. In his https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 opinion the man who copied the letter simply wrote from his recollection, and " persecution " came in better with "harsh treatment" than "promise." Then, as to the letter of the Minister of Education of the day, the Minister was only discharging an official function; he had come to the conclusion that a sufficient case had not been made out to hold an in- quiry, and he also blamed the Board for pro- moting this man from a small to a large school, because he had not given satisfaction. The Committee had before them the Under- Secretary for Education, and he brought along the reports of the Inspectors, and everything disclosed that this man did not get on well with his Committees. That was the case all over the country. Wherever one turned one would find that schoolmasters and the local Committees were very frequently at loggerheads. What could the Council do ? Who was the properly constituted authority to deal with these mat- ters ? The Board of Education. And he could not see how Parliament could interfere between the Committees and the properly constituted authority -the Board of Education. It did not appear to him that that could be done. What happened was this: the Board of Education and the Committee had a perfect right to dis- miss this man if he did not give them satisfac- tion. And if every man who was dismissed in this country by the Education Boards were to come to Parliament for redress, Parliament , by his lawyer. He produced a letter from VOL. CXVIIL-30. would do nothing else than redress griev- There was nothing in the whole ances. thing. The man was unfortunate, and he (the Hon. Mr. Twomey) sympathized with him, and wished he could do something for him. So far as he could make out, this gentleman was a highly-educated man, and he thought that his qualifications and attainments entitled him to a higher position than he had occupied. He was a man with a grievance, and possibly the fact that he was a foreigner had something to do with keeping him back. It was a pity if it was so ; but he was a man of attainments, and, in his own estimation, had never got into a position worthy of his attainments. His best friend would advise him to let this matter alone, and turn his attention to something by which he could earn a livelihood. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS said it was very easy for the honourable member to say that, but the petitioner had one foot in the grave now. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY said, Notwith- standing that, he did not see that anything could be done, and it was mistaken kindness to encourage him to go on as he was, when nothing could be done for him. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY said, From what he could learn from the petitioner's statement, it appeared he had a grievance against the Educa- tion Board of Wanganui, on account of alleged unjust treatment in his capacity as a teacher. Even if all his statements were correct, and they admitted he had sustained an injustice, his claim was against the Board, and not against the colony. The Education Board had a certain sum per annum from the Government to carry on the business of education, and, having received it, they were free to deal with it as they thought fit in the interest of education. He could understand a man of very high scholastic attainments being quite unfit for the position of a teacher, as he might not be able to maintain discipline, or impart his knowledge to the children, and be unable to maintain friendly relations with the Committee or the Board, and he apprehended that to be the case with respect to the petitioner. The Education Board was a perfectly independent local body, having power to appoint and dismiss its teachers if they were found to be unsuitable for the work the Board wished to be performed, and while teachers whom the Board desired to retain could terminate their engagement to the Board by giving three months' notice, the Board in- variably gave a much longer notice, even to unsatisfactory teachers. The statement of the Hon. Mr. Twomey brought to his mind the fact that this gentleman had been before a Committee when he was a member of the Public Petitions Committee of the Council some years ago. He had examined him in regard to an action he had instituted against the Board or one of its officers, in which action he said he had spent £150. He had asked peti- tioner why he had been so injudicious as to risk an action on such a slender basis, and he re- plied that he had been advised to do so 