accused me of making a misstatement with regard to the Main Trunk Railway. I said that eighteen years ago Mr. Rochfort-I was there at the time-surveyed the route, and the line has only advanced twenty-three miles during that period. Mr. SEDDON .- I rise to a point of order. I think the honourable member is now going beyond the bounds of a personal explanation. The first part was in order, but this is not. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I do not think the honourable member has yet transgressed the rules. The honourable gentleman is a new member, and therefore is, perhaps, entitled to a little latitude, but he must understand that he must confine himself to an explanation as to how he has been misrepresented. Mr. HASELDEN .- I should be very sorry to transgress the rules of the House. In the short time that I have been here I have noticed how strictly and how religiously they are observed. But the Minister for Public Works has mis- represented ine-in fact, he misrepresented the whole of my speech. I think the honourable gentleman ought to have been a little more generous than he was, seeing that I stopped a gap and gave him a chance to air his elo- quence. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable member is now travelling beyond a personal explanation. Mr. HASELDEN .- There is another point with respect to which the honourable gentle man has misrepresented me. He said that if I could produce a co-operative worker who has been receiving £1 a day he would be prepared to put him in a glass case and exhibit him in the lobby. I wish to state to the House that I have been informed by a man employed on these works that he has earned from 10s. to £1 a day, and if the honourable gentleman will agree to pay his expenses I shall be glad to ask him to come to Wellington. Now, this man. though a co-operative labourer, is one of Nature's gentle- men, and I do not believe he would tell a lie. Then, the honourable member said that I stated that the Government had added to the re- venue £6,000,000. I said that the Government had extorted from the settlers of this country £6,000,000 of taxation. I may say that I rose to speak without any notes, and I notice that most honourable members who have addressed the House during this debate have had notes enough for half a dozen speeches. 'Then, in regard to the average wages of co-operative workers, I may state that I find that the average wage in Westland is 12s. 4d a day. I cannot tell the figures for the North Island, but if that is the average some must make over #1 a day. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable member is now going beyond a personal ex- planation. Mr. HALL-JONES. - Perhaps I may be per- mitted to put myself right. As regards the honourable member's reference to Ontario and Canada, I find that he has got "Ontario, Canada," in his speech in Hausard. The copy of Hansard is out to-night, and the honourable Mr. Haselden read differently from what they were as uttered by the honourable member. The honourable member was wrong in his statement with re- spect to the cost of the government in that province, because, according to " Whitaker's Almanac," the cost of the government of the Province of Ontario is not £6,440, as stated, but £8,450, as against $8,900 for Ministers' salaries in New Zealand ; and it costs nearly $60,000 for Ministers' salaries, taking the whole of Canada. With respect to his statement about the increase in taxation, I took down his words at the time. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - The Hon. the Minister must know that when an honourable member says he said so and-so his statement must be accepted. Mr. HALL-JONES .- I may perhaps give my reasons for coming to a different conclusion. I simply say I understood him to say that taxa- tion had "been increased," and I see that his Hansard speech has been altered to " increased to." Mr. MONK (Waitemata). - Mr. Speaker, never have I risen with so much reluctance as 1 do to speak on this occasion. In the first part of the debate I did not intend to speak at all, and made up my mind not to do so. I thought if three or four of some of the most able men on either side spoke they would be quite sufficient to elucidate the Financial State- ment. But since then the speeches have gone on, and I believe much that has been said upon this Financial Statement will be beneficial to the country, and I think that the credit will be rather on the side of those whom members are pleased to call the Opposition. And my reluct- ance to speak is partly due to this: I consider that their statements have not been answered. Was the statement made by the honourable member for Franklin answered as it ought to have been answered? Were the noisy gibes-if I may use the term without disrespect-in the strident tones uttered by the Postmaster-General worthy of the elaborate and painstaking state- ments of the position of the country which were made by the honourable member for Frankhn and the honourable member for Bruce ? I think not. And also his remark in reply to the plea for economy made by the honourable member for Franklin, where he asked him whether he was willing to forego expenditure in his electorate : Could anything be more unworthy of a Minister who is supposed to be the custodian of the common fund, the father of the commonwealth. to distribute to all alike equally on their claims ? I speak for economy, and I wish to have economy, but I should be wanting in my duty to my constituents if I did not wish them to have a fair share of the revenue which they themselves contribute. I say the question we want answered by the Colonial Treasurer is whether there was a misstatement made on the part of the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) when he said your appropria- tions had increased in ten years by £1,400.000. And we claim that £400,000 of increase for the appropriations for the departmental ex- 