John Mackenzie, such Commission to have power to call for persons and papers, and to report thereon to Parliament ? The public mind had been considerably disturbed by the charge he had made in connection with this hospital. The trustees of the institution had asked for a Magisterial inquiry, or, failing that, they would appoint two men to investigate the whole affair. Of course, the latter course was absurd, seeing that these men would be selected by themselves to try themselves, as their ad- ministration was accused. It would simply be a travesty of justice. However, apart from that, such a Commission would have no power to administer an oath, or compel the attend- ance of witnesses, nor could it enable wit- nesses to give evidence under such conditions as were necessary. He noticed, too, that an inspired correspondent had asked him (Mr. Mackenzie) to bear the expenses of the in- vestigation, providing the inquiry proved that his statements regarding John Mackenzie were incorrect. He would be only too happy to accept that challenge, because his case was too strong to be upset. He was anxious for a properly constituted investigation to be held, when he felt satisfied that no Commission could do otherwise than find for him, so that he incurred no risk in offering to stand the cost of the investigation, seeing that it would be impossible for the trustees to prove truth to be a lie. He had received sheaves of letters in connection with the hospital mismanage- ment in certain cases, but for the truth or otherwise of these statements he, of course, was unable to vouch ; but if half of what was therein stated was true, then there ought to be an inquiry into them by the Govern- ment, because there was very considerable room for improvement in that institution. His treatment of these charges was very different from the trustees' treatment of his charges. The trustees had said, knowing as little about the facts of his charges as he knew about the statements in these letters, that they could give a circumstantial and substantial He knew already denial to his statements. that as a result of his statements great good had been done. He had received another letter only to-day in which the writer stated that very considerable improvement had already taken place in that institution, and he was glad to hear it. There was just one point he would like to mention, and it was this: To-day he received a spontaneous letter from a corre- spondent, who replied to a statement which he had read in the newspapers that was made by the Chairman of the trustees, who said he had made inquiries regarding this paragon of human kindheartedness-referring to him- self (Mr. Mackenzie)-and had discovered that he had never sent or taken any fruit to his friend in the institution, not even sixpence worth of apples. His correspondent wrote as follows :- "I can prove that you gave me money on several occasions to buy fruit for John Mackenzie, and also when I told the doctor that you wanted to send John to a private hospital and pay for him yourself the doctor told me that he was too weak to be moved." That showed how absolutely unreliable was the Chairman's (Mr. Millar's) statements. Now, the doctor had said that the patient was fit, at the time he (Mr. Mackenzie) saw him, to be moved to any part of New Zealand. Let them, he said, have this investigation, and before he was done with them he ventured to say the public would be satisfied he had just cause for his action. He would like to say that he saw the trustees wished the inquiry to centre wholly on the nurses. He said the doctor was involved as well as the nurses, because, according to Nurse Smith, they simply car- ried out the doctor's instructions. That was merely a device on their part. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Publio Works) said he had not had an opportunity of perusing the statements referred to in the ques- tion, but a letter had been received from the Hospital Trustees asking for a Magisterial in- quiry. But, on consideration of the circum- stances, it was considered there was not sufficient grounds for holding an inquiry. He was pleased to hear from the honourable mem- ber that, as a result of what he had stated here, an improvement had taken place. He hoped that improvement would continue. NATIVE AFFAIRS COMMITTEE'S RECOMMENDATIONS. Mr. PERE (Eastern Maori) asked the Go- vernment, When it is proposed to bring down legislation to give effect to the recommenda- tions of the Native Affairs Committee upon petitions which have been favourably reported upon by the said Committee during the past five years ? During the past five years no legis- lation had been introduced to give effect to recommendations which had been made by the Native Affairs Committee upon various petitions presented by Maoris, and which had been favourably reported upon. Now, the Maori representatives in the House were im- portuned daily and weekly by Maori petitioners from all parts of the Island, requesting them to interview the Government and endeavour to have the favourable recommendation made upon their petitions given effect to by the Government. Well, when he had personally approached the Native Minister in regard to certain of these petitions, that honourable gentleman had directed him to go to Mr. Sheridan, head of a Government depart- ment, and all the satisfaction he could get from the latter gentleman was, " We will see; it will have to wait for another year," and so on. And then when the next year was reached, he was told again, " It will be seen to." This gentle- man, when he went to him, instead of treating him (Mr. Pere) as he expected to be treated, ran about and shook his head, and he could get no satisfaction. This had gone on until he began to realise that apparently this was a much more important man than the Premier or Na- tive Minister. Now, there was a number of these matters that required to be dealt with, and it was his opinion that a Bill should be 