posing penalties and fees, but which we did not touch, because they were money clauses: and I think that can safely be accepted as virtually the Bill which came down to us. Clause 4A further protects the position of nurses who are practising at the present time ; and clause 5 is altered, inasmuch as it lessens the number of lectures that are required to be delivered in the hospital, and also absolves the hospital from the necessity of having a registered nurse, so that the whole of the existing appointments may not be interfered with. I feel quite certain, if this Act comes into law, and is in operation for any time, in a very few years we shall see hospitals of all kinds only too anxious to employ those who hold certificates and are registered. So I think we might safely accept that clause. Clause 8 is a mere verbal alteration of the clause passed by the Council. It re- quires the Registrar and Stipendiary Magistrate to be satisfied that no grave misconduct has been committed by any registered nurse suffi- cient to warrant the Registrar striking her name off the register. Clause 11 is new, and enjoins upon hospitals under the Hospitals and Charitable Institutions Act to give pre- ference to registered nurses in regard to any future vacancies. It need hardly, I think, have been inserted in the Bill, because I feel quite certain that when the Bill comes into law all these bodies will be sure to employ only those properly qualified. And the last clause makes the Bill come into operation on the 1st day of January, 1902. After hearing the reasons I have given, I trust the Council will accept the amendments made by the House. I move out all the words down to " commercial." https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 accordingly. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- I have much plea- sure in supporting the proposal to accept the amendments. The House of Representatives has now been acting as the revising Chamber, and I think have done the work well. As far as the Bill is concerned, the House has improved Jenkinson it ; they have made it a much better Bill for the nurses. As it was sent down it was in some respects a very arbitrary Bill, and it did not give qualified nurses the standing they ought to Barnicoat have. Clause 8, to my mind, contained a very objectionable feature in respect to the way in which offences committed by nurses were to be dealt with. It gave power to the Governor Jennings in Council-in fact, the Governor in Council Johnston was constituted a kind of Court to punish nurses for misbehaviour. As the clause now stands the power is put in the hands of a Magis- trate, and is, of course, taken out of the hands of the Governor in Council. In my opinion, the remaining words were also struck out. that is a proper course of procedure. It strikes me that the Bill is now of a more liberal which the clerical work of a warehouse, factory, character, less official, and more in favour of or shop is carried on shall, if situate within the the rights of existing nurses than when it left warehouse, factory, or shop, be deemed to be this Council. part of the warehouse, factory, or shop, and not The Hon. Mr. JONES .- I just want to say to be an office within the meaning of this Act." that I consider this Bill is a great improve- ment on the Bill as it was when it left us, and the words " Provided that " were struck out. I am very sorry to have to confess it. I think the word " warehouse," as inserted by. the we might have made it much better than it Labour Bills Committee, be retained. was. In one direction certainly we committed an error with our eyes open. We allowed to pass in it a restriction that no nurse should be permitted to win a certificate unless she first of all had been trained under a certificated nurse. I pointed out to the Minister the in- justice of this provision at the time the Bill was going through, but he ignored my con- tention, and, as usual, allowed the Bill to go through in an imperfect form. The other Chamber has amended the Bill in that respect, when we might have had the credit of doing it <!-- PageNumber="1" --> ourselves. In regard to new clause 11, I fail to see how the hospitals are going to be com- pelled to observe the provision in that clause that "preference of employment shall be given to registered nurses." There is no penalty in the clause, and the hospital authorities can snap their fingers in the faces of the autho- rities, and neglect to carry out the object which the clause has in view. I think there should have been a penalty provided. There is a penalty for any nurse who does anything wrong, but no penalty for a member of the Board who may do what is wrong. Motion agreed to. # SHOPS AND OFFICES BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Interpretation clause .- " ' Office ' means any building in which any person is employed, directly or indirectly, to do any clerical work in connection with any mercantile, commercial, banking, or professional business or calling carried on therein by the occupier thereof." The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON moved to strike The Committee divided on the question, "That the words be retained." AYES, 13. Tomoana Arkwright Reeves Feldwick Twomey Rigg Smith, W. O. Walker, L. Kelly, T. Walker, W. C. Swanson Pitt NOES, 16. Pinkerton Jones Scotland Bolt Louisson Shrimski McLean Bowen Smith, A. L. Gourley Montgomery Stevens. Ormond Majority against, 3. Words struck out. On the motion of the Hon. Mr. PINKERTON "Provided that any building or room in On the motion of the Hon. Mr. FELDWICK The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER moved, That 