was no exaggeration there. Sir J. G. WARD said that was not his first speech. Mr. MASSEY said, No; but that was what he said in placing his position clearly before the House. They would never get the matter cleared up without some sort of inquiry being set up. Mr. SEDDON .- Who are you going to try ? Mr. MASSEY said there should be an oppor- tunity for the honourable member for Bruce to prove his assertion. The Minister for Railways would realise what they had felt two years ago when Mr. Rolleston had been charged with being the author of the Poverty Bay massacre. He would quote a few lines. Mr. Seddon, quoting from a letter written to him by one Michael Mullooly, said this :- " Now, sir, may it please you to make a charge against Mr. Rolleston, which is a very grave and gross scandal that ought not to go unpunished. Mr. Rolleston was the cause of the Chatham Islands outbreak "- And a lot more, leading up to the Poverty Bay massacre. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) .- Where is the analogy ? Mr. MASSEY said the honourable member for Bruce was quoting from statements made by people who came over in the "Tagus "- the analogy was near enough. The honourable member should remember he was Minister of Justice, and act accordingly. The point that he was making was that the Hon. Mr. Rolleston was charged with a far more serious offence than that with which the Premier had been https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 charged. That charge had neither been apolo- gized for or withdrawn, and it stood to this day in Hansard. Mr. SEDDON .- I was quoting from the official records of the colony, and gave no opinion. Mr. MASSEY did not wish to waste the time of the House. He was sorry so much acrimony had been shown, and so much time wasted over the matter. He wanted to assist the Premier to get his estimates through, and it seemed to him that the only way to facilitate business would be for the Premier to inform the House that he would have an inquiry held into the matter. It could then be dropped for the time being. Mr. STEVENS (Manawatu) said that up to the present he had taken no part in the debate, but he could not listen longer to the ridiculous statements that were being made by the gentle- men on the Opposition benches. The charge made against the Premier by the honourable member for Bruce was one of the most un- founded and most unjust that he had ever heard hurled across the floor of the House. What astonished him most was that every one of that honourable gentleman's supporters had justified his great breach of propriety, and they wished to justify themselves by saying that the Premier had charged the Hon. Mr. Rolleston with being responsible for the massacre in Poverty Bay ; but what were the facts? Why Mr Massey whole of the facts? When he was reading through Hansard, why did he not finish the quotation ? Did not the Hon. Mr. Rolleston charge the Hon. the Premier with being re- sponsible for the unfortunate occurrence at Mahanga and Shelley Bay? It was as a retort that the Premier said that he might as well charge the Hon. Mr. Rolleston with the massacre. The attack was made in the first instance on the Premier by the Hon. Mr. Rolleston. He would ask, How could the reading of that tele- gram justify the statement made by the honour- able member for Bruce? It was only drawing a red herring across the scent to dispute as to whether the troops should go to Dunedin or Invercargill. If the doctor had been explicit- if he had sent a telegram that would have indi- cated his desire to have the troops kept in a warm climate-they should have gone from Albany up north, across the Gulf of Carpentaria, thence to Arafura Sea ; from there they should have gone past Thursday Island, through Torres Strait, past the Bramble Key, thence to Auck- land. That would have been the northern route, and it would have taken three times as long as coming south-about Australia. Did the honourable gentleman wish the people of this country to believe that there was any dif- ference between the climate of Dunedin and Invercargill ? The thing was a positive ab- surdity. If the honourable gentleman 1.0. who had made this charge consulted his best feelings and his dignity, and if he wished to be thought as much of as he had been hitherto-he had always had a respect for the honourable gentleman-he would unre- servedly withdraw the statement and apologize. The charge had been made against the Premier for nothing but political purposes. He felt sorry for the honourable member for Bruce, and he should not like to be in his position until he had acted the manly part and withdrawn the incorrect statement. Now, the honourable gentleman wanted a Committee set up. What did they want a Committee for ? Was this House going to delegate its business to a Committee? Certainly not. They, had power to deal with this question, and it was only right that it should be dealt with by this House. and not relegated to a Committee. The honour- able gentleman even suggested how the Commit- tee was to be composed, and would not allow it to be suggested by any one disinterested. How- ever, that mattered not to him, for he would not agree to any Committee being set up to discharge powers that it was the right and duty of Parliament to discharge. He felt that this was one of the greatest crimes-one of the greatest mistakes that had ever been made : and he believed that the charge was designedy made by the honourable member irrespective of any responsibility-because if he had any he had not shown it in this case ; he had made it for the purpose of depreciating the Premier in the eyes of the public, and diverting attention from the excellent speech he had made in reply to the aspersions cast by the Opposition. He hoped the Premier would stick to his resolve to 