An Hon. MEMBER .- It was repeated by one of your side. Mr. SEDDON .- I do not care who repeated it : there has been no bungling. There may be differences of opinion, but my resolution was practically carried by forty-two to eighteen. Hon. MEMBERS .- NO. Mr. SEDDON. - I say that my resolution was carried. and the principle was affirmed when members carried the word "accepts." Mr. W. FRASER .- I did not. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable member for Franklin and the honourable member for Bruce did, and therefore they cannot say there has been bungling, because if they do they were parties to it and are very inconsistent. Then, we have the member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson) telling me that I am not a word- painter, and he told us that he was not finished in that respect himself. There is a class of language in the use of which he shines pre- eminent. It is a language that you hear in the neighbourhood of Billingsgate, and which is generally spoken by drunken sailors. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I rise to a point of order. The honourable member has referred to another honourable member as using Billingsgate. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - I think that language is unparliamentary. Mr. SEDDON .- Very well, I will withdraw that expression. But I am not prepared to have any member of the Press gallery who is a friend of mine termed a "skunk," as the honourable member inferred by the term used to-day. Hon. MEMBERS .- NO. An Hon. MEMBER .- He said " he would have https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 been." Mr. SEDDON .- I will be told presently that he never used the term at all. He said he was not a word-painter; and when he uses such language as that he proves that for a certain class of words he is a past master. I would ask honourable members to use more fitting lan- guage when they are addressing this Chamber. The honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson) uses certain nautical phrases, and he strings them together in such a way that no nautical man can understand them, and any self-respecting nautical man would feel ashamed of any one who claims to have been a member of the profession for using such language. I have said before that there are some members of this House who would insist upon the offending reporter being hanged, drawn, and quartered. The attack, however, has now been diverted to an attack upon myself. I am rather pleased that that is so, because I can meet it. What has caused this ? Some members have been foiled in an attempt to bring home the offence to a member of this House-for they have had to accept his denial- and what do they attempt to do? It was said in the debate this afternoon that it was no member of the Committee who gave the evi- dence out, and that there were three persons who might have done so. Well, very properly, the reporter said it was not an official who did so. I am glad he did so, for the official could not speak for himself. In cases where there is a doubt about a wrongdoing, the doubt gene- rally goes back on the weakest one-on the one who has the least number of friends. I say that after having seen a good deal of the world. Then, because there are three persons left, they want this admission from the reporter : that it was not a member of the Committee. Then, they say, they would be able to say where the reporter got the information, or, at any rate, who enabled him to get it. That is what they are driving at; and, because the re- porter will not be guilty of dishonour, and will not help them in their effort, then they attack me. But I have done my duty, and shall con- tinue to do it. As for the upholding of the Standing Orders by the House, I say that £45 was sufficient to meet the offence in accordance with the views of forty-two members of the House. Eighteen wished for a fine of £15 for each offence, or $50. That will not be denied. If, then, it was such a glaring offence, and if it was to be rigidly punished and the offenders were to be made examples of, where is the £25? Anyhow, there is only a difference of £10 be- tween the motion which was supported by the majority of the House and that which was supported by eighteen members of the House. There you have it reduced to the irreducible minimum. The difference between us now is only £10-the difference between £25 and $15. Mr. MASSEY .- There were two $25 fines. Mr. SEDDON .- Two offences; but as re- gards the fine on the Star reporter there is only a difference of £10. Sir, I believe if some other member had moved the motion there would have been hardly a word said about it. And if I had moved that a fine of £50 be in- flicted, the gentlemen opposite, and a number of my candid friends on this side, would cer- tainly have voted against it, and then a motion would have been moved that the explanation was satisfactory. That is my honest opinion. The gentlemen opposite are so determined to snatch at every opportunity that that is I still say what they would have done. that I did my duty, and did it fearlessly. Now, I wish to say this : Although I have to take a responsibility in this matter I know where the initial mistake was. The . Govern- ment was called on yesterday to rectify that mistake. The member for Christchurch City has pointed out where the mistake arose. The moment the House, a fortnight ago, decided that a breach of privilege had been committed, the House ought to have immediately passed a resolution calling the offenders before the bar of the House. That is the course that is in accordance with precedent. Now, who is responsible for that not being done? The member for Franklin ; and I do like his ac- tion, because, even though wrong, he had the courage to stand up and admit it. He admits he did make the suggestion to refer it to a Committee, and my colleague accepted the suggestion. It seems to me there was a general wish to get out of an unpleasant situation, and all cases in which that course is taken end in. trouble. If the course had been taken which. 