I do not believe it will ever pay, and I think it would be in the interests of the colony if we were to drop it altogether. An Hon. MENBER .- What about the Maruia Plains ? Mr. FLATMAN .- What is the use of the honourable gentleman talking about the Maruia Plains ; there are ranges of mountains between them and the railway. While speaking on the question of the railways there is one thing I would like to refer to. I think the honour- able member for Bruce was very unfair in saying that the Hon. the Minister for Railways had allowed Mr. Hudson, one of our best men, to leave the service. Now, I happen to know something of the facts myself, and I do not think money would have kept Mr. Hudson here. He had trouble which none of us wish to face-deaths in his family, of his nearest and dearest relatives-and he was advised to take a change. The honourable member makes use of this as an argument against the Ministry, and said they had not treated the colony fairly in not trying to retain the good men. I would like to have seen Mr. Hudson retained, because I believe. he was a useful man, and a man to whom the colony could have afforded more salary to have kept him. However, I believe it will not be many years before we see Mr. Hudson back again with us, and, after he has recuperated in the other colonies I shall be very glad to see him return, and I feel sure the Hon. the Minister in charge of the Rail- ways will be glad too. Sir, I would like to see more done in regard to forest plant- ing, which was referred to by my honourable https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 friend the member for Waikouaiti this morn- ing. There has been some mismanagement in the forest-tree planting in this colony, some way or the other; either it is that the trees http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero have not been chosen to suit the climate, or there has been some other mistake made, al- though I cannot really tell what it is. We find from returns that altogether 18,337 acres have been planted, and this has cost the colony about $56,717. The present value of that is only about £66,262. I say if that work had been properly managed, and looked after in the manner in which it ought to have been, the value should have been doubled by this time; and I do sincerely hope we shall see something better done with our forest-planting than has been the case hitherto. The honour- able member for Waikouaiti, in his speech this morning, said that few of the hardwood trees of Australia were to be found in this colony. The honourable gentleman was quite right in that statement, and what we want is to get that timber planted. We are now getting timber from Australia for our railways and bridges, and we should plant trees that will be useful to the colony in the future, as these hardwood trees would be. Under the Forest Trees Plant- ing Encouragement Acts of 1872 to 1879, grants of land were given to private owners for tree- planting, but it was a mistake, for the Govern- ment now find they have no hold over these plantations, which, in many instances, are being cut out, and the land laid bare. Yet the private owners received compensation by way of land-grants for planting the timber. I say, then, the colony should have retained some hold of that timber : it should have been held for the benefit of the colony, and not for the benefit of those upon whose estates it was planted. I also notice that in the Statement there is a remark about the rebate to Crown tenants. The Right Hon. the Premier has promised, I think, to take some action in that matter in the way of amending the law, or perhaps abolishing it altogether. Well, I think that would be an injustice to the Crown tenants. The honourable gentleman has probably made the promise in a weak moment to some town member, who does not understand the diffi- culties of the country settlers. Some people imagine it is a very easy thing to get a living off the land, but in so thinking they are labour- ing under a mistake. If these people were to. undertake the work they would find they have to work very hard indeed to get a living, and that, in consequence of the present price of wheat and wool, it would take them all their time to make ends meet. Therefore I say, Sir, that the Crown tenants must receive some con- sideration. The member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds) has no doubt brought pressure to bear on the Premier on this point, and I am sorry the Premier has given way. That honour- able member, when speaking on the subject of the remission of Customs duties, said he had written to a number of Auckland grocers on the matter, and that they said the consumers were receiving the benefit of the remission of taxation granted through the Customs. Mr. ELL .- So they are. Mr. FLATMAN. - How does the honourable gentleman know that ? Mr. ELL .- I know from my own bills. Mr. FLATMAN. - The honourable gentle- man's bills are a mere cipher compared with the rest of the colony. Will the honourable gentle- man say the people get the full benefit of the 4d. remission on tea ? Mr. ELL .- There was only 2d. Mr. FLATMAN. - I beg the honourable gentleman's pardon. There was 4d .- 2d. last year and 2d. previously. I ask the honourable gentleman if the public are getting the full benefit of that ? Mr. ELL .- Yes. Mr. FLATMAN. - Oh, no, they are not. How much better off is the honourable gentle- man himself to-day through that remission ? Nothing. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about kerosene ? Mr. FLATMAN. - An honourable member asks, " What about kerosene ?" The whole of the duty on kerosene was remitted, and it be- came dearer than ever. A few months after- wards it was nearly double the price at which it was selling when the duty was taken off. Sir, the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds) said there were 110,000 land- owners in the country, and that, even taking the large estimate of 365,000 as earning their living on the land, that left 407,000, which was more than half the population of the colony, 