The Budget on the subject reads thus :- "The construction of roads to the back blocks, the roading of lands prior to settle- ment, and the endeavour to improve the means of communication, so as to permit the settlers to bring their produce to the main roads and realise, is of paramount importance." The Premier admits this is a matter of para- mount importance, but he does not say what he intends to do. I would remind honourable members what the Premier said in his Budget of 1899-that was the Budget immediately before the general election. The Premier said,- " In many parts of the colony we have settlers who have been placed on the land for years, but have no roads leading to their homes, and the privations and difficulties they have to en- counter are heartrending to endure. Having personally made myself acquainted with the true condition of affairs, I feel this standing reproach should be removed, and every expedi- tion exercised in making roads next summer to the back-block settlements. The settlers have a right to insist that the State shall keep good faith." Then he goes on to say,- " In winter-time these settlers are completely isolated from the outside world." Now, we are in just as bad a position, so faras roads to the back blocks are concerned, as we were in 1899, when the Premier apparently first made himself acquainted with the true condition of affairs. It is true that there was a certain spurt put on just previous to the general election, and I only wish the roads in my district were now being pushed on at the same https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 rate as they were just before that election, for I feel then I should have very little to complain of in regard to roadwork in my district at the present time. Mr. HALL-JONES .- The work has never gone on as fast as it has since last session. Mr. LANG .- You are speaking of railway- works, but I was not referring to railway-works. I believe the Minister for Public Works has done his best to keep his promise so far as the North Island Main Trunk Railway is con- cerned. I was speaking of the construction of roads to the back blocks, and what I say is absolutely correct. You will find that there are very few men employed in road-making in that district at the present time. It is im- possible to construct the necessary roads out of the money available. I maintain that a loan should be raised in New Zealand expressly and solely for the purpose of making roads to the back blocks, and just sufficient should be raised as can be profitably expended in one year ; and the money should be placed in the hands of the Minister of Lands to expend, and should not be interfered with by the Premier or any other department. Sir, I feel certain of this : that if the House were to authorise a small loan to be raised in the colony, sufficient to construct roads in the back blocks, and let the Minister of Lands have the sole handling of it, we should have little reason to complain. There is no better or , expenditure. Wherever it is possible I think Mr. Lang or of borrowed money, than in the direction I have indicated. The Premier, in his Budget, has pointed out that these loans can be raised in the colony easily. I will read his words : "The difficulty of raising money in London has not been without its advantages, for it has shown us that it can be easily raised locally." With reference to State aid to local bodies, I think greater assistance should be given by the Government in this direction, and in the direction of giving more aid to the weaker bodies. As it is at present the largest sub- sidies are given by the Government to the local bodies that have most wealth. There are some local bodies in the colony that do not strike a rate at all, or possibly only one in many years, and there are others that only strike a halfpenny rate, and that halfpenny rate is the whole tota' rate of local rating ; and on that rate they are not only able to keep the roads in good repair, but to do permanent work, such as the erection of concrete culverts and bridges. and have a large credit balance at the bank. While this is the case with some, other local bodies strike the very highest rate the law will permit, and on these rates they are unable to keep the roads in even passable condition. It is local bodies such as these that the Government ought to help. The Government ought to bring in a scheme providing that the subsidies should be paid upon a graduated scale- that is to say, if a local body struck only a farthing rate it should receive a subsidy of 5s. in the pound, advancing up to £2 when a three-halfpenny rate is struck. Then those willing to help themselves would be assisted by the Government. With reference to the public works estimates, the present system is, I think, exceedingly unsatisfactory. It conveys no idea of how the accounts stand. No one looking at the estimates can tell, when they look at the liabilities, whether that means that so much money has been actually expended, or whether it has not been expended at all, and is going to be revoted. I maintain that when this House passes any sum on the estimates it ought to be available, and that it should not be in the power of any Government to keep back the expenditure, as is the case at the present time. Money is often voted over and over again, and grants are diverted to other purposes than those to which they were intended, and a large proportion is deducted for the office expenses. What should we have thought if last session, when a certain sum of $40 was put on the estimates, honourable members had been unable to draw it, and if honourable members had been told that it was to be voted again next session ? Mr. HALL-JONES -It is the fault of the local bodies if they do not apply for it. Mr. LANG .- That is not so in my electorate. Mr. HALL-JONES .- It is so in many cases. Mr. LANG .- It may be so in isolated cases ; and, at any rate, I am glad to have the assur- ance of the Minister that it only requires an application from the local bodies to insure the 