settlement has meant to a place like Cheviot. And this other table shows the private wealth per head of the population of the colony to be $230 in 1891, and $296 in 1900; the number of depositors in the Post-Office Savings-Bank in 1891, 104,467, and in 1900, 197,409 ; the amount deposited in the Post-Office Savings- Bank in 1891, $2,695,447, and in 1900, £5,809,552 ; the amount on deposit in banks of issue in 1891-Bearing interest, £8,673,326, and in 1900, $7,926,852; not bearing interest, in 1891, £3,621,116, in 1900, £6,866,376. There has also been some discussion about bush settlement. Well, I have always held one opinion about bush settlement. I have told the House over and over again what that opinion is. My opinion is this: If I wanted to punish my greatest enemy I would put him somewhere in the heart of a big bush, where he had no friends, no means, no work, and no railway communication, for if a man has neither of those advantages he cannot possibly make headway. So that to make a success of such a settlement you must pro vide one of the adjuncts I have mentioned. Therefore the promise made to the House last year as to the rebate of rent, and the amend- ing Bill of this session, should assist that class of settler who goes on the land to make a home for himself and his family. There was some misunderstanding in various parts of the colony last year about the re- bate of rent. I understood from the tone of the House at the time the rebate was agreed upon that it was to be universal, and I have since looked up Hansard, and my opinion has https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 been confirmed. However, certain Commis- sioners of Crown Lands did not see the matter in the same light, and for that reason the con- cession was not granted in all parts of the http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero colony alike. I think, therefore, that some alteration should be made in the Act this year to give effect to ' what was, no doubt, the wish of the House. Sir, as the bell has warned me that I have only five minutes more to speak, I shall have to pass over many im- portant subjects-namely, the railways, educa- tion, the tourist traffic, gold-mining, the expan- sion of trade, and federation - and say something more about our assets and liabilities before sit- ting down. I will go back into ancient history to some extent, so that I may be able to analyse the position for honourable members, and give them a most interesting statement. The last report obtained under the Property Assessment Act shows that in 1886 the real property in the colony was valued at $116,376,659, while in 1889-three years afterwards-the value was only £111,137,714, thus showing a depreciation of #5,238,945. Now, the Stout-Vogel Govern- ment came into power in 1884, and in 1886 the net assets of the colony, according to the assess- ment, were £128,803,635. They continued in power until October, 1887, when the Atkinson Administration came into office ; and, although the assets must have increased during 1887, what do we find? We find that on the 31st March, 1889-less than two years later-when Mr. Mills taken, the net assets had absolutely decreased to £128,521,234, showing an actual loss of £282,401 during that short period. Then, taking the loss at the same ratio as in the preceding years - 141,200-the total loss would amount to £423,601. Honourable members will see, there- fore, that if the Atkinson Administration had remained in office until the present day the result would have been that, losing at the rate of £141,200 per annum, the colony would have made a loss in the ten years of £1,412,000. This added to the loss for the previous three years -namely, #423,601-would make a total loss of £1,835,601. That, Sir, would have been the result of the Atkinson Administration, or pro- bably worse; but I do not wish to make it ap- Now, take that sum pear worse than it is. from the total net assets, as shown in table for 1886-namely, #128,521,234-and subtract the £1,835,601, and we find that to-day the total assets of the colony under their administra- tion would have only been worth £126,685,633. Now, let me ask, Does any honourable gentle- man think that the old Administration would have been better than the present ? Far from it. Sir, the figures I have given show clearly where the colony would have been to-day. As a matter of fact, it was rapidly going to ruin. When the Ballance-Seddon Adminis- 3.30. tration came into othce what was the result ? Taking the figures from the results of the last property assessment, we find the total net assets were £128,521,234, and now real property alone has increased to $147,000,000. Now, that is an increase of some £19,000,000 in real property alone, and only about one- third of the colony has been correctly valued, so that the net assets of the colony at the end of our last financial year must have been worth near y £150,000,000. There is the difference between us. I am satisfied that any one who realises the position must acknowledge that the administration of the present Govern- ment has been according to sound business principles and good judgment, or otherwise it would not have shown the satisfactory result which it has done, according to the figures I have shown to-day. We are not accountable for the drop in wool, although probably some people may think the Government are; but, while we acknowledge there has been a drop in wool equal to about 1s. 6d. per fleece, we must realise that there has been a great increase in the value of stock, for, while sheep were only worth 4s. or 5s. per head some years ago, they are now worth more than 10s. per head all round, and we ought to be satisfied to take the bad with the good. So while the drop will represent about 1s. 6d. per fleece-that is 61b. at 3d. per pound-there has been a gain of from 5s. to 7s. in value per sheep. Therefore it seems to me we ought to do our best under the circumstances and be fairly satisfied. What is the good of sitting down and saying that because there has been a drop of 2d. or 3d. per pound in wool the colony is going to burst up? No- thing of the kind. We have too many flourish- ing industries, and this colony is not easily 