recommended a larger increase than that pro- posed. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) noticed that there was one messenger for the House of Representa- tives at $125, and that lower down there was an item, " Extra messengers and police, £1,400." Why were these messengers specified under the heading of " Messenger " given above ? Sir J. G. WARD said, Because there was only one permanent messenger. Mr. SEDDON said, Last year the expendi- ture on this item amounted to £1,341. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) thought the position of Interpreter was unsatisfactory, con- sidering the duties he had to perform, and remarked that last year the Premier had promised to look into this matter. Mr. SEDDON replied than an increase had been given under the Native Lands Depart- ment. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) moved, That the item, "Reader and Clerk of Bills and Papers, £175," be reduced by £25. This was an increase of £25 from last year. The duties of the officer were not increased in any way ; the work was that of a clerk, and the re- sponsibilities were nil. He quoted the remarks of the Premier made last year in regard to the appointment of the officer. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) moved, as a prior amendment, That the item, "Serjeant- at-Arms, £200," be reduced by £1, as an indica- tion that the House did not approve of the appointment of another Serjeant-at-Arms. He believed if any money was wasted in the public service it was wasted immediately in connec- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 tion with the Legislature, and there was an opportunity here of commencing to reduce expenditure without inflicting hardship on a single human being. No one was occupying the position at present, and, so far as he knew, it had been promised to no person. He believed a messenger could fulfill all the functions attached to the position. He moved the reduc- tion of £1 because he presumed a part of the salary had been already earned. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) thought the honour- able member for Lyttelton had made a very great mistake in supposing the duties of Serjeant-at- Arms were merely nominal. In the event of any trouble in the House, it was through the Serjeant-at-Arms that the House enforced its authority, and he thought, if such an occasion arose, the House would rebel against any power that would allow Mr. Speaker to call upon one of the messengers to ask an honourable member to retire. He might point out that the reason there had been such a number of complaints of late, as to strangers continually frequenting the lobbies and library and other parts of the build- ings, had been owing to the illness of the Ser- jeant-at-Arms and no one taking up his duties. The House ought not to reduce the salary, but see that a real live officer was appointed to the position. This was one of the most important offices of the House, and he hoped the honour- able member would withdraw his amendment. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) said he had a Mr. Seddon item, "Second Clerk-Assistant, £325," be re- duced by £25. He did this not with any desire to attack the individual, but in accord- ance with the principles he had laid down in regard to the increases on the estimates this year, and, as this was the first increase, he was only beginning what he proposed to do through- out the estimates. Mr. Lowe had occupied the position about two years, and he had received £300 a year. He did not say £300 was a high salary, but it was a fair salary, and if the colony were in a position to stand increases he should not object to this at all, because the officer was well worth the money. He certainly thought when they had an opportunity they should endeavour to keep the expenditure down as reasonably as possible. Mr. SEDDON said, Originally the salary was £450 for the same work. It was then brought down to £400, then to $350, and Mr. Lowe was appointed at $300. His intention was that that officer should have an increment until the salary reached what the House considered the maximum for this position. If the House con- sidered $300 the maximum for the position, let the House vote for the amendment. If the House thought the officer occupying the position, and who was doing his work well, should have an increase, let it vote for the salary as it stood. He (Mr. Seddon) thought the maximum ought to be $350 a year. Mr. Lowe worked all the year round, and was an excellent officer. The posi- tion was whether the salary was to be £300 or more. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) was surprised at the attitude taken up by some members. Five years ago $300 more was paid under this head than now. If we had good men and trained them for the position they were worth the money, and £350 was not more than the position was worth. Mr. MILLAR said, Mr. Rutherford was many years in the position before he got more than $350. Mr. Lowe had only been two years in the position, and was getting a rise of $25, and next year he supposed he would get an in- crease of another £25. He thought that in the present condition of the colony we could not afford to pay these salaries. Mr. SEDDON said he had ascertained that when Mr. Rutherford was first appointed to the position he received £350 a year, and it stood at that for many years. Members must con- trast the work of seventeen years ago with the work now. It was a very important position. and whoever held it now had more to do than was the case seventeen years ago. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said he had no hesitation in voting for the item as it stood. The gentleman who occupied this most important position was an officer on whom every member of the House placed the utmost reliance. Outside the four walls of the House he was the controller of the legislative ma- chinery of that branch of the Parliament, and a more reliable, clear-headed man, he was sure. could not be found for the position. The salary proposed was not too high. 