made. These have all received the careful attention of the department, and it has been found that in many instances these applications have been made for purely speculative purposes, and not with any bona fide intention of the applicants actually working the coal them- selves. Where it has been satisfactorily shown that additional leases or licenses were actually required grants have been made, and, speaking generally, the areas now held under license or lease are ample for the requirements of the district for some time to come. The principal collieries north of Dunedin are near Shag Point. The Shag Point Mine has worked for thirty- seven years for a total production of 386,859 tons, the output for last year being 21,209 tons. The Allandale Colliery (adjoining) had an output of 16,595 tons for the year. At the Kaitangata Collieries (which are the principal mines in the South) the output was 112,455 tons for the year, and Nightcaps Colliery (Southland) had an output of 27,840 tons. Including some mines on private lands, and worked solely for the requirements of the owners, the number of mines worked during the year is 167, giving employment to 2,460 persons. In consequence of a recommendation from the Goldfields and Mines Committee, a Royal Commission was appointed by His Excellency the Governor to inquire into the various matters connected with the coal-mining indus- try, and the report of the Commission has already been submitted to Parliament. # ACCIDENTS IN MINES. The following statement shows the number of fatal accidents which have occurred for the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 period covered by the reports of the Inspectors of Mines :- Accidents. employed. Persons Number Rate Fatal of Class of Mining. 4,267 Quartz-mines 0.93 4 Alluvial and hydraulic mines 9,235 8\* 0.86 and dredges Coal-mines .. 2,460 1.62 4 .. 15,962 1.00 16 \*Includes one fatality in connection with dredging Investigation of these fatal accidents showed that in one instance, where the manager was killed along with two of his mon, reasonable precautions had not been observed. In the case of the dredge employé who was drowned, it was found that the regulations made for the safety of persons employed had been disre- garded. A prosecution for breach of regula- tions followed, but the charge was dismissed on technical grounds. The decreased percentage of fatalities in pro- portion to the number of persons employed, and especially in relation to dredging, is a very pleasing and satisfactory feature. The output of sulphur exported during 1900 was 1,692 tons, this being an increase of 465 tons as compared with the production of the previous year. # KAURI-GUM. For the year 1900 the quantity exported was 10,159 tons, valued at $622,293. Although the tonnage was less than that of the previous year by 957 tons, the smaller production re- presents an increase in value of £14,374. The industry continues to afford employment to a considerable number of Natives and Europeans. # SCHEELITE. Messrs. Donaldson Brothers, of Macrae's (Otago), continue to separate scheelite from the quartz, and as yet are the only people in the colony who prepare this ore as a marketable product. Other parties in the district are re- ported to have given some attention to the sub- ject, but nothing of importance has so far been done by them to place scheelite on the market. # HEMATITE PAINT. This is still being produced at the Thames by the New Zealand Paint-manufacturing Com- pany, and at Parapara by Messrs. Washbourne Brothers. The latter firm also manufacture knife-polish from a felspathic rock found in the locality. # CINNABAR. The prospecting which has been carried on between Waitahuna and Waipori (Otago) is said to have been very satisfactory, the discovery of a lode of considerable extent being reported. Some other prospecting has also been under- taken in the Thames district at Kauaeranga Valley. per 1,000. # ANTIMONY. A lode is being exploited at Alexandra South, but can hardly be said to have yet reached a commercial stage. ## CHROME-ORE. Some work is being done on the deposit near Croixelles Harbour. The shipment last year amounted to 28 tons. # COPPER-ORE. The attention of prospectors is being directed to the lodes at Moke Creek, Lake Wakatipu. ## SHALE-OIL. At Orepuki a mine has been opened out for the supply of shale, and extensive works erected to treat the mineral for the extraction of oils, paraffin-wax, ammonia, &c. The manufacture of oil and other products was commenced in the carly part of this year, and it is understood that the productions of the works are being readily sought after. This is a new industry so far as New Zealand is concerned, and it is to be hoped that the venture, upon which a large capital has been expended, will be eminently successful. 