Mr. R. THOMPSON .- No; I do not say it was the Auckland members. It was the people in the City of Auckland. They are responsible for the whole of the delay that has taken place in the construction of that railway to Auck- land ; and I challenge any city member here to say that what I am stating is not correct. Sir, for fifteen years, owing to the squabbling there has been in the City of Auckland over the route of the railway, the whole thing was hung up and nothing was done. As a consequence, not only has the Province of Auckland and the Central Railway suffered, but other railway lines have also suffered ; and if Auckland now finds itself behind other portions of the colony in the matter of the construction of railways, I say that the whole blame rests on the people of Auckland City and not on the Government. An Hon. MEMBER .- On the Auckland Minis- ters ? Mr. R. THOMPSON .- Well, I do not wish to go that far ; but I say that at the present time, so far as I know the Ministry, they are as desirous as any previous Ministry to do justice to the province of Auckland in regard to the construction of railways. I hope that the Go- vernment will not relax their efforts 10.30. in the construction of the main trunk line between Auckland and Wellington until it is completed ; and that, as far as possible, they will make up for the lost time that has been brought about through the unfortunate dif- ferences of opinion that existed for some time among the people of the City of Auckland. Sir, I congratulate the people of Auckland upon at last having come to their senses. After having been fourteen years in this House, I now find petitions being sent from the City of Auckland praying for the construction of the railway-lines north of Auckland. Sir, for years I have advo- cated the construction of railways in that unfor- tunate part of the colony, and have sometimes been almost sneered at by honourable members for doing so. The people of Auckland are now coming to their senses, and they are beginning to realise that the country north of Auckland is of some value to that city. Day after day, large numbers of petitions are being presented to this House praying for the speedy construc- tion of that railway. I hope that attention will be given to the Helensville Railway, and that it will be pushed on as speedily as the finances of the colony will permit. No railway has a fairer prospect of paying a fair rate of interest on the cost of con- struction than that one has. It is one of the best lines in the colony, and when it has been extended farther north, it will still con- tinue to be one of the best lines. I trust that no efforts will be wanting on the part of the Government to push it on as fast as possible. I now come, Sir, to a local railway. I hope that provision will be made for the com- pletion of the line between Grahamstown and Kawakawa. I am sorry to say that the settlers in that part of the colony which I have had the honour to represent for so many years are suffering under a cruel monopoly- a monopoly that has been grinding the settlers there for years, in the shape of a shipping, timber, and coal monopoly. The position is that, owing to there being no deep-water wharf at Whangarei, the whole of the shipping-trade is centred in one company. The settlers have to travel in third- and fourth-rate steamers, packed more like sheep than human beings. I have seen them lying on the decks without either pillow or mattress, and packed like sardines in a box ; although they are charged the highest rates for their passages, they are treated no better than Chinamen. Something must be done to break up this cruel monopoly. Sixteen years ago the Stout-Vogel Government had plans prepared for the extension of this railway a distance of two miles, that being the distance from the present terminus to the harbour. That Government had surveys made and estimates prepared for the ex- tension, when the manager of the North- ern Steamship Company wrote to the then Minister for Public Works, suggesting that instead of making the railway extension, some dredging should be done. If honourable mem- bers will refer to the files of the department they will find that they prove what I have been saying. The suggestion caused delay, which was all that they desired. The work was suspended, and for the last sixteen years that company has had a monopoly of the whole of the trade of that district. When this Govern- ment decided on the extension of the railway the same ring commenced work again. It was only a few weeks ago that a joint letter was sent to the Minister for Public Works, signed by the representatives of this ring, protesting against the work. If honourable members doubt what I am saying I would refer them to the files of the department. I am pleased to see one Auckland member (Mr. Fowlds) present to hear what I am saying. One of the gentlemen who signed that joint letter is now figuring as the president of the Auckland Railway League. Notwithstanding this, he secretly and sur- reptitiously signed a joint letter asking the Government not to go on with that work. An Hon. MEMBER .- Who is he ? Mr. R. THOMPSON .- You must know who the president of that League is, for you are getting circulars every day. You can get the information by applying to the department. I repeat that a few weeks ago a joint letter was sent by the representatives of those rings that have been grinding the life's blood out of the settlers of that district protesting against the Government doing justice to the people in that part of the colony. Is that the way to help to push on the progress of the Province of Auckland? Is that the way to assist and to encourage the Government to develop the resources of that district? Sir, the whole thing is a public scandal, and I take this opportunity of placing it upon record. A more infamous thing in connection with railway construction I have never known to be done in New Zealand. You will not find another instance where more intrigue and more scheming has been carried on by monopo- lists than has been carried on by those who 