they go and search the records as I have done. . mortgage. If a person has £5,000 invested in The Treasurer has given us some comparisons between 1896 and 1901. Let me give him a few more. The increase of population com- pared with indirect taxation furnishes a strik- ing comparison. In 1896 the population was 703,119; in 1901 it was 772,504-an increase of 69,385 , not 58,000, as was erroneously stated by the member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds). The increase of population in the last five years, then, has been less than 10 per cent. The Cus- toms duties received in 1896 totalled £1,649,310 ; in 1901 the amount was £2,180,862, an increase of $531,552, or over 32 per cent .; while the population increased by less than 10 per cent. The stamp duties in 1896 were £707,187; and in 1901, $903,935-an increase of £196,748, or over 274 per cent. The beer duty in 1896 was £62,657, and in 1901 £85,171, an increase of £22,514, or nearly 36 per cent. Registra- tion and other fees totalled £48,434 in 1896, and in 1901 £67,537-an increase of £19,103, or over 39 per cent. Miscellaneous taxes in 1896 amounted to £72,419; and in 1901 to £126,410-an increase of $53,991, or over 74} per cent. I have given the actual figures, because I feel, Sir, that in making a statement of this kind it might not be credited if I simply made the bald assertion. To sum up, I say, therefore, that, while the population has in- creased by under 10 per cent., the indirect taxation derived from the people has increased by amounts ranging from 27} to 74} per cent. The next point I want to mention is the in- equality of sacrifice under direct taxation, and I want to refer to what has been said by a number of members in reference to the mort- gage-tax, and to refer to it more fully than it has been referred to previously. The Treasurer says, with regard to the mortgage-tax,- " In respect to the increase of the graduated land-tax, I stated in the House some weeks ago that, if the Government was to keep the pledge given last year in granting the reduc- tion of id. in the pound on the mortgage- tax, the graduated tax on land would require to be increased so as to yield an amount equal to that conceded by way of reduced mortgage- tax ; and, after carefully reviewing the posi tion, I now find that the views expressed have been verified, for a reduction in revenue to the extent of £25.000 could not prudently be granted unless otherwise recouped." He also said, " Let the mortgagees pay. They toil not, neither do they spin." Those are bis words. But, Sir, the Treasurer knows as well as I do that in most of the cases the mortgagee does not pay the tax. It is the mortgagor who pays the tax. I will give an example directly- a forcible one. First I want to show the inequality of sacrifice, and then who pays it. A person who derives $1,000 of income from any source other than from a mortgage pays an income-tax of €17 10s. a year. Now, to obtain £1,000 of income from a mortgage requires $20,000 of capital to be invested at 5 per cent., and pays a tax of $82 6s. 8d .- that is, 370 per cent. more taxation than the same amount of income derived from any other source than business producing an income of $500 a year he pays an income-tax of £5. The same amount lent on mortgage at 5 per cent. produces an income of $250, and pays a tax of #20 6s. 8d., or over 300 per cent. more than the income-tax. As the capital becomes smaller the anomaly appears to increase. £2,500 invested in business and producing a profit of $300 a year pays no income-tax at all ; but £2,500 lent at 5 per cent. produces only $125 per annum, and pays a tax of £10 8s. 4d. Does the Treasurer really believe that the mortgagee pays the tax? I say that the mortgagor not only pays a tax of 8s. 4d. in the pound, but in most cases be pays more than that, because you cannot split the fractions. He pays } per cent. more on his loan on account of the mortgage-tax. Improvements are said to be entirely exempt, but in reality they are not. Let me give an example: I know the case of a property worth $6,000. The land was worth only $200, and the improvements made up the balance. While unmortgaged it was free from land-tax, but the owner wanted to raise £3,000 on it, and he had to pay à per cent. more interest than was agreed on before he could raise the money, because it was found that when mortgaged his improvements were liable, consequently the improvements had to pay the tax. That is what happens in the case of nearly every mortgage on improvements, and the majority of mortgagesare on improvements. They have to pay the land tax in the shape of a mortgage-tax, and it falls very heavy on small mortgagors, who have to pay a tax that is 300 per cent. higher than the income-tax. Another new tax has lately been added to the burdens of the small mortgagor. It has been imposed in consequence of the passing of the Workers' Compensation for Accidents Bill. Mortgagees have to secure themselves against liability under that Act, and there is a fee of 10s. now charged as an insurance fee to protect mortgagees. The persons borrowing pay this amount ; the mortgagee does not pay it. It will thus be seen that the mortgagor pays every time. Although the tax is nearly five times higher than the income-tax, the Treasurer says he cannot see his way to reduce it at all, not- withstanding the fact that the revenue of the colony is greater than ever. If the Treasurer cannot see his way to make a small remis- sion of $25,000 to reduce the mortgage-tax by {d. he knows, at any rate, how to make large additions to our expenditure in the annual appropriations. The increase in the appropriation last year was £289,000; this year there is a further increase of $284,000. The increase in departmental salaries, many of them large already, is over $44.900. Last year we increased the Governor's salary by $2,000. Notwithstanding this we are now asked to vote him a special grant in addition of $2,250, and I shall be one to assist honourable members in opposing this, and to divide the House on the question. Last year we increased the salary of one Minister by $600 and another by $500, five other Ministers by $200 each. and one addi- tional Minister, $1,200. I say £1,200 advisedly, 