Well, what would be the position supposing we | of inserting the words "the letter." It will passed this resolution and the £15 is not paid ? As I say, we are absolutely powerless. We shall have no remedy. In the first place, what can the remedy be? Nobody is named. In the second place, to whom is the payment to be and flotation of certain dredging claims by Mr. made ? And, in the next place, was the payment to be a fine? No, it was not. Well, suppose it be in the nature of a fine. Goodness knows journal, and." what we shall call it, but I do not think any honourable member on consideration would say that if that £15 were not paid, say, within a week, or within a month, or six months, or effect : "resolves to impose a fine of £10 on the twelve months, we, as a House, would have any hold whatsoever upon any person for that £15. The thing is absolutely futile if we pass it in its present condition. Then, according to this motion, it may be said that the House would still have some remedy. Sir, the House, by the amendment, would be led into a compact with the representative of this journal that on the payment of this sum the House would not pro- ceed further in the matter; and, assuming the sum was not paid within a week or a month, or whatever this House might consider a reason- able time, the House would be released from its compact, and it would be competent for the House to proceed further in the matter, and it could proceed to take whatever it deemed to be the proper course. In other words, the House would have to reassert itself, and a further motion would have to be moved, and we should spend two more days in discussing what form the resolution should take, and all the other details that have engaged us to-day and yester- day. I do not think any honourable member who considers the matter will deny this part of remark that when a few minutes ago I said I my argument : that the motion in itself is absolutely futile, and that another motion would be necessary in the event of the £15 not being paid by the person whom we have not adjudged to be liable to pay it. Mr. FISHER. - The whole thing is pure humbug now. Mr. ATKINSON .- I agree with my colleague Mr. Fisher that it is pure humbug now: but even at this stage I should like to see it rescued from that position. There does not appear to be any desire on the part of the House to be vindictive against the journalist er against the Minister who made such a bungle of the original motion ; but we do think the dignity of the House is a matter above party, and we do think the House should pass some resolution of a nature that will be effective. There should be a resolution such as was moved in the case of William Watson. It should be ordered that the publisher of this paper be fined a sum of $15. The House would thus assert its dignity without vindictiveness. As it stands, it is no exaggeration to repeat the words of my col- league Mr. Fisher that it is simply reducing the thing to the level of pure humbug. Mr. LANG (Waikato) .- I should like to ask your ruling, Sir, on this point : I wish to move an amendment which I take to be a prior amendment to that moved by the Minister for Public Works. My amendment is to strike out the words "expression of regret," with a view then read,- 8.30. "That, in the matter of the breach of privilege that has arisen through the publicity of the evidence given before the Goldfields and Mines Committee in respect to the promotion Cook, by the Dunedin Evening Star, the House accepts the letter of the representative of that Then, Sir, if that is carried, and the Minis- ter's amendment is lost, I would move an amendment, after the word "and," to this publisher of the Evening Star for committing a breach of the privileges of the House of Repre- sentatives, and a fine of $5 on Mr. A. E. Cohen for refusing to answer a question put to him by the Privileges Committee." I would ask you, Sir, to say whether I am in order in moving this amendment. Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER. - Yes, quite in order. Mr. LANG .- Then, I move the amendment which I have just read, and will point out that in the letter addressed to you there was no ex- pression of real regret by the writer. I have not taken up any time during this debate, and I think honourable members will admit that it has been drawn out longer than is necessary. I shall move this amendment now, because I think every member who has spoken has ad- mitted that there is no expression of regret as should be expressed by the writer under the circumstances. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) .- I simply wish to could not vote for the Premier's motion or the amendment I was not aware that a prior amendment of the character now before the House could have been introduced; but I feel perfectly satisfied that that amendment is in the form that I would have liked to have seen the motion placed before the House by the Pre- mier yesterday morning. It insists upon the expression of regret, and it definitely expresses the amount of the fine that is to be paid by the delinquents, and I am perfectly satisfied that I can vote for this amendment as something that commands my respect and appeals to my reason. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) .- We now have a clear indication from the other side of the House that their statements that this is not a party question are as truthful as many What does this other of their statements. amendment propose now? Why, to give you all another chance of speaking, and carrying this so-called debate on. An Hon. MEMBER .- Oh ! Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- The member for Wakatipu says "Oh !" but there is not much significance in that. Possibly it is a national characteristic of the honourable gentleman. I say this is how I take it now : that the whole statement made by those honourable members -that they have not made this a party ques- tion - has been wiped aside by this amend- ment. 