a large expenditure and a reckless expenditure, and after that money was expended there was no provision made to develop the resources of the colony, to put settlers on the land, and tide over a bad time. When the money was done there was a collapse, and we had the " unem- ployed " difficulty, and people left our shores instead of remaining here and completing our public works. Why, Sir, I venture to say that if the right honourable gentleman at the head of this Government had been in power at that time he would have done exactly as the Hon. Mr. Ballance did. And I say if the Hon. Mr. Ballance had lived to the present time as head of the Government he would have carried on the affairs of the State on similar lines, and would have adopted a similar policy to that of the Right Hon. Mr. Seddon at the present time. Sir, it has been said that the public works expenditure during Mr. Ballance's time was £350,000 a year. Well, I should like to know how could the public works have been carried on and the progress of this country have been maintained on so small a sum as £350,000 a year ? It is simply absurd. We know what occurs; we know that members from all parts of the colony are clamorous for the expenditure of public moneys. We have had instances in this House of what the North Island members want ; they have asked for a quarter of a million a year -as an "irreducible minimum "-for the Main Trunk line alone. And then, there are the Otago Central, Midland Railway, and lines in the North of Auckland, and many other rail- ways and public works that have to be done. Why, Sir, some honourable gentlemen who represent northern districts want about £100,000 https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 for their individual districts; and perhaps the amount would not be too much, and if the money had been available I have no doubt it would have been well and properly spent ; but, of course, they could not have such large sums. Sir, I admit the amount that the Go- vernment has borrowed appears large, but we have not borrowed more than the country was justified in borrowing, and, as my honourable friend says, more than the country demanded. When we come to examine into this borrowing question, what do we find ? The country has borrowed about a million a year since the advent of the present Administration -ten years. An Hon. MEMBER .- Far more than that. Mr. E. G. ALLEN .- The honourable gentle- man says, " Far more than that "; but it is no more than that, as I can show from the figures before us ; and, as a matter of fact, one-half of this money has been expended in reproductive and self-interest-paying channels-nearly one- half in regard to which the general taxpayers are not called upon to pay one penny-piece by way of interest. It has been expended in pro- viding lands for settlers with small capital ; it has been expended in providing cheap money for the farmers, and loans to local bodies ; and a large amount has been expended in railway rolling-stock and to assist the dairy industry. Commonwealth celebrations. It is money that And these are the factors that have made the extent to this expenditure that the country is so progressive and the people are so contented. Why, Sir, not only did the members of this House demand a moderate borrowing policy, but the country has demanded that the Go- vernment should borrow; and the Govern- ment is bound to carry out the wishes of the people of the colony. Any Government whatever is bound to carry out the wishes of the people, because if they did not do so they would very soon be turned off the benches and their places be taken by people who would give effect to the wishes of the country. Sir, if in any session in the last seven years, excepting the present one, the Government had proposed to borrow ten millions sterling I believe the House would have agreed to it, but I am glad to say they did not do so. They adopted a prudent course by borrowing mode- rately, and assisted the public works of the colony out of the consolidated revenue. Now, why did they do that ? They recognised that fatal results-that disaster - would follow if they in any year borrowed largely and made a spasmodic expenditure of large sums. Person- ally, I have always been against a large borrow- ing policy, but I have at all times approved of moderate yearly borrowing. The policy the Government has adopted is one of progress and prudence, and not a policy of stagnation. What, Sir, would have been the result if the Government had ceased borrowing altogether? It would have meant stagnation to the colony- unemployed people, and unfinished works. No young colony can progress without borrowing. It must have money, and there are only three ways in which money may be obtained to carry on our public works-namely, by taxation, by selling the land, or by borrowing in the outside market. We know that undue taxation is very objectionable. Naturally, people will not stand it. Then, the House has affirmed the principle that the State must not part with more land than can be helped. The evil of disposing of the land for cost has been brought plainly before us by the alienation of millions of acres in the Canterbury Province. The best of the land there and elsewhere having been sold, the country now realises that the selling of the land must be stopped. Therefore there is only the third course left open to the colony to take-namely, to apply to the London money- market for cheap money. Sir, as far as I can sce, the Budget does not disclose any cause for the alarm that some honourable members think there is If the expenditure during the last five or six months has been abnormal and has upset the equilibrium of our finances it is a disturb- ance of a temporary character and nothing more. The country is quite sound and per- fectly capal le of recovering itself. I have no reason for thinking that the equilibrium of our finances has been upset, but we can understand that, if it is, it has been caused by the abnormal expenditure that has occurred on account of the Imperial troops, our contingents, our enter- tainment of distinguished visitors, and the 