I should write officially to the Secretary to the Admiralty stating your request, though the Junior Lord would hold out no hope that it would be granted. All he indicated was that the Admiralty would be prepared to examine Bluff Harbour afresh, and would only be too pleased to find themselves able to form a higher estimate of it. Such examination would, of course, take time. " On Friday evening, therefore, I wrote a letter to the Secretary to the Admiralty-copy of which is annexed - stating your wishes, and giving the reasons to the best of my ability. " On Saturday morning, however, I received your cable message suggesting that the ' Tagus' should be stopped at Dog Island and the men transhipped there into the ' Tutanekai.' I sent this without any delay across to the Admiralty Office, and naturally expected a favourable re- sponse. Instead of that the clerk who carried the message had to wait all day without re- ceiving a definite answer, and at six o'clock in the evening was assured by one of the highest officials that it would be impossible to decide the matter that day. He therefore went home. Nevertheless, in the evening the matter was decided unfavourably, and the letter from Sir Evan Macgregor-copy of which is herewith en- closed -- was posted to this office. There is no Sunday delivery of letters in London, so it did not reach me until Monday morning. I had made arrangements that any answer given on Saturday should be brought to me directly by the clerk aforesaid, but owing to the statement made to him at six p.m. I heard nothing till Monday. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 "On Monday morning, before informing you of the refusal, I paid a last visit to the Ad- miralty, where, after considerable delay, I was able to see Sir Evan Macgregor personally. I went more with the wish to obtain, if possible, some information as to the reasons which had led the Admiralty to refuse the request for transhipment than because I had the least hope of inducing them to make any concession. Sir Evan Macgregor, though very busy, cour- teously went to find the Junior Lord, who was sitting on a committee, and obtained from him the statement that the transhipment was ob- jected to for reasons connected with navigation and possible risks. There was nothing more to be done except to wire you the result, which I immediately did. " While regretting the very unsatisfactory outcome of the matter, I would desire to point out that it was only placed in my hands on the morning of Thursday, the 4th instant, when the Admiralty had already gone into it, and when its officials were committed to a definite refusal. The prospects of securing arrangements satis- factory to the Government are always much greater when it is possible for me to approach the Imperial authorities before any distinct de- cision has been come to. The great departments here are seldom inclined to change their minds or to withdraw from any position once taken up .- I have, &c., "W. P. REEVES." " From Premier to Agent-General. "(Telegram.) " Received 4th July, 1901. " ASKED Kitchener returning Fourth Fifth land Bluff. Transport Officer, Cape, also notified Government 'Tagus' would disembark them Bluff. Order that effect was given of arrival 'Tagus' Albany. Just received cable from Colonel Davies that, by order Transport Officer, London, ' Tagus' was go Port Chal- mers. Ascertain whether it is so, for, if cor- rect, it is treatment this Government resents and is undeserving of. Arrangements made for reception troops Bluff, Invercargill, and Gore, and, after services rendered by officers and men and what Government of New Zealand has done, to be treated absolute discourtesy and breach faith if 'Tagus' ordered Port Chalmers is reprehensible and undeserved. Trust cable from Colonel Davies incorrect. See matter at once. Urgent." " From Premier to Agent-General. "(Telegram.) " Received 4th July, 1901. " SECRETARY of State for Colonies cables 'Tagus ' going Otago. Royal Mail Steamship Company asserts Bluff danger. This outrageous condemnation of one of our best ports repre- hensible. Refer New Zealand Shipping Com- pany, Shaw-Savill, Shire, and Tyser lines, whose vessels, larger than 'Tagus,' go Bluff regularly. Government of New Zealand demand inquiry into circumstances. Still hope good faith be kept, seeing all arrangements made reception Bluff and Invercargill." " From Agent- General to Premier. "Sent 4th July, 1901. " (Telegram.) "IN answer to your telegrams of third and fourth, Director of Transports states 'Tagus' has left Albany for New Zealand and cannot be communicated with." Therefore it was the Admiralty, or Trans- port Department in London, that sent out the instructions that the "Tagus " was to proceed from Albany to Port Chalmers. The vessel was kept in Albany while communications on the matter were passing as between Albany and London. If the steamer had come west-about and on to Wellington instead of round by the Bluff, where would the benefit have come in ? The climate of Wellington at that time, he ventured to say, was worse than that of the Bluff. Hon. MEMBERS .- Hear, hear. Mr. SEDDON said he was not making any mistake when he said that. At all events, if that was what the honourable gentleman based his charges on, he would say this: that the movement to land the men at the Bluff came from the people of Southland and Invercar- gill. They said they had never had the oppor- tunity of receiving or of sending away any of the contingents, and, as Southland had done its share in the patriotic movement, they justly asked that the honour should be given to them ; and accordingly he arranged for the Fourth Contingent to go to Invercargill. The Dunedin people also asked that the Fourth, as it was their special contingent, should go South, and not to Wellington, and he had it on the 