Lands Department. The Minister of Lands' departmental officers I have named, if they have anything in them, ought to have been able to go round and see whether a section was over- valued or under-valued. There are none under- valued in my district ; they are all over-valued, so they could not do wrong if a reduction was given in each case, and it would neither have hurt the country nor the settler. But as the Act is now worked it simply means that the man who has a good section and who can pay his rent promptly will get a rebate, except in the Districts of Auckland, Taranaki, Hawke's Bay, and Westland, while those who are in poorer circumstances and are struggling hard for a living will never get a reduction, because they are not able to pay exactly to time. Mr. ARNOLD .- I told you that last year. Mr. SYMES .- The honourable member says that now, but we all know how it has worked out. Now, in connection with the improved- farm settlements, we have had something said in this House about the co-operative system of road-making. I say, for road-making, the co- operative system is the fairest and best under the sun, and the work is superior to that gene- rally done by local bodies. I do not refer to bridges : I speak only of roads or earthwork. The men in these cases have all had something to buy bread-and-butter, which they otherwise could not have done. Take the improved-farm settlers in my own district: I think in one dis- trict, the Wangamomona, the late Sir John Mckenzie built one of the grandest monuments ever built in this colony to any man. There is no doubt about it. It is a success, it has come to stay; and the bulk of the settlers in the Whangamomona were unfortunate people taken out of the towns. They are all good, genuine, sterling settlers, and if, as the honourable mem- ber for Pahiatua said, they only had roads they would never trouble the Government. They hate the notion of having to take co- operative works now. They say they can live by their land if only they can get roads to get their produce away. Of course, their sections are all loaded for roads, but they are prisoners for one-half of the year. I am not condemning the Government in this instance, because they have tried to help, and they have helped these settlers as far as they possibly could ; but it just shows that where you get land of this character now it is so far away from the market that it takes a considerable time to get roads. This settlement is some sixty miles from any town; and ten years ago no one had ever heard of it except, perhaps, the Maoris. I do not think a pakeha had seen it up to that time, and now you can drive a buggy or ride a bicycle the whole distance-but only in the summer. Well, I think the co-operative works done in connection with this settlement will more than compare favourably with any work done by a local body. In fact, in my opinion the work of a local body is a very poor imitation indeed. The work has been well done; but then, I say, they have been very fortunate in having had first-class overseers, and the work Mr. Symes settlers were good, genuine, and bona fide, or they would not be staying on their land now. In spite of adverse circumstances, in spite of famine prices for their food, they are still living there, and by their energies are building com- fortable homes for themselves and families, and hope to live there-to end their days there. Now, I have asked, and I am going to ask again, in connection with this settlement, that the Government should in cases of this sort, where they are sixty miles from the nearest medical officer, grant a subsidy. I see in various other parts of the colony they are doing it- at Te Aroha, £50 per annum ; Waimarino, £75 per annum ; Hanmer, £100 per annum; Wa- naka, £100 per annum; Catlin's, £150 per an- num. Now, I hope to see that the Government, at any rate, will increase this vote, so that they can give this special district a subsidy of £75. The settlers there are quite willing to find a sufficient fund to make the honorarium or vote to a medical officer £150 per annum ; and, as these other places are getting it, I trust the Go- vernment will see their way, at any rate, to treat Wangamomona in the same way. Now, Sir, reverting to the subject of the pre- 10.30. sent Land Board system, and the slow manner which they have of cutting up their lands, I might mention instances of blocks of land that we have still unsurveyed. There is a large block of this kind between Wangamo- mona and the Tangarakau River. And we have blocks of land that we have surveyed and cut up into sections and which still are not open for selection. Now, what we want is to have the lands cut up more expeditiously than in the past, or, when they are cut up, have them opened for selection. At present when you refer to the department on this subject they refer you to the Land Board, and say the Land Board is the cause of the delay. But if the Boards have no power in the matter, then the more quickly they are abolished the better, because we do not want Boards that are mere figureheads. If we can get the land cut up more expeditiously it would be a good thing for the country. If instead of buying more estates in the North Island those lands that have already been acquired were settled and made reproductive, it would be a much better thing for the colony than the present way of doing things. In my district there are blocks of land unsurveyed still, inland of Waitara and Urenui, between Mokau and Awakino Rivers, while the other day a block of land at Hawera was acquired for land-for-settlements purposes at something over £20 an acre. By the time the settler gets on this land it will stand him in quite £30 an acre, before he begins his operations. If the Government were to cut up some bush land they could put the settlers on it at £5 or 6 an acre, and bush land there would carry just as many cows as this open £20 an acre land. I am not averse, Sir, to the land-for-settlements policy. I believe that in the larger districts, such as those in the South Island, it is absolutely necessary. If you look at the electoral rolls used in the 