I came to the words in the last paragraph, " I regret," some one said-I think it was the Right Hon. the Premier -- "he says he regrets it "; but was it not that he regretted the neces- sity of having to do it? It was not regret for having committed the action, but only that he regretted the necessity to do it. Now I come to deal with what the honourable member for Does he not Napier said regarding the motion know that the Minister for Public Works bas moved an amendment to the original motion striking out the words "as satisfactory "? Yet he harks back- An Hon. MEMBER. - That is already done. Mr. HUTCHESON. Exactly so. Yet the honourable member for Napier will maintain that the receipt of that letter was to be re- ceived by this House "as satisfactory." These words one of the leaders of his own party has moved to strike out, and they are out. Mr. A. L. D FRASER. We often disagree. Mr. HUTCHESON .--- Yes, I know you do. And he asked, did I offer any suggestion to take him out of the mud. I had not my tongs with me, for one thing ; that was one reason. And another reason why was that it was quite futile ; but if I have not done it, many mem- bers on this side of the House, and the right honourable gentleman's own side, have done in all earnestness what they could to show the honourable gentleman a clear and simple and dignified way out of this very ugly posi- tion. Stage after stage the right honour- able gentleman has blundered and blundered, until he got us into the present mess ; all the while they pointed out quite clearly and lucidly the simple way out. And even now, at this late stage, it has been left to a member of this forlorn hope, to these few who still want to see Parliament conducted on constitutional lines, to point out to him a way out of the difficulty. Now I come right down to the question before the House, and that is the amending of this resolution so that it will not reflect ridicule upon this House. In the loose way, and with- out any relevancy to the motion, in which the words have been moved by the Minister for Public Works the motion is ridiculous. might be that the editor and proprietor of the Dunedin Erening Star should pay Mr. Albert Elias Cohen the sum of $15 and it would be money well spent and money well earned -- and no doubt that would full the conditions of the amendment moved by the Hon. the Minis- ter for Public Works. Now comes the amend- ment of my friend the member for Waikato. He says that if the House wishes to give effect to what it manifestly is agreed upon it would say this : - "That, in the matter of the breach of pri- vilege that has arisen through the publicity of the evidence given before the Goldfields and Mines Committee, in respect to the promotion and flotation of certain dredging claims by Mr. Cook, by the Dunedin Evening Star, the House accepts the letter of the representative of that journal, and resolves to impose a fine of £10 upon the publisher of the Evening Star for ! Mr. Hutcheson . House of Representatives, and a fine of 5 upon A. E. Cohen for refusing to answer a question put to him by the Privileges Com- mittee." That, Sir, accomplishes scientifically what the House is practically agreed upon. There is no new condition imported into the matter : it only fixes the question raised by my friend Mr. Atkinson, as to whom the fine is to be paid. by whom it is to be paid, and under what e.l. ditions. Now, that is really what the honour- able member wants to do, and the member for Napier has little cause to reflect upon members on this side of the House for not having a: tempted at least to direct a way out of the difficulty. This amendment is clear, concise, and in accord with the expressed will of the majority of members of this House ; but. of course, the Premier will not accept it, and 1 hope we shall have an opportunity of clearly recording our views on this issue, and I ask for nothing better, as there can be only one way in which I can vote. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- Sir, I can- not refrain from saying that I regard the amendment of the Minister for Public Works as a pitiful climb-down on the part of the (ii- vernment. It is a lame and impotent con: lu- sion, which stands in remarkable contrast to the inflated and grandiose language used by the Premier in moving the original motion. I: is futile for persons inside this House, or out -. de the House, to say that the time and the money of the country have been wasted in continuing this prolonged debate, for who . responsible for the debate and its prolonga- tion ? Mr. SEDDON .- You. Mr. FISHER .- Then I will proceed at once to answer the Premier. Now, Sir, the sett .. ment of this question would have been casi and expeditious had the honourable gentlem a assumed the position which he, as leader of the House, ought to have assumed. I take a stronie position in this matter, as I always do up a any question in which the privileges of this Helx are assailed ; so, I think, ought the leader of the House, whoever the leader of the House may te. It I do not regret that this debate has been pri- longed, because it has given time to convince many honourable members -at all events, " has given time to convince me-that the :o ?: authors of the motion proposed by the Premi !! are the joint authors of the letter addressed : the Speaker by Mr. Albert Elias Cohen. From what I understand of the matter now, it af- pears that Mr. Albert Elias Cohen is a m re myth in the matter. In this way we ea- it account for the attitude of the Premier and cf the Ministry. They are not, I take leave to assume, defending Mr Cohen and the puha- cation of the evidence of the Mines Committer in his newspaper. They are defending thela. selves against a position voluntarily assund by themselves. If the honourable gentiem had taken up the position that, a breach ci privilege having been committed, and that the rights and responsibilities of this Parliam.Li 