Council. Indeed, this is the first occasion on which I have moved on my own motion, and consequently honourable gentlemen cannot ac- cuse me of doing what I have done for vain- glory. I have done it honestly, and I have been intensely in earnest, in the hope that some- thing good might result. Honourable gentle- men may have been right in. throwing out my suggestions. Possibly they think my sugges- tions would hamper industries in the colony. I do not say they are not right ; but, however that may be, I have the feeling that I did not get any assistance from them. I have, how- ever, every right to think that honourable gentle- men always treat me very kindly. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- Sir, before the third reading of the Bill is taken I would have liked to see an amended Bill placed before us, so that we could see what kind of work we have done. At present I cannot call to mind what has been accomplished in regard to the amendment of the Bill. We have made many amendments, and I do not know but that, in consequence of what we have done, a number of incongruities may appear in the measure. I would not like the Bill to appear in another place in a form that would be discreditable to the Council. My opinion is, however, without looking at the amended Bill, that it will not be worth the trouble we have taken over it. Every safe- guard we have tried to put in it against the swindles which have been exposed, and to pre- vent the robbery of the public by designing men, has been touched with a trembling hand. We have not done anything with that vigour which would be admired if we were doing anything else but legislating. A man fights in a battlefield, a boy plays in a football game - vigour is admired in both. Here we have simply tried all we knew to save, not the public, but the men who have been in the habit of fleecing the public-not in- tentionally, of course, but we have accom- plished that purpose as effectually as though we had set our minds to do it. Now, I will read clause 29 and others to the Council to show that there are incongruities in the measure, and I think the honourable gentleman in charge of it will deem it well to make some investigation into what I am going to point out, and to ascer- tain whether something should not be done in regard to it. Section 29 says,- "(1.) The Official Liquidator and each Super- visor shall be entitled to such remuneration out of the assets of the company as is fixed by the Court. "(2.) Such remuneration shall be a first charge on the assets of the company, and, in the case of the Official Assignee, shall be paid into the Public Account and form part of the Consolidated Fund." That is, the remuneration is to be paid out of the assets of the company, and is to be a first charge on the assets. Then, Sir, 31A is a new clause, which has evidently been put in without taking cognisance of the clause I have just read, for it says,- " On the application of the Official Liquidator, the Court may, in the course of the winding-up of a company, appoint the Deputy Assignee or other fit person to act in lieu of the Official Liquidator, under the style of the 'Deputy Official Liquidator'; and in such case, and for the purposes of such winding-up, the person so appointed shall have all the powers and functions of the Official Liquidator." And 32 reads,- " In every case where the Official Liquidator acts in the winding-up of a company he shall be entitled to receive, out of moneys to be appropriated by Parliament, such re- muneration as the Governor directs, in no case exceeding the amount paid into the Public Account in respect of the Official Liquidator's remuneration for such winding-up.". So much for that. Now with regard to the Hon. Mr. Twomey's complaints that honour- able gentlemen did not help him in his endea- vour to make this Bill a Bill which would be a terror to evil-doers. I would have been very glad to see asserted the principles which were involved in the two clauses which the honour- able gentleman proposed, but I could not go all the way with the honourable gentleman ; and I felt it was utterly impossible, in the present temper of the Council, to make any attempt to amend the honourable gentleman's proposals. I could not certainly altogether agree to the proposal made by the honourable gentleman in clause A, for instance, which reads as follows :- " A. No mining company shall hereafter be registered if the ground intended to be worked is a dredging area or claim unless the Warden exercising jurisdiction in the district where such claim or area is situated shall certify under his hand and seal that such claim or area has been thoroughly tested, and there is, according to the evidence submitted, a reason- able prospect of such claim or area being pay- able." I would point out to the honourable gentle- man that that simply places all the responsi- bility on the Warden, and one could not, of course, agree to that. To include a clause like that in the Bill would only defeat the ends which we have in view. The clause could not pass in another place, and it might cause the rejection of the Bill. Then, the other clause was open to very much the same objection. It was faulty in its construction, and that is why I could not support the honourable gentleman. If the honourable gentleman had only consulted some of his friends before he brought forward these clauses, and if they had only discussed and gone into the matter carefully, I dare say some provisions would have been evolved which might have been acceptable to some few of the Council ; but I have no hope that the Council would have asserted the principles in any case, however well the provisions had been worded. As has happened before, and, I suppose, will happen again in this Council, we have not done our best with regard to this Bill. A great fuss has been made about the roguery which has taken place in regard to the flotation and work- ing of dredging companies down south, and the Government is supposed to have introduced 