Basin Reserve, it was his lot to get into a Lancet, and this was the report as to the result of the examination: "There is not a single smoking - compartment of a railway - carriage factor in these numerous results upon which can on one of our lines, which was filled with a be fairly based any allegation of the presence number of schoolboys, the majority being not of a substance injurious to health." That is to more than fourteen years of age, most of say, that in the whole number of cigarettes of whom were engaged in manipulating and mak- different manufactures-I think the whole of ing cigarettes. And he adds this : "I would them were of American manufacture-that suggest to the Premier that it would be as were examined on behalf of the Lancet there well to insure that when the present genera- was not a substance in them which could fairly tion of young New Zealand arrive at man's be said to be injurious to health. Then, the estate they should have some stamina to maintain." There, Sir, is the argument to Lancet goes on to say,- " No one deprecates more than we do our- be drawn from that, and it appears to me that one way in which the stamina of the youth of selves the appalling increase of the practice of this colony can be assisted to be maintained is smoking amongst juveniles, and if any of those by the Legislature preventing their contracting who are so emphatically solicitous about the the habit of cigarette - smoking. I trust the health of the young community would turn honourable gentlemen of the Council will not their attention to this aspect of the question, with a view to the restriction of this objection- shy at the word "prohibition " in this Bill, able habit, undoubted good would be done." because it appears to me, if we are going That is what I am asking the Council to do to do anything with this matter, there is no half-way house ; you must go the whole upon the present occasion. But, Sir, whilst I length and prohibit boys under the age of think it is only right and fair that I should state seventeen, or whatever age this Council may what I have stated in reference to the inquiry decide upon, from smoking cigarettes at all. I made by the Lancet as to the manufacture of am not a smoker myself, but I do not admit cigarettes, I wish to add that, in the course of for a single instant that, in a free country like my researches through that journal, I came this, we ought to interfere, as I have said, with across the following in the second volume for the judgment of those of mature years who the year 1897, page 1263, dated 13th November, 1897 :- choose to smoke; and, therefore, in consider- ing this question, and the reasons which I have " At Felling, near Gateshead, yesterday, at an adduced to the Council in favour of reading inquest on the body of James Francis Duffy, this Bill a second time, I hope that honourable aged sixteen years, the jury found that the lad members will not, because I am not a smoker died from syncope, due to nicotine poison- myself, think that I am one of those who ing caused by excessive smoking of cigarettes. Mr. Graham, the Coroner, said there seemed to be quite an epidemic of such cases. It was time the attention of parents was called to the If any man chooses to smoke, by all means let him. I do not think we have a right for a danger of their children smoking at so early an age." single instant to legislate against that ; but I Then, the Lancet says, " We quite agree with do think the State has an interest in the mat- the remarks of the Coroner." Now, notwith- ter dealt with in this Bill. I think it has an standing what the Lancet has said as to the interest in seeing that the youth of this colony shall be maintained in a healthy condition. We manufacture of cigarettes, there can be no doubt that, even supposing they are made from have heard from time to time references made pure tobacco, tobacco is known to contain nico- as to the falling-off in the birth-rate in this tine, and the effect of nicotine on growing chil- colony, and we have seen in another place that dren must be injurious. I should say, Sir, and steps are being taken to endeavour to deal with I believe it is the general opinion held, that if that difficulty. But, Sir, what is the use of the there is any harm in smoking, the most per- birth-rate being increased unless we are going nicious of all forms of smoking is certainly the also to take steps to insure that the constitu- cigarette form of smoking. My attention has tions of the young people of the colony shall be also been called to a letter which was published preserved, and unless we do all we can to insure their proper physical development ? No doubt in the Evening Post of the 14th October, 1899, and the occasion which gave rise to that was in this colony you will see among the young this : The Right Hon. the Premier of this colony, men probably some of the finest physical speci- a few days before, had been addressing a public mens to be seen in any part of the world, but it cannot be denied that you will also see in meeting on the Basin Reserve, in Wellington, and the Premier was contending at a labour our streets many under-sized lads, many under- demonstration there that it was necessary to sized young men ; and, though I do not say it can be affirmatively proved that that is the restrict the hours of labour, and he also said result of smoking, still I do not think there something about the wages. He said it was would be any difficulty in getting the opinion only by regulating the hours of labour that the physique and stamina of the people of medical men to the effect that smoking by of the country could be maintained. Now, young persons under the age of seventeen would the writer of this letter, who signs himself certainly contribute to bringing such conditions "J.M.R.," drew rather a peculiar picture in about. Therefore I say the State has an in- terest in the matter. I trust, however, that eference to this. He said that while the Compound for sins they are inclined to By damning those they have no mind to. 