to supply the name of the person who supplied been given before the Committee. This was him with the report of the evidence given before brought before the House, and the gentleman the Mines Committee. Nobody wants him to referred to was found guilty of a breach of do anything of the kind. He has committed a privilege. He, however, expressed his regret. breach of the Standing Orders-two of them ; the first when he procured and sent for publi- cation the information which appeared in the there is not much difference between the two paper, and, secondly, when he refused to answer actions. He apologized that he had made the questions put to him by the Privileges Com- known the evidence given. I should like to mittee. But, Sir, does any one suppose for see Mr. Cohen expressing regret. He should one moment that the reporter, Mr. Cohen, when either express his regret or he should be fined he first obtained this information, did not know a small sum-say, £20 or £25. I do not think that what he was doing was a breach of the we should support the motion that nothing privileges of this House. Of course he did; but further be done in the matter. no doubt he relied on the fact that a great deal of information had been leaking out of late years honourable member for Bruce and others have from Select Committees, and that no notice had dealt very fully with this subject, and I do not been taken of it, and he took the chance of his think that further discussion is necessary. The act being overlooked. Having counted the risk, honourable member for Bruce said the over- looking of breaches of privileges in the past led and the cost thereof, let them now pay the penalty. It is not in accordance with the to the present breach. We should therefore dignity of this House that the motion of the not be too severe on the gentleman who has Premier should be given effect to. Let us cast committed this last breach. What I par- our minds back to former Parliaments of New ticularly want to point out in this connection Zealand. How would such a breach of privi- is that the country has not suffered by the lege and such a letter have been treated in publication of this evidence, but that, while so former times? We occasionally refer to the much business requires attention, it will suffer if this debate is continued much longer. We members of those Parliaments as " the giants of old." They were men who respected them- are all apt to complain at the Executive for selves and the House, and the high traditions not getting on with the business of the country, of former Parliaments. I hold that there are and the more we delay the more we are putting men here to-day who appreciate the privileges impediments in the way of doing the business for which we are called together. We shall be of this House and the best traditions of former Parliaments, and are prepared to uphold them. complaining directly of having to sit up all Until a vote is taken on this matter I shall night in order to do the business which the continue to believe that the majority of this Government have to place before us. I have House will not support the Premier's motion. seconded the resolution of the Premier in this I shall certainly not support it. matter because I do not see that any good is to Mr. J. W. THOMSON (Clutha) .- I do not be gained by prolonging this discussion. It can only lead to a lot of harm, and a great deal of quite agree with either the motion or the amendment, and it is for this reason that I loss to the country. It costs a great deal of money to keep this Parliament going. The propose to make a few remarks. The evidence which is led before Committees of this House longer we sit here talking unnecessarily the is usually very commonplace and very unin- more expense we are imposing on the ratepayers teresting. Indeed, almost all the evidence that of the country. As regards the question of is brought before Committees might be pro- reporting Committee proceedings, I quite agree claimed from the housetops. This would be a with the honourable gentleman who has good thing in the case of a great deal of the just sat down. I would like to see a little more daylight let into the Committees' evidence. For instance, I am a member of work. If there is nothing to conceal there the Railways Committee, which at present is taking evidence from Mr. Samuel Vaile, a well- is nothing to reveal. If there is anything known resident of Auckland, on the subject of to conceal, then the sooner we know it the better. the management of our railways. I am sure it will be brought to a vote as soon as possible. would be to the advantage of the public that Sir, the honourable member for Wellington Mr. Vaile's opinions as to railway management City (Mr. Fisher), who is one of the best should be known, and I should be pleased to speakers in this House, has some little griev- see a reporter coming into the room and taking ance against the Press because they do not the evidence that Mr. Vaile is giving. I am report his speeches in full. I agree with him therefore inclined to think that this Standing that that is a mistake, because his speeches are Order does not serve any very good purpose, well worth listening to, and, therefore, well and, personally, I should be glad to see it set worth reporting. But when the honourable on one side. At the same time it is one member looks up toward the skies, to the place of our Standing Orders, and I do not see how where the Press gentlemen are, it reminds me we can well ignore that fact. I recollect of this: We have a great deal to thank the many years ago a member of this House Press gentlemen for in reporting speeches made committed a somewhat similar breach of in this House, and also for the manner in which privilege. Before the Committee of which he they use their discretion, and I think the same was a member had reported to the House he l Mr. FISHER. - And apologized. Mr. J. W. THOMSON .- Well, apologized ; Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) .- The I therefore hope this matter 