for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) to inflict a fine of $50 without calling the representatives of the paper to the bar of the House is not ac- ceptable to the House, and immediately my honourable friends blame the caucus. Well, if the caucus has been the means of bringing about such a condition of affairs as that, I should have thought they would have said very little about the caucus, and would regret the calling together of the caucus so far as the Government is concerned at all. Now, why is there any exception taken to the striking out of the words. Surely those honourable members who do not look upon the proposal contained in the resolution as being one which should contain the words " as satis- factory " would consider that a sufficient reason for eliminating the words "as satisfactory." And is it not a usual thing to first of all give notice of the intention to strike out certain words with a view of inserting others, and then afterwards to propose what the other words should be? That isquite usual, and it has been done on many previous occasions in my experi- ence. Members must know it is not a trick or catch, it is not intended to take advantage of any honourable member or members of the House, but it is to prevent unnecessary dis- cussion in the first instance until the road is perfectly clear to insert the words. The two proposals will come in consecutive order. Mr. FISHER .- You are putting salt on their little tails. Sir J. G. WARD .- Everything, I think, is going along so satisfactorily that even a propor- tion of salt is absolutely unnecessary. We all admit that a breach of privilege has been com- mitted, but it has been magnified into unneces- sary and uncalled-for dimensions in comparison with the procedure adopted by the House on a former occasion. As members now see the road clear to have it brought to so satisfactory a con- / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero clusion, they ought surely to be in a position to come to a decision on both sides of the House and let us get along with the real busi- ness of the country. Let us first strike these words out, and then the curiosity of those honourable gentlemen who are anxious to know what is to be inserted will be gratified, and the words will be proposed by the Minister for Public Works. Now, as to the amendment that has been proposed, that we should inflict a penalty of £50: When those men who are going to succeed us in this Chamber, say, fifty years hence, turn to the records of this House to see what has taken place on this occasion, one can imagine them saying, "Who can that Mr. George Fisher be, who moved an amendment proposing a fine of £50 without the fair and customary right for the men accused to be first heard ?" and echo, answering, "He was a strong gentleman with a journalistic turn of mind, but unfriendly to the Press generally. He was very anxious to put on record his great love and approbation for the Press, with which he had been connected in past times, and he thought that anything short of $50 would be insufficient to show the high and Sir J. G. Ward mation." And then, possibly, some other honourable members saying, " What a peculiar man that Mr. Pirani, the member for Palmers- ton, must have been, giving out little bits of evidence here and there," and wondering why it was that he selected only parts that suited himself, and for what reason the whole of the evidence was not put on record. The good feel- ing, they would say, between the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) and the honourable member for Palmerston must have been dove-like. They were drawn closer and closer together by a bond of mutual love and esteem ; in fact, the feeling between those two honourable gentlemen would be such as to call for the admiration of those who may be here fifty years afterwards. Then, what would they think of the honourable member for Bruce. who spoke in support of the member for Wel- lington City, and who then voted against him? Then the consistent man would be able to say, probably pointing to some inconsistent man some fifty years from now, " History repeats itself. There was a gentleman in 1901 who also spoke one way, and at the crucial test voted another." The matter would probably be put in these words : "There was a great ado made fifty years ago about comparatively nothing. It makes us wonder what sort of men there were then, who wasted their own and their country's time in settling a matter that ought not to have occupied two hours, instead of two days. What peculiar beings must have been in Parliament fifty years ago." Now, I do not admit the publication of this evidence wholesale was a right or proper thing to do by any means. but I do say that it has been going on in the colony for the last fifteen years to a lesser extent ; and suddenly honourable members, in order to maintain the dignity of Parliament and to uphold the privileges of the House, magnify the whole thing into a fearful crime, and nothing will satisfy some of them but to infic! heavy penalties upon two men, and without their even being heard at the bar of the House. I say it will indeed be remarkable if the Parlia- mentarians fifty years hence do not imagine we are a peculiar lot of men. I think, for the credit of the Parliament, this matter should be ended. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) .- Sir. it was a pleasure to listen to the Postmaster. General. He is generally vigorous, but even when most vigorous he is not unkindly. I cannot help thinking that if posterity fifty years hence pays the same attention to the debate that he imagines it is going to do it is probable that some critics may contrast the speech made by the Postmaster-General this afternoon with that which he has just de- livered, and he may also contrast the speeches delivered this afternoon by the Right Hon. the Premier with the one he delivered this evening. He would find in the speech the Postmaster-General delivered in the afternoon a very generous contempt for "fusty musty precedents," but he will find in the speech be has just delivered that it abounded in these 