of all, to congratulate the honourable member who has just sat down upon the excellent speech which he has delivered ; but I would like to point out that he appears to have a peculiar notion as to the benefits that have been con- ferred upon the colony by the different peoples -- that is to say, by the country people and the people inhabiting the towns. Sir, who are the people who have built the cities and towns in New Zealand? Have they been built by the people in the towns? Sir, if we go to the South Island we find that in the gold-mining days it was the digger who built the towns, and we know that in Canterbury it is the farmer who has built the towns, and so on all through the colony. Therefore, when the honourable member tries to make any comparison of the kind he did, I say his argument is fallacious. I desire also to congratulate the honourable member for Wallace on the speech he delivered this afternoon, which was principally devoted to the question of education, and I do hope some- thing will be done to improve the system of edu- cation in this colony. I believe that the recom- mendations of the Teachers' Salaries, Commis- sion which was set up, if carried out, will have a good effect. There is an idea in the minds of the people of New Zealand that our educational system as it exists at present is something to be bowed down to and worshipped, and that you must not touch one brick in the edifice lest it should come tumbling down about your ears. But, Sir, there is room for much reform and great improvement in our system of education. Now I come to the criticism which has been levelled at the Financial Statement by some of the members of the Opposition. First of all, let me take the remarks of the honourable member for Hawke's Bay with regard to the indebtedness of the colony. Other members in the House on our own side have also made a great deal of the indebtedness of our country ; but none of them, it appears to me, has been quite honest in his criticism, for not one has taken into considera- tion the assets we hold as against the debt, which has certainly gone up considerably during the past few years. Sir, I want to ask those honourable gentlemen who complained so much about the increase of the indebtedness of the colony what the position of New Zealand would have been to-day if it were not for the fact that the Government has created an Advances to Settlers Office, a land-purchase system, has gone on with railways, roads, and bridges con- struction, has advanced money to local bodies, and purchased Native lands: what would have been the position to-day? Should we have been as well off if none of these things had been done? Do we not, as a matter of fact, hold large assets in this colony to set against the indebtedness that members have made so much of to-night ? The criticism by the oppo- nents of the Government has always failed, and it always will fail as long as the members who oppose the Government policy are disingenuous in their arguments. Let me take, for example, the statement made by the honourable member for Bruce, Mr Allen. It is true that he exposed purchase of some lands near Wellington. I regret that the honourable gentleman, in the course of his remarks, did not point out the party who was to blame for this. He was very unfair; for the inference was that it was the member for Otaki who was concerned in the matter. Mr. J. ALLEN .- No. Mr. HORNSBY .- It pointed directly to the member for Otaki ; and I think if the member for Bruce had been fair he would have men- tioned the names of the relatives he referred to when he spoke of the owners of the pro- perty. I refer to the Epuni Estate. Sir, there was another note running through the remarks of the honourable member for Bruce which I am sure he will regret when he comes to look at it in cold type, or, perhaps I should rather sav, in the warm tones of the tpyewriter. He was very personal in his references to the leader of the Government. He was also very personal in what he said about one or two other members of the Minis- try. Now, Sir, is it not a fact that, although we on this side of the House know and feel that mistakes have been made, and that sometimes wrong has been done by the occupants of the Ministerial benches-does not this personal abuse call into active life the party loyalty? When we hear the members of the Ministry attacked in a grossly personal way-for there is no necessity to attack men personally-it closes up our ranks and calls into active life those feelings which justify the existence of the party spirit. Let their policy be attacked. I shall to-night endeavour to criticize the policy, and may have to say one or two hard things regarding the leaders of the party to which I belong ; but I trust I shall be fair in my criticism, and that when I sit down no one will be able to say that I have levelled any personal insult at any occupant of the Minis- terial benches. Sir, coming to the Financial Statement, I think it is a pity there is not amongst the numerous Private Secretaries of the Premier an old sub-editor who would care- fully go through some of the verbose produc- tions we get in this House from the honour- able gentleman, and whittle them down to something like a reasonable length. An Hon. MEMBER .- Do not be personal. Mr. HORNSBY .- There is nothing personal in that. I am referring now to his productions, and not to himself as a man or a statesman. So far as one who does not pose as a financier -and I am not one of those heaven - born financiers who come into this House and lay elaborate financial statements before honour- able members ; who pose in the character of financiers anxious, possibly, some of them, to get on to the Ministerial benches in the position of Colonial Treasurer - I say, Sir, that I want to show what the financial position is, as it strikes one who does not pose as & pos- sessor of a world of knowledge in finance. I learnt long ago, from an old Scotsman in the South Island, never to attempt to discuss figures if I do not understand them. He said 