mons, and the publisher had been brought to the bar of the House, the suspicion which now attaches to members of the Goldfields and Mines Committee - according to the member for the Bay of Plenty -- would never have laid against them. The matter would have been dealt with on the broad ground that there had been an offending, and that the person offend- ing had been brought before the bar of the House and had given his explanation, and the House would then have been left to deal with it. An Hon. MEMBER .-- Why was it not done ? Mr. SEDDON .- A Committee was appointed, as the House desired. And where now is the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), and the member for Palmerston, and the member for Waitaki? And where are the other mem- bers of that Privileges Committee which was set up to inquire into the breach of privilege ? Why did they not give the House a lead ? Did they say they found the House had been right in saying there was a breach of privilege ? Did they say that, in their opinion, a certain course ought to have been taken? Let honourable members look through the reports of Privileges Committees in the past, and in all cases it will be found the Committee gave the House a lead. Mr. PIRANI .- Mention one case. Mr. SEDDON .- The Privileges Committee set up by the House in 1877 gave the House a lead. I could give any amount of instances of the same kind. Mr. PIRANI .- You are quite wrong. Mr. SEDDON .- I am not wrong, and I say it was consistent and within the reference that in this instance the Committee should have given the House the lead. Mr. McNAB .- That is what they were ap- pointed for. Mr. SEDDON .- The member for Mataura bears me out. He says that is what they were appointed for : and I say the Committee failed in its duty. Then, as leader of the House, I moved a motion ; and I say again that there was feeling imported into the question. If there had been simply the desire to uphold the Stand- ing Orders, I believe that two-thirds of the members of the House would have voted for the original resolution, and that the offender would have been dealt with in the same manner as the Speaker would deal with a member of the House who committed a breach of privilege, and who expressed his regret for having done so. The long debate we have had would not then have come on, and we would have been free to attend in a proper manner to public business. No one, Sir, regrets more than I do the time that has been spent and the amount of money that has been wasted on this occasion, but I repeat that when I am attacked I am bound to reply as I have, to maintain the dignity of the House. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City). - Sir, I wish to make a personal explanation. I will pass over without comment the Premier's tirade of abuse, in which he said I had used vulgar language-language used by the frequenters of Billingsgate, and drunken sailors. Mr. Seddon has been withdrawn, so that it must be taken by the honourable member as not having been said. Mr. HUTCHESON .- I was not aware of it. However, what I rose to make a personal ex- planation about is this - it would not injure me if I did not make the explanation, but, follow. ing the precedent so frequently set by the Pre- mier, I think it is right I should have my state- ment side by side with that of the honourable He said, largely. that gentleman. 4.30. he stood up in defence of the men of the Press against my personal abuse. He said I had stigmatized the representatives as "skunks." It is not only a misrepresentation. but is an attempt to excite the hostility of the Press towards me. I am personally regardless of what the Press may think about me, and al- ways have been ; but this 1 do say: that in my speech I merely said that had this par- ticular representative of the Press given the name of the person who afforded him the in- formation I would have thought him a low- down skunk, and I repeat it. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .-- Then, Sir, follow. ing also as a personal explanation, I say that if a member of the House had acted in compliance with our Standing Orders he would not have been a skunk. That is exactly what I said. Mr. HARDY (Selwyn) .- Sir, I did not intend to enter into this discussion, but I think it is only due to myself to say that the most extra- ordinary speech I have ever heard in my life I have heard this afternoon, and that was when the Premier lost his temper in, I might fairly term, a most scandalous manner. Mr. SEDDON .- I would ask, Sir, that the honourable member's words be taken down, and also ask for an apology. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I must ask the honourable gentleman if he withdraws the ex- pression : the word "scandalous" must be with- drawn. Mr. HARDY .-- I withdraw it, Mr. Speaker ; and if the right honourable the leader of the House asks that it be with regret, I will do tha: also. I am quite prepared to please him on this occasion. I wish to say, Sir, that I con- sider the dignity of this Chamber has been- well, I really do not know how to put it in parliamentary language-but I would like to say that the dignity of the Chamber has not been upheld by the right honourable gentleman who considers himself the leader of this House. He told us, Sir, that as leader he would look after Parliament, and he would look after the way in which members of this House conducted themselves. But, Sir, if we are to take our example from him, I can assure you. Sir, that his looking after us would not add to the dignity of Parliament. He told us. Sir. that he could not understand why our constituents sent us here. Well, Sir, I myself wonder why his constituents sent him to Parliament. In. deed, I have no reason to wonder, for one has only to look over the estimates to see the money they of Westland get, and that- 