tion he has proposed to-day asks Mr. Cohen, as a journalist, to act in a dishonourable way. In this case a journalist has maintained the highest traditions of his profession, and, if he did not so act, thousands of people-not only here, but elsewhere-would refuse to give infor- mation to the Press. And to talk about trying to force a representative journalist to do some- thing dishonourable-because you cannot find out something else - is not right, and, I for one, will not be a party to doing anything of the kind. Now, exception has been taken by the member for Bruce, and the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), to a statement made by the Premier that the Standing Orders ought to be amended in connection with the Committee work of this House. There is not a single member of this House - if he will calmly reflect-but will agree that the Stand- ing Orders ought to be amended. Personally, I would not hesitate to amend the Standing Orders, and allow a representative of all journals to be present at every meeting of a Committee, except a secret Committee. What is there to be afraid of in the proceedings of Committees or in the publication of the evidence given before Committees ? There may occasionally be secret matters-perhaps relative to the per- sonal affairs of private individuals-which it may not be desirable to publish ; but we can trust the Committees to deal properly with such cases. We can trust the representatives of the people on those Committees to decide when their meetings should properly be held in camera. Surely you can do that; and in this 12.30. matter we are all behind. It is all very well for the honourable member for Wel- lington City to treat the matter lightly. What is the position of the Conservative Government of England ? There they are to-day publishing evidence that has been taken before Commit- / http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero tees set up by the House of Commons. An Hon. MEMBER .- By order of the House. Sir J. G. WARD .- Upon important matters evidence is published. An Hon. MEMBER .- You are quite wrong. Sir J. G. WARD .- At all events they are publishing proceedings of Committees, and, so far, I have never heard one of these keenly sensitive gentlemen, who are now so anxious to have the dignities of the House upheld, get up in his place in the House and say that the evidence should be published by permis- sion of the House. I have never heard that done in connection with any matter brought be- fore the House. It is far simpler to amend the Standing Orders and say that, in the discretion of the Committees, the Press shall be admitted if the Committee so decide. You can surely trust the Committees to say what evidence should not be allowed to go through the pub- lie Press until it is reported to the House. ain not going to take up the time of the House any further, except to say that, while I regret exceedingly the circumstances that have called forth the position we are now in, I think suf- ficient will have been done by the House affirm- ing the resolution of the Premier that the Cir J. G. Ward length of imposing a penalty of £50 upon a wealthy journal, said to be worth $80,000 or £100,000-a splendid property with a great in- come-to impose a penalty of £25 or £50, or even $500, as suggested by the honourable member for Franklin- Mr. MASSEY .- I did not make that sugges- tion. Sir J. G. WARD .- I thought you did. An Hon. MENBER .- It was in regard to Mr. Watson. Sir J. G. WARD .- I say that to impose such a penalty is no more going to preserve the order or maintain the dignities of this House than to pass a resolution such as I have given indication of. An Hon. MEMBER. - Why did you propose the Committee ? Sir J. G. WARD .- I was giving members an instance of the public ridicule of having any one brought to the bar of the House. Now the honourable member knows. He has got the Committee's report, and he has not been able to find out that which he has tried. We have not found out who disclosed this information, and the Premier's proposal, therefore, is a right one, especially in view of the letter Mr. Cohen has sent, which is a proper letter, and does not justify the language of the honourable member regarding it. Mr. FISHER .- Quite kind of him. Sir J. G. WARD .- I do not think it anyway warrants any reflections being made about it. The honourable member has got strong feelings about the Press of the colony, but he ought to be satisfied at having had a good fling at the Press of the colony as a whole, and not ask us to perpetuate something upon a precedent of, say, fifty years ago, when a Pressman was fined £50, and which in one case was returned. I have a case of that kind in my mind: and because of that it is not right to ask us to repeat the farcical procedure of fifty years ago, and which, so far as my judgment is concerned, is of no use, and will not prevent a repetition of the offence in the future. The right thing to do is to pass the resolution, and then amend the Standing Orders, giving the Press reporters equal rights, and thus preventing that which every member knows is a regrettable thing -namely, the necessity under existing con- ditions of obtaining evidence in what some members term a "back-door " way. You cannot blame any member of the Press for obtaining information if he can get it. But until we amend our Standing Orders, no representative of the Press, notwithstanding the talk of the member for Wellington City. will derogate from a high sense of honour in obtaining public information which is of use : they have a right, under the existing system, to do so, as the outcome of the custom for the last I fifteen years. And if they do not use such information when they obtain it, they are not giving effect to what is essential for an up-to- date journal. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) .- I should not have risen at all to say anything on the subject 