prepared to give the Government a term of seclusion, but not with the honourable gentle- men on the opposite side, but as a supporter of a selection of more progressive Ministers from this side of the House. I do not blame the Government altogether, because they have given sufficient money for roads and bridges ; but there is no doubt the Lands Department of the colony wants a clean sweep from be- ginning to end. That is my opinion of the Lands Department. I have in my own district, and have had for years, some men who are administering the construction of roads and bridges who are totally unfit and incapable of carrying out the work intrusted to them. I am pleased to say, however, that at present we have a most capable and most estimable man at the head of affairs : I refer to Mr. Hursthouse. It is a pity for the back blocks of the colony that that gentleman was not put in charge of roads and bridges many years ago instead of allowing him to remain in an out-of-the- way place like Auckland for a number of years. I warn the Minister of Lands, however, that he must not put too much work on this gentle man's shoulders, otherwise he will destroy his efforts, and the result will be dissatisfaction. There is no doubt if the settlements in our back blocks were roaded it would mean pro- sperity to the colony France, for instance, is & country many parts of which are cut up into small sections; and what was the result imme- diately after the war with Germany? How quickly the war indemnity was paid off by that nation. Mr. MASSEY .- By the freeholders. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 Mr. O'MEARA .- Well, I am not opposed to the freehold. However, what I say is this: We want small settlement, and it is no use putting poor men in the back blocks unless we are pre- pared to assist them by giving them access to a market. This they have not had so far There are settlers in my district who have been for the last ten years completely isolated. They cannot get away from their homes, and as a con sequence they must either forfeit their sections or starve, and if they remain on the land they certainly will starve. They have been there for ten years, and, having proved good settlers, they are fully justified in demanding that they should have roads and bridges to give them an outlet. We hear gentlemen on the other side of the House, and other members who represent town constituencies, denouncing the co-opera- tive labourers in most unqualified terms. Well, I say without fear that if these workers had roads and bridges-and nine-tenths of them are settlers in the colony - they would be inde- pendent of Government work or of work from any one at all, because by their own industry they could earn sufficient to keep themselves and their wives and families. The fact is that these honourable members ought to realise that those who have been sent to make homes for themselves in the out-of-the-way places have come originally from the larger centres of popu- lation, and were sent to the co-operative works by a wise Government who relieved the con- Mr. O'Meara bers seem to forget that fact, because on every occasion possible they speak most dis- paragingly of the settlers in the back blocks, more especially of the co- operative labourers. With respect to our railways, I must commend our Minister for Railways for the exceedingly good Statement he has placed before the House. He has shown in the present Statement a sub- stantial profit of £599,389, or of £3 ºs. 8d. per cent .- a working profit ; and he has employed in his own department 2.836 men. I reckon that the railway-men of this colony are a credit to the colony ; they are a credit to the department they serve, and they are also a credit to the Minister who has charge of them. I hope, Sir, that he will treat them fairly, and that in the future he will pay them according to their work, because if he does not do that he will find he will lose the best of his men. I regret very much I have not sufficient time to deal with the decrease in the birth-rate. I have a lot of statistics here, and I was going to speak on the question to-day, as this is probably the only opportunity I shall have this session. But I would like to ask the Premier and the Government to consider the advisability of carrying out the proposals I have made to them from time to time. If members will take one State in Canada-Ontario-they will find that that State provides the head of a family, male or female, with two hundred acres of land ; and, speaking from memory, because I cannot find my note at the moment, Western Australia has paid for female immigration alone £22 per head of the population. It has cost us, in the way of immigration, an amount equal to £2 15s. 6d. per head of the present population ; so that if the Government were to encourage by such means as I have suggested the obtain- ing of large families, those who have families. and are desirous of settling on the land would be able to do so. The Government, instead of bringing in a Bill which will be perfectly use- less, would do a thousand times better if they offered them some inducement to obtain large families, and when obtained to see that the children did not die of starvation. Well, Sir, I hope the Premier will consider this, because in his Financial Statement he has discussed it, and he tells us that something should be done in the way of increasing the birth-rate of the colony. If he would take, for example, a family of seven-that is, five children and father and mother-he will find they contribute per head $3 16s. 10d. to the revenue of the colony, totalling altogether for the seven £26 17s. 10d. Well, if he would only allow them the amount they contribute indirectly to the revenue of the colony for a certain time that would in itself be sufficient to provide them with land to help them to live, and it could be credited against the land given to them by the State. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Time is up. Mr. McGUIRE ( Hawera) .- Sir, we have had a very nice and interesting speech from the honourable gentleman who has just sat down, and he wound up with a subject in which he is very much interested-that is, the increase of 