Mr. SEDDON. - Why did you not ask for the { nected with despatching and dealing with these correspondence ? Mr. J. ALLEN said he wanted something more than correspondence. He knew perfectly well what the tabling of correspondence meant. Let him have a thorough inquiry ; that was what he asked for. Let him have the opportu- nity of producing evidence, and let him call for papers, and if he could not prove that that mes- sage was sent from Albany and was disregarded, then he would apologize. \-- Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said that what the honourable member had said earlier in the evening was very different from what he was saying now. Earlier in the evening the honourable member said the Pre- mier was responsible for the deaths of some six men. Mr. J. ALLEN asked to be allowed to ex- plain. What he had said was this: that the Premier, not having accepted the advice given through the medical officer, must accept the responsibility of not taking that advice. Mr. SEDDON. - No, that is not what was said ; you went much further. Sir J. G. WARD said, No ; the honourable member said he put the responsibility on the Premier, in consequence of what the Premier had done, for the death of these six men ; and that was the seriousness of the charge. If the honourable member had said that after the re- ceipt of a telegram the Premier had not taken a particular course, and that it would have been better if he had taken another course, it would be on the lines that was now suggested. But the honourable gentleman originally made the charge that the Premier was responsible, in https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 consequence of not having acted on the advice tendered to him, for having caused the death of six men. Now, when the honourable mem- ber asked for an inquiry, seeing that his charge against the Premier was that he had actually been the cause of the death of these six men, by not doing what was right, that was the in- quiry he ought to have-not as to whether a certain telegram had been received or not, but whether, owing to want of judgment on the part of the Premier, the deaths of all these men had been caused. The charge really was that owing to want of judgment on the part of the Premier. or owing to political motives on his part, he was the cause of the death of those men. The honourable gentleman had said that the Premier had used the returning contin- gents from South Africa for political purposes, and that by doing a particular thing these men had died, and the Premier was responsible for it. He was quite sure that any member listening to the honourable gentleman at the time he made this accusation must have listened with a great deal of pain, and must have been shocked at the charge he made against the Premier. There was not a man who knew the Premier who believed that he would have been guilty of doing anything of the kind, or of doing anything calculated to cause the death or inconvenience of any member of the contingents. His whole actions throughout had shown the opposite- right through the extraordinary difficulties con- contingents in South Africa. While they were in South Africa, and right through, everything was done by the Premier .to insure their com- fort and happiness, as the honourable gentle- man knew. After all was said and done, what did the whole matter narrow itself down to ? With respect to the landing of this contingent, it was a difference between Dunedin and the Bluff, and for that particular steamer-the "Tagus "-it was a matter of eight hours' steaming or nine hours at the most, and, even if she had the worst weather, only ten hours' steam-and there was scarcely any climatic difference between the two places. Any person who knew would agree with him that the temperature and the class of weather was very much the same. At the time the "Tagus " arrived the weather was bad all over the colony. The seriousness of the charge lay in the assertion that the Premier was responsible for the death of these six men. The member for Mataura had shown that some of the men referred to died before they reached the colony at all. An Hon. MEMBER .- Where did he get the information ? Sir J. G. WARD said the honourable member for Mataura took great interest in all matters connected with the contingents, and had gone down to meet the "Tagus." One of those who died, died in Invercargill at his own home, and would have gone there in any case. One died on the route, one died at Albany, and one before he landed at Port Chalmers, and another im- mediately after going into hospital at Dunedin. The honourable gentleman was asking the House to believe that the whole of them died in consequence of the difference in the coldness of the weather between Dunedin and Invercargill. Mr. J. ALLEN said he said nothing about the difference between Dunedin and Inver- cargill ; he referred to the difference between the warm and cold route. Sir J. G. WARD said the weather was cold all over the colony at the time-the coldest that had been experienced for many years in Christchurch, Wellington and Auckland. Where would the contingent have come to if the boat had not gone to a southern port ? It would have come to Wellington, and all the men would then have had to go south just the same, and by going to Wellington first would have had a longer voyage. Mr. J. ALLEN said, Those that were ill would not have gone south ; those who were ill did not leave Port Chalmers. Sir J. G. WARD said the honourable gentle- man could not get over the fact that the steamer would have come to Wellington. If they had gone to Wellington, the honourable member would have had the same charge to make. Mr. J. ALLEN .- What about Auckland ? Sir J. G. WARD said that a number of our men who had returned to Auckland had suf- fered from enteric. One of them had called on him that day. Mr. MONK .- They should be better cared for. 