finds that the Minister has had to reduce the estimates of his department, and that the result is that a number of these roads have been struck out so as to make the amount of the total vote as small as possible. I protest against this as being altogether an unjust state of things. If the amount intended to be spent for roading is added on, as it is added on, to the purchase-price, and the rent is based on the total sum, then this is what ought to happen-namely, that the sum so loaded on to the purchase price should be placed at the disposal of the local governing body for the purpose of carrying out the necessary roads and works on that particular land. If that were done there would be no occasion for com- plaint, and the Minister is practically provided with the funds for doing it. Then, it is not only a matter of roads, there is occasionally a demand for drains. It arises in this way : Take the case of the Waikakahi Estate of 38,000 acres. Suppose there is an area of 400 or 500 acres, in an estate of 38,000 acres, which is during a considerable period of the year under water, it does not so very much matter to the owner of the 38,000 acres, because he has 37,500 that are not subject to flood, and it might not be a disadvantage to him to have occasionally what is practically a small lake within the area of his estate. But when that estate comes to be cut up, and perhaps half of that particular 500 acres is under water, and forms part of a 400-acre farm, then it becomes a very serious thing for the occupier of that farm. It there- fore becomes necessary, when providing for the requirements of these settlements in this way, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 that provision should be made not only for roads giving access to the several sections, but also for the carrying-off of water, where neces- sary, co as to prevent any of the holdings being flooded. There are one or two instances of the / http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero kind which I have had to bring under the notice of the Minister. The cost of remedying the evil was in no instance more than 4150 or $200, and I submit that the settlers have just as good a right to ask for assistance in this direction as they have in the matter of roads. Now, there is one other point in connection with the acquirement of land for settlement. Speaking generally, the Government have made a success of it ; but there are, as was inevitable, one or two instances of failure-Pomahaka is undoubtedly one; but it should be admitted openly and plainly, and the rents should be reduced to a sum which the tenants could afford to pay. There is no use mincing matters in an endeavour to show that no mistake has been made. Let us admit that a mistake has been made. It was to be expected that some mis- takes would be made ; but, even admitting the mistakes, the whole thing has been a great success ; let us admit the mistakes, and let the rents be reduced to such a sum as the land is capable of bearing. But, in my opinion, there needs to be some recognised system of reducing the rentals when they are found to be too high. We have had from time to time a Fair Rent Bill brought before the House, but it is never Major Steward ties surrounding the practical carrying out of the principle of the Fair Rent Bill, and the principal difficulties have been brought about by the adoption of the 999 years' lease. If there had been no such thing as that, but only a perpetual lease with revaluation, then there would be no great difficulty about a Fair Rent Bill. If a Fair Rent Bill is passed some pro- vision will have to be made for the 999 years leaseholders ; what direction that should take- whether by allowing them, as proposed by the late member for Selwyn, to pay off, say, nine- tenths of the freehold price, still leaving the Crown in the position of landlord, but enabling the rentals to be reduced to a comparatively nominal sum-is a matter for the House to determine; but if some such concessions were made the holders of leases in perpetuity might not resent what they would otherwise consider a breach of faith-namely, bringing them under a Fair Rent Bill, one of the possible results of which might be their rents being raised on the demand of the Crown. If a Fair Rent Bill is passed, provision will, of course, be made for the reduction of rentals where they are too high. There are undoubtedly cases where they are too high, and what is to be done to meet these cases ? If there are to be no means of reducing the rent when it is excessive, then the settler must be starved out ; that is to say, if the land does not produce enough to pay the rent, and leave him a livelihood, in the course of time everything he possesses must be swal- lowed up. Now, what advantage is there in dispossessing a man who, at a fair and reason- able rent, would be a good tenant, for the purpose of putting another man in his place? It is only when the first tenant is displaced that the Land Board has the power to reduce the rent, but there should be power to reduce it to the man in occupation. It should not be necessary that he should be first turned out and another man, who is no better settler than he, put in posses- sion on more favourable terms. In connection with this matter of land-settlement I want to say a word or two about the railways. We are all quite satisfied to have them administered by the honourabie gentleman who is now at the head of the department. For myself, I believe he is the best Minister we could find in the House, and probably the best in the colony. And I congratulate him on a good deal he has done in connection with the railways. It is wise. so far as it goes, no doubt, to say that you should not require the railways to earn more than it costs the country to make them. The honourable gentleman's policy is, I understand, that the railways should not be required to earn more than 3 per cent .. and that any balance over shall be returned to the users of them. I think he may well go even further: for I deny that it is necessary in principle that the railways should be made to earn any interest at all. For, what is a railway but an improved road ? Now, we have spent hundreds of thousands of pounds-nay, millions-in making the roads of the country. Do we require the settler to pay interests on these roads ? Not a single penny. 