but I do say this : that to a young member of this House-a young man in politics so far as some of the fathers in this House are con- cerned -- I can say that the arguments of some of my seniors certainly surprised me. We have been told that ten years ago Mr. John Ballance had a certain policy and made certain statements. We are told the present Govern- ment have departed from that policy and those statements, and that, consequently, we cannot have the same amount of confidence in them we otherwise would have. Now, were the members of this House returned to support the late Mr. Ballance? I contend they were not. Eighteen months ago, when the members of this side of the House stood on the various platforms throughout New Zealand, the one question that was asked of them, and which they answered, was as to whether they were willing to support the present Government or not. It was asked, Were they willing to support the policy of the present Go- vernment ? and upon that question those who belonged to this party were returned. Now, is the policy of the last eighteen months the policy that was inaugurated and was being continued by the present Government up to eighteen months ago? I say it is. The statistics tell us, and we have been told over and over again during this debate, that these loans have been increasing year by year. Then my complaint is this - and it is a just com- plaint-why did not the members of the House who have been here for eight or ten years, when we stood on the public platform eighteen months ago, tell the constituencies that the Government were leading them in the wrong https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 course, and that if that course were continued it must lead to destruction ? Instead of that they were told, and believed, that it was the right policy, and would lead not to destruc- tion, but to success. And because that story was told the party was returned to this House with the majority they have to-night. Now, as far as I am concerned, I have 8.30. been able to study this question very much more during the last eighteen months than I was previously, and I say that to night I believe that policy is the correct policy, and I am prepared to repeat that which I said eighteen months ago on the platform-that I was not bound to the Government or to the Premier, but that while that Government continued the policy that they then had, and which was placed before the electors, I was prepared to support them. And to-night, instead of quoting the words of Pope with regard to the "fly in am- ber," there is a verse that was published imme- diately after the election in certain papers that I think is well worth quoting, and it is this :- Be forewarned, ye politicians. Eyes are watching far and near ; Your supporters hold the balance- They will weich yon, never fear Be advised : your friends are anxious You should worthy prove and true; If you act as you have promised They will firmly stand by you. I think that that is precisely the position to- day, and I think that those who have spoken Mr. Arnold from this side of the House -- I do not speak of the other side, because they are speaking and acting consistently in criticizing adversely the present Government and voting against them- but I think that those who have spoken in the manner they have on this side of the House might well consider and ponder upon those words, and ask themselves whether they are acting as they promised. Coming back to the words of the Hon. Mr. Ballance ten years ago, I think that at that time they were really ap- plicable. I think that at that time the present Premier might have uttered such words as those ; but, Sir, if the Hon. Mr. Ballance was the man I believe he was, then it is impossible that he could have inaugurated the policy that- was brought down then, or to have continued that policy, without providing money. Take the advances to settlers or the settlement of the people on the land : why, Sir, take that policy point upon point, plank upon plank, and if the Hon. Mr. Ballance thought we were going to continue that policy for years to come, and to do it without borrowing money, then he certainly was not the man that the older members of this House say he was, and which I believe he really was. Sir, what is the position of affairs at the present time ? We are told that the country is in a very peculiar position. We were told to-day that some men would presently close their fac- tories and leave the colony. We were told that it would be impossible at the present time to get people to sink #1,000 in any factory, or in any calling. Now, look around you. There are more buildings going up to-day in New Zealand than there has ever been at this time of the year during the last ten years ; and they have been continually increasing. Is not that a sign of prosperity ? In regard to factories, what do we find ? We find that during the last twelve months the factories in New Zealand have in- creased by the number of 306-and that is a con- siderable number. I know that I may be told that this is because every little place has to be registered as a factory ; but if the fact of the factories increasing by 300 does not prove to any extent that there is prosperity, as far as manufacturing is concerned, then let us look at another side of the question. We find that the hands employed in the factories-and that is some criterion to go by-have increased by 4,522 for the same period. An Hon. MEMBER .- Ten years. Mr. ARNOLD .- I am not going back ten years. I am speaking of the last twelve months, and we find the employés have increased by 4,522. That does not include railway-work- shops or railway employment. That does not include those engaged upon co-operative works. That refers only to factories, and that certainly is a sign of the continuous prosperity that we have enjoyed so long. Then, we have been told that, as regards some of the commonest articles upon which duty is paid, they are not more largely used by the majority of the people-and the majority of the people are not capitalists- than in previous years. The revenue from Customs duties upon spirits for the last twelve months has increased by £22,800, upon tobacco 