Major STEWARD .- Not a single penny for sary that more rolling-stock should be obtained. And, further, I want to point out to the honour- the use of them. The honourable gentleman may say that we get interest on the cost of able gentleman and to the House that it is abso- roads in an indirect way through the land-tax ; lutely necessary for our farmers and settlers that there should be sufficient shed accommo- but, while that is true, it is also true that we get at people through the land-tax in respect of dation at the railway-stations for the storage of railroads in precisely the same way. So that, their produce during the time it has to remain for the purposes of my comparison, it is fair to there before it can be forwarded by rail. If the say that we do not make them pay anything in honourable gentleman travels down the main line between Christchurch and Dunedin he will respect of roads, while we do make them pay in see, as he runs through Canterbury in particular, respect of railways. I am quite aware that the colony cannot afford to make a big loss upon at every small station, as well as at the larger stations, piles of grain lying alongside the line the railways, because any such loss must be made up in some way or other ; but I challenge which cannot be put into the sheds because the. the position altogether, that it is absolutely sheds are not large enough. True, it is covered necessary, as a matter of principle, that rail- with tarpaulins so far as the department is able ways should be made to pay interest upon the to cover it-that is, perhaps, on one side, while the other is left exposed to the weather ; but cost of their construction. It is only as a matter of expediency, not of principle, that we that is a most unsatisfactory state of things, do that ; and, so far as the honourable gentle- more particularly when grain is at so low a price man is able to go, I think he should go in the as it is now, and when the farmer finds it most difficult to make both ends meet. Under such way of reducing freight upon such articles as wheat and wool, which are now at an exceed- circumstances it is absolutely necessary that the farmer should be able to send his produce ingly low price. The best way of helping the to market in the best possible condition. In- producers of the colony-the very best way by which the Government can help them deed, it is a question almost of life and death to -is to reduce the cost of sending their pro- him that his grain when passing through the railway should be properly protected. I know duce to a port. And if honourable gentlemen will look at what is done in other countries, the honourable gentleman is most anxious to -take America, take even Russia, where they do his best for the public, but concerning these have thousands of miles of railways from, say, grain-sheds I have sent in request after request, and so far, at any rate, I have not received the interior of Siberia to the seaports-and they the definite and satisfactory assurances which I will marvel at the very low rates at which pro- duce is carried. Surely, Sir, claiming as we look for. The honourable gentleman is always do. sometimes perhaps a little unwisely, to lead exceedingly polite, always courteous, and I be- the world with regard to our legislation and lieve he is always willing to do what he can ; but administration, we ought to see that New Zea- good-natured people like myself, I am afraid, land does not lag behind in this particular, and are very apt to be shunted on to a side-rail. that, so far as we are able, we should reduce the I want now, therefore, from my place in the cost of the conveyance to port of the produce House, to say to the honourable gentleman that which we have to send to markets outside the I have endeavoured to get him to come and colony. The conveyance of the produce of farm see for himself what are the requirements of or station to the seaport should, I hold, be my district, but he has been unable to do so reduced to the lowest possible limit. The because of circumstances during the recess honourable gentleman has had a very diffi- which took him elsewhere. 'Therefore, I urge cult task, I know, Sir, in endeavouring to upon him again that provision must be made overtake the demands of the enormous ex. for these requirements, because it really is a tension of our railway business, and not vital matter for the settlers. the least of those difficulties has been that of Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER left the chair. providing sufficient rolling-stock. Even now there is a shortage in this respect. I may tell him that I have in my pocket now a letter that only arrived by the last o'clock. mail containing a complaint from a settler that he cannot get what are called "T" trucks ; although he has given a week's notice member for Waitaki will perhaps pardon me he cannot obtain them ; and in view of such interrupting him continuing his speech while complaints it seems to me that there is still I make certain statements to the House. I not sufficient rolling-stock to overtake the re- have been requested by the Hon. Sir Maurice quirements of the railway business. I think O' Rorke, the Speaker, to read the following the honourable gentleman himself is prepared communication to the House: - to admit that. I know that he is doing the best he can to overtake it ; but, at the same time, as representing a large agricultural dis- "To the Members of the House of Representa- trict, and the grievance being one that affects such large numbers of my constituents, who are inconvenienced because of the insufficiency of rolling-stock in the hands of the department, it myself from the Chair; I intend going to Auck- The hour of half-past five having arrived, HOUSE RESUMED. The House resumed at half-past seven # MR. SPEAKER. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable "Speaker's Rooms, Wellington, 5th September, 1901. tives. " Owing to ill-health I am obliged to absent 