Mr. WILFORD .- If I am not allowed to | quote, I would like, in conclusion, to thank honourable members for the consideration they have extended towards me in allowing me to make this explanation ; and to the honourable member for Nelson City I would say that before I have been in the House much longer I shall endeavour to teach the honourable member for Nelson City that he will find when he attacks me that " Le jeu n'en vaut pas la chandelle " Mr. GRAHAM .- I am very sorry if I have · touched the honourable member in his sensi- tive part, but I did not do so until he had in- terrupted me several times in a very sarcastic manner. As to his statement that no deduc- tions have been made from his pay, there is nothing in that, because the honourable gentle- man's business is in the city, and occupies him during the day, and so long as he is here for five minutes and catches the Clerk's eye he saves his pay for that day. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- I move the adjournment of the debate. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) .- I was going to suggest that we might continue the debate, and adjourn until half-past two o'clock to-morrow, instead of half-past ten. If honourable members wish to speak to-night I think it only fair that they should speak. If they are not prepared to go on, well and good. So far nothing has been said in the course of this debate that could not have been said on the first item of the estimates. The House divided. AYES, 33. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 Allen, E. G. Mills Hogg Hornsby Barclay Parata Bennet Rhodes Kaihau Bollard Russell, W. R. Lang Tanner Buddo Lawry Lethbridge Ward Collins Wilford Gilfedder Massey Witheford. McGowan Graham Mackenzie, T. Hall-Jones Tellers. Fisher Meredith Hanan Millar Haselden Hall. Heke NOES, 10. Herries Arnold Tellers. O'Meara Carncross Field Carroll Stevens Symes. Fraser, A. L. D. Thompson, R. Majority for, 23. Debate adjourned. Sir J. G. WARD .- I move, That the debate be adjourned until half-past two o'clock to-morrow. In the ordinary course we should meet at half- past ten o'clock, but I think it will suit the con- venience of honourable members if we adjourn the debate until half-past two o'clock. Motion agreed to. Sir J. G. WARD .- I move, That the House adjourn till half-past two o'clock to-morrow. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) .- Before the question is put I would like to point out it surely is informal. The House by resolution has decided to sit at certain hours on two days Mr. Wilford in the week. Is it possible to play fast and loose and change the sittings of the House every day without suspending any Standing Orders ? I cannot think that it is right, after having affirmed by resolution that on Tuesday and Friday the House shall sit at half-past ten o'clock, the honourable member should take advantage of the absence of many who do not know what is coming on and move to alter the hour of sitting to half-past two o'clock. I cannot imagine that a proper thing to do. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- I think the honourable gentleman in charge of the House ought to explain that the Privilege Committee which has been set up is to meet in the morning, and if the House sits in the morning in accordance with this resolution, and the Committee sits also, I shall not neglect my duty in the House to attend on the Com- mittee. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- It is quite in order, I think, for the House to fix the hour at which it will meet on the following day, pro- vided it is not an hour earlier than that already fixed by the order of the House. Motion agreed to. The House adjourned at twenty minutes to twelve o'clock p.m. ## HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Friday, 30th August, 1901. Financial Statement-Breach of Privilege-Finan- cial Statement. Mr, DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. ## FINANCIAL STATEMENT. ADJOURNED DEBATE. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .- Sir, it is to be regretted that the Colonial Treasurer has not been present during this debate. We all know the reason of his absence, but at the same time I submit to the House that the case is unparalleled - indeed, unprecedented - in the history of our Parliament. Sir, do honourable members think that during a session of the Imperial Parliament Lord Salisbury would have been found absenting himself from the House and attending the funeral of the member for Aberdeen, Cork, or Belfast? Had the Premier asked for the adjournment of this debate until his return I would gladly have considered his convenience. Sir, I believe I am the fourteenth member of this House who has spoken to the Financial Statement, and I regret to say that so far no Minister has replied to the criticisms directed against the Financial 