The Helensville Northwards line is a railway in the district represented by the honourable member for Waitemata, and yet, while com- plaining of the extravagance of the Govern- ment, he would object, no doubt, if the Govern- ment proposed to reduce the expenditure on that line. The Blenheim-Waipara line is in the district of the loudly complaining member for Ashley. Is he prepared to ask the Govern- ment to cease expenditure on this line ? And the Otago Central is in the district of an Opposi- tion member. Will he ask that it be reduced ? The total net increase, including necessary roll- ing-stock, is $212,248 10s. 11d. Surely in the face of these facts it is very plain that our rail- way system is increasing fast, to suit the re- quirements of the country, and I venture to say no member will publicly advocate its re- duction. Notwithstanding our expenditure, we are still far more than able to keep on the right side of the ledger, and we are improving our position every day. Now, on the subject of railways, I have one request to make to the Minister in charge : that there should be no fur- ther delay in bringing down the long-promised superannuation scheme, and an amendment of the Classification Act, for the purpose of meet- ing the requirements of the railway servants. This reform is much needed, not only for the sake of the railway servants, who are a very excellent body of men, but also for the sake of the Government and the colony itself. This matter certainly ought not to be longer delayed. Take the single case of Guard Hicks, who was very seriously injured, losing two limbs and being otherwise injured on the Kaitoke Section last year. No provision whatever, Sir, is made by law for his future or for that of his wife and children. He had no legal claim on the department for anything whatever. How- ever, the department has dealt fairly liberally with him, and will, I am sure, continue to do so. But that it should be left in doubt when a man is injured whether he or his wife and family are to receive anything is a state of things that should not exist. The present system is most unsatisfactory to the Govern- ment and the railway employés alike. On the subject of land for settlements, as I have said before, it behoves the Government to be ex- tremely cautious lest they pay too much for the land they are about to acquire. We have to face the fact that the wool-market is down, and, with the competition of other countries, a possible drop in the butter market, and the possibility of a further drop in frozen meat, land-values will almost assuredly fall-for a time at least. With that fact before us, the Government must exercise more than ordinary care as to the price they pay for any land acquired under this very excellent system. There are, however, cases of extreme urgency where land must be acquired. In the case of Porirua, in my own district, particularly in re- gard to the men engaged in work at the Pori- rua Asylum, it is absolutely impossible to find houses for those men to live in at a rental com- mensurate with the wages they earn. It is there- fore the bounden duty of the Government to ac- quire land in the vicinity for workmen's homes. I know cases where some of the tenants have to pay a rent of 10s. a week for their cottages, and their wages are 30s. per week. Therefore one- third of their earnings go in rent. On the question of the increase in the estimates, it is quite true that at first sight the heads of depart- ments seem to be getting a large share of the increases, but it is satisfactory to learn from the Minister for Railways that a large number of the increases were being granted to those whose incomes are under £300 a year. That, no doubt, is quite true; but it is within my own know- ledge that there are numbers of men in the public service- very excellent men, doing their work well, and who have enormous responsi- bilities thrown upon them-whose pay is quite inadequate. There is, for instance, the case of those working in the Land Transfer Depart- ment, whose business it is to protect the As- surance Fund. Those men are in a very respon- sible position, as it lies with them to save the colony from great losses in connection with possible claims under the Land Transfer Act on the Assurance Fund. They perform their work well, and they do not receive adequate remu- neration for their services. Another thing which requires to be set right in the Civil Service is the question of compassionate allow- ances. Take the case of a man who has a wife and family, and who is in a position to retire on compensation in case of sickness. Although he may be suffering in health, he elects to go on working, feeling, as in most cases it is felt, that if he should die in harness the Government will look after his wife and family. Suddenly death overtakes him, and his wife and children are placed in the position of having to go to the Government for a compassionate allowance, practically a charity, and possibly may not get a penny- piece ; whereas if that man had a few days before his death left the service he would have been entitled to compensation to the extent of one month's pay for every year he had been in the service. Now, in regard to the question of the mortgage-tax, this is considered, particu- larly in the country districts, to be a very unjust tax, and it is pressing very hardly on a number of people who have small sums of money in- vested on mortgage. Take the case of a woman left a widow with £6,000 and a large family to bring up. She wishes her £6,000 invested on mortgage. That at 5 per cent., which is the utmost she can hope to get, amounts to $300 a year. The tax on that amounts to £25 a year. Whereas if the £6,000 was invested in a busi- ness and in stock-in-trade-say, on leasehold premises which are not valuable enough to be liable to land-tax, and out of which she was earning an income of $300 a year-she would pay no tax at all. A poor widow might be left with a much smaller sum-say, €2,500-and a large family to maintain. If she invests that money on mortgage, the income, $100 to $125, will nothing like support her and her family, and yet the mortgage-tax runs away with about $10 a year. If it becomes necessary to impose some other tax to recoup the Government for what 