# HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Thursday, 19th September, 1901. Mackenzie and Geraldine Counties Boundaries Alter ation Bill -- Set lement in Kawhia County- Cost of Visit of Iimperial and Indian Troops and Royal Visit -- Australian Chamber of Commerce- Maria Findt - Chatham Islands Local Govern. ment . Carbines for Cadet Corps -- Early Record of the Colony -- Adjournment .-- Maori Carvings and Curios-Public Loans Return-Queen's Birth- dav -- North Canterbury Volun eer Corps-Alco- hohe Liquor Sale-Return. d Troopers from South Africa -- Gi-bo ne Appointment to Upper House-New Zealand Products in London Mar- ket-Morven Trains and Mails-Waitaki River Anglers -- Eller-lie Railway - station . - Railway Classification - Carriage of Wool between Oxford and Christchurch --- Mussel Bay Rail- way - crossing - Woodville Post - office - Hector Fraser --- Post office at Devonport -- Hutt Rail- way - line - Railway Servants Superannuation and Classification \\e's -- Workers' Weesly Rail- way - tickets - Second-class Railway-carriages - Crown Grants in De ds Registry Offices-Rail- way Charges-Mail Trains : Obchunga and Auch- land - Railway Operatives' Plebiscite - Public Health Inspectors-Privilege Ticket -- Postal Ar rangements at Kaituna-Subsidies for Promotion of Athletics --- Railway-siding. Otago Central Rail- way-Railway - cro-sings-Railway Superannua- tion Sebeme-Tree planting along Railway-lines -Auckland Varnish Company -Rateon Sulphuric Acid - Railway Classificati n-Tadmor Valley Co-operative Works - Engineers' Certificates- Firemen's Certificates - Election of School Committees and Education Boards - Mr. Lee. late Inspector of Schools, Wellington-Teachers' Payment for Technical Education - Windsor- Livingstone Railway - Rifle Clubs -- Hansard- Charitable Gifts Bill-Mortgages of Lani Bill- Promissory Oaths Bill. Mr. SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. MACKENZIE AND GERALDINE COUN- BOUNDARIES TIES' ALTERATION BILL. Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) brought up the report of the Local Bills Committee on this Bill, with a recommendation that the Bill be not allowed to proceed. He moved, That the report do lie on the table. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) said, As member in charge of the Bill, he did not wish to find fault with the action taken by the Local Bills Com- mittee. When he introduced the Bill he was given to understand that there would be no objection to its passing. Objections were, how- ever, raised afterwards by the neighbouring local bodies, which had been represented before the Committee on each side by counsel. After hearing counsel's address, the Committee de- cided that the Bill should not be allowed to proceed. In view of all the circumstances, he could see no other course than to accept the decision of the Committee. Mr. GRAHAM did not think it was necessary to say anything further on the matter. The honourable member's statement was quite cor- rect. The Committee had arrived at its deci- sion after going exhaustively into the matter. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) rose to a point of order. He said that the House should be given an opportunity of expressing an opinion on the report. That course had already been followed this session in regard to a Bill brought down by the Commissioner of Trade and Customs. The House immediately coincided with the Committee in its report, and the Bill was not put on the Order Paper. Mr. SEDDON .- You cannot stop it. Mr. PIRANI said, That was done by Sir Maurice O'Rorke, and they would find that the Bill was not on the Order Paper. Mr. SEDDON .- The Committee cannot do that. Mr. PIRANI .- No: but the House can. Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER. - It is for the House to decide whether the Bill shall proceed. It will be set down for second reading. SETTLEMENT IN KAWHIA COUNTY. Mr. LANG (Waikato) asked the Government, Whether, in view of the large blocks of land that they intend to open up for settlement in Kawhia County, they will give facilities to members of Parliament and others to visit that district during the recess? Many mem- bers had made inquiries concerning this dis- trict, and he had been glad to give them all possible information, but he had suggested to those members that a visit to the district would well repay them for their trouble. He would urge on the Government that they should give facilities to honourable members and others who wished to visit this district, in view of the large amount of land that was likely to be opened up there. By this means the district would become known throughout the length and breadth of the colony, and would, therefore, promote the settlement of the land. Kawhia had a great future before it, as any one must admit who had the oppor- tunity of seeing the harbour and surrounding country. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said that the Go- vernment were giving every facility to members to visit this part of the colony by making them good roads. COST OF VISIT OF IMPERIAL AND INDIAN TROOPS AND ROYAL VISIT. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) asked the Premier, When the return of the cost of (1) the visit of Imperial and Indian troops, and (2) the Royal visit, will be laid on the table? He thought that by this time it should be possible to have the returns of the cost of the visits of the Imperial and Indian troops, at any rate. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he had given orders to the department that preference was to be given over all other work so as to get the pav- sheets of the money due to returned troopers completed. The full staff were at work late and early on that, trying to get it done, and as soon as it was done he would get the payments made. AUSTRALASIAN CHAMBER OF COM- MERCE. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked the Government,- (1) Whether their attention has been drawn to the formation of an Australasian Chamber of Commerce in London ; (2) whether it is true, 