estate just the same as the white people. When the honourable member asks the Go- vernment to consider the case of the landless, he is asking the Government to give back some of the land out of the public estate which he is condemning them for having bought. It is out of this very land that the Government will have to make provision for the landless Natives. Sir, I do not want to detain the House at present-I intended to speak for half an hour only, so as to enable the debate to be closed early this evening. But before I sit down there is one thing I must touch on, and that is with respect to the Rotorua reception. I entirely disagree with the honourable member. He said that Mahuta could not possibly go to Rotorua, because the invitation had been tendered him by the Government ; had it been tendered him by the Maori people then he would have gone. Now, not only did the Government tender him an invitation, but the Arawa, the residential people of Rotorua-the people of the kainga - issued an invitation to Mahuta to be there. They said, "Welcome here! This is your canoe, come ! " I may tell the House that Mahuta had agreed to go to Rotorua; but the honourable member, for purposes of his own and those in league with him, prevailed upon Mahuta to decline at the last moment. Euro- peans had more to do with it than any ground that could possibly arise out of Maori etiquette. The proper Maori sentiment was in favour of Rotorua. That was the true marae for the re- ception of the Royal visitors ; that was the marae decided upon by all the Maori tribes of both Islands. Individual maraes such as what https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 Mahuta contended- or the honourable member and his friends contended-for was out of the question. The people, and not the individual, was the chief concern. The object of the http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero honourable member and those who were leagued with him was that Mahuta should be given a special audience and made a special feature in the arrangements, to the subordina- tion of all the other chiefs in the colony. It was asking that Mahuta should be proclaimed head of the Maori people, without the Maori people having an opportunity of saying " Yea" or "Nay " to the same. Why did not the honour- able member and his friends go boldly and face the Maori people, and ask that special distinction might be allowed to Mahuta, instead of trying to work a position for him through a pakeha source? But why should all this be done for Mahuta? Because his grandfather had at one time been proclaimed king by some of his tribe. In respect to this Maori kingship I may inform the House that it was offered round to chiefs of different tribes before it ultimately settled on Te Wherowhero, Mahuta's grandfather. It was first offered to the leading chief of the East Coast at that time, and then it passed round to the West Coast, and thence to the middle of the Island; but none of the chiefs to whom the title was offered accepted. One chief said, in reply to the proposal, "I have inherited my chieftainship through a long line of illustrious ancestors. I do not that that accounted for my position.". It was thus refused by different chiefs representing the different tribes, and gradually the title found its way back to Te Wherowhero (Pota- tau), and he became Maori king, and his descend- ants are styled accordingly after him. I would advise the honourable gentleman, so far as con- cerns Mahuta and the remnants of the Waikato people, to try and educate them up to a proper appreciation of the times, and of the changes which have taken place and are occurring, and how they should fit into the spaces suitable for them. He should tell them that it is impos- sible to give effect to the dream of the Waikato people-a dream they have entertained too long for their good; that their extravagant and cherished aspiration to have an establishment of Maori authority centred in the line of Mahuta, and recognised by the Government, is absolutely hopeless; that the tribes of New Zealand will never agree to it; and that it is useless wasting time and substance in the pursuit of a shadow. Let the honourable member tell them that, and he will represent them excellently well. The time and energy they waste in striving after the unattainable could be better devoted to matters more to the advantage of the Maori people. We all sympa- thize with Mahuta and the Waikatos. We all sympathize with the representatives of the Maori race, and specially the representatives of the leading families: and it is the desire of every European and Maori in these days, and it is the desire of the Legislature, to direct them into such channels, the out- come of which will be for their good. It is time they were made to understand the responsibilities of every one living in this country. They should share with Europeans the burdens and responsibilities of settlement and colonisation and government. You can- not now make any material difference be- tween the Natives and the Europeans. You must try and harmonize what little discrepan- cies there are between them, and make their object a common one-the good of the people, the good of all. The honourable member knows very well that, so far as the Premier is concerned and myself, we are willing to do all in our power for the good of the Maori race, for the good of the honourable member's tribe and people. We will do what we can to pro- vide landless Natives with land, as we have done for the Natives in the South Island. We want the assistance of the honourable gentle- man. We do not want him to throw obstacles in the way of helping the people. We do not want such a list as he gave us last year, con- taining three thousand names of Maoris sup- posed to be landless, and then, upon in- quiry, found to be landed proprietors. We want truer help than that if we are to do justice. If the honourable gentleman will help the Government in a clear way to arrive at the end he desires he must be genuine; he must supply us with correct data, and prove every case he submits. The House will demand it, for it is a large question. And whatever the 