true, you have got a very good case." But all he said was not, in the opinion of the Court, entitled to any serious consideration ; and that act was an illustration of the judg- ment and reliability of the petitioner. When a man, in the opinion of his employers, is con- sidered unfit for the duties which he is called on to perform, the Board-who is the employer . in this case-has every right, by proper notice, to dispense with his services. His experience with regard to Education Boards was that they never wished to get rid of a good teacher. He must say, that to refer this report back to the Committee would be a slur on it. The question was one entirely between the petitioner and the Education Board ; and the Committee, in his opinion, had no course to take except the one they adopted. He would vote against the motion. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS would like to say a few words in reply. Here were the telegrams from the Education Board and others to the petitioner in 1881. The first was a telegram from the Secretary of the Wanganui School Board :.- " Wanganui, 25/2/81. "H. v. Blaramberg, Te Aro Grammar School, Wellington. " How soon can you come if required ? Send your reply to Chairman, School Committee, Wanganui .- A. A. BROWNE, Secretary." And this was the reply :- "25/2/81. "Current engagements end with March. Could no doubt arrange if required earlier .-- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 BLARAMBERG." Then, there was a telegram from the Com- mittee :- " Wanganui, 26/2/81. " H. v. Blaramberg, Bertram Villa, Wellington. "Glad Committee have chosen you for school vacancy ; three applicants .- W. P. CURRIE." This was a telegram from the Secretary of the Wanganui School Board :- " Wanganui, 26/2/81. "H. v. Blaramberg, Te Aro Grammar School, Wellington. "What is the earliest time you can be in Wanganui ?- A. A. BROWNE, Secretary." And this was the reply :- " 26/2/81. " Immediately." And this was another :- " Wanganui, 1/3/81. " Dispute between Committee. Board think you will get appointment .- ALEX. TAWSE." Mr. Blaramberg, on the strength of these telegrams, sold his furniture, and he and his wife gave up their schools, which were worth to them over $380 per year. It was necessary to go back to the first facts. This was the start of the whole trouble : On receipt of the wires the petitioner did what any one would do- made arrangements to remove with his family to fill the new position. When he got there he found there was a dispute between the School Hon. Mr. T. Kelly take place frequently-with the result that he was sacrificed. There were the whole facts in a nutshell. He was offered by the Board a small school as a sort of quid pro quo to keep him quiet, and, under the circumstances he was placed in, he was compelled to accept. To show that the statements made by some honour- able gentlemen about his being impracticable and hard to get on with were unwarranted, the Inspector wrote :- "Mr. H. von Blaramberg is qualified to raise his pupils to a high degree of proficiency. He is a man of unassuming merit, and all his plans are based upon the best experience. Mr. Blaramberg secures voluntary attachment of "R. FOULIS, F.E.I.S., his pupils. Inspector of Schools. " Education Board, Wanganui, 31st December, 1883." There was an answer to these unwarrantable statements. Here was also a copy of a resolu- tion passed at a meeting of the Matarawa School Committee in reply to a communication from the Wanganui Board when they decided to reduce Blaramberg's salary :- "Copy of resolution passed at a meeting of the Matarawa School Committee, 6th January, 1888. " Resolved, That the Board be informed that a full attendance of the Matarawa School Com- mittee assembled to take into consideration the Board's recommendation to give the teacher three months' notice in consequence, it would appear, of a letter written to the Board by the teacher, a copy of which has been forwarded to the Committee by the Board's secretary. "That the Committee patiently and ex- haustively inquired into the whole subject. and, after hearing the teacher in explanation, conclude that they could not give effect to the Board's recommendation without inflicting an injustice upon the teacher, which under the circumstances they are unwilling to do. "That the Committee is satisfied with Mr. Von Blaramberg as a teacher. " That, in the opinion of the Committee, he has tangible grounds for complaint." The statements as to the petitioner being an impracticable man, and not being able to get on with the people, were completely shattered by the Inspector of the Wanganui District. and the Chairman and members of the Matarawa School Committee. It'appeared to him that, owing to the action of the Board in taking up a stand against this man, he had suffered injus- tice, had been prejudiced, and had lost monev. The petitioner himself had, further, been pre- cluded from obtaining employment in the pub- lic service owing to the letter sent by the then Minister of Education. He could not get em- ployment from School Committees after that letter. He held that a man had a right to seek redress for injuries done to his prestige, no matter whether those injuries were done re- cently or even a quarter of a century ago-time should be no bar to injustice. The Hon. M .. Twomey mentioned the Supreme Court pro- ceedings. The petitioner was a foreigner, and 