pleasure of the Government ; because I person- ally have no great admiration for what I may term a lukewarm supporter. I believe in being either one thing or the other-in being either for or against the Government. If the Government are doing wrong, then say so; and if there is sufficient reason and proof to show that their actions are wrong and cannot be supported by the party, then let them not occupy a position on the Ministerial benches. But if they are not doing wrong, then I say this action is not to the credit of the gentlemen who have been elected on certain lines, and who in their election speeches dis- tinctly and clearly laid it down that they stood as supporters, and if elected would be sup- porters, of the Ministry that at present occupy these benches. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- The Government have departed in every respect from their old principles, and on which we were elected to support them. Mr. McGOWAN .- At any rate, that is an admission that the Government have some principles; but there are some men in this House who have no principle, and never had any. The principle which they seem to think is a principle is that which is most expedient for the time being. There are, Sir, in this House at the present moment, I have no hesitation in saying, a number of disappointed men, and I sympathize with these men ; but I say, with the sympathy I am willing to give them, that to a certain extent they deserve their fate. It is their own fault. Inconsistency will have its reward, and consistency will come to the front. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 An Hon. MEMBER .- What does that mean ? Mr. McGOWAN .- The honourable member ought to know what it means after all this time ; but, if he does not know, I have no doubt a few years more will teach him that experience. However, as the speeches that have been delivered have mostly had reference to the financial con- dition of the colony, and as I do not pose as a financier, I think it would be much better if I left that matter alone, and allow the Colonial Treasurer to reply to the different arguments that have been put forward as opposed to the Financial Statement, and which I have no doubt he will be perfectly able to do. But there have been some other matters mentioned during the debate, and in reference to them I have a few remarks to make, and I would like to say a word or two first on behalf of the departments that I have the honour to administer. I do so for several reasons, one of them being that sufficient interest has not been taken in regard to the mining industry of the colony by the whole of the members of the House, I believe mainly because they do not know the important position that this par- ticular industry holds in the colony. We had, as we know, a Coal Commission, that was re- ferred to by the honourable member for Dun- edin City (Mr. Millar), who read some extracts from the report. I will deal with his remarks by-and-by : but in the meantime I wish to say the Government have been blamed for setting up this Commission. Now, let me say that Commission was not set up by the Govern- ment at all ; it was set up by this House, on the recommendation of the Goldfields and Mines Committee. My own opinion when that Commission was set up was that there was no necessity for it, and that the result of the whole Commission would not be worth the cost ; and that is my opinion now. With regard to other Commissions that have been referred to, the Rivers Commission is of two years' standing. It was not set up last year, but. two years ago. Now, this by way of intro -. duction. What I want to draw the attention of this House to, and the attention of the country as well, is to what mining has done for the colony, and the amount of wealth it has produced for the colony. I will not weary the House with a great number of figures, but it will be necessary that I should use a few; I promise, however, that I will not weary the House with figures of no importance. I will deal more immediately with the gold-produc- tion ; I am not taking in so much the production of iron and other minerals, such as kauri-gum, which is generally included in the mineral returns. But, while on this subject, I might say that the total production of all minerals in the colony since we have kept any account of them has been £18,383,945. This amount in- cludes kauri-gum. Gold and silver production amounts to £57,721,648. What does that mean ? It means that during a period of some forty-seven years this industry has added to the wealth of the colony an average of £1,228,120 per annum ; and if we take into account all the minerals, including kauri-gum, we would have for the same period nearly & million and three-quarters of wealth which has been produced in the colony from these sources. Quartz-mining in the North Island produced for the year ending the 31st December, 1900, a sum of $635,053; the west coast of the South Island, £106,807 ; and Otago, £16,947: or a total of $758,807. During the nine months ended the 31st December, 1900, a sum of nearly $400,000 was received from the dredging in- dustry in Otago and Southland-so far, at all. events, as we can judge by the return of gold purchased by the banks in that district. I. have not the figures for recent West Coast re -. turns, but I understand they are satisfactory .. In regard to the dredging branch of the in- dustry, which is a most important, and at the. same time a permanent one so far as the Otago. and West Coast gold areas are concerned, I. wish to say in all probability companies will be. formed that will be unsuccessful. Some com- panies even from their inception could not be otherwise. We have had instances of the kind in the dredging industry. However, the public would not be warned with reference to these companies. When the boom was at its height they were told clearly what the result would be. We now have the result in some of the dredging companies being in liquidation. Some two hundred and forty dredges have been built in Otago, and some sixty-five on the West Coast, and, allowing the low value of. 