desire to give the Premier a slap in the face ; if we wish to give the Premier a slap in the face we take something which is of a little more im- portance politically than an occasion like this. This is not an occasion for us to be anxious to score off the Premier -- Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Time is up. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - I do not wish it to go unchallenged that I made the statement im- puted to me by the honourable member, that Mr. Cook was a thief. I never made such a statement. Some other member of the House may have done so while I was speaking, but I never did. If I did not make this contradiction now it would go into Hansard, and it would be just as bad, by allowing it to go unchallenged, as if I had said it. I say, and I repeat, that in regard to the Guthrie liquidation exorbitant charges were made, and there was a great sacrifice of property. I repeat, the share- holders, the debenture bolders, and the Bank of New Zealand were great sufferers through him, and I go the length of saying that I look upon Mr. Cook as one of those clerical and commercial leeches that fatten on the general public. Then, as regards the evidence, I have read a portion of the evidence, but not the whole of it ; but I have not come to the con- ' clusion on the evidence alone. I say, having a personal knowledge of what was stated as to the situation of one of these claims, you might as well dredge for gold in the Speaker's chair, and the prospect of paying would be as good if you dredged the floor of this House. I was speaking from a personal knowledge, and not from the evidence altogether. I say, and I repeat, the point I wish to make is this : that Mr. Cook having possession of the evidence for three days, and a portion of it for fourteen days, it was as easy for him to be the medium of the evidence getting to the Press as any http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero other man. He could, had he so wished, have given the evidence to the Dunedin Evening Star, and so could the other gentleman who had possession of the evidence. It is unfair to single out a member of the Committee, or any particular one of those who had the report. All at the present stand alike. You must leave it where it is, and not say that the individual you are blaming did it ; you are blaming one member of the House all the time. When I came back from the Coast I found an attempt being made to fasten it on one man. He denied it. I believe him, and his denial ought to be accepted. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- I heard somebody say the word " thief ' ; if the honourable gentle- man denies using it, I accept his denial. In regard to what the honourable gentleman stites, leading up to Mr. Cook, what he said in his main speech was more than what he has just stated now. He led up distinctly to the insinuation that Mr. Cook gave the evidence to the Erening Star. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) .- I merely wish to point out to the House the impropriety of the Premier's remarks when he stated that I and some other members of the Goldfields Com- Mr. J. Allen vidual. He forgets that a member of a Com- mittee occupies the position of a judge ; bis duty is to decide impartially on the evidence adduced, and if he were to take up one side or another he is unfit to be on the Committee. If the Premier really holds the opinion that the honourable member for Bruce and myself, or any other member of the Committee, were favouring Mr. Cook in the matter, then it is his plain duty to move that our names be struck off the Com- mittee and other members should take our places. I tell the Premier that he has no right to make such a statement, or to bring such a charge against me. He may think lightly of it, but I do not. Every member of a Committee of this House sits as a judge, and, therefore, a charge of favouring one side or the other is the gravest charge that can be made against him. and I will resent it every time it is made. The Premier could not have considered the effect of what he said. The House will have the best proof that I did not defend either Mr. Cook or Mr. Easton when it has all the evidence given before the Committee, and when it carefully peruses the questions I put to those gentlemen. Reference to the charges in Mr. Easton's petition ought not to be made at this time. The matter has been remitted to a Committee, and it is highly improper for any honourabie member to express an opinion upon it before the Committee has reported. 1 could not help wondering, Sir, why you did not check the Premier when he was making that statement. I can only conclude you did not hear him. There is no doubt that an endeavour is being made to prejudge the whole case. What the decision of the Committee will be the House will know when it gets the report. As far as the particular amendment before us, to strike out the words "as satisfactory," is concerned. I emphatically agree with it. The whole busi- ness is eminently unsatisfactory. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City). - Sir, the Premier's change of attitude has greatly con- fused the position. I stated this morning, and I now again state. that on every occasion upon which any question regarding the rights and privileges of this Parliament is raised, I shall. regardless of the approbation or the disapproval of members on either side of the House. always fearlessly and openly express my opinion. In times past, when the rights and privileges of Parliament were assailed, 2il parties in this House rivalled each other in their efforts to preserve those rights and privileges ; and I feel bound to say, whether the honourable gentleman likes it or dets not like it, that the Premier approached this subject this morning in a most undignited way. Formerly, when a question such as thes arose, there was immediately a fusion of ideas. Members were imbued with but one idea, and that was to protect in every way possible the rights, the privileges, and the dignity of Parliament. But what happened this morning ? Instead of the honourabie gentleman, as leader of the House, taking Ip that dignified position, be ridiculed and lam- 