voice saying, 'Thou shalt not steal.' And the king answered and said, 'I did not steal it; I only annexed it under the Public Works Act."" There was a poet in the last century, or rather the century before that-the eighteenth cen- tury-who wrote some satirical verses on " The Modern Patriot," - But oh! for him my fancy culls The choicest flowers she bears, Who constitutionally pulls Your house about your ears. But had he lived now he would surely have written the stanza thus :- But oh ! for him my fancy makes The choicest garlands grown, Who constitutionally takes Your garden for his own. I had proposed Sir, had time permitted, to deal with the financial aspect of the old-age pensions question. The Premier's estimate has been most ludicrously falsified in the working out of the scheme. If his estimate was correct at the time he made it, the cause may be in accordance with the suggestion which he makes in the Budget-that the provisions of the Act may be violated enormously. There is no machinery at the present time really to test the bona fides of any claim that is submitted, and therefore it may be this enormous and alarming increase is largely due to undeserving and unqualified applicants successfully break- ing through the flimsy machinery we have pro- vided to safeguard the system. It is impossible for me to deal with this subject at length. I had proposed to show how the military pension system in America has become the scandal it has at present, because the proceedings in apply- ing for a pension are ex parte; neither the tax- payer nor the Government is represented, and no private objector has a locus standi in the Court ; and that, in that regard, the American / http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero system is precisely in the same position as ours. An amending Act to improve the machinery, as was urged on the Government by several of us last session, is imperatively required ; and the references in the Budget to "impositions " and " evasions " seem to indicate that under finan- cial stress the Premier may be induced to re- consider the advice which he then brushed aside so contemptuously. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Time is up. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) .- It 10.30. is a question of considerable doubt in my mind whether I should take any notice of or make any remarks on the speech of the last speaker. The reason why it is a matter of doubt is that we are confined to one hour while speaking in this very important de- bate, and the speech just delivered by the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson) contained such an intolerable deal of sack to a farthing's worth of bread that it is a question whether I shall devote any of my time to that speech or go on to the much more valuable matter I have to give to the House myself. The honourable gentleman in the course of his remarks alluded to a speech of the Hon. the Premier, in which that gentleman likened some of the members of the House to Mr. Atkinson flies in amber. Perhaps in some cases it was not an inappropriate criticism, and perhaps it would be well if the honourable member were to reflect on the true inwardness of the remark. Has it ever occurred to him that possibly this House is not exactly the place in which his peculiar talents are most likely to find full scope? Here, for in- stance, we have listened to a speech in which he is limited to only an hour, on one of the most important occasions of the whole session -the speech on the Financial Statement, in which millions are involved-and the honour- able gentleman treats us to a dissertation on flies and grubs, and all kinds of unimportant details about some squabble about a garden, of no earthly consequence or importance what- ever. Sir, the fate of this country or its future destiny will not be materially affected by the speech which we have just heard from that honourable gentleman. Now, he mentioned, for instance, that the best part of the speech of the honourable member for Nelson City was that in which he dealt with the personal expenses of Ministers. I confess I am getting a little tired of hearing about these personal expenses of Ministers. I am getting a little tired of hearing about the corruption which one or two honourable members opposite have re- ferred to. I regretted exceedingly to hear the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, at the conclusion of his speech, the most important part of the speech, refer to the bribery which he said was rife on the part of the Govern- ment. Now, Sir, these accusations have been threshed out for some years past. They were all before this country at the last elections, and every wild thing that could be said about the Government, and everything that could be said about the party, was put forward then and the whole question was gone into thoroughly before the electors of the colony, and what was their answer ? Their answer was that they did not believe a word of it-that there was not a word of it true. I ask, Is it at all a part of the duty of members of an Opposition in a Legis- lature such as this to revive dead and gone and utterly exploded old charges of this kind now, without a single tittle of evidence or a single fact in support of them? I would suggest to the honourable member for Welling- ton City (Mr. Atkinson) that his peculiar talents are perhaps better fitted for another sphere. He treated us to a number of verbal plays and specimens of humour of a kind evidently the result of very painful and labori- ous preparation. Well, they are not so much appreciated here, perhaps, as they would be, say, under the management of Mr. Dix, or Mr. Fuller, or some of these gentlemen who may be in need of a painstaking and conscientious cor- ner-man who would work very hard in getting up his jokes. I suggest that is a sphere in which the honourable gentleman's talents would be better remunerated and more appreciated than in this House. But, Sir, it does seem a shame that an hour should be practically wasted in this House by a speech of the kind the honourable gentleman made. I think he 