thereof "any person." Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) moved to strike out the word "and," between the words "are excessive " and "that," in subsection (1), with the view of inserting in lieu thereof the word " or." Amendment agreed to. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) moved to strike out the words "the Court," between the words "such that " and " would give relief," in subsection (1), with the view of inserting in lieu thereof the words " a Court of equity." Amendment agreed to, and words as proposed inserted. Mr. ATKINSON moved to add to subsec- tion (3) the following words : "and the Court shall have power, notwithstanding any pro- vision or agreement to the contrary, to enter- tain any application under this Act by the borrower or surety or other person liable, not- withstanding that the time for repayment of the loan or any instalment thereof may not have arrived. Amendment agreed to. Mr. ATKINSON moved the insertion of the following new subclause :- "4A. The foregoing provisions of this section shall apply to any transaction which, whatever its form may be, is substantially one of money- lending by a money-lender." Amendment agreed to. Mr. HALL- JONES (Minister for Public Works) moved to add the following new sub- clause :- " (7.) For the purpose of this section, but for no other purpose, the expression 'money- lender ' includes any person who lends money for interest." The Committee divided. AYES, 23. McNab Allen, E. G. Fowlds Fraser, A. L. D. Millar Arnold Gilfedder Barclay Mills Bennet Guinness O'Meara Carroll Hall-Jones Ward. Colvin Laurenson Tellers. Ell McGowan Carncross Mckenzie, R. Napier. Flatman NOES, 14. Russell, G. W. Atkinson Hornsby Smith, G. J. Hutcheson Hall Lawry Tellers. Hardy Buddo Haselden Massey Herries Collins. Rhodes Majority for, 9. Amendment agreed to, and new subclause as proposed added. Mr. HUTCHESON moved to add to new sub- clause (7) the words " except on real estate." The Committee divided. AYES, 11. Collins Smith, G. J. Lawry Hardy Massey Tellers. Atkinson Haselden Rhodes Herries Russell, G. W. Hutcheson. Mr. Napier Allen, E. G. Mills Gilfedder Arnold Hall Napier Barclay Hall-Jones O'Meara Bennet Hornsby Seddon Buddo McGowan Ward. Mckenzie, R. Carncross Tellers. Carroll McNab Fowlds Fraser, A. L. D. Ell Millar Flatman Majority against, 13. Amendment negatived. Mr. HALL- JONES (Minister for Public Works) moved to insert, in subclause (4), after " by," the words " subsection two of." Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) moved the addition of the following new clause :- "Nothing in this Act shall apply to any bona fide registered mortgage under the Land Transfer Act." Amendment negatived. Bill reported. # TRUSTEE BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) moved the addition of the following new clause :- "If any person shall at the time of his death have been carrying on any business, either alone or in copartnership with any other person or persons, and shall by his will have directed or empowered his executors or trustees to con- tinue to carry on such business, whether for a fixed term of years or without any such limita- tion, it shall be lawful for such executors or trustees to sell, or concur with such other per- son or persons in selling, such business to any joint-stock company to be formed for the pur- pose of acquiring such business and carrying on the same or any similar business or businesses. and such executors or trustees may accept in payment of the whole or part of the considera- tion-money for such sale fully paid-up shares in such company, in like manner as they could have done had the will of such deceased person contained an express authority for that purpose ; but if such will does not direct or empower the executors or trustees to carry on such business, they may apply to a Judge cf the Supreme Court in Chambers for an order sanctioning such sale as aforesaid, and autho- rising them to accept in payment of the whole or part of the consideration-money for such sale fully paid-up shares in such company, in like manner as they could have done had the will of such deceased person contained an ex- press authority for that purpose, and such Judge may make such order, or such other order in the premises as he shall think fit." New clause negatived. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) moved the addition of the following new clause :- "2. The following provisions are hereby added to subsection (d) of section fourteen of "The Trustees Act 1883 Amendment Act 1891,' that is to say :-- 