positions in an organization which has for its object agitation with the view of influencing the Conciliation Board. I say, when this kind of payment is looked at in the light of such a fact as that, it really makes the financial position of the Board positively monstrous. First of all, you put a partisan on the Board, and, secondly, you say to him, " You will get a guinea for every day during which you can protract any litigation that comes before you. If it only lasts one day you will receive a guinea, but if, by quarrelling, and lengthy cross-examination, and adjournments, and what not, you can prolong it to three days, then your remuneration will, of course, be three guineas instead of one, and if you should be ingenious enough to prolong it for a week or a fortnight, then your pay will be proportionately increased." Is not that a monstrous position in which to place a man that should be a judicial or quasi-judicial officer ? And the weakness is the work not of the Act, but of the regulations, and therefore curable by regulation also. But the blot with which we are more immediately concerned is the anomalous posi- tion-the dependent position-in which the President of the Arbitration Court is placed, dependent to some extent by virtue of sub- section (9) of section 112 of the principal Act, but still more dependent by virtue of the illegal, ultra vires action of the Government gazetting fees for the payment of the President, which by the Act they are expressly debarred from doing. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) .- I do not rise for the purpose of speaking at any length on the subject of the Bill, because, as a matter of fact, it requires very little explanation. But I want more particularly to refer to a statement that was made by the honourable member for Bruce just now, in which he said there are paid servants of the union acting on the Concilia- tion Board in Dunedin. Mr. J. ALLEN. - I say I was informed so. Mr. MILLAR .- Well, it is perfectly true. There is one such person. But what pay does he receive? He is a man who was formerly a bootmaker, but gave up the trade, and now lives in the North-East Valley, and receives the large sum of $25 per annum, I think, for acting as corresponding secretary of the Flourmillers' Union. He has been on the Board for the last five years, and will any one say that he has done anything unfair while acting in that capacity ? There are on the Boards men representing the employers who are also members of industrial associations and employers' unions : they have been elected by the employers, and they have absolute confidence in them. And, if it is wrong for the trades-unions to appoint one of their paid servants to the Board because he may be interested in a case, then it is equally wrong for an employer to act on the Board, because he may have an interest in a case that comes before the Board. Then, if that objec- tion is to prevail, how are you to get men with practical knowledge to sit on the Board, if you debar both the employé and the employer ? Mr. Atkinson employers' representatives have occupied some position in an industrial association or an employers' union. They may not receive any direct pay, but they have a more direct and greater interest in the decision of the Board, from a pecuniary point of view, than could the secretary of a trades-union. I do not believe in the whole of New Zealand there are six secre- taries of trades-unions who get paid $50 per annum. There are only three unions that have paid secretaries who have nothing else to do but to attend to the work of the union. Those men who are selected as secretaries are gene- rally the best men in the trade- men with practical knowledge - and if you are going to debar these men from acting on the Concilia- tion Board, and put on none but laymen. how are they going to deal with questions where expert knowledge is required? I think myself if you leave the constitution as it is at the pre- sent time, and allow both sides to elect their own representatives, the best work will be done. I have never heard any one in the colony object to the right of either party to elect their own representative on the Board. It is quite true that there have been what might be called mistakes made by some of the Conciliation Boards in the colony ; but because there have been one or two mistakes are you going to con- demn the whole system ? As to the result of the working of the Conciliation Boards, I be- lieve both the workers and the majority of the employers will express their opinion in no un- certain tones that they thoroughly approve of the work that is being done. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I expected, when I heard this Bill introduced in the House, that the Premier was going to settle this question of the payment of fees to the Judge of the Arbitra- tion Court, and I cannot understand why he did not take the opportunity, in introducing a Buil of this sort. Mr. SEDDON .- It must come in the Act itself. Mr. PIRANI .- It could have been done in this Bill just as easily as the validation can be done. But the only conclusion I could come to as to the reason why it has not been done is because the Premier has the Public Revenues Act of last session as an alternative. If these fees for the Judge of the Arbitration Court were to be disallowed by the Auditor-General, all the Premier would need to do would be to get the Solicitor-General to read in the Arbitration Court Act, after the words " the President." the words, " who shall receive two guineas a day." et cetera, and then say that with those words read in the payment was legal. Then, ii the Governor issued an Order in Council super- seding the Auditor-General, the money could be paid. That is exactly the procedure that has been adopted in regard to other breaches of the law, and it would be just as easy for the Solicitor-General to read those words in the Act as to read certain words in the Bank of New Zealand Act, about which we have had a dispute before. I think it would be much fairer, both to the Judge of the Arbitration 