£8,390,000, and of the unimproved value of £6,375,000. The gain to the land-tax revenue this year I estimate at £10,000, and I see no reason, notwithstanding the unfortunately low price of wool, why the land-tax should not increase year by year in sympathy with other heads of revenue until, at all events, the whole revision of the valuations has been completed." In one-third of the colony the valuations have been completed. The unimproved values in that one-third have been, I think, raised £3 an acre. The settlers in those districts are paying on that high value, whilst the others are not, and I venture to prophesy that by the time these valuers value the other districts the values of land will have dropped, so that the values will remain as at present. In the mean- time, I am afraid that the Wellington District is included in the one-third where the values are raised, and, unfortunately, they are paying on the unimproved value something like £3 extra compared with what people in some other districts are paying. Can you make any other deduction from that paragraph in the Financial Statement ? That is one of the reasons why the Farmers' Union has taken root in the country. The valuation in the first place, as has already been said by some honourable members, was the worst valuation ever made in the colony. I will give the House an instance of how valuers were ap- pointed in my district. This is a fact : There were two gentlemen who put in a tender to value a road district near where I live, their tender being $250 for the whole of the work. A gentleman was sent from the central Valua- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 tion Department in Wellington to the district. He asked a gentleman of the "right colour," " Whom am I to appoint to do this valuation ?" The gentleman named two persons who had for some years acted as valuers in the district for local bodies ; they were really the best who could be obtained for the work. The Welling- ton official said, "I do not think they have made application." "Oh, yes, they have," said his friend. It was found they had made application, and the two gentlemen were then interviewed, and the Valuer-General said to them, "I cannot give you the whole of the block, but what will you do the half of it for?" They went out and consulted together, and, returning to him, they said, "We will do it for $200." Now, honourable members will remember they had offered to do the whole lot for $250. They considered they would not go to any more trouble over it, and that they would do the half for $200, and they were accepted. They there- fore got much less than half, for which they were paid $200, while they were willing to do the whole of it for $250. That was the way the valuers were appointed, and the whole valuation was badly carried out. The district valuer has been worrying my district ever since, and I say that is one of the reasons why the Farmers' Union has taken such a deep root in the country. The local bodies, of course, have had to pay for the bad valuation. Now, I want to give another reason why the Farmers' Union has taken a Mr. Lethbridge Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay) says we are setting class against class. Well, that is a thing 1 deprecate entirely. I do not wish to do it; and I may say I am not against all the labour legislation that has been passed. Some of it is useful; and I am glad to hear some of the Government members and some of the best friends of the Government advising the Go- vernment to "go slow" in the future. I know that the farmers look with a certain amount of suspicion on labour unions, and I think they do so with some reason. One reason is this : A farmer goes into a saddler's shop and buys a saddle, or a set of harness. He says, " You are charging me a good deal more than I got this for last year. Why is it ? You do not give any higher price for the leather." Whether the saddler is right or wrong, he says, "The labour legislation causes us to pay higher rates of wages ; our workmen will not work so long ; and we are put to expense in going to the Conciliation and Arbitration Boards. We have, therefore, to raise the price of the harness." Those, Sir, are some of the reasons why the farmers look with some suspicion on the labour unions. I will mention another reason. The honourable gentleman will remem- ber that at one sitting of the Conciliation and Arbitration Board-in Christchurch, I think it was-a tanner said that if any more restrictions were placed on business, or if the hours of labour were still further shortened, they simply could not carry on their business, as it would not pay them to do so, and they would have therefore to clear out. The person representing the labour interests then said, "The thing is very simple; it is in your own hands." He then said, " What can be done? You will have to give so much less to the farmer for the hides." That being so, do you not think that the farmers have some reason for looking with a degree of suspicion on this labour legisla- tion ? That is another reason why the Farmers' Union has taken root in the country. I said that I did not object to the borrowing of money if it is well spent. I have had many a growl over the North Island Trunk Railway, and I think I will have another little growl to-night. During last session the Minister for Public Works told us that the Makohine Viaduct would be finished by October of this year, and I am rather inclined to think that he led me into making one or two bets, which I suppose I shall have to pay and look pleasant. I am now told that it will be finished by October of next year. I think that that is possible. The Minister has further informed us that the North Island Trunk Railway will be finished in another three years. Last session he told us the work would take another four years, and he now tells us that it is to be finished in three years. Now, we were informed that the Mako- hine Viaduct would be finished in twelve months from last session. We now find that the actual time will be two years ; and if the North Island Trunk line is, according to the Minister, to be finished in four years, I suppose the actual time will be eight years. I do not know 