ter ? Is he the same Mr. Cook? Is it the same Mr. Cook who has been before the Court asking for exorbitant sums of money in con- nection with those liquidations ? Is it the same Mr. Cook ? Is it the gentleman that wanted the whole of the money that he claimed, and that without having finished his work, and his counsel- Mr. J. ALLEN .- I rise to a point of order. I think, Sir, we are discussing the question of privilege, and not Mr. Cook. I must ask you to rule on the question of order. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- It is very diffi- cult to draw the line of demarcation as to what is in order and what is not. So far, I do not think the Premier has gone outside. It is the publication of Mr. Cook's evidence that is in- volved in this question. Mr. FISHER .- And the Guthrie companies ? I will touch on the Guthrie companies. Mr. SEDDON .- I told the House a few minutes ago that the gentleman who wanted to throw the mantle over Mr. Cook was the member for Bruce. Who was it just now rose when the name of Mr. Cook was mentioned, and raised the point of order ? You may throw an insinuation if you like on a member of the Goldfields Committee-the insinuation may be cast upon every member of that Committee - but I was going to bring in the connection that Mr. Cook has with this evidence. There is evidence that he had the whole of this type-written evi- dence for three days in his possession-some of it for over a fortnight, and because some of it is not favourable to Mr. Cook they say, "Oh, Mr. Cook would never give it. Mr. Cook would be no party to that." But let me put another phase on it. Suppose Mr. Cook, who has been in this respect, as far as this evidence is concerned, con- nected with floating and promoting dredging claims of questionable value. I say, Sir, that he has a lot to answer for. It is not the first time in my life that I have known the least unlikely one to be the party who is chiefly implicated in a transaction of this sort. therefore say that we have no right-that I am as much justified in what I am now saying as to say that any member of the House gave the evidence to Mr. Cohen. We have no proof positive, except that for days that evidence was available, that for days it was in the hands of certain gentlemen, and that then we find it published in the Press. I say it is ungentle- manly and dishonourable that, because it has appeared in the Press, any particular gentle- man should be fixed upon by honourable mem- bers as having given out the evidence. It is against all my training and teaching as an Englishman. Mr. W. FRASER .- Why are you doing it ? Mr. SEDDON .- Why am I doing it? I am only giving you the other side of the question, and I am justified in giving you this, and it is just as likely to have come from that source as from the source that you wish to make out it came from. Mr. W. FRASER .- I did not make out any- thing. Mr. Seddon am not deaf ; I am not blind, and I understand what is going on. I have always stood by the members of the House and by the honour of the House, and I say it is improper and wrong for individuals-and it is not the first time-to create an inference. It only requires this to be done in the House and the streets to start a rumour that may be the ruin of individuals. 1 say this has been going on. What has been done since the Committee has deliberated ? A deliberate attempt has been made to fasten the giving of this evidence, in my opinion, on what I believe to be an innocent man. The whole of this question of privilege-the whole of this punishment-is done for the purpose. And we have just heard the member for Palmerston- and he is a master of the art-say the Star reporter has acted dishonourably. Mr. PIRANI .- I said nothing of the sort : there is not a tittle of truth in your state- ment. Mr. SEDDON .- I am wrong in saying the honourable gentleman said it : he led it to be inferred. I am a man that will stand up and say a thing rather than infer it. It is more manly and British and in accordance with our traditions to do that than play the part of -shall I say-a political sneak. I say that was the inference sought to be created in the minds of members, the inference that was to go through the Press to belittle, if they could, the reporter of the Star. No inference of the kind should for a moment obtain, because he has stated, " the Clerk cannot defend himself, and if I let the Clerk suffer I should not be doing what is honourable and straight." He therefore exonerated the Clerk ; but, because he exone- rated the Clerk, and the Chairman says " I did not do it," the honourable gentleman wants the House to infer who was the other who did it. He named the two this afternoon. I know what the honourable member was driving at. He wants to place the reporter of the Star in such a position that be must on his own account act a dishonourable I part by giving the name of the party who gave the information. That is exactly what the honourable member was doing. It requires some one who knows the honourable member's ways to circumvent that. He wound up by saying : " We on this side have been striving all along for the position the Government bas taken ; we insisted upon a penalty, and we shall vote for a penalty ; we presume there is to be a penalty, and shall vote for it." That 8.0. is, of course, the assumption. Mr. PIRANI .- I know it. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable member says he knows it. I challenged him this after- noon, and I challenge him now, to tell the House who gave the type-written evidence to the Star reporter, or what I said at the caucu ... I have so much confidence in the gentlemen who were present at the caucus that I do not believe the statement of the honourable mem- ber for Palmerston. He has referred to thing- that never happened at the caucus, and when doing that he was only on a fishing exped :- 