again, although our consolidated revenue is fairly buoyant we must not forget it is largely owing to the enormous amount we are deriving from the Customs, and that revenue from the Customs is much more liable to fluctuation than any other source of revenue. If anything happens to affect the spending-power of the people at all, down goes the Customs revenue. Therefore it behoves us to be very careful when we are depending so much upon this source of revenue. And to what is the large amount of the Customs revenue due ? To & great extent it is due to the fact that we are borrowing every year between $500,000 to ¥1,000,000. I do not say this is wrong. I repeat again what I have said on former occasions, that we cannot help ourselves. It is all very well for those in whose districts there are rail- ways and bridges and metalled roads, and all that kind of thing, to say all this expenditure must cease ; but the majority of the members of this House know that if you are to carry on the settlement of the country there must be roads made for the settlers, and rivers must be bridged. All that must go on, and we can- not possibly do it out of revenue. But at the same time we must be careful to see that ways and means are provided for this expendi- ture, and obtainable. I repeat again that upon the Government lies a greater responsibility than has been laid upon it for many a long year, because of the increasing cost of adminis- tration on the one hand and the low price of wool on the other. They will find that the latter will affect their revenue to a very marked degree. I will not detain the House longer, but will reserve any further remarks I may https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 desire to make on finance till another oppor- tunity. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) .- Mr Guinness, I think the House as a whole will concur with a great deal of what has been said by the last speaker. His common- sense remarks will, I know, be indorsed by almost every member when he says that he had no fear as to the position of the Consolidated Fund. Well, no member of the House who keeps in touch with what is going on in the colony, and who watches the course of events, and who heard the Statement made by the Colonial Treasurer-no one in the colony- member of the House, newspaper proprietor, or any one who was watching public affairs- had any cause to feel any alarm in connection with the finances of New Zealand. But when the honourable gentleman suggests that we should set up a Finance Committee to deal with the finances of the colony, that is a different matter. He has had some experience of the Public Accounts Committee, and other Committees of this House, and he must recognise how difficult it would be where you have both sides of the House represented, and where, as unfortunately is the case, the honourable gentlemen on the opposite side of the House do make a party question of everything that comes before the Committee. Honourable gentlemen must realise how impossible it would be for such a Committee Mr. W. Fraser the estimates and to bring them down to the House as good, certainly not better, than they are as now brought down. No; you must have some set of men to prepare the estimates and who are responsible for them when laid before the House. Where you have party action upon Committees it would be impossible to deal with intricate questions of finance. I know that when it is looked at superficially there is some- thing to be said in favour of the supposition that the consolidated fund and also the public works estimates, should go before a Committee : but, for reasons I have given, you would have no sound basis to work upon. You would have applications from one part of the colony and they would be supported on the one side by one party and opposed by the other, and it would lead to interminable contentions and divisions. Mr. W. FRASER .- I did not intend that the estimates - that is, the votes-should be re- mitted to the Committee at all. It was the Financial Statement and the Public Works Statement, with regard to finance. Mr. HALL-JONES .- Then, it would mean that instead of the Colonial Treasurer pre- paring the Financial Statement, as laid down before the House, the Financial Statement would be prepared by a Committee. Mr. W. FRASER .- No, reported on by the Committee after being laid before the House. Mr. HALL-JONES .- I think it would be a saving of time, and meet the convenience of members better, if, instead of the Statement and estimates being referred to a Select Com- mittee, they should be referred, as they will now be referred, to a Committee of the whole House. I am sure the other proposal would be unworkable ; but I believe the honourable mem- ber is actuated by the best of motives in making the suggestion, but it would prove unworkable. Now, the honourable member and some other honourable members have referred to the Mid- land Railway Commission, and for the life of me I cannot understand the attitude takeu up by some honourable members with reference to the Midland Railway. What is there in the few words read by the Colonial Treasurer to object to ? The Colonial Treasurer says, After an exhaustive inquiry the Commission has prac- tically reported that the company and deben- ture-holders have been very well treated. I ven- ture to say that any honourable member who has gone at all exhaustively into the details in connection with this matter must admit that the company has been fairly treated - that is. that when carrying on their contract, when they asked for concessions and came to the House for assistance as regards deviations or alterations of the original contract, they re- ceived every consideration ; but, when the contract term expired and they were so far behind completion of the contract as to show their inability to carry out that contract-well. then we were done with the company, and the matter assumed a different phase. The com- pany, when it was carrying on the work, was very fairly treated, and that is a very proper interpretation of this sentence; and the sum- 