the provisions of section 9 of 'The Public Revenues Acts Amendment Act, 1900,' a copy of the correspondence in a case under that section of a difference of opinion between the Audit Office and the Treasury on the question whether certain payments of old-age pension instalments, made subsequently to the period of one month after the due date, without the Colonial Treasurer having first extended such period, were chargeable as payments authorised by section 6 of 'The Old-age Pensions Act Amendment Act, 1900.' "J. K. WARBURTON, Controller and Auditor-General." Mr. SEDDON (Colonial Treasurer) .- I will move, That these papers be referred to the Public Accounts Committee. The matter in- volved, of course, as far as that is concerned, is mere machinery. It is a question of the law upon the point. The position is this: By the Act of last session we agreed that, where the old pensioners fell sick and could not come in for their instalments, the Colonial Treasurer should extend the time for payment, otherwise the old people would forfeit them. The imprest moneys are sent to the Postmasters, and in some cases in far-off districts payment was made extending over the month, and then the Postmaster has asked for my approval. I may not give ap- proval after the month is up. That is the question-whether I have retroactive power. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Not " retroactive" ; retro- spective. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, put it that way if you like. And because the Postmaster has paid the money during the month, and it has not https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 come to me until the end of the month, and I say I approve of it, the Auditor-General says I cannot say that when it must be after the end of the month. The Solicitor-General says I can ; and that is the difference of opinion that is referred to the House. I move, That the papers be referred to the Public Accounts Com- mittee. I want the country to understand this : It would appear-probably that is the conclusion many have arrived at-that these are the only differences that arise between the Premier and the Audit Department. It is no- thing of the sort. Any amount of differences arise where our reading does not agree, and we give way. The House does not hear of these cases. It is only where the Government are supported by the Solicitor-General as to the law that any difference arises. At all events, this is a case which clearly means that, if I had not this power, any one of these payments to old people could not be made at all. They would have to go without their month's in- stalment. That is exactly what is the matter. And, as I say, when the lawyers are against us we give way. But in this case, where both the lawyers and the law are with us, I could not give way to what was contended by the Auditor- General. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- I wanted to ask the Premier if he would add to his motion -I hope he will-" and that the papers be printed." Mr. HERRIES .- I hope, also, he will take steps to bring in a clause to amend the Act in the way he indicated. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- There is more in these papers than the Premier seems to think. I notice a long letter from the Governor, in which he says, " He desires to point out that the Solicitor-General, in his opinion, states that the point is not free from doubt." That does not say that is the law as to the Government, at any rate : "The Governor feels it was the intention of the Legislature that all payments of this nature under the old-age pensions should come within the vote named." Mr. FISHER .- And he is reading in ? Mr. PIRANI .- He is reading in our intention, following the lead of the Solicitor - General. There is one point in which the Premier is wrong also ; and, I hope, if there is to be any legislation, as suggested by the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty, it will not be in the direction the Premier stated. There is no objection to the Premier assenting to these pension payments after the month. The ob- jection is that the Premier did not assent to the pensions until after the payments had been made. That is very different. Mr. SEDDON .- That is what I told the House. Mr. PIRANI .- Not so ; the only point is this : that, instead, as stated here, of the Registrar of Old-age Pensions assenting to the extension of the time, the Colonial Treasurer ought to do it. That is the only difference. It is a very simple thing. A wrong course has been adopted. The Registrar of Old-age Pensions has instructed the Postmasters to pay in the extended period, whereas the law says the Colonial Treasurer shall do so. There are many disputes on which the Treasury give way, and it seems to me that in nearly every dispute we have before the House it would be a very easy thing, and the proper thing, for the Treasury to give way. Now, take this case : All that the Treasury had to do was to pay these amounts out of the "Unauthorised," and they would then come before the House in due course and be passed. That is the whole point, and all this time and trouble that is wasted in getting up this correspondence, in obtaining the opinions of the Solicitor-General, in hunting up the Governor and getting him to interfere in the administration, and these disputes before the House - the whole of the humbug carried on by the Government could be settled by putting a few pounds on to " Unauthorised " and passing the item in the ordinary course. The total amount involved in this case is only £113 in one list and £137 in the other. I do not think the Premier seriously desires all this fuss and publicity over these matters, but he goes the wrong way to work to prevent that. Surely any private company or any one in business would simply follow the instructions of their auditor ; and I would suggest to the Premier that in future, instead of wasting his time and brains and patience in getting up correspon- dence and legal opinions and orders from the 