add the cost of the Under-Secretaries of depart- ments, and if you do that you might as well add every other officer in any department. In that way you could bring the expenses of my worthy colleague here to over a million of money a year. Then, the honourable member complains about the Commissions. He wanted to know why the School Teachers' Salaries Commission was set up. He stated that I said last session I had a complete scale ready at that time. I never said so. I said I had a draft scale which was incomplete, and as it was incomplete I did not feel justified in placing it before honourable members; and that was why I was anxious to obtain the opinion of those connected with educational matters, so that we might have something detinite before us when compiling the scale. Sir, if there was any one responsible for the appointment of that Commission it was the honourable member himself. When, last session, I had a Bill before the House under which I venture to say would have been com- piled a scale of salaries which would have given fair satisfaction-1 give the Commissioners every credit for the work they have done, and they have been of great assistance to the department - but, if that Bill had passed, there would have been no necessity for setting up that Commission ; and the honourable gentle- man was one of the strongest opponents of that Bill passing, so that he must take a large share in the responsibility of the cost of the Commission. Then, he went on to say the Government desired to create a standing army, and he referred to our Volunteers in most con- temptuous terms. It seem to be like the pro- verbial red rag to a bull for him to see a Volun- teer going through the street in uniform. I thought the honourable member would be aware that the rules of the service compel the re- turned troopers to wear their uniform until such time as they are formally discharged. That is the reason why they have been obliged to offend the honourable gentleman's eye. Sir, there are many in this House who recognise the good work that these men have done, and who are not like him and some other members who fail to recognise what those men have done for the defence of New Zealand, and in showing other countries what New-Zealanders are made of. The good service they have done will stand for all time. Now, the honourable member for Nelson City made a very extraordinary speech. He was in such a state of excitement that he was continually referring to my honourable friend the member for Napier, Mr. A. L. D. Fraser, as " Mr. Napier, the member for Auck- land City "; and his speech was much on the same lines. His figures were difficult to under- stand, and what I did understand were in every case incorrect. The honourable member got very angry because I challenged his state- ment about the increases on the estimates for the year. The details of those increases have since been given. The honourable member said that the increases in salaries outside the classification was £46,000, and he took up a theatrical attitude, and challenged a Minister Mr. Hall-Jones the correctness of his figures. What do the details prove : that the increases in salaries in the departments, apart from the classification he referred to, do not exceed £12,000. The honourable member still persisted in his state- ment, and I presume will do so to the present day. But, Sir, he will have an opportunity later on of pointing out where these in- creases are. I challenged him to give the figures at the time, but he declined to do so. Then, he got into great trouble over the question of liabilities. He was at this time dealing with the Public Works Fund. He re- ferred on several occasions to liabilities as debts owing by the colony. The honourable gentle- man said. " If the honourable gentleman had paid his debts " owing on the 31st March. which ought to have been paid -"if he had done what was honest "; but the honourable gentleman did not know what he was talking about, because the liabilities in that case are not debts, only to this extent : that some small portion of them did not come to book on that date. At the present time we have some eight or nine bridges under contract running into a good many thousands of pounds. These works are being carried out in the manufacturers' workshops; but until they start the work of erection, or do some work on the site of the bridge, they cannot claim one penny for the work done. Hence they are not a debt ; there is no debt in connection with them until some work has been done or some material has been delivered on the site. Take the case of s contract let for a post - office, to cost, say, £4,000 or £5,000. So soon as a tender has been accepted that at once becomes a liability ; but as no work has been done no money is owing and it is not a debt, and it will not become & debt until some portion of the work has been done. That is what I have had some difficulty in getting honourable members to understand. I wish the honourable member for Nelson City and some others would take lessons in book- keeping before making such rash statements to the House, because, as I have pointed out, they are liable to mislead those who have not an opportunity, as honourable members have, of acquiring information. Now, the leader of the Opposition dropped into the same mistake, and I think the honourable member for Bruce did so-he wanted to put these liabilities as public debt. Captain RUSSELL .- I certainly said it was a debt, in the case of public works. Mr. HALL-JONES .- But they are not debts. I will give another instance. We have con- tracts out for thousands of sleepers. They are all liabilities, but I venture to say that not one- half of them will ever become debts, because the sleepers may never be delivered ; but we have to put them down as liabilities because the offers have been accepted. We want many thousands of sleepers, and have advertised for tenders have accepted tenders ; but in many cases the sleepers will never be delivered, and so, in many cases, the liability will never be- come a debt, Now, the chief criticism during 