that office. Amendment negatived. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked for the items included in the sum of £223 expended under head of " Contingencies " last year. Mr. HALL-JONES said the contingencies for the year 1900-1901 were as follows :- £ 8 18 Medical fees, accidents in workrooms Post and Telegraph Department, 46 17 telephones and repairs .. Engraving blocks 79 13 Cleaning windows, and removing 38 19 rubbish, &c. . Postages 26 18 Cable messages .. 6 18 Lands and Survey Department 1 12 Labour Department, fees 2 . . Repairing hand-cart 3 12 Cutting stamp plates, and sharpen- ing saws 1 Sundries 6 .. £223 0 0 Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) moved to report progress. Motion negatived. Vote, £23,175, agreed to. Public Health Department, £12,784. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) thought the Minis- ter might give the House some information about this department. In the foot-note it was said that the money asked for was provided last year under the " Miscellaneous services " vote. That might be so, but the only sum asked for last year was £3,000, of which £511 was ex- pended. This year a sum of £12,784 was asked for, and he had no doubt that every penny would be required. Of course, the setting-up of the department was the outcome of the passing of the Public Health Act of last year. How- ever that might be, he wished to say he had his doubts as to whether the people of the colony would get full value for the money it was pro- posed to expend under this heading. Sir J. G. WARD said, When the House passed the Public Health Act last year honour- able members fully comprehended what they were doing. They were establishing in the colony a system that was intended to be for the general protection of the people against the inroad of bad health or imported diseases. Another object that was aimed at was the prevention of troublous diseases within the colony itself. He believed the Public Health Department of the colony had already saved hundreds of thousands of pounds to New Zea- land. He was sure members would admit that when they remembered what had taken place in New South Wales as a result of the invasion of the bubonic plague there. As a matter of fact, they had not recovered from it yet, and up to date that country had lost enormously through it. New Zealand had exerted vigilance in the matter, largely due to the efforts of the Public Health Officers, and, as a result, the disease had not appeared in the colony, except Mr. Hall Jones bers were not agreed whether it was actually there or not. Now, he wished to tell the House that in the Auckland District Dr. McGili had been appointed to the position of District Health Officer. He had a diploma of public health. Dr. De Lisle had been appointed in Napier, subject to his obtaining a diploma of public health, and finding a substitute to act d. 8. in his absence. In the Wellington Provincial 6 District Dr. Valintine had been appointed, and in Otago Dr. Ogston. Those were all the 2 appointments that had been made as permanent 0 District Health Officers. When he said " per- manent " he meant that they were all subject 0 to a month's notice in the event of their ser- 0 vices not being required. In the other districts 4 the department had made the following acting 6 appointments, namely: Dr. Symes, Canter- 2 0 bury, £150 per annum; Dr. Anderson, Blen 0 heim, $50; Dr. Roberts, Nelson, £100; Dr. C. Morice, Westland, £150. Dr. Morice would 6 4 take up his duties within the next month or so. 5 0 In addition there was a Native Public Health Officer, Dr. Pomare, at a salary of $300 per annum. He might say that the work that had been done by the Native doctor, who was able to speak with the Natives in their own tongue, had been very good indeed, and was calculated to do a great amount of good to the Native population of the colony. He would like to point out that in these Public Health estimates there were included several large items that had been taken over from other departments. There were "Inspection of vessels, £1,600," and " Vac- cination, £1,500," which had both been taken over. There was a sum of £3,100 in the vote that was simply transferred from other depart- ments. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked for the details of the "Contingencies," amounting to $2,600. Sir J. G. WARD said the details were as follows :- Fumigating vessels, &c. 200 Bacteriological incubators 60 .. Serum 405 .. Microscopes .. 150 .. Travelling-expenses of all officers, including Chief Health Officer and Sanitary Inspectors . 1,000 Bacteriologist 150 .. Analyst 100 .. Office rent 200 . Miscellaneous 350 . . .. £2,615 The Public Health estimates in Victoria amounted to nearly four times the sum asked for in New Zealand. He might state that about ninety letters a day were going out of the Public Health Department at present, and these were very largely replying and sending out generally information on health matters to public bodies and the people generally. So far it had proved itself to be a very useful department. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said, He did not mind what number of Health Officers 