first written-namely, last October. An Hon. MEMBER .- It has been read in the House already this session. Captain RUSSELL .- I shall argue, then, that the opportunity was lost by the honour- able member for Wairarapa, for if he had de- sired to bring on a question of privilege he should have done so on the first day of the session, and the very earliest opportunity should have been availed of for discussing the ques- tion; and, having failed to do so, his right to bring on this as a question of privilege has lapsed ; or if he failed to do so on the first day of the session, then the fact of his not having availed himself of the opportunity when the article was read in the House would in itself constitute & bar. On the same page of rulings-156- ruling 8, by Mr. Speaker O'Rorke, it is laid down,- " If no notice is taken at the time of an alleged breach of order it cannot be raised afterwards as a matter of privilege." An Hon. MEMBER .- That is a question of order. Captain RUSSELL .- Quite so; I have to find arguments which are most apposite to the case which is before the House, and I should say that would be a guide in arriving, Sir, at your decision that, if the opportunity had not been availed of, then the right to raise the question has lapsed. Then, I find on page 158, No. 20, the following :- " Committal of a person for breach of privi- lege terminates with the prorogation of Parlia- ment." https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 There, again, I may be told that no com- mittal has happened ; but, at any rate, it gives pertinence to the question of time-that it is, in fact, the essence of the business, if I may be allowed to use the term. That is to say, a question of privilege ought not to hang over for an indefinite time, but that the first opportunity which presents itself must be availed of. If, however, it is decided presently that the honour- able member has a right to bring the old news- paper article up as a question of privilege, then I shall be in a position to argue-or I shall argue, at any rate -that the article is not in it- self a breach of the privileges of this House as provided for by our Standing Orders, or by the proceedings laid down in May. Standing Order No. 138 says, - "Any member may rise to speak ' to order,' or upon a matter of privilege suddenly arising." Sir, I only quote this to show that in every instance the word "suddenly " is involved, and apparently the intention of the Standing Orders and the intention of the rulings of the Speakers has been that the question of privilege must be dealt with at the moment it happens, or as soon after as possible. Under these circum- stances, I shall argue that an old newspaper article is not a question of privilege. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I hope members will read, mark, learn, and inwardly digest the fact that we have had three members, I think, opposite already protesting against this article being read. Captain Russell Mr. SEDDON .- It is easily to be seen that that is the effect of it. Mr. ELL .- Who is raising the question of party now ? Mr. SEDDON .- I am calling attention to the fact- Mr. ELL .- I am well aware of that ; but who is raising the question of party ? Mr. SEDDON .- I am calling attention to the fact that, so far, the exception that has been taken to this matter has come from the honour- able gentlemen opposite. Mr. PIRANI .- I rise to a point of order. Is the Premier speaking to the point of order raised by the member for Franklin ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - The Premier must confine his remarks to the question of order. It is only by my indulgence that I am allowing members to speak on the point of order. It is a very grave and important matter, and I feel it is only right to allow leading members of the House to say a few words on the question before I decide. Mr. SEDDON .- I rose for the purpose of leading the House, if I could, in order that it may do that which is correct in respect to this matter. My first contention in respect to the point of order is that the article must be read. We must first of all ascertain from the paper itself whether the offence was committed re- cently or some time back. Mr. HORNSBY .- It has never been quoted from the paper vet. Mr. SEDDON .- At all events, the first thing the House has to decide is that a breach of privilege has taken place. You have first of all to decide whether there has been a breach of privilege. How is the House to decide whether it constitutes a breach of privi- lege until the article is read ? The House knows nothing about this matter except the assertion of the member for Wairarapa. The next question is : Supposing after it is read it is proved that a breach of privilege was committed some time ago, are there prece- dents to show that the House can now at this time of day take the matter into consideration ? I say, Yes. You have only to look at May. page 341, and it is shown there that three years after publication a case came before the Im- perial Parliament as a breach of privilege. Then, there is another case. It was the case of Mr. Edward Wakefield, editor of the Timaru Herald. If you look at that case, I think you will find that some time had elapsed before the matter was brought before the House. It was not within a day or two ; it was some little time afterwards. I contend that in this case the first thing should be to read the paragraph complained of, and decide whether it con- stitutes a breach of privilege or not. At this stage I shall not say anything further as to whether this is a breach of privilege or not. All I say now is that the House must be put in the position to decide whether a breach: of privilege has been committed before any further action can be taken, and that is in accordance with the rulings of the Speaker, as 