shares allotted ; Holmes advised to the con- trary. Cook informed presented deed assign- ment.' (?) " Witness: He could not have done so, be- cause, as a matter of fact, it was in the safe in my office, and Mr. Cook was not there. It was in Cook's office, but he was very much away. I was managing the office at that time. " Then, I take it that the deed has been in the office; but up to yesterday neither the public nor the shareholders have been able to look at it ?- It has been there for any one to look at it ; but I deny that you ever asked for the Tucker Flat deed. "Mr. Easton here remarked that a great many applications had been made to inspect this deed, and Mr. Somerville had written to him as follows: 'I took the trouble to get MacGregor to go round with me to Cook's office, and Holsted assured us that he could not produce the deed of Tucker Flat. We i but must accept your statement as to dates. then went round to the Stamp Office and saw Mr. Corliss, who looked up his deeds and found that the agreement from Cook and Co. was filed in March, 1900; but no reference is made to the agreement from Wylde to Cook, nor is it filed with the other documents. think this is all in connection with the Tucker Flat, except to confirm what I said in my pre- vious wire to you, that the meeting stands ad- journed for six weeks to enable the directors to make arrangements with the vendors re- garding fully paid-up shares.' " The registered office of the company is in Cook and Gray's office ?- No : it is at my office now ; but it was Cook and Gray's office on the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 13th April. " You are aware that Mr. Cook was a director of the company, that Cook and Gray were the brokers, and that Mr. W. R. Cook was vendor / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero to the company ? - Yes. " You are aware also that in March last Mr. Cook resigned from the Board ?-- I could not speak from memory as to the date, but the minutes will show that. "Can you tell us how much Mr. Cook re- ceived during the eleven months that he acted as director ? - The annual fees were sixty guineas, I think, divided as the directors thought fit. I presume, therefore, that Mr. Cook would get an equal share with the other two directors. The balance-sheet would show that. " Then, we will take it that Mr. Cook received twenty guineas. Will you tell us how many meetings Mr. Cook attended during the eleven months ?- Two, I think ; either one or two, I am not sure which. " Then, he attended one or two meetings, for which he received twenty guineas of the share- holders' money. You are aware that on the 27th March last, at the annual meeting, I lost my seat on the Board ?- Yes. "And you are aware that Mr. Cook's other employé, Mr. Howes, took my place ?-- That is SO. " Who is chairman of the company at the present time ?- Mr. Howes. first meeting after I lost my seat-Mr. Howes moved that the capital be increased by £5,000. Is that not so ?- No ; that motion was moved by Mr. Somerville. "Mr. Howes put the motion, then ?- Yes, as chairman he had to. The motion was one of Somerville's. " You are aware that on the 15th July I lodged a requisition signed by a majority of the qualified shareholders ?- No, the unqualified shareholders. " It was signed by a majority of the share- holders - a requisition to voluntarily wind up the company ?- Yes. "Can you produce that requisition ?- I did not bring it with me, but I admit the fact. "Then, can you remember that on the 10th July, 1900, I purchased through a firm of brokers 100 fully paid vendors' shares of $1 each ?-- I can remember a transfer coming in, " Not a transfer-it was for fully paid shares ? -Yes. " You are aware that I subsequently issued a writ against the brokers who sold those shares because they could not deliver ?- You say so : I I do not know it. I am speaking from hear- say. "Are you aware that on the 15th July I purchased of a Mr. Choyce, through Mr. Cook. 250 contributing shares ?- Yes. " How came that transfer to get through. because at that time Choyce had not paid a call amounting to $25 on them ?- That is so. At the time that you bought them no demand had been made on Choyce to pay the call. You bought the shares at 2s. paid up, I understand ; but the transfer will prove that. The call of 2s. was certainly struck between the time that you bought and the time that the transfer was regis- tered, but the directors did not object to passing the transfer, because they .knew you to be a reliable man, and that you would be liable for the calls. " The first call struck was on the 10th August. and Mr. Choyce was liable for 2s. per share on every share that I bought. Is not that so ? -It all depends at what time you bought the shares. "I bought them on the 29th August ? --- Then, your transfer was very slow in coming in. "On the 29th August I purchased 250 con- tributing shares at par, sending #25 2s., being application-money of Is. per share, allot- ment of Is. per share, and 2s. office fees. That transfer was passed through to me with a call owing by Chovce, struck on the 10th August. How came it that the directors put that transfer through ? -- They knew from the fact of your transfer that it was 2s. per share, and that you were only paying 2s., and that you therefore must become liable for the call. "I want the Committee to fully understand that the transfer was passed through the office with $25 due from the seller ?- That is so ; bat ! the liability became yours, as you had only paid the application- and allotment-money. 