- tration Act is a good one. It was passed at a not realise that such is the case, and they say time when we had just gone through a period the time may come, but it will not be in our of strikes, and it was hoped that it would be time. But these trusts are here. I will give successful to avert them in future. But, Sir, an instance in the coal trade. We find the price of coal is altogether out of reason, and the serious flaw in the whole thing is the matter of the Conciliation Boards. The Arbi- the poorer classes feel it most acutely. I will tration Court, in my opinion, has been ex- give a case to show how monopolies are taking tremely fair, although they have taken powers root. In my own town there is a scale drawn which I consider they have no right to. With up of the prices at which coal shall be sup- the Conciliation Boards, however, it has been plied to the consumer. The merchants who a question of continuance in their billets, and, deal in the coal are prevented from supplying in order to get as much money as they pos- it at a lower rate, through the threat that sibly could out of it, many of the members the coal companies will not supply them unless have induced the workmen to bring supposed they charge scale price, and so they have to I say that with- grievances before them. charge it. It is a shame, and it is time the out the slightest hesitation. Any one knows Government came to our relief by starting a that the recommendations of these Boards coal-mine, as they tell us they are going to do. are seldom taken. It is said by nearly all I will give another case that goes to show what employers that they prefer to go before the took place. I am Chairman of the Harbour Arbitration Court, and let the matter be finally Board at Wanganui, and we found our Board decided there. I could bring forward numerous in such a prosperous condition that we were instances in which these disputes have taken willing to give £1,000 a year to those who were place, and where the most ridiculous recom- taxed on their wharfages. A committee was mendations have been given by the Boards. set up, and the committee finally agreed that When the Factories Bill comes before this the wharfage on coal should be reduced from House I shall have something more to say on 2s. 6d. to 1s., thinking by this means that the this matter, and I dare say other members of poorer classes of the community would get the House will have something to say about it the benefit. When this was done, the result too. I do not wish to act in the way of a was that within fourteen days coal was candid friend, but I say what my opinions are raised by the coal-mines 18. 6d. a ton, so in regard to these measures, and I am not one the whole of the £1,000 concession from the to express opinions one way and to act in Board goes into the pockets of the coal-owners. another. As I talk, so do I vote. If the Go- vernment are determined to push on with this tyrannical and worrying system of legislation and I consider it is wrong that such a state of by which injustice is done, and by which in- affairs should exist. We will go further, and dustries are driven out of this country, then it take the " flour trust," which is a big trust. It https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 is time some interference was made. affects every one- the farmers and the poorer An Hon. MEMBER .- How will you vote ? people of the community. An attempt is being Mr. WILLIS .- I will vote as I have voted made- and I believe it is going to be successful before ; and honourable members know how I -to establish a trust that will be one of the voted on some of these measures. One mea- largest that this colony will have. I am not sure before the House last session, of which I divulging any secret when I state what the was a most earnest opponent, was in regard to determination of this trust is. Our own mill the vexed question of the abolition of imprison- in Wanganui not long ago received notice that ment for debt. I have been asked again and if they did not take up shares in that trust the again by men who are now refused credit to trust would take care that the mill would be endeavour to get the Act repealed. These men undersold to such an extent that they would are unable to get credit; the storekeepers not be able to carry on. The miller there re- refuse to give them credit, knowing that they fused. He said that he was perfectly satisfied have no security ; and honest working-men with the price he was getting, that his business who have not the ready money are prevented was a good one, and that he had no wish to go from getting articles they really need. I can into the trust. The trust sent him back word only describe it as one of the most one-sided in effect that, no matter what he thought, it was Acts that ever passed this House. As I pointed a question of what they thought, and they still out before, if a man has only a few articles in insisted that if he would not come into the his house, those articles can be seized for debt ; trust they would carry out their determination but if a man has money, and plenty of it, it of finally driving him out of the place. The re- cannot be seized as actual property, and the sult is that they have reduced the price of flour debtor escapes. What I pointed out to the by 10s. per ton, and the matter is still going House has really taken place, and I think the on, and there can only be one end. One mill time will come when this portion of the Act cannot stand out against the trust, and the will have to be repealed. There is another result must be that either the miller will matter I should like to speak about, and that ultimately have to join the trust or he will be is with regard to the way in which we are a ruined man. I consider that it is the duty of threatened with monopolies and trusts in this the Government to interfere in some way or country. We do not seem to realise this. another to prevent what is taking place, because People generally, when you speak about the not only will the trust raise the price of flour, That is the position in which we are 4.0. placed with our own Harbour Board, 