of timber, et cetera. We have an instance in the Waimarino Block, which contains one of the best totara forests we have in the colony. The value of the totara alone is considered to be far and away above the value of the land when purchased by the Crown. This goes to show that the Maoris, in the disposal of their interests to the Crown, are restricted by the peculiarity of our law, which prevents the Maoris from selling to anybody but the Crown, and by this the State calls upon the Maoris to pay direct taxation to the colony. Who receives the benefit of that? The State does, of course. The Maori only receives the restricted value he gets for the land, and that is next to nothing at all. There are cases all over the colony of this nature, and, apart from this, there is the 10 per cent. for stamp duty. In all the sales that take place the Maoris are paying heavy taxation to the colony. An Hon. MEMBER. - What about road rates ? Mr. HEKE .- It is the same with road rates. Maori lands at the present time are liable. They do not escape the payment of rates whether they are individualised or not. The Rating Act has been so amended that the local body can call upon the owner of property to pay the rates. They are paid in some cases, and there is the remedy in others. Now, the member for the Western Maori District made a very long speech on the provisions of the Maori Lands Administration Act of last year, and he gave the House to understand that the tribes through- out the colony were dissatisfied with the provi- sions of the Act. I desire to state that there is no such feeling existing amongst the Maoris, and when I say this I speak of the tribes as a whole. I admit that there are individuals and very small sections of people who have objected to the Act, but that is nothing at all. The people as a whole are perfectly satisfied. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why is it not brought into operation ? Mr. HEKE .- It is not for the Natives to bring the Act into operation, but it is the wish of the Natives that the Act should come into operation as early as possible. The remarks of the member for the Western Maori District only apply todissatisfaction which is created by the people of the Waikato District. They do not apply to the Western Maori District at all, and only apply to a very small section of the southern part of the Western District-that is to the Ngatiraukawa, the people round about Otaki. The reason for the dissatisfaction is not for anything contained in the provisions of the Act. It is because they are disappointed. These are disaffected people, and the reason for their disaffection is that they contended for and fought against the desires of the proper landed proprietors of that particular locality-I mean the members of the Ngatimaniapoto Tribe, the tribe of whom Rewi, Taonui, and Wahanui were the heads. The Waikato proper, who are followers of the alleged Maori king, Mahuta, are, practically speaking, landless. When I say they are landless, I mean that they are not large landed proprietors ; they have small come under the administration of this Act. The sole wish and desire of the section for whom the member for the Western Maori Dis- trict spoke of-that is, the Mahuta party- their sole desire is to have the right of control over the lands belonging to Maniapoto within their district ; and, if that was done at all, the result would be that the proper owners of the land themselves would not have any representa- tion on the Maori Land Board, but instead of that they would see all the landless followers of the alleged Maori king the administrators of their land, and they the sufferers by means of having no representation on the Council. Therefore, it has been the desire of the Mania- poto people that their interests should be cut off from the influence of the followers of the alleged Maori king, and because of this they come into this House through their representa- . tive and declare that the Maoris, as a whole, are dissatisfied with the Act of last year. There is no dissatisfaction amongst the Maori people throughout the colony. There are only dissatis- fied individuals, and a small section, and they are dissatisfied because of personal reasons. Now, take the whole Northern Maori District, the majority of the tribes who are located there are perfectly satisfied with the Act of last year, and are waiting for the setting-up of the Maori Land Council, and to see the adminis- tration of that Council go on. The same thing applies to the landed proprietors of the Western Maori District I spoke of, the King- country. This is not Waikato territory. The land there belongs to a tribe who professed allegiance to the Maori King, Tawhaio, in the early days ; but during the last few years they severed their allegiance, seeing that their own interests were likely to suffer ; and, notwith- standing the statements made by the member for the Western Maori District, they have sent their representatives-J. Ormsby and Eketone Pepene - here for the purpose of bringing the views of their people before the Minister in respect to certain amendments. The same applies to the people in the Eastern Maori electorate. Up the East Coast, north of Gis- borne, you find a great area of land there that is owned by the Ngatiporou people- members of the late Major Ropata's tribe. There is a large tract of land there held by the Natives, and it is the Natives' desire that the Act of last year should be set in motion as soon as possible. Coming further south into Hawke's Bay, and right down to the Wairarapa here, there is no immediate necessity for the Act to the Maori people owning lands here, because the majority of their lands at the pre- sent time are let on long leases to Europeans. But there are small blocks here and there, and the Maori owners wish to vest the same in the Maori Land Council as soon as it is set up. To apply my remarks to the Act itself, I said last year when the Bill was before the House that all the provisions of the Bill were not what I required, nor what I was satisfied with. There are defects. However, there are many of the provisions of the Act now that are beneficial to 