mentioned by the member for Hawke's Bay. If it is maintained that the question must be raised immediately, then it means that in this case the member who makes the allegation must give notice, and it must come on to- morrow, and take precedence of all other business. All I can say is that if he gives notice of motion to take this question into con- sideration we will still require to be placed in possession of the facts as to whether there is or is not sufficient ground for declaring it a breach of privilege. Of course, I overheard what oc- curred last night. The member for Riccarton challenged the member for Wairarapa, and the honourable member said, " Very well, I accept the challenge, and will bring it before the House." And it is now before the House. In a matter of this kind all we want to be guided by is precedent, and to do what is just and proper in the matter. But I say that if it is claimed that it is not a breach of privilege because a certain time has elapsed, I contend that time does not prevent such a matter being dealt with. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- As by inference the Premier has stated just now that the action of the Opposition is for the purpose of protect- ing me, I would like to tell the Premier this : that members of the Opposition mentioned this matter to me, and when they did so I stated that I did not think there was anything in the point, and that 1 hoped it would not be raised. As far as I am concerned, I do not care a button for forty Parliaments. If I have committed a breach of privilege I shall be only too pleased to see it raised and dealt with as soon as pos- sible. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- Allow me to men- tion that the case referred .to occurred some years ago-in 1879. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I have it before me. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- I do not suppose the Premier wished to be incorrect in referring to the case of Mr. Edward Wakefield. That question of privilege was brought before the House as soon as the paper arrived from Timaru -- three days after publication. In re- gard to the article complained of now by the member for Wairarapa, I think it ought to have been brought under the notice of the House on the first available opportunity after the House met this session. I did intend to bring it before the House myself, but I did not do so for the reason that I intended to use it in my speech on the Libel Bill. The whole question of this article was brought under the notice of the House on the 1st August last, when I moved the second reading of the Libel Bill, so that the House has had this article in its pos- session from the 1st August till to-day, the 12th September. I was distinctly under the impres- sion that the article ought to have formed the subject of a motion for breach of privilege, but as the House took no notice of my representa- tions on the subject on the 1st August it does seem a little peculiar that we should be now asked to take notice of it on the 12th Sep- tember. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The rulings that my attention has been called to are, to my mind, very clear that these breaches of privi- lege are given precedence to when they are immediately brought before the Chair. It is quite evident that this matter is an alleged breach of privilege ; but it occurred some eleven months ago, and consequently the honourable member, in my judgment, must, on the authority of previous rulings, give notice of motion to bring this matter before the House. His giving notice of motion will not put him in a worse position, except, perhaps, it. may involve a delay of twenty-four hours ; but the motion will be allowed precedence then. Captain RUSSELL .- When should we argue the point of the ruling given by Mr. Speaker O'Rorke in 1890-namely, that if no notice is taken at the time of the alleged breach of privi- lege it cannot be raised afterwards as a breach of privilege ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - I can decide that point at once. That ruling, as also the other rulings which the Speakers have given, refers to breaches of order in the House in the course of debate. This is the breach of privilege committed by the publishing of something out- side the House, and a copy of the paper may come before members in a week or a year after- wards. When an alleged breach of the Stand- ing Orders takes place in the House the House is supposed to take cognisance of it immediately ; therefore it must be brought before the Speaker immediately. If that is not done the opportunity passes away. Captain RUSSELL .- The House did become cognisant of this matter long ago and took no notice of it ; therefore I contend the oppor- tunity has lapsed. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I was not aware of that. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) .- Sir, I give notice that to-morrow I will move, That a gross breach of the privileges of this House has been committed by the publication in the Manawatu Evening Standard of the leading article contained in that journal in its issue of the 22nd October, 1900. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- Sir, I wish to give notice that-I may say I want a little time to elapse, namely, a week-I will bring before the House a breach of privilege com- mitted by Mr. J. T. M. Hornsby in the Napier Evening News in the course of an article in which he stated that the member for Palmers- ton North had been bribed by foreign banks in the colony to vote against the Bank of New Zealand. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I call honourable members' attention to the fact that they must uphold the dignity of Parliament. POSTPONEMENT OF QUESTIONS. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, That the order of questions be postponed, to allow Notice of Motion No. 1 to be brought up-namely, That the resolution of the House of the 10th July last, fixing morning sittings of this House, be rescinded. 