on Friday night, said that he did not believe in lukewarm support of a Government. He believed in being for or against the Govern- ment. That means that if a member should see anything that he did not approve of in his party he should not say anything about it, but should go on supporting his party as warmly as ever. That is strange morality, and is a strong argument against our present system of party government. I notice that one of the first subjects mentioned in the Budget Speech relates to the public revenue. The first thing the Treasurer says about it is that the revenue far exceeded his most sanguine expectations. The honourable gentleman's estimate of it was far below the actual results, which is so far fortunate. The increase in the revenue of the country during the past year was £272,000. It may be presumed that the increase or decrease of the revenue of a State bears some proportion to the increase or de- crease of the population. The honourable gentleman who has just resumed his seat made some remarks to the same effect, and I notice some remarks of the same kind in the Budget. All that goes to show that we may expect the increase or decrease of our public revenue to bear some proportion to the increase or decrease of the population. The population increases at the rate of about 2 per cent. I make out that if the revenue last year had increased at the same rate it would have amounted to about £110,000, and if things are properly managed that seems to be about enough to meet the cost of governing the addi- tional population. But, as I have said, the increase is not £110,000, but £272,000, or more than double what it would have been if the increase had been according to the increase of population. This revenue of ours has been increasing very much of late years. This £272,000 of increase is less than the average increase of the past four years. The average increase of the past four years is £310,000. This increase, being larger than the increase The of population, leads to extravagance. Government take credit for having for some years past transferred each year half a million from the Consolidated Fund to the Public Works Fund for the purpose of carrying on public works. In this half-million, however, there is included what is called the territorial revenue. This territorial revenue last year amounted to £270,000; so that, at the very most, only $230,000 of ordinary revenue could be transferred to the Public Works Fund. I think that, with due economy, the money available for public works might be very much larger than it is. If we were to practise the economy that might be practised, the money that would accrue to us out of the public reve- nue, together with the borrowing of, say, half a million a year, would give us about a million which we could devote to public works, and that, I think, would about meet the require- ments of the colony. We have been increasing our expenditure of late years. The increase of expenditure last year as compared with that of Mr. J. W. Thomson increase each year during the last four years has been £248,000. I admit that last year was an exceptional year as regards calls on the pub- lic Treasury. The chief dread with most people as to borrowing for public works is the pay- ment of the interest. For every million we borrow we pay at the very least £35,000 of interest; but the sum by which we are yearly increasing our expenditure would pay interest on seven millions at 3} per cent. Then, there is the current year. No doubt we have many things to pay out of the revenue of the current year. The expenses are exceptional. The estimated increase of expenditure during the current year is $309,000. As there were so many necessary demands on the Treasury it was our duty to try to keep down all unnecessary expenditure, but instead of that we seem to have been increasing our expenditure in all directions. It is a very easy thing to raise salaries, but it is a very difficult thing to reduce them, or to reduce expenditure once entered on. I have seen attempts made in this direction several times in this House. On one occasion the public servants had their salaries reduced by 10 per cent. They were what they them- selves called "ten-per-cented." A few years after that, a motion that the Government should take back their estimates and reduce them to the extent of $50,000 was carried. These things are very unpleasant to Ministers and to all concerned. I do not say that we shall have to do the same thing again, but if we are not careful we may have to do it. I notice that the interest and sinking fund has increased this year by £74,000. Then, there is the Colonial Secretary's Department. That is a very expensive department. The probable in- crease this year is no less than £69,000. In this there is the Public Health Department, estimated to cost nearly £13,000, and the Office of Industries and Commerce, estimated to cost nearly $9,000. I do not know very much about this new department, but I think it is one of the things that might have been postponed. Mr. SEDDON .- Forced upon the Govern- ment-both of them. Mr. J. W. THOMSON .- The Government should have nothing forced upon them. The Government is responsible for public expendi- ture, and I should be very sorry to think that this or anything else was forced upon the Go- vernment. The Government is responsible for every penny of expenditure. If a man goes to the Government and asks them to put on the estimates a certain sum of money, and if the Government put that sum on the estimates, they are responsible for it, not the man who asked them. I conclude that the Premier is sorry that he did so. Mr. SEDDON .- No, I am not sorry I did it. Mr. J. W. THOMSON .- The honourable gentleman seems to have been got the better of by some person or persons. . I should be very sorry to think that is the case, and that it should go abroad to the country that this was forced on the Government. 