hotel bills were paid and other necessary expenses met I am satisfied they had very little remaining. The honourable member regretted the absence of ladies on that Commission. In regard to that, I agree with him. I think the members would have had a much happier time, and the Commission would have been more enjoyable, if effect could have been given to his suggestion and one or two ladies added to it. But such a Commission might have been looked upon by the country and the members of this House as an unwarranted innovation, and the possibility is that it might have afforded a precedent that we would not care to contemplate. Now, Sir, leaving the honourable gentleman alone, I may point out this : that, so far as the discussion has gone, no Government has had fewer op- ponents to face, and I am not aware of any Government that has had such a large number of candid advisers. Nearly every member so far who has spoken has given the Government the benefit of advice more or less wholesome. I consider honest criticism free from flattery is the kind of criticism that should be bestowed on the Budget. While adverse criticism may be dangerous, I regard adulation as destructive. The most valuable reforms usually grow on hard soil. If you wish to develop good plants you must avoid a soil too rich or stimulating. If you transplant young trees from good soil and place them in inferior soil the result will be far from satisfactory. If we are to have good permanent reforms in this country we must see that the growth is not too rapid, and that is where I wish to give a warning note to the Government. We have been doing very well during the last ten or twelve years, but it is not advisable that we should abandon pru- dence in spending the money that we borrow. An Hon. MEMBER .- Another candid friend. Mr. HOGG .- Yes, I believe I am. It is desirable that in carrying out our reforms we should treat them as plants of hardy growth. The oak from the time it is planted grows very slowly, but its roots become firmly embedded in the soil. Notwithstanding the weather and the adverse circumstances that may attend its early growth it remains durable, lasting some- times for centuries. There are other plants that grow comparatively quickly, and require to be fostered. Vegetables grow quickly ; but how long do they last ? If reforms are to be permanent they must be of slow growth, and cultivated carefully. Sir, let me tell you why I am a consistent and continuous supporter of the present Government. It is because I can- not possibly abstain from looking back on the picture of the past. I would ask, What has happened during the last ten or twelve years ? What changes has New Zealand undergone during that time ? I am sorry the subject is of such a character that I cannot do justice to it within the time at my disposal. I will raise the curtain, however, for a moment to show the scenes through which we have travelled. How did we find New Zealand after the battle that was fought on the 6th December, 1890 - a battle that will always be memorable in the annals of Mr. Hogg country at that time? Was it in a generally satisfactory condition ? How did we find the people of the colony situated ? Did New Zealand not resemble a man with a big family and lots of relatives living under a form of management that produced deplorable results ? There were the married and the single. Generally speak- ing, only the reckless would accept the responsi- bility of a family. Most people were, if not out of work, at any rate, in debt ; bankruptcies were numerous ; records of fires were to be found in the columns of our newspapers occupying a very conspicuous place ; and the bailiffs never had a better time, for they were busily engaged day after day. In what condition was the head of the family? Impecunious, and his credit stopped. When he went to Great Britain for his last loan, what was he told ? " Don't come back again for three years." That was the posi- tion New Zealand occupied before the British creditor. We were put on our good behaviour. We were told that we could have another mil- lion, but we must not come back again for three years. Could anything be more humili- ating? Expenses were cut down - they had to be cut down. Even the poor charwomen were not spared when that all-round reduction of salaries and wages went on under Conserva- tive management. Our boys and our young men looked longingly to the Australian goldfields for relief. When our girls left school to seek employment the avenues were so limited that it was almost impossible for them to get work. If they went to the Postal Department, or any other department of the State, were the doors not closed against them? Were they not told that women need not apply there, that because of their sex they could not expect employment under the State ? That is how we found things then. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- How did you sur- vive ? Mr. HOGG .- I did not happen to be a girl. Possibly if I had I might have developed into a nurse, and then there would have been trouble with the honourable gentleman who has just spoken. But, Sir, the girls at that time were left to go into the warehouses to sweep the floors, to pick up pins, and to live on the atmosphere, and when old enough they had to choose between the broom and the scrubbing- brush and the streets in many cases. That was the way families were treated at that time. What was the position of our merchants and retailers? Many were piling up debts that would be found to be irrecoverable on their books. The property-tax was flourishing and spreading over the colony like a red rust, cor- rupting and burning up everything it came in contact with, until the spending-power of the \`Then, with people was materially reduced. regard to our landholders, both big and little, how were they faring at that time? Some of them were keeping up fine houses and good equipages, tigers in buttons, and appearances generally. They presided at functions, and called themselves the ehte; and when they were talking about the common people around 