agree to a reasonable hour of adjournment, say twelve o'clock. He believed that the late hours, and more especially the bad atmosphere in the House, was injurious to the health of members. Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui) said he was one of those who did not like late hours. He did not think the work of the House could be properly conducted when members were in an exhausted condition, as had been the case from time to time during past sessions. He would support the Premier's motion, because he thought that the necessity had arisen for a certain amount of compulsion being imposed on the House to go on with the business. Since the previous Friday a debate had taken place, of which even schoolboys would not have been proud, with reference to a breach of privilege that could have been disposed of in a short time, but the love of hearing themselves speak had caused members to prolong the discussion to outrageous limits. He might point out that threats had been made that the estimates would be blocked, and he therefore thought that the Premier was taking the proper course in moving this motion, and in thus being able to insist on proper pro- gress being made with the business. Mr. LANG (Waikato) said the honourable member who has just sat down found fault with the waste of time during the last two or three days. The honourable member was not pre- sent; but he would ask him, when the Hansard came out, to see what members were responsible for the waste of time and for the prolonged dis- cussion which had taken place. The honour- able member would find that the fault did not https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 lie with the Opposition side of the House. If there was one thing more than another which the electors of the colony disapproved of in con- nection with the sittings of the House it was the unreasonably late hours they kept. The Premier had only given the House morning sit- tings when it suited his convenience. Directly any matters of importance were likely to come down, more particularly the estimates, the Pre- mier wished to force them through. Mr. SEDDON .- Members can always move and carry an adjournment. Mr. LANG said the Premier knew it de- pended on who moved the adjournment, and whether he gave his followers the tip to vote in the right direction or otherwise. The Premier gave as one of the reasons why they should do away with morning sittings that the Public Petitions Committee could not get on with their work. How absurd ! Members knew perfectly well that the Government took not the slightest notice of the recommendations of these Committees unless it suited their purpose to do so. He (Mr. Lang) maintained that the House ought to conduct its business in the same way that business people outside conducted their business. Mr. SEDDON .- If you have a fixed hour to knock off you must have the closure as well. The two things must go together. Mr. LANG said, If they had fixed hours from the start of the session, and the business of the Captain Russell commencement, instead of waiting until the sesion was half through before measures were brought before the House, the business would be transacted in a much shorter time, and the work would be better done. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) said he intended to support the Premier in this motion, and in doing so he would like to give his opinion about the early sittings they had tried since the ses- sion commenced. No one rejoiced more than he did when it was decided to have morning sittings, and no one regretted more deeply the failure of these sittings. He would, however, point this out : that the Local Government Bill Committee had had its usefulness blocked to a great extent by the morning sittings of the House. Under the recent arrangement it was impossible for Committees to get through their work. He had tried to get the Committee to meet on days the House did not sit, but mem- bers would not have it. They struck work and passed a resolution not to meet on non-sitting days. Thus, only on two days a week could they be called together. There were some thirty members on that Committee, yet on Wednesdays and Thursdays when they sat only some nine or ten members would be present, owing to the number of other Committees sit- ting on these days. That morning they had only a bare quorum of five members present. The member for Waikato was present when the following resolution was passed, and he even voted for it. The resolution was reported to the House, and therefore can be referred to :- "That the Committee recommend that the House should meet on Tuesdays and Fridays at such an hour as will enable the Local Govern- ment Committee to sit during the forenoon of these days and complete its labours." Yet the honourable member now condemned the motion of the Premier, which only carried out the recommendation of the Committee he had referred to. In regard to the proposal of the leader of the Opposition, that on the days from which morning sittings were removed the House should sit till half-past twelve, he must remember that would not give as much sitting-time as would be taken away by the resolution. On those days, in order to give the same time, it would be necessary to sit till half - past one. He did not think the average sittings of the House extended in very many cases beyond half-past one, although there were years in which they had averaged up till five or ten minutes to two. He would like to see a way out of the difficulty in regard to late sittings, but not at the expense of the Committee-work, the importance of which was not generally understood by the public. Mr. LANG, as a matter of personal explana- tion, said that the member for Mataura had misrepresented him. He (Mr. Lang) main- tained that there was nothing inconsistent in being in favour of the Local Government Com- mittee sitting in the morning and voting that the House should rise at half-past ten p.m. The two matters were quite distinct. 