in writing, in the form or to the effect of the Schedule hereto, calling upon such parent to send such child to school ; and if such parent, after receiving such notice, refuses or neglects to send such child to school within seven days of such notice being given, such parent shall be summoned before any Stipendiary Magistrate, or any two Justices of the Peace, and shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding forty shillings, and the payment of such penalty shall be no bar to further proceedings in case of further neglect." Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) moved to insert, after the word " Peace," the following words : " or may be summoned before any Justice of the Peace at the school at which such atten- dance is compulsory." Words added, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 7. Mr. PIRANI moved to insert, after the words "' Justices of the Peace Act, 1882,' " " Pro- vided that the cases may be heard before one Justice of the Peace at the school at which such attendance is compulsory." Amendment agreed to. Clause 8. On the motion of Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City), the words " on behalf of any Education Board," at the end of the clause, were omitted ; and "Truant Inspectors " was inserted in lieu of " Truant Officers." On the motion of Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston), clauses 11 and 12, relative to compulsory attendance at Native schools, were struck out. On the motion of Mr. PIRANI, the following new clause was added :- "(1.) The Minister of Education may from time to time make regulations for the attend- ance at school of Maori or half-caste children, and of children in the Chatham Islands. " (2.) Subject to any such regulations, such children shall be subject to all the provisions of this Act." Mr. PIRANI moved to add the following new clause : - "No child shall attend a public school under the control of an Education Board in any district other than the school district in which his parents or guardians reside, unless the Chairman of the School Committee or the head-teacher of a school in the district in which his parents or guardians reside, or the Chairman of the Education Board of the district, has given a certificate under his hand consenting to such attendance." Subsequently, Mr. PIRANI moved to with- draw the proposed clause. Agreed to. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) moved the addi- tion of the following new clause :- "That Truant Inspectors under the provi- sions of this Act shall include the members of the Police Force of the colony." The Committee divided. AYES, 14. Fisher Bennet Hall Guinness Laurenson Ell VOL. CXVIII .- 40. Parata Tanner Tellers. Pirani Thompson, R. Buddo Smith, G. J. Thomson, J. W. Meredith. NOES, 31. Allen, E. G. Hardy Monk Haselden Allen, J. O'Meara Arnold Rhodes Heke Russell, G. W. . Atkinson Herries Barclay Hutcheson Symes Bollard Ward Lang Willis. Carroll Massey Colvin McGowan Fowlds McGuire Tellers. Fraser, A. L. D. Mckenzie, R. Collins Hall-Jones McNab Hornsby. Majority against, 17. New clause negatived. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) moved the addition of the following new clause :- "Any person convicted of an offence under this Act may be ordered to pay the costs of proceedings." New clause negatived. Schedule amended. Bill reported. SHOPS AND SHOP-ASSISTANTS BILL. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) moved, That the amendments made in this Bill be agreed to. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) asked if the honourable member would kindly state what the amendments were. Mr. BARCLAY said the effect of the amend- ments was simply this : that a half-holiday was given in the week to chemists. An Hon. MEMBER. - What about domestic servants ? Mr. BARCLAY regretted to say that the Bill had been shorn of some of its fair proportions. His first-born had not attained, unfortunately, to its full stature. Domestic servants had been taken out of the Bill, much against his will, and they would have to wait for a happier day. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) would like to ask the honourable member what he intended to do about the clause which he (Mr. Pirani) thought was necessary to enable chemists to open in the evening of the half-holiday, or to supply urgent requirements. The Bill, so far as he could see, had no effect whatever in that direction. Section 3 of the Bill as it formerly stood provided for the re-enactment of subsections (2) That and (3) of section 4 of the Act of 1894. section had been struck out, but the subsections had not been re-enacted. He thought it would be safer to reject the Bill unless there was some understanding about re-enacting these subsec- tions. He would move, as an amendment, That the Bill be recommitted for the pur- pose of considering the new clause. Mr. BARCLAY might explain, in connection with the matter, that his impression was, he had proposed a clause instead of subsections (2) and (3), which clause had been carried on the voices, but somehow. it did not so appear on record. To the best of his recollection the clause had been passed on the voices. How- 