for members whose constituents came to visit a very costly method by which Hansard was them, that in order to talk business they had printed, when there were two type-setting to walk together in the open air. There was no machines in use in the colony-the linotype, accommodation of any kind available unless which cost £700, and the monotype, which cost members broke through the orders of the from $250 to £300-which would turn out the House and took their friends surreptitiously work at from 4d. to 6d. per thousand ens, as into some of the Committee-rooms. The library compared with 1s. 4d., which was at present staff had the accommodation of two or three being paid in the Government Printing Office. rooms, and he did not know that that was Why the Government, in the Railways and too much for them ; but, that being so, mem- Public Works Departments, should utilise the bers should have more than one small room for latest inventions in machinery and yet retain seventy-four members. He trusted that some in the printing department, for sympathetic authority would take this matter in hand, and reasons, out-of-date methods he could not that reasonable accommodation would be pro- understand. vided for visitors from a distance who desired mitted, to be said from the compassionate to see members on business. point of view that the Premier had taken up ; Mr. HALL- JONES (Minister for Public but he thought the proper course to pursue Works) said two rooms had been originally was for the Government to find some other provided for the use of members. but one had suitable work for the men thrown out of work If the been taken for the Serjeant-at-Arms. by the introduction of the machinery - such as room at present used as a ladies' waiting-room employment as extra clerks and messengers. were taken for the Serjeant-at-Arms, that The present position was opposed to all the would leave two for the use of members, which, principles of political economy and common- he thought, should meet requirements. sense. Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) said two rooms would not be sufficient ; there should be four ought to be done in order to provide more at the least. The lack of accommodation pro- accommodation for members transacting busi- vided for members was most inconvenient, ness with their constituents and those who and Ministers, who had ample and comfortable called upon them at the House. He suggested accommodation for themselves, had no concep- that the Serjeant-at-Arms' room and also two tion of the amount of inconvenience members of the rooms at the head of the main stairway should be given them for this purpose. The had to suffer. Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui) said they had been present sitting-room was often occupied by promised ample accommodation when the new strangers who had no member with them at all. building was put up, and yet they were worse off than ever. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) said he certainly honourable member should have addressed his concurred in the remarks of the honourable complaints about the smoking to the Library member for Kaiapoi and the honourable member Committee. for Nelson City. After eleven years in the House he had never seen the House so thoroughly dis- that some weeks ago complaints were made to organized and so much dissatisfaction amongst the Library Committee, or to the House Com- members regarding the accommodation pro- mittee, and the result was no action was taken, vided and the general attention offered to mem- and members were told to smoke where they bers as during the present session of Parliament. liked. He could confirm the statement of the honour- able member for Kaiapoi that the atmosphere must have been misinformed. The Library Committee decided that smoking would be of the one little room placed at the disposal of allowed in the two downstairs rooms, but not members was so vitiated as to be positively in the upstairs room. With regard to accom- unhealthy, and he could not conceive why no modation for members, it seemed not to be provision was made for ventilation when the generally known that after one o'clock mem- room was being constructed. He sincerely bers were at liberty to take their friends to the hoped that this order of things would be Joint Committee-room. That was always open altered, and that members would have less room for complaint in the future. to members now after the Committees had sat. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) wished to It was represented to the Committee that the clerks did their business in the two rooms at ask the Premier if he proposed to follow the precedent of last year, and furnish as far as the head of the stairs which had been referred to by the honourable member for Marsden. possible details of the contingency vote ? Last year a vote of $250 was taken for "Contin- statement of the honourable member for the gencies," and the same sum was asked for this Bay of Plenty. It was by the permission of the year; but the amount spent last year under Library Committee that smoking was permitted "Contingencies " was £926. Mr. SEDDON said this was for shelving for in both the lower rooms. He had never seen a member smoking in the upper room, but he the new books in the library and other extra had been informed of two cases which had been work. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL said the matter he promptly checked by the officers. He joined in the protest about the paucity of the accom- wished particularly to speak about was the item, "Printing of Hansard, £4,600." It was modation for members. There was something, he ad- Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) said something Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said the Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) understood Mr. HERRIES said the honourable member Mr. TANNER (Avon) wished to confirm the 