ing. He thought it would be time enough to repeal the very good rule when it was found to be abused. So far the only instance that they had had of its abuse was when the Premier could not reply on the financial debate on Friday night ; but surely a small affair like that- Mr. SEDDON .- He has not replied yet. Mr. PIRANI thought the Premier had him- self to blame for that. He could have replied this afternoon instead of moving the motion now under discussion, or he could have com- menced his reply or Friday night, and he would have had as good a show as the mem- ber for Bruce, Mr. J. Allen, was given. It was all very well for him to throw the blame on the honourable member for Selwyn, who spoke on Friday night. The galleries had been filled to hear the reply of the Premier, and it was not likely that when a temptation like that was put upon a new and modest member, espe- cially when it was thrown in his way by the Premier himself, that that member should refuse to take advantage of it. If some important measure or the estimates had been blocked by the half past-ten rule he could have understood the Government endeavouring to rescind the resolution, but up to the present there was nothing to warrant it. As to the statement of the honourable member for Mataura that the average hour of rising last session was half- past one a.m., he (Mr. Pirani) had looked up the records, and he found that the average time for leaving off business was four minutes past two o'clock, . the average daily sitting being nine hours and four minutes. Then, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 it must be remembered that on several days the House-on the occasion of motions of condolence on the death of the Duke of Edin- burgh, the death of a member, and so on- http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero adjourned at four o'clock in the afternoon, and that would reduce the average considerably. Last year they sat on the estimates until five o'clock in the morning when what was called by a local newspaper "the #40 steal " was dis- cussed. After that they had something like thirty local Bills rushed through after five o'clock in the morning. The result of this was that over and over again they were called upon to amend the measures of previous sessions. There was one Act passed last session in which the word "not" in one case and the word "no " in another case were actually omitted, with the result that the reverse of what was intended was placed on the statute-book. No doubt there were many other instances of legis- lation being rushed through in an imperfect state, due to the excessively late sittings. He did not believe that anybody could give proper attention to legislation in the House if that legislation was brought down at three, four, or five o'clock in the morning. He really thought the Premier loved these hours for work, because he knew that members of the House were not so critical in the late hours of the morning. He thought there ought to be some rule about twelve o'clock sittings, and if there was obstruction he did not see any objection to a rule being made to prevent that obstruction. But when members knew that the Premier was the principal offender in wasting time, how could they be blamed generally ? If the Pre- mier was allowed four times the amount of time occupied by other members, and the other seventy-two members each occupied one-fourth of the time taken up by the Premier, it would be found that the debates would be consider- ably longer than they were at present. Besides that, it was mainly owing to provocation given by the Premier that debates were lengthened. They had listened to a homily on speechifying from the member for Marsden. It was an extra- ordinary thing that that member had only taken part in one discussion, the discussion of the Ser- vants' Half-holiday Bill. Why did not the mem- ber for Marsden join in the discussions of the House? Last session he had been told by & member that he was voting with the Govern- ment because he wanted "some estimates." He did not know what was meant by that ; but it had been said that the honourable member for Marsden, who could speak forcibly and fluently, who was well able to denounce abuses when he saw fit to do so, did not speak until the Public Works Statement was down. That honourable member, like the rest of them, de- sired to see his district get fair play in the apportionment of money available for expendi- ture, and valued discretion as the better part of valour. The rest of the members of the House chose to be valorous, and to tell the Ministry what they thought; but the member for Marsden was discreetness itself, and there- fore it was only natural that his constituents should come off better than the constituents of some members who were not so discreet. At the same time, he should remember that, while he might be of opinion himself that the best course to follow was to be discreet, it was not to be expected that other members of the House should stand in the position he did so fre- quently or so successfully. He thought it was an unfair thing for the Government to propose to rescind a motion which had worked so well this session. And, in regard to Committee- work, he could quite understand why the honourable member for Mataura objected to morning sittings, because the member for Ma- taura was the Chairman of a very important Committee, with a very important Bill before it, and naturally he wanted to see a successful end to his labours. But he would ask the honourable member for Mataura, what about this morning's sitting of the Committee when there was no sitting of the House? He (Mr. Pirani) was in there for a few moments, and out of thirty-seven members of that Committee there were three present, exclusive of the Chair- man, and he (Mr. Pirani) made the fifth. He only looked in to see how matters were pro- gressing. and, as he found the Premier was absent, things were pretty safe, and so he left. But there was an instance of the sort of sitting of a Committee they were going to get after they had abolished the morning sittings of the House. As a matter of fact, there were too many Committees in connection with the business of the House. There were so many 