bers wished this to be declared a separate breach of privilege. It seems to me to be one and the same thing. According to the argument of some honourable members, suppose there were five thousand issues of this particular paper there would be five thousand breaches of privilege. There has been a continuation of the publication of certain evidence, and I think the whole matter will be best met by my moving, That this paper be referred to the Committee which has already been appointed. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden). - I have taken no part in the discussion which has taken place with reference to the other alleged breach of privilege ; but it appears to me that the proprietors of this newspaper are flouting this House. I cannot look upon it in any other way. There is no doubt whatever that within an hour of the discussion which took place in this House the other day the pro- prietors of this paper knew all about it. An Hon. MEMBER .- It was published the day before. Mr. R. THOMPSON .- Oh ; I thought it was published on the same day. I look upon this as a very serious matter in reference to the persons that it affects. The object of publish- ing this evidence may have been for the pur- pose of injuring some person, and we do not know what injury may have been done to cer- tain persons in that district by the publi- cation of this evidence, which perhaps may not have been authorised by this House. There is no doubt whatever that there is an impression broadcast in this House and outside the House that very little notice will be taken https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 of the whole thing that it is going to fizzle out. If that is to be the case, then I think it would be better to have our Standing Orders altered, and allow the whole of the newspapers of the colony to have the same advantage. I cannot understand why any privilege should be given to this newspaper more than to any other. It is quite evident that there are members of this House who look upon the whole thing in a very lenient way, and it is quite evident that the proprietors of this paper have many friends in this House. That is not fair to other news- papers. I think we should either amend our Standing Orders or else we should put a stop to this improper method of publishing evi- dence. Mr TANNER (Avon) .- I never regard these cases as lightly as they are treated by many i be allowed ; but so long as you have hoary old members of this House, and I have not the least doubt but that a large measure of encourage- ment has been afforded to the representatives of the newspaper Press by the tone which has been adopted by many members in reference to the matter now under discussion. To my mind, this seems to be nothing more than an aggra- I not to be declared a breach of privilege by the vation and a repetition of the original offence. . It shows that an organized, persistent, deter. | to the Committee already set up to deal with mined, and continuous attempt is being made -and a successful attempt-to get hold of the evidence which is being daily placed before the Committee ; and until the House wakes up to a sense of its own position it will be ex- posing itself to being belittled by every news- paper in the colony, and its general proceed- ings brought into contempt by the mass of the people. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- There is rather an important point that has not been touched upon in connection with this matter, and that is this : that the first case, that we have already decided to be a breach of privilege, referred to the evidence given on a certain day, as if that evidence was compact and complete in itself. And it is possible to a very great extent to trace that evidence - into whose hands it has gone, and pretty well what became of it. But the present case is evidence that was taken a week later - evidence given on the 22nd of August, whereas the evidence complained of on Wednesday last was the evidence taken on the 15th August, and that evidence is as distinct as it can possibly be. I do not think, therefore, the investigation now being made by the Com- mittee into the first offence ought to be com- plicated with an investigation into this one. There ought certainly to be a separate investi- gation into both breaches of privilege. It has been said by henourable members that the manner in which the offence was treated the other day by some members of the House induced a repetition of it ; but I would like to point out that this paper is dated Tuesday, the day before the matter was brought before the House, and that, although it is separate evi- dence, it is practically a continuation of the publication of the first lot. I would like to point out that it is not what was said in the House the other day that . ould have any effect, but that it is the action taken for years and years in regard to such offences that is respon- sible. The House by custom has practically established the rule that the mere publication of evidence before Select Committees is only a technical offence, to which attention ought to be drawn before letting the matter drop. The House treated the offence so lightly that no attempt has yet been made to alter our Standing Orders, which in this respect are pretty well as ancient as parliamentary government itself. No attempt has been made to bring such offences into line with present day requirements. What is wanted more than anything else is an alteration of our Standing Orders, so that. instead of making the publication of evidence like this practically a capital crime, it ought to be treated either as an ordinary offence or the publication ought to Standing Orders on this subject-and the pro- cedure has been ridiculed even in the Imperial Parliament-so long will you have members who will not go to extremes. I think this offence ought to be treated separately from the one we dealt with the other day-that it ought House ; which, if it thinks fit, can relegate it a breach of privilege of the week previous. I hope that no attempt will be made on the part of the House or the Committee to mix this up with the breach of privilege case that has now almost been concluded. 