they get their existence. It will reduce the strong, powerful company be exempt from the value of property, and by shutting up shops vidual struggling with his express dare not will decrease the income of the Corporation, and do anything? Where are we going to, and decrease the income of the Government, as far as valuation is concerned. Sir, take clause 2A, have at all times taken a deep and sincere which compels the smaller shops to close at six o'clock. Why, that is the very time when the interest in the welfare of this colony, but I am poor and unfortunate people are getting an distant when we shall be sorry for what we are existence, because whoever wishes to buy any- thing during the day goes to the large stores where there is a greater variety; and if these shops are shut up the consequence will be that dumb, and we can read and see what is going they will have to lose half a day's work to on ; and, to prove the power of this legislation, procure that which is necessary for their subsis- tence. Take, Sir, the case of charwomen, the women who are cleaning out these premises, or given to a Minister of the Cro . n, we had the those engaged in a store, who go through their labour party dictating to the Premier of the work and are paid at six o'clock. They go home intending to buy the necessaries for the day coming for their children ; but they find should be in the future. Such a thing is every shop shut up. The consequence will be unheard of-that the dignity of a Minister that the poor unfortunate people must starve their children or lose a day's work. But that his being dictated to as to what should take is not all. The aim and ambition of the parties who wish to enforce that law, to my mind, is very simple : it is that, while the shops are all allow himself to sit there and be intimidated in open and doing business whenever they think that way. I speak warmly, because I believe fit and proper, the socialist unions have not the power to command them, and their de- and I felt a deep sense of-I was going to say pity, but I will not I was very sorry to find sire is consequently to starve out the little ones so as to consolidate trade in the hands of that Ministers should be so associated at a banquet, and intimidated as to future labour the few, and then they will have power to deal with those big parties. That is the sole sub- legislation. Sir, I have been down South for a stance of their ambition-to drive people from few days, and from Lyttelton to Oamaru and business and make them go into the big places if they possibly can, and as soon as they have against the encroachment of this labour legisla- driven all the little people out, and the trade is tion. I tried to disabuse the minds of the consolidated into the hands of the few, our people upon the subject. The Government friends the socialists will have power to control made a start, but the department has driven them. That, Sir, to my mind, is the intention them from the beginning, until it has now of this Bill. We have it on the authority of become the huge monster it is at the present my friend the Hon. Mr. Rigg. The other day instant I feel I should be wanting in my duty he said in this Council that, if they could as a public man if I were to allow this Bill to. not get a living unless they kept their pre- mises open after six o'clock, they should give up business and seek employment somewhere order of the day for this day three months. else. and if not able to get employment they should apply to the State, and the State should physically fit this afternoon to say much on this Bill, but I cannot allow it to pass without keep them. That is a pretty state of affairs, surely, to declare the colony a benevolent in- saying a few words. And, first, I must say I stitution for every one who wishes to come to it agree with everything that has fallen from the Hon. Mr. Shrimski about this foolish, and, because the socialist does not want them to I must call it, wicked measure. I call any work or keep their premises open. We have Bill a wicked Bill which is calculated, whether excluded the mercantile businesses, and we have excluded the banks, and there was ambition in intentionally or not, to sow discord where that by the socialists. If they can get the bank there is or ought to be peace. If this Bill ( facials to come under this Act, they will force had passed through Committee as originally introduced, the bank clerks would have been them to form themselves into a union, and they will become part and parcel of the unions brought within its operation at the suggestion of a few faddists and mischief-makers, who, in existing at the present time. I am pleased to find that these gentlemen in the banks have a all probability, know nothing whatever about h gher ambition and a greater respect for them- banking houses, or whether there exists a necessity for interfering with their internal stIves than to allow themselves to be incorpo- rated under this Bill. And that, Sir, is the arrangements or not Without hoping for a. trend of this legislation. Then, Sir, we have moment that anything I may say will have also excluded the forwarding agencies. I should any influence upon this question, or help to stay the passing of the Bill through the like to know what claim a forwarding agency Council, yet, on arriving at another place, has to more rights and privileges in this colony I do hope it will receive short shift. It seems than the poor express-men. Why should the I operation of the Act, while the single indi- where are we going to land the country ? I beginning to fear now that the time is not far doing in the passing of this legislation. What do we find ? We are not deaf, and we are not I will say a few words as to what took place the other day. At a social gathering, at a banquet colony as to labour legislation, and intimating to him their opinion as to what its course of the Crown should be deliberately insulted by place in the future in regard to labour legisla- tion. I feel grieved that a Minister should every one ought to respect those in authority, Dunedin, right through, it is one hue and cry proceed any further, and I will therefore move, That the third reading of the Bill te made an The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND. - I am not 