"although there is no question before the | either at the time, if the member who is speak- House: but such matters may not be de- bated." Now, Sir, not only is there a debate, but we have four members speaking at the same time. I maintain that the practice we are getting into now of having two, three, and four speeches by one member, more particularly by the Right Hon. the Premier, called personal explanations, is a violation of the Standing Orders. There is nothing I can see in the Standing Orders, and there is nothing in parlia- mentary practice, which goes to show that it is justiniable to make speeches not à propos of some personal explanation, but to elucidate & speech made at a remote date. I wish you to rule, Sir, upon the point as to whether these constant interruptions are in the nature of the remarks allowed by Standing Orders Nos. 134 and 136. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Speaking to the point of order, I may say at once the honour- able gentleman is not going to place a gag on me, and allow me to be misrepresented, and deny to me the same privilege that is given to every other member of the House. I feel sure the Chair will give me that protection that it affords to other members. I say that, when a misrepresentation has been made, the only time to correct it is immediately at the conclusion of that speech ; and that ruling has been laid down by authority after authority. When a speaker, either unwittingly or otherwise, has made a misrepresentation, the member so misrepre- sented has always been given an opportunity to set himself right, and I claim that privilege. This is about the third or fourth time the honourable member for Hawke's Bay has raised this question, and only as regards myself. Captain RUSSELL .- You are the sinner. Mr. SEDDON. - The honourable member does not raise this point in regard to members on his own side of the House. If the honour- able member would stop the misrepresenta- tions of members of his own party he would stop the necessity for the explanations. How- ever, Sir, I can only say that the very Standing Order the honourable member has quoted refers to this case, because I have not only been mis- represented as regards what I said in Hansard, but I have been misrepresented also as regards the Bills introduced in 1897 and 1898, and the Bill introduced at the time I was speaking of ; and I claim the privilege of putting myself right. Mr. PIRANI .- No reference was made to 1898 at all. Mr. SEDDON. - The answer to that is in Hansard. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- A point of order has been raised. Mr. SEDDON .- In regard to the point of order, I say that the Standing Orders clearly allow this to be done, and it has been done pre- viously ; and I see no reason why there should be a departure from former rulings. If that is not to be the rule, I say let us alter our Stand- ing Orders. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The rule is to allow members who have been misrepresented in the debate to correct the misrepresentation, ing gives way, or to do so immediately he has ceased speaking. But I think this privilege of personal explanation with regard to misre- presentations is being abused, and I shall en- deavour to check it from going to too great length. Mr. SEDDON .- Then, Sir, to cut the matter short, the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, in this as in every other case, fails-he is an absolute failure. Section 64 of the Act of 1898, which was quoted, was as follows :- "This Act, in so far as it provides for the grant of pensions, shall not apply to- "(1.) Aboriginal natives of New Zealand to whom moneys other than pensions are paid out of the revenues appropriated for Native purposes by ' The Civil List Act. 1863.'" Captain RUSSELL .- That does not Mr. SEDDON .- Now, why do you interrupt ? It is rude to interrupt. Mr. ATKINSON .- Sir, I rise to a point of order. I wish to ask whether the Premier is in order in characterizing any member of this House as rude. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The Premier did not say that any person was rude ; he said that to interrupt was rude. Mr. SEDDON .- I am afraid the honourable member for Bruce has been outside the House somewhere. This, as I said in the speech, was conditional. Then I come to the Bill that was introduced in 1898, and what do we find to show that in the Act as originally introduced it did not apply to the Maoris? Section 65 provides as follows : - "Subject to the provisions of subsection one of the last preceding section hereof, this Act shall apply to aboriginal natives of New Zea- land." An Hon. MEMBER .- What is the difference ? Mr. SEDDON .- The difference is that in the original Bill it did not apply to the Natives, and that we had to put that clause in to make it apply. Mr. HUTCHESON .- I did not wish to make a point unfairly, but I still do not see the point of the explanation. The original Bill says it was not to apply to members of the Native race who are receiving .pensions from money appropriated for that purpose under Act, and inferentially it did apply to all the others against whom it did not discriminate. I pressed the remark on the Premier just now because I was extremely closely identified with the Bill in all its stages, and I recollect that there was a difference of opinion whether it would not be humiliating and derogatory to the Natives to accept the pension. One Native member thought it would, another thought it would not. I refer to this because it seems to me to indicate that the Premier must necessarily have anticipated having to provide pensions for the Natives. So far as the state- ment I made is concerned, I merely read from the Bill and from Hansard, and I have said nothing that the Premier's own statement and the Bill does not seem to me to support. 