understand, for the Minister to forward that money can be applied to more useful purpose, request to the officer in charge of the par- than that of the railways. In the future it ticular railway district for his remarks thereon. promises to be the largest revenue-producing service that we have, and money expended Now, it nearly always happens that re- wisely in the direction I have pointed out will quests from outlying districts are, if not absolutely refused, at any rate deferred sine be money well expended. I would now like to say a word or two in passing to express the die in consequence of the reports received from the officer in char.e of the district. pleasure that I felt at the decision of the Rail- Now, Sir, this is what obtains: The officer in ways Committee to inquire into the stage system charge of the district is usually the Station- as propounded by Mr. Vaile. I know that that master of a place of the size of, say, Timaru or gentleman's ideas have been pooh-poohed in Oamaru, and is not himself personally incon- this House, but I know also that in Hungary venienced by the want of facilities at the out- and elsewhere a system similar to the one pro- The shoe, therefore, does not lying station. posed by him, though not so good a system as pinch so far as he is personally concerned, and his, has been worked with the greatest possible. I believe there is an impression on the part of success. It has certainly meant an enormous. the railway officers that the man most likely to reduction in fares, but it has also meant a very be in favour with the department-the man, large increase in the number of passengers therefore, most likely to obtain promotion-is carried. The only argument of any weight that he who can keep down expenditure to the I know of that has been urged against the con- lowest possible limit in his district. Take the tention that the adoption of a similar system would produce similar results in New Zealand case of Oamaru: If something were wanted at Oamaru the Stationmaster would naturally is the argument of want of sufficient population back up the request, because he himself to enable it to be carried out successfully. It is personally aware of the necessity for what is asked for, and feels the inconvenience of the want of it. But, in the case of anything cannot expect that under the stage system of Mr. Vaile we should have a sufficiently large wanted for an outlying station, that same increase in the number of travellers to counter- officer- I do not speak of that one in particu- balance the loss entailed by the reduction of lar; they are all tarred with the same brush - I say that same officer, not feeling himself fares. I think it can be shown, on the other personally inconvenienced, as the sub-Station- side, that if only with the population that we have we shifted that population by rail as often master does, and being himself inclined to go as they do in Hungary, then even the very much against any increased expenditure for the reason reduced rates proposed by Mr. Vaile would yield I have indicated, sends in a depreciatory report very much better results than are obtained from to the Minister. Sir, I should like the Minister the existing traffic under the rates that now to himself visit these outlying places, and if he obtain. I know I shall be told that to carry does so he will, I think, see that there is a good out any experiment with regard to so large a deal in what I say, and he will find the explana- tion of some of the reports that have reached matter would be to encounter the possible result of a large loss, which is more than under him. I may tell him that the replies which present circumstances Ministers can see their have been given in this House on many oc- way to recommend to the House. But I think casions, as to their being no necessity for what has been requested, are absolutely laughed at it may be possible, and I hope it will be found to be so, to give an experimental trial of the hy the people of the districts concerned, for stage system on some part of our railways in they are quite aware that the information New Zealand for a reasonable time. I think, supplied to the Minister, although used by him in good faith, is not in the least degree Sir, that, with a view of the possible very la ge reliable. I hope the Minister will bear this benefits that may result, it would be worth in mind, and that he will this time grant our while to make the experiment. I express that as my own opinion, and I look for- some of the requests that have been repeatedly ward with great interest to the report of the made for necessary railway buildings in various Railways Committee on this subject. Now, parts of my electorate. There is another thing Sir, I want to say a word or two about the that I wish to refer to. I have already said proposal of the Government to establish cool- that one always gets exceedingly courteous replies from the Minister in charge of the stores in South Africa. I am of opinion that that is a step in the right direction. Any one Railways Department - no Minister is more who takes up the papers on the subject, and courteous than he; but the honourable gentle- finds the enormous dividends that are being man generally replies to me, and I have no paid by those private companies that have doubt to other honourable members also, in terms something like this : "It is ad- cool-stores in South Africa, must see that the mitted that such an improvement is desir- rates that are being charged are far too high ; able, and I shall be very glad to carry it out and the charges that are made, of course, have to be deducted from the proceeds of any frozen so soon as sufficient funds have been pro- vided." Now, Sir, the honourable gentleman meat we may send over there, which reduces the net result very much indeed. And if only has only got to ask this House to provide those cheap storage can be provided on the spot funds, and for all reasonable requirements I under control of the Government, where the feel sure the House will do so, because there is is said by the objectors that with the 8.0. limited population of the colony we 