the Committee, and it was not a subject such as this which would be followed by some person appearing at the bar of the House. In this case the chances were certainly in favour of the contention that the very party who would ap- pear at the bar of the House was the person who refused to give evidence. In that respect it is a very different case from that of Mr. Wat- son. I still think the majority of the Commit- tee were right in the contention that when the refusal to give evidence was before the Commit- tee it was not the proper course to at once re- port it to the House, but to report it along with the report of the Committee. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) .- I think it is right to reply to one or two of the remarks made by the honourable member for Palmers- ton and by the honourable member for Wel- lington City (Mr. Fisher). First of all, it is asserted that there has been an improper delay in bringing down the Committee's report. In answer to that, let me point out to honourable members that, as will be seen by the evidence when it is printed, we only exhausted the mem- bers of the Goldfields Committee yesterday. On the occasion when the Privileges Commit- tee held the first meeting three or four mem- bers of the Goldfields Committee were absent at the funeral on the West Coast of the late Hon. Mr. Kerr, and the honourable member for Bruce had gone South. The latter gentleman could only be examined yesterday on his re- turn, and it follows that we have not lost very much time in bringing up the report. It is suggested, also, that we ought to have at once reported Mr. Cohen to the House as a recalci- trant witness. Now, I am in the habit of using my common-sense, and I ask members of the House whether it would have been to the pub- lic advantage that the financial debate should be interrupted by, first of all, the procedure of bringing Mr. Cohen to the bar of the House, and our going into the question of privilege from one point of view, and then three or four days afterwards again dealing with the question of privilege upon the Committee reporting on the main issue. The Committee, in determin- ing to deal with the whole matter in one report, used its common-sense in the interests of the public business. Further, let me point out that there was no fear of Mr. Cohen running away ; that he can be just as well dealt with by the House on Tuesday next as he could have been on Thursday last ; and that there is no pos- sible chance of any harm happening through the report having to be brought down a day or two later than was proposed by a minority of the Committee. The report itself could not have been brought down as to the whole facts until we had exhausted all possible witnesses. We have examined the reporter and the Clerk of the Committee; we have examined every witness who came before the Mines Committee on the particular occasion, and every member of the Mines Committee with the exception of the Right Hon. Mr. Seddon ; and the reason we have not examined him was this : namely, that it was given in evidence that he was not pre- Mr. McNab Committee, and therefore did not hear any of the evidence given before that Committee, and was not supplied with any copy of 11.0. the evidence. What on earth, then, was the use of delaying the proceedings in order to call Mr. Seddon ? Even had his evi- dence been taken it would not have been of much value to the House as bearing on this issue, at all events, seeing that he knew no- thing about the matter. What the Committee was asked to do was to endeavour to find out in what way the evidence came to be pub- lished in the Evening Star-how, in fact, it reached that paper. It is true that after we had examined several witnesses we came to Mr. Cohen, and he then admitted that he knew -as, of course, he knew-who gave him that evidence. And, although he declined to state who that person was, it still remained for us to see whether any member of the Committee would be able to inform us. Any member giv- ing evidence before a Committee of the House is bound to tell the truth. And if it be true that any member of the Mines Committee supplied the evidence to the Star and denied it before the Privileges Committee, then that honourable gentleman is only open to one term. and that term is one which is not parliament- ary. That is all I desire to say. Motion agreed to. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I have now to move, That this question of privilege, and the refusal of Mr. Cohen to give evidence before the Committee, be made the first order of the day for Tuesday next. I made that suggestion when the resolution and the report of the Com- mittee were to be laid on the table, and I am following the course that I followed in the Banking Committee's report when that Com- mittee reported that Mr. Watson had refused to give evidence. I then moved that it be taken into consideration at half-past seven. I had no copy of the report of the Committee or of the resolution of the Committee until I heard it read by the honourable gentleman, and there- fore I require some time to consider what course should be taken; and I would also like to see what has been done by the Committee, and for that purpose, more than anything else, I ask for the postponement of the consideration of this question until Tuesday. There is no harm in that, because it is generally known that Mr. Cohen has refused to give evidence. and the House itself has affirmed that a breach of privilege has occurred. Having so affirmed, why we should send it to the Committee I do not know. What I want to make clear is that you must separate clearly and distinctly Mr. Cohen's position. He admits having obtained the evidence and having sent it away. That, of course, is the question of obtaining the evi- dence. Then you have the responsibility of the publisher, which is one phase of the question, but the other phase is the refusal to give evi- dence before the Committee. Now, that is a separate and distinct offence from the question of privilege, and, in my opinion, will have to be dealt with separately. If it had been simply 