Mr. Ballance. He may have-and if he did I do not blame him for it, because it is well known that he and Sir Robert Stout were on terms of the closest friendship-he may have probably consulted Sir Robert Stout ; but it was Mr. Ballance who formed that Administra- tion. There are two Ministers in the present Government who were members of that Ad- ministration, and they know the facts with respect to that matter. I therefore feel sure that my honourable friend will, on further reflection, agree with me that he was not so accurate as he usually is when he made that I have alluded to it because I statement. think it is not fair to the late Mr. Ballance that an impression should be formed that he was a dummy in the matter of the selection of his colleagues, and that it was formed by another, even though the gentleman referred to was a close friend of Mr. Ballance. Now, I want to say one word about the grain contracts. The honourable member for Franklin referred to this matter. I want to tell the House that the Government, so far as these orders are con- cerned, acted in accordance with the require- ments of the Imperial War Department. The New Zealand Government until quite recently had only two contracts to make for the Im- perial Government. In the case of the first contract we invited public tenders, and accepted the lowest tender ; and in the case of the second contract the Government accepted the offer of the next lowest tenderer at the price of the first contract. I would like to add that there was not a bag of grain shipped under these con- tracts with the Imperial Government that https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 was not examined by independent Government graders on behalf of the Imperial Government. I may point out also that some thirty thousand sacks of grain were rejected, showing, I think, that the work of inspection was very well done. At all events, the Government have received no complaints as to the quality of any of the grain sent from this colony to South Africa; and that speaks for itself, and is surely a very good thing for the reputation of our colony. Then, with reference to the ques- tion of publicity being given to the details of these contracts, I may say that we have had Victoria competing against us in these con- tracts, and I contend that it would have been against the interests of the farmers of this coun- try if we had given publicity to the details of the contracts. However, the whole of the in- formation concerning these matters will be laid on the table of the House, and honourable members will then have an opportunity of con- sidering the matter fully. An Hon. MEMBER .- Will you do it before the session is over ? Sir J. G. WARD .- Yes ; the information will be laid on the table before the session is over. Now, as to the general position of the colony : What better indication of the splendid, nay, the marvellous, progress of the colony from the 30th September, 1890, to the 30th September, 1900, can there be than the following :- Sir J. G. Ward Increase. Population (excluding the Maoris) 143,696 .. Total imports (value) £3,675,853 .. Total exports (value) £3,675,986 Total exports, produce of the colony (value) £3,718,120 . . Export of -- Wool (quantity) 42,307,330 1b. .. £729,851 (value) Frozen meat (quantity) .. 1,212,677 cwt. £1,281,557 (value) Sheepskins and pelts 3,294,370 ... (quantity) Ditto (value) £190,361 .. .. Butter (quantity) 123,891 cwt. .. £567,333 (value) .. Cheese (quantity) 62,486 cwt. £138,446 (value) .. . Gold (quantity) 155,038 oz. (value) £573,141 Coal, Output of (quantity) .. 337,837 tons. (value) £168,919 Occupied holdings 24,307 Land in cultivation 4,476,037 acres. .. Occupied area of land 2,555,148 acres. .. Sheep 3,232,393 .. Cattle 390,308 . . Miles of railway open for traffic .. 354 Miles of telegraph-line open 1,850 Deposits, Post- Office Savings-Bank £2,878,494 Value of land and improve- £16,366,318 ments In every instance there has been an increase during the last ten years. At the present moment the revenue of the colony is buoyant. There is no reason whatever why any one should fear the theoretical propoundings of people who appear to be afraid of their own shadows. But there is something I say we should fear, and I say it now with all the force that one individual can. If you want the country to be prosperous and to progress at the rate at which it has been going ahead for the last ten years-if you want good to result to the great mass of the people of the colony-you do not want to have your public men and your newspaper Press frightening themselves first, and then their neighbours, and trying to create the impression, both in our own country and abroad, that the bottom has already dropped out of the colony, or that it is going to drop out in the future. Sir. I will tell the House what we want: While caution is desirable, nay, necessary, in view of the extraordinary circumstances beyond the colony, to which I have alluded, you want your public men to be possessed of a certain amount of courage, and even boldness. Are we to say we are going to reverse the present policy of progress, to stop public works expenditure, to turn out the co-operative men, to limit our land settlement, to restrict the money to be advanced for the assistance of settlers, and to injure the great industries which are the very heart-blood of the colony- 