same money. He might mention that the Registrar of Electors for Invercargill also acted as Registrar for Awarua. He was prepared to look into the question and see whether any Registrar of Electors had more work to do than be could properly discharge. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) said that members on both sides of the House had made certain statements with regard to what had taken place in connection with the registration of electors in Auckland at the last election. The Minister would have saved time if he had agreed to a proper inquiry being held. He did not look on what had taken place as being a proper inquiry. In fact, it was no inquiry. There were specific charges made in this case, and one of those charges, to his mind, was quite sufficient to justify the whole of the debate which had taken place that afternoon. It was the case where a man said that he went to the Registrar, signed an application for enrolment in his presence, had the applica- tion witnessed by the Registrar, and then his name did not appear on the roll. The Minis- ter ought to have fulfilled the promise which had been given to have a proper inquiry held. As had been said by members on both sides of the House, there was evidently a universal feeling about this matter, and it was worth while that a proper inquiry should be held. Above all things, it was necessary that the electors should have confidence in the officer who registered their claims to be voters. If they did not feel such confidence, then our electoral institutions were starting on a wrong basis. Surely if the officer was not to blame he had nothing to fear from the public inquiry. If he came out of such an inquiry justified in his actions, then the agitation in Auckland would cease, and those who thought they had any grievance would no doubt also be quietened. So long as the Minister refused this de- 5.0. mand for a public inquiry the agitation must continue, and that feeling between the Registrar and the people must continue. It was no use talking about the right of people to take action against the officer themselves, as the law forbade that, as the time within which ac- tion could have been taken had passed by. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) said, When this matter was last before the House the impres- sion left on the minds of members was that the Minister would have an inquiry set up into the charges. Now, no opportunity had been afforded the people making the charges of bringing forward evidence in support of their allegations. Therefore no satisfactory inquiry had been held. Vote, £1,600 agreed to. Audit Office, £6,129. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked for particu- lars of the £218 which had been expended on " Contingencies." Sir J. G. WARD said the items under this head were as follows :- £ s. d. 6 11 Cleaning 3 . .. 14 19 Overtime 8 . . . . Rent 44 15 0 .. .. .. s. d. 5 2 10 Sundries .. Telephone subscription 26 11 10 Travelling - allowance and 92 12 9 expenses Typewriting machines and 26 18 0 accessories 1. £217 11 4 Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) wished an ex- planation of the item, " Audit Officer in London (also $250 charged to Agent- General's vote), £200." Did that mean that the same gentle- man was the Accountant and the Auditor ? Sir J. G. WARD said a portion of this officer's salary was received in connection with the Agent-General's Department, and the other portion was paid to him as an officer of the Audit Department in London. An Hon. MEMBER .- He audits his own ac- counts, then ? Sir J. G. WARD. - The Agent-General's accounts. Vote, £6,129, agreed to. Registrar-General's Department, £23,270. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said there was a clerk named George Augustus Schoch employed in the Registrar-General's Depart- ment for the past four years at the rate of 10s. a day. Four years ago the man became bank- rupt, and his discharge was granted on the condition that he should pay 10s. in the pound on the debts he owed. He owed £182 12s., there being no assets in the estate. Schoch, in Court, consented to the order in writing, undertaking to pay his creditors 10s. in the pound. He has since been employed for four years at $190 per annum. Upon the Official Assignee applying to him to pay he declined to do so, but referred that officer to Mr. Seddon. What had Mr. Seddon to do with the matter ? Why should this man have the privilege of referring to Mr. Seddon? The Premier very properly declined to interfere, but the Official Assignee was balked in all his attempts to recover anything from this man. He wanted to know whether this man could not be com- pelled to pay something out of his salary toward meeting his debts. Sir J. G. WARD knew nothing of the circum- stances referred to; but, as a general principle, he thought the Government ought not to be asked to interfere between people and their private creditors. They had to see that they acted honestly and discharged their duties properly. On the face of it the case appeared to be an unsatisfactory one ; but, unless the House said the Government were not to em- ploy people who did not pay their debts, he did not see how the Government could inter- fere. Mr. FISHER said the honourable gentleman did not appear to understand the position. His certificate of discharge was obtained by Schoch on the condition imposed by the Court, of his paying 10s. in the pound. It was not merely a case of a Civil servant owing money to some other person. If nothing was done, what were this man's creditors to do ? 