subject than should have been given. Surely we have more important work to do, and I am sure that when the country comes to learn the amount of time Parliament has consumed in discussing a matter which ought to have been decided in fifteen minutes, it will know how to . value the services of its members. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) .- I desire to make a personal explanation. The honourable gentleman said that I approved of improper means being taken to obtain informa- tion. I desire to say that in no part of my speech did I say so, and the honourable gentle- man was wrong in saying that I approved of the reporters receiving information in an improper manner. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- At the commence- ment of our proceedings this afternoon I thought the House had made up its mind to come to a conclusion upon this question, and to settle it once and for all. Although considerably pro- voked, I refrained from saving anything severe, and I should have refrained from speaking now had it not been for the remarks of the honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins). He accused the Government of in- consistency in respect to the case of the late member for Patea. I say, Sir, that I am con- sistent to a degree in the course I am now taking. In that case there was a flagrant viola- tion of the Standing Orders. That member deliberately took down what occurred at a meeting of a Committee of which he was a member, and also took an extract from the pro- ceedings of the Committee. He then delibe- rately put the information he had got on an Order Paper. By so doing he committed a breach of privilege and a breach of the Stand. ing Orders. Mr. Speaker ruled this 4.0. to be wrong. He not only would not refrain from doing it, but Mr. Hutchison virtu- ally told the House he would do it again. Now, when he was brought up what was the resolu- tion of the House? That he had committed a breach of privilege, and the House expressed its regret that he had done so. All I required to do to be consistent with what I did in the case of the member for Patea was simply to move that this House regrets that the reporter and the publisher of the Dunedin Evening Star had committed a breach of the Standing Orders of this House. I should have been consistent if I had done that; and what is the use of the honourable member for Christchurch City, without thought and without recollecting what was really done, stating that the Govern- ment is inconsistent? I cannot, of course, be responsible for the honourable gentleman's memory; but when the honourable gentleman stands up and commences to hector and lecture the Government, and lecture the House, he should first of all make himself acquainted with the facts of the case. An Hon. MEMBER .- Keep cool. Mr. SEDDON .-- I am not losing my temper. What I am saying is said more in sorrow than in anger; but I may say I am very sorry indeed that the honourable member for Christ- church City should have placed himself in such an undignified and unfortunate position. I say that a member who makes a statement in this House which is incorrect loses dignity and self-respect in the estimation of his fellow. members. It seems to me, Sir, that I get more interruptions than any member in the House, and I would say to the member for Christ- church City," Keep your temper." Now, Sir, had I proposed that a fine should be inflicted on the member for Patea, such as I am doing now, then that would have been consistent with what we are doing now in the case of the reporter and publisher of the Dunedin Erening Star. That is what the House is doing now, and that is where the inconsistency comes in. I have been consistent right through. This House has never gone to this length before ; and for the future-I say this here and now, and without any beating about the bush-if I see things going on in this House that have been permitted to go on in the past, I care not who the offender is, I will do my duty, and then we will see how far a good many of those honourable gentlemen who have been talking about dignity and upholding the dignity of the House will uphold it. If I did that, I believe the honourable gentlemen opposite would gather a mantle around the honourable gentleman with a view to bringing the offender into their fold. Then, Sir, what does Standing Order No. 10 say ? "Words withdrawn cease to exist, and cannot be ----- Mr. MASSEY .- That is not a Standing Order. Mr. SEDDON .- I am giving the rulings of Mr. Speaker on page 113. Mr. MASSEY .-- You said the Standing Orders. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, of course, the rulings of Mr. Speaker are practically Standing Orders. An Hon. MEMBER .- Not always. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, you have to submit to it, anyhow. Words withdrawn cease to exist, and cannot be commented on ; but it is not always sufficient that the words taken exception to be withdrawn. It is open to the House to demand an apology from the member having used them. Now, in accordance with the ruling of Mr. Speaker, there having been an offence, there was a necessity for a withdrawal, and the letter which we received was an expression of re- gret. Perhaps it is not couched in language to please all members. I do not know whether members wanted Mr. Cohen to go down upon his knees, whether he is to cover himself with sackcloth and ashes, whether he is to come into the House with a halter around his neck. Of course, if that is what they want to do with the offending reporter, then, Sir, all I can say is that it would be inconsistent with all our tra- ditions. An Hon. MEMBER .- Read the next ruling. Mr. SEDDON .- I am going to read you a rule laid down by Mr. Speaker, and it is this -- and I noticed it on the floor of this House with the present Acting.Speaker: that where a member has offended, and where he has been asked to withdraw and expresses his regret, the slightest indication, ofttimes words which were 