very important bearing on the early history of the colony ; and I think something more meri- torious is due these turrets than rusting away. These turret towers were used in the early sixties on board the steamer "Pioneer," running the blockade between Mercer and Ngaruawahia. They are spattered with bullet- marks ; and I think it would be a graceful thing for the Defence Department to refurbish these towers and present one to Auckland City, to be placed in Albert Park; and the other might be placed in the Parliamentary Grounds here. These turrets are some of the few links connect- ing the present with the early and troublous times of this colony. It is only proper that they should be preserved, and placed amongst the other mementoes of the early times, that they might be an object-lesson to those who come after us. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON .- I have one objection to what my honourable friend has just said. We want to forget as soon as we can our early feud with the Native race, and the sooner we become fast friends and forget the past, the better. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- In reply to what the Hon. Mr. Jennings said, I do not see exactly where his remarks apply to this Bill. They are quite apart from the purpose of the measure, and I do not think this Bill is a pro- per place to deal with that matter at all. There is no proposal to send these turret towers to Samoa, or South Africa ; so it is hardly har- monious with the intention of the Bill. Bill read the second time. MORTGAGES OF LAND BILL. ' The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .-- This is a Bill which, although it is a layman's Bill, and may be regarded with a certain amount of doubt as to whether it has any practical value, still, at the same time, it has run the gauntlet of revision from a very specialised Committee- the Joint Statutes Revision Committee - on more than one occasion. It has there had the attention of very many lawyers, and, whatever was the form in which it was presented to the Committee, we have it now in a workable form. Some lawyers, I know, doubt the advisability of providing another form of cheap mortgage, contending that the forms already in exist- ence are quite sufficient. But I can assure the Council since the Bill has been in the hands of the Legislature this session I have been ap- proached by several persons, representing indi- viduals and companies, who assure me that this legalised form of cheap mortgage will in many ways meet what is felt to be a public requirement. The Bill was brought in origin- ally by a private member some years ago. Since then it has been revised by the Statutes Revision Committee, and this year has been taken up by the Government, who think it is a step in the right direction, in order to put in the hands of private persons an opportunity of doing for themselves what they would have to pay for if they prefer to engage a lawyer. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN .- This Bill, as my Hon. Mr. Jennings honourable friend has said, did come before the Joint Statutes Revision Committee last year, and the Committee made a recommenda- tion that it should not proceed further, after taking evidence. This year, I am sorry to say, I was away when the Bill went through that Committee. It came down here with some amendments proposed, and was withdrawn in consequence of a similar, or, practically, the same Bill having passed the other House. It is a question whether it is advisable to make it very easy to give mortgages at a minute's notice, and without careful consideration. There is every facility under the Land Transfer Act to mortgage land with very little expense, and we have always looked forward in this country-without forcing people to bring their land under the Act-to the time when there shall be only one system of land transfer, and that it should be a simple one and cheap. and facilitating search for title. Now, is it advis- able, when this process is gradually going on, and when a large proportion of landed pro- perty in the country has been brought under the Land Transfer Act-is it advisable to in- troduce a third system of mortgage, dealing with the land-an intermittent system, and one which I now venture to say will tend to complicate titles ? This Bill appears to me, at least on the face of it, to get rid of some of the precautions guaranteed by the other Act. I am afraid myself it would tend to what we may call "over the bar" arrange- ments being made in a hurry between man and man, when one wants money, and the other is prepared to lend it for a consideration. I do not say that this will necessarily be the result of the Bill, but it will tend that way. There is one thing I think ought to be done, and that is to get the opinion of the Registrar-General of Lands as to the effect the provisions of this Bill would have on our present land-transfer system. I do not mean that his opinion should necessarily be final, but it is advisable that a man who had so large an experience in the working of the Land Transfer Act should appear before a Committee to tell us whether the pre- sent proposals would create complications, and whether the measure would be an obstacle to our arriving at one system of land tenure and transfer. I do not know what his opinion on the whole question would be ; but, like many others, I think it advisable that he should give us his advice. Earlier in the session, as Chair- man of the Committee, I asked him whether he could do so-either by sending me a memo- randum to lay before the Committee, or by He said that he giving evidence before it. would be glad to give the Committee any infor- mation in his power, if he was called as a wit- ness. I mentioned this to the honourable gentleman who took the chair in my absence, and I believe the question was brought before the Committee; but they chose to go on with the Bill. I think this Bill-which is identical with the one dropped-should be referred to the Statutes Revision Committee, with a view of getting the opinion of the Registrar-General on it. It can do no harm. It is not a case in 