him by the extra clerks. He objected to keeping a man in a sinecure position when it might be given to a poorer and more deserving man who needed it. He moved, That the vote, " Legis- lative Council, #1,870," be reduced by £70, as an indication to the Government that there was a necessity for reform. Sir J. G. WARD pointed out, in reply to the member for Lyttelton, that the Clerk of Parlia- ments had been thirty-eight years in the ser- vice. The whole of the work of Parliament focussed through him. He had to see that all Bills and other business were in correct order. His position was far from being a sinecure. As to the other officer referred to by the honourable member for Wairarapa, he did not think it was the duty of the Government to inquire what the private position of any mem- ber of the service was if he did his work well. If he was fortunate enough to have some of the good things of the world, he was surely not to be condemned for it. The salary had been fixed for a number of years at $250, and, unless there were good and sufficient reasons shown, it was not fair to reduce it. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) said that last year a promise had been made that the salary of the Second Assistant Librarian would be in- creased. Sir J. G. WARD said he understood himself an increase was to be given. By some mistake it was not included in the copy of the estimates before the House. Mr. HOGG said he should support the amend- ment. He did so without any feeling against the officer, and solely on account of the anoma- lous position he held as a sheep-farmer for the greater portion of the year, and as Clerk of the Legislative Council for the smaller portion of it. It seemed to be unfair that this officer should be able during a part of the year to leave his farm and earn a salary, which would main tain some other man with a wife and family. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) said, If the honouralle member for Wairarapa laid it down as a principle that because a man had other means he was not worthy of other occu- pation, because there was somebody else who had got nothing, it might be extended to react on some of the honourable gentleman's friends. Mr. LAWRY (Parnell) said that he had never seen any advantage gained by taking the esti- mates in detail. He was one of the "Skin- flint " party that asked Sir Harry Atkinson to reduce his estimates by £50,000. Sir Robert Stout had said that every Government was re- sponsible for its own finance, and he would, therefore, vote against every motion for reduc- tion of the estimates. If the Premier could not dismiss this officer because he was a parliamen- tary officer, why move to reduce his salary ? Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said the member for Wairarapa stated that because one of the clerks in the Legislative Council was a landed proprietor he should not hold the office. But if his services were dispensed with he would, of course, take up the management of the pro- perty himself, and discharge the man at present in charge. Mr. HORNSBY .-- His son is in charge. Mr. PIRANI said, Well, his son would have to go to South Africa. The fact was that this official was one of the best in Parliament. He had not always means outside his salary, and it was ridiculous to say that, because he had been fortunate enough to acquire property, he was any the less a good official. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the Government intended to stand by their estimates, and they intended to vote against the amendment of the member for Wairarapa. The rule generally was to give full consideration to the advice of the Speakers of both Houses in reference to the officers of Parliament. No increase was proposed in this case. Mr. ARNOLD (Dunedin City) could not vote for the amendment, because he did not hold with the principle of cutting down salaries. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) did not consider the amendment of the honourable member for Wai- rarapa was worth voting on. The consideration should not be whether they were paying too much or too little in salaries, but whether they had in the service of the State too many for its resources. The Committee divided on the question, " That the vote, 'Legislative Council, £1,870,' be reduced by the sum of £70." AYES, 5. Tellers. Barclay Ell Hogg Hornsby. Laurenson. NOES, 26. Allen, E. G. Hall-Jones Palmer Heke Seddon Arnold Stevens Herries Bennet Kaihau Symes Carncross Ward Lawry Carroll Witheford. Massey Collins Tellers. Field McGowan Fraser, A. L. D. Mckenzie, R. Atkinson McNab Pirani. Guinness Majority against, 21. Amendment negatived. Mr. ELL moved that progress be reported. The Committee divided. AYES, 12. Herries Pirani. Arnold Tellers. Hornsby Atkinson Ell Hutcheson Barclay Bollard Massey. Monk Collins NOES, 21. Stevens Allen, E. G. Laurenson Symes Lawry Bennet Ward Carncross McGowan Witheford. Mckenzie, R. Carroll Tellers. McNab Hall-Jones Field Palmer Heke Fraser, A. L. D. Seddon Hogy Kaihau 