and better Liberals in the country opposed to the Government than the followers of the Premier. Why, Sir, it has often amused me, when I hear these people so anxious to assert they are Liberals, to think how proud they were of being dragged at the chariot-wheels of the present Conservative Government in England. It must be evident to any one of ordinary intelligence who looks at the public affairs of this country that, however applicable the terms "Conservative " and " Liberal" may be to Im- perial politics, they do not apply to the politics of this country. The people of this country, so far as politics are concerned, may be divided into two classes-Seddonites, or the supporters of the present Government, and anti Seddonites, those who oppose the present Government. I have to admit that the Government at the present time have an overwhelming majority in this House, a majority, I am inclined to think, they have acquired by questionable practices, and by the making use of public moneys for party purposes. Mr. WITHEFORD .- Not in my case. Mr. MASSEY .- Not in your case, I admit. I was going to remind the Premier of some- thing he already knows- that there are thou- sands of people in the colony at the present time that were formerly misguided enough to support the Government, misled by plausible professions of honesty and economy, but who now stand aghast at the position we have got into, and who look with alarm at our financial position - at the extravagance on every hand and the industrial unrest that prevails. Sir, it requires no prophetic spirit to see that, if we are to avoid disaster, the scatter-cash policy of the past few years must be aban- doned, and the public affairs of the colony managed more carefully and with more regard for the principles of political economy than has been the case at any time during the past ten years. In the Financial Statement it is custom- ary for the Colonial Treasurer to boast much of the prosperity during the few years previous, and this Financial Statement is no exception to the general rule. On page ix. of the State- ment there is a series of tables intended to show that the colony is very much more prosperous now than it has been during any previous period, and there is no doubt one point which it makes quite clear-it proves conclusively and beyond all possible doubt that the amount of money extracted from the pockets of the tax- payers, directly and indirectly, at the present time is greater than it was in 1891, when the present Government took office. But, Sir, coming to railways and land-settlement, I think that the tables are most unfair and mis- leading-and, by the way, I was amused at an interjection of the Premier's this afternoon with regard to the boasted-of concessions and reductions on our railways. My mind went back to the honourable member's position as a member of the Assets Board, which consists of three members, of which the Right Hon. the Premier is one. Does the Premier know that the Assets Board does not use the railways of this or produce to market they use the roads of the colony, or water-carriage wherever possible ? So it is evident the Premier's own company do not appreciate the concessions that have been made. But, coming to the railways, we are informed that the railways paid last year £3 9s. 8d. per cent., and we are told that in 1895 they only paid £2 14s. 6d. Of course, the meaning is quite clear. But what was the position in 1895? 1894 was the last year during which the Railway Commissioners had charge of the railways; Mr. Cadman, as Minister for Railways, took them over on the 1st January, 1895. Now, I do not think there is any member who will assert that Mr. Cadman was biassed in favour of the Commissioners. This is what Mr. Cadman says in his first Railways State- ment :- "The railways, however, earned about £40,000 for services rendered to the colony, but not paid for. Had this amount been credited, the earnings would have been £2 19s. 9d. per cent. These unsatisfactory results are due principally to diminished business, the chief cause being the lessening of the spending- power of the people, owing to the great fall in prices of our staple products and the almost entire stoppage of the export of wheat." The important point is this : Mr. Cadman says the railways earned £40,000 for services ren- dered but not paid for by other departments. At that time the other departments did not pay for the services of the Railway Department, but they do now. So that, according to Mr. Cad- man, the railways, if the present system had been in operation, would have paid in 1895 £2 19s. 9d. per cent., as against £2 14s. 6d. according to the Statement. But there is an- other factor to be taken into account. At that time Parliament voted very little for what is called "improvements on open lines"; but any member of the House, and most of the people of the country, knows that at the pre- sent time hundreds of thousands are appro- priated annually for rolling-stock and other im- provements on open lines. But, as I have said, prior to 1895 those improvements and additions were paid for mostly out of revenue, so that really there is no comparison between the two years referred to. Now, coming to the Lands Department, we are informed that the re- venue for 1891 was £350,551, and we are further informed that the land revenue for last year was $431,338. Most people are under the impression that at present land revenue and territorial revenue mean the same thing. I venture to say there is not one member of the House but believes such to be the case. But on turning to the other side of the page we find the territorial revenue for last year was £270,203. Whence this discrepancy ? How is the difference to be accounted for? I admit that I am unable to explain it. I assume that the sum of $431,388 includes the land-for-settle- ment rentals ; but if it includes the land-for- settlement rentals then I contend that the interest on the land-for-settlement debentures should be shown on the other side of the 