ENGINEERS' CERTIFICATES. .. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) asked the charges which led to the compulsory retirement Minister of Marine, Why holders of river == certificates of competency as engineers are pro- hibited from taking charge of stationary engines on shore? He would like to know how it was \- that men holding river certificates, who were I allowed to take charge of steamers with four : or five hundred passengers on board, were de- barred from taking charge of stationary engines. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister of Marine) said the position as indicated was an absurdity, and he hoped an amendment of the Act would be passed this session. ... # FIREMEN'S CERTIFICATES. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) asked the Minister of Marine, Why the Marine Depart- ment refuses to allow firemen's time at sea to count as time for a certificate of competency for a stationary engine? A man might be twenty years at sea firing and taking charge of the engines, and vet this was not allowed to count by the department. He hoped the dis- ability would be removed. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister of Marine) said service at sea as firemen had always been accepted to qualify a candidate for a second- class certificate of competency as stationary- engine driver, but to qualify for a first-class certificate the candidate, while in possession of a second-class certificate, must have had charge of an engine in terms of the Act. # ELECTION OF SCHOOL COMMITTEES AND EDUCATION BOARDS. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) asked the Go- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 vernment, If they will alter the School Com- mittees Election Act so as to enable both parents to vote at School Committee elections ; also, if they will have the Board of Education Election Act amended so as to make that a more workable measure than it is at present ? The question explained itself. In some School Committees it had been ruled that the mother and father could both vote; in others it had been held that the mother could not vote under any circumstances. He would like to know whether some rule would be defined in the matter. In regard to the second part of the question, during the last election of members of the Education Board there was a great deal of confusion caused and delay brought about owing to the fact that the amending Act was not very clear as to the mode of collecting or counting votes cast for candidates; and, in addition to that. practically the principle of the secrecy of the ballot was not observed. Mr. HALL-JONES . Minister for Public Works) did not think it likely that an amend- ment of the School Committees Election Act would be brought down this session, but he hoped to bring in a Bill amending the Act under which Education Boards were elected. MR. LEE, LATE INSPECTOR OF SCHOOLS, WELLINGTON. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Government, Whether the Education Depart- ! VOL. CXVIII. - 41. ment has power to order an inquiry into the of Mr. Lee, late Inspector of Schools, Welling- ton ? He was always averse to interfering unnecessarily, and he had no desire to do so in this case ; but it was said that Mr. Lee was the victim of an injustice, and therefore he wished to know whether the Government could suggest any remedy in this matter. Mr. HALL- JONES (Minister for Public Works) said he was of opinion that the depart- ment had no power to order an inquiry. # TEACHERS' PAYMENT FOR TECHNICAL EDUCATION. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) asked the Go- vernment, What Education Boards, if any, have distributed fees collected to the teachers in accordance with the circular of the 8th Janu- ary, last ? This question was founded on the fact that in a circular of the 8th January last it was intimated that certain fees connected with the teaching of technical subjects in dis- trict schools, together with the capitation granted by the Government for the same pur- pose, would be distributed to teachers engaged in the work. He understood that some of the Boards had acted in accordance with that cir- cular and paid over the money to the teachers, but that others had not done so. He put the question to the Minister to call his attention to that fact, and also in the hope that, under the circumstances, the honourable gentleman would say what was the proper course to pursue in the matter. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) said he had a copy of the circular before him, and he saw in it no statement of the kind made by the honourable member. It said,- "That the whole of such allowances be paid as salaries to the teachers of secondary subjects, or as additions to salaries of the other teachers of the district high school, as the Board may determine." That was, the amount contributed by the State towards the cost. He was not aware of any case in which a teacher who had done the work had not been paid the amount he was entitled to receive. Mr. BARCLAY asked, Did he understand the Minister to say that, as far as he was aware, all the Boards had complied with the regula- tions ? Mr. HALL-JONES replied in the affirmative. WINDSOR-LIVINGSTONE RAILWAY. Major STEWARD) (Waitaki) asked the Minis- ter for Public Works,-(1) Whether provision will be made on the public-works estimates towards the extension of the Windsor-Living- stone Railway, being an authorised line, as far as the new bridge over the Maerewhenua at "Hutton's " ; and (2) whether he will cause a complete survey to be made with a view to ascertaining the best route and approximate cost of further extending the said line to the Township of Naseby, or to such point near to the said township as may be found most prac- ticable and convenient ? The Windsor-Living- 