and, Sir, when we on this side of the House did as is usual, the Treasurer boasts much about bis warn the Government that prosperity was not surplus-he always does-but I am afraid his perennial, that some provision ought to be surplus is largely a matter of book-keeping. made for the lean years, and that we ought to However, he says nothing about his liabilities ; save our credit, we were sneered at as pessimists but the liabilities unfortunately are there, and and Jeremiahs, and all that sort of thing. But are very much larger than they have been for the present position- and I am afraid worse is many years past - in fact, than on any previous coming-justifies our predictions. It is now occasion. The liabilities of the Consolidated our duty, unfortunately, to look at the causes Fund for last year amounted on the 31st March which have led to the present difficulty, and to £206,828 6s. 10d. ; the liabilities in the Public there is no doubt that one of the causes was the Works Fund amount to #1,292,095 1s. 2d. I passing of the Old-age Pensions Act, without do not wonder at the Treasurer feeling anxious making special and definite provision for its when he commenced to make up his Statement, finance, as we suggested at the time. In and expressing a difficulty to the West Coast connection with the passing of that measure. deputation about making ends meet. Then, in there is no doubt the Colonial Treasurer either . other accounts there are liabilities amounting misled the House or displayed woful ignorance : to $39,147, making a total liability of £1,538,070. of the position. When the measure was before I hope, Sir, for the credit of the colony, that the the House he made an estimate of the annual Colonial Treasurer will be able to make ends cost to the country of the scheme, and in doing meet ; I hope he will have no difficulty in doing so, but I must say I do not envy him the task so said this :- he has in front of him. I understood the Treasurer just now to deny having expressed could successfully claim as being one-fourth of any anxiety about his finances. I will quote those in the colony over sixty-five years of age- his own words, as reported in the Lyttelton namely, five thousand-and the payment of five Times : - thousand at £18 a year would amount to £90,000. " The spending policy had been increasing at Then I ask, what would be a reasonable increase far too rapid a rate, and it was time to go slow each year? Then I put it if there was a total in- once more, or the consequences might be such crease of one thousand persons attaining to the as he scarcely liked to contemplate. For this age of sixty-five yearly, certainly not more than reason he was determined to cut down the ex- one-half would be able to claim a pension owing to the restrictions in the Bill. I therefore make penditure, taking care that there should be a fair apportionment throughout the colony. the annual increase of pensioners five hundred -- Discussing the ordinary balance-sheet of the that is, there would be five hundred additional colony, the Premier said that this also caused claims that would be admitted in every year, him very much anxiety. For last financial and working that out it means that in the second year they had an excess of receipts over ex- year the amount to be paid would be £99,000; penditure amounting to half a million ; in the third year, £108,000; the fourth year, framing the estimates for the current year he £117,000 ; and the following year, $126,000. Now, I think I am not at all under-estimating, was unable to make the receipts equal the expenditure. The position must be faced, but and honourable members will see that it is not it was by no means a pleasant one." of such magnitude when we come to look into the matter carefully under the conditions which Mr. SEDDON .- never said anything of the are laid down by this Bill." kind. Mr. MASSEY .- I am sorry to hear the Right cost the colony €108,000. This, Sir, is the third Hon. the Premier deny it. year; and what is the cost? The cost is Mr. SEDDON .- When you have finished £215,000, or over £100,000 a year more than your speech I am going to prove it. the Treasurer estimated. I am afraid that Mr. MASSEY .- Of course, I have not the under present arrangements the old-age pen- slightest objection to that. But during the sions scheme will not stand the strain of hard Premier's absence a member of the House, and times. a Government supporter, stood up and told us that he was present at the deputation, and that that was a fair report of what occurred. Mr. MASSEY .- Well, I hope it will ; but Mr. SEDDON .- I have got his own report of what I think is that there will be some danger what transpired in the Nelson Colonist, and it of its breaking down unless proper provision is varies it considerably. made for it. Then, there has been enormous Mr. MASSEY .- There seems to be a certain expenditure-much of it, I think, very unneces- amount of doubt as to what was said to the sary-in connection with the South African war ; West Coast deputation ; but, leaving that sub. and not only that, but also in connection with ject, it is quite evident to any one of ordinary the somewhat unusual events of the last twelve intelligence, from the facts and figures con- or eighteen months-the Royal visit, the visit tained in the Financial Statement itself, that of the Imperial troops, and the sending-off of the financial position of the colony is far from the contingents. However, the Government satisfactory, and it is not to be wondered at. have, in every instance, acted up to their When we think of the recklessness and extrava- motto - that money is no object. They have increased the salaries, increased the number of gance of the last few years the only wonder is that the financial prosperity has lasted so long ; Ministers, and increased the expenses in con- " I therefore take the number of those who Then he said that for the third year it would Mr. SEDDON .- Oh yes, it will. 