able members who are now so proud of the , That is my authority, and I am quoting from honour and dignity of this House? What I the book. was reading has already been read in this Chamber, and it has also been published in give the honourable member for Palmerston the newspapers all over the colony. Notwith- standing this, in a trifling matter like the an instance of it. one under discussion, honourable members are rising in their places and saying that Parlia- ment is being degraded, and that its privileges we agree to differ; 1 join issue with my are being ignored. Now, let us inquire as to honourable friend there, and I sincerely hope how those privileges have been abused. I for his sake that it is so. Again, there is intend to come back to the other question in always a question when the House rises on a few moments. We find that, through an Sunday the 20th, and an article is published on oversight, certain evidence was published, which Monday the 21st, whether the House has pro- technically was a breach of privilege; but we rogued or whether it is not technically sitting. We are dealing with technicalities all through are now told that the apology is not one that this matter, but I think I have said quite suthi- we should accept, and that we should not cient about this now. The honourable member fail to punish the reporter or the publisher, -not for the breach, but for the wording for the Bay of Plenty said to-day that there of his letter to the House, - because he was a stigma lying on every member of the Mines Committee. Well, if there is a stigma. has not given a suitable apology. I do upon them because there is some doubt in not say that my knowledge of the English the minds of honourable members and the language is extensive. My power of re- fined diction has not such an extensive minds of the country as to who gave that horizon as that of the honourable member for evidence wrongfully, what stigma must not Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson) ; but I do say the honourable gentleman be sitting under when these words which I read were published this, that no letter could have been more about him, and about myself, and every mem- courteously written to this House than the ber of this House ? letter from Mr. Cohen. He has regretted everything he has done. At any rate, I read it this way. I may not read it as a university " That we have reached a depth- scholar, but I read it as a colonial who has only had the benefit of a colonial education. I say that this is my reading. Mr. Cohen has ruled these words are not parliamentary, and written as a gentleman should have done; and cannot therefore be used. let me say that we know that this is character- istic of him, whether we meet him as a Press- stood your ruling. I regret I cannot further https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 man or as a private gentleman. He is one illustrate to the honourable member for the that is respected by all the members of this Bay of I'lenty and other honourable members that they have sat under a wilful and deliberate House ; his letter is graceful, it is apologetic ; but it is not sycophantic in its apology, and if libel, and yet over an insignificant matter like this they have wasted our time for three days, it had been so we would have looked with contempt upon it and him. It is simply the because, as they say, there is a stain upon letter of an educated gentleman, notwithstand- their escutcheon. Well, only when it suits ing the pedantic criticism and comments of them, it is a sensitive escutcheon. I felt myself with regard to the punishment that ought to be the honourable member for Palmerston. To imposed in this case that it was this: that be perfectly fair with Mr. Cohen, I think when the House had expressed its opinion that he made a mistake, but only a technical mistake, in criticizing our Standing Orders a breach of privilege had been committed, to any respectable journal that was quite a sufficient and suggesting an amendment of them. Well, Sir, when honourable members' speeches are punishment. It had done wrong, and broken the law of our House, and when the House had analysed it is found that this is the only fault he has made. They would fine him for unanimously expressed its regret that such an not writing such a courteous letter as would be offence had been committed, that was sufficient acceptable to some of the fastidious members punishment for this House to pass. When this on that side of the House; and yet those House passes a resolution that a member of the honourable members sat in their places and heard charges made against them collectively -- regretted, that is looked upon as a sufficient charges that were published, which honourable punishment. If it is looked upon as a sufficient members should not have allowed to go un- punishment for an honourable member, it should be looked upon as a sufficient punishment for a challenged. Mr. MASSEY .- They were not published journal holding a high position in this colony. That is my opinion. Then, we had the member during the session. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER. - If the honourable for Palmerston saying the paper has treated this member will refer to his May he will find there House with contumacy. authorities for action being taken, in the case of offences that were not committed during the sitting of the House. Notwithstanding this, trio. I beg the honourable gentleman's pardon. It is quite easily understood how I made the they were considered to be breacues of privilege. Mr. PIRANI .- Give us an instance. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- I regret I cannot Mr. PIRANI .- Because there is not one. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- Well, of course, An Hon. MEMBER .- What were they ? Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- The words are : Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I have already Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- I quite misunder- House has been guilty of something the House Mr. PIRANI .- I did not say so. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER. - It was one of the 