Many of the men who have taken up land do not really realise their position. They do not know whether they have it at a fair rent or a rack-rent ; but they will find out when the pinch comes; and I can assure the Hon. the Treasurer, as the head of the Government, that there are instances which I could point out where the rents have been so badly allocated that large advances may be obtained the mo- ment the ballot is over, while the poorer land is left on the hands of the Government. Sir, why should we take this improved land at all ? Are there not millions of acres of good land both in the North and the South-especially in the North-that could be utilised for settle- ment without interfering with the improved land ? Sir, there are millions of acres. The pioneers of this colony came sixteen thousand miles to take up unimproved land, and they carved out of it homes for themselves and their families; and why cannot the young men of the North and the South do the same? I am sure they have the true grit to do it. Much of the land they might take up is better than some of the land which the Government have purchased from private owners. Sir, I will tell the House the reason why people are not taking up this land. It is because the Government have educated young men to covet another man's grass paddock, and take it from him after he has spent the best years of a lifetime to bring it to a paying state. It is because the Government have legislated in the direction of claiming a man's improved property. The Government in effect say, " You agitate in the matter and we will take this man's grass paddock "-the property a man took up perhaps forty or fifty years ago, and on which, after years of slavery and persever- ance, he has carved out for himself and for his family a home, in which he thought he might comfortably spend the later years of his life, and afterwards leave it to his children. This is taken from him by the Government whether he likes it or not, and is given to some one else. If it were taken for public works one would not grumble, but to take a man's grass paddocks from him and give them to another man I say is not a right or proper thing to do. We are told that the holdings are too large ; but the people who hold them are not responsible. They were offered for sale, and they bought them at auction fairly aud squarely. It is time enough to talk about cutting them up when all the rest of the Crown lands are occupied. But before that time comes I say the owners will cut them up themselves. Sir, I hope to see the day when this law will be done away with, and when a man can do what he likes with his land, but that he shall not hold more than a certain reasonable area. Now, Sir, although the Go- vernment are spending millions for the purpose of providing lands for farms, what have they done for workmen's homes ? Mr. SEDDON. - Not nearly enough. Mr. BOLLARD .- In my opinion the Govern- ment would do far better work if they paid more attention to the working-men and their Mr. Bollard in the four large centres, than they can by providing improved lands for farms. Now, Sir, with regard to these workmen's homes, the question is not a new thing. It has not- originated with this Government, but with the Conservative Government in England. Some years ago I made a valuation of a ward in the City of Auckland, and I was so impressed with what I saw there of the back slums that ever since I thought I would do something to try and alter it. I presume it is the same in each of the large centres. Going down the main street you see an archway, and fancy it is going into a backyard, and you go through and then find six or seven hovels at the back rented to working-men-and, not only to working-men, but some of the worst characters in the city live there too. Take a respectable working-man, and there are many respectable working-men who get married at the age of five-and-twenty. They have little or no money to support them, and they have to go into a cheap house to live, and they go into these back places. Before they know where they are, they have a large family round them; and, while the insani- tary conditions are bad enough, the moral conditions are ten times worse. If the Go- vernment would provide them with small homes in the country, which they could reach by railway, it would be giving a great advantage to the working people of this country. Now, there is another matter I have brought under the notice of this House in connection with the farmers and agriculturists, and that is the establishing of a school of agriculture in the Auckland District. We have one in Can- terbury but, even if it was properly managed, it could not be made available for the whole colony. Take Auckland, which is the centre of a comparatively large population-at any rate, the largest in the colony : there are numbers of professional men, merchants, and well-to-do tradesmen who wish their sons to learn practi- cal scientific farming. There is no place in the Auckland Provincial District to which these young fellows can be sent for that purpose -no large station where agricultural as well as pastoral farming is carried on, and where they can be treated in anything like the way in which they are treated in their own homes. Now, Sir, if we had a school of agriculture within a few miles of a large centre these young fellows could get on their ponies or cycles at home and be at this school of agriculture hy eight o'clock in the morning, do their day's work of seven hours, and leave again at four o'clock in the afternoon, have a little recreation, and be able to attend lectures in the city at night. Now, that sort of thing could be done for about eight or ten guineas a year, and this would bring it within the reach of almost every poor man who wants his son to learn the science and practice of agriculture ; but they cannot afford to send their sons to some distant institution and pay #40 or 450 for board in addition. Even those who can afford it do not like to send their sons so far away from home. . They like to see them at night, and exercise a general supervision over 