authorities, or under the jurisdiction of the | masters testify to the clogging effect of cigarette- Magistrate. It would have been quite a dif- smoking of boys engaged in study. At the ferent thing if the offenders were young child- annual conference this year of the Lancashire ren ; but when you come to whip a youth of and Cheshire branch of the British Medical sixteen or seventeen years of age, what is the Association, Dr. J. Hilton Thompson demon- effect ? Why, you destroy his self-love and strated the presence of carbonic-oxide gas in his relf-respect. The Government should have tobacco smoke, and declared that when inhaled introduced this Bill. I do not know why the from cigarettes it had the same injurious effect Government did not introduce it. We under- on the system as choke-damp in collieries. The stand that a Bill to prohibit opium is to be fatal result to mice is as popularly known as introduced into Parliament this session - the the leech experiment. In June last, at a public pledge of the Government has been given to meeting at Sheffield, medical reports laid stress that effect : and I think cigarette-smoking, or on the prevalency of juvenile smoking, and an the smoking of tobacco in any form, by our appeal was made to young men, as they valued young people, is quite as injurious, quite as health of body, clearness of intellect, and serious a matter as opium-smoking: it is strength of moral purpose, to abstain from the more serious because the evil is more wide- cigarette." spread. It is quite unnecessary for me to say to any assembly of intelligent gentlemen stated there. Although the statements appear that smoking in early life is injurious, and to be extravagant, they must be accepted as weakens both body and mind; that it dimi- true. Sir, the late Sir Frederick Whitaker on, nishes respect for one's-self and also respect for I believe, several occasions, but certainly on one others ; that it unfits its victims to perform occasion, introduced a Bill into this Parliament their duties as citizens; and that it threatens for the purpose of doing away with smoking by to weaken the race and to reduce the birth- juveniles, and ever since then the question has rate. This is not, I know, recognised by some been more or less before the public ; but such honourable gentlemen. If this had been a measures as the Young Persons Protection Bill measure to put a shilling or two into people's and this Cigarette-smoking Prohibition Bill, as pockets, or to give them a glass of whisky or a rule, elicit such ridicule that honourable beer extra, there would have been something gentlemen do not care about introducing them heroic about it ; but when it comes to the pro- into Parliament. I would like to see more tection of children, so that they may grow up seriousness shown towards these measures. If to be strong and good men, then it is quite a honourable members cannot understand them, different matter. I do not like the levity with or if they have no sympathy with them, I which all these questions dealing with our social think they might at least show some con- sideration to those who act honestly and life are treated by some honourable gentlemen. up to their convictions on such subjects. An Hon. MEMBER .- Hear, hear. In the report of the South Australian State The Hon. Mr. JONES .- I am glad I have Children's Council it is stated that tobacco- convinced them of their error. As to the phy- sical evils produced by smoking tobacco in any smoking is an incentive to stealing. The Coun- form, I cannot point to anything better than cil says :- an excerpt which I have preserved in order that I might read it to the Council. This appeared of parents, the temptations of street life, illegal betting, and tobacco, numbers of children are in one of the local newspapers a year or two ago, and I thought that perhaps it might be being led into criminal practices." They add that "almost every boy who had been brought useful some day : - "Dr. L. Forbes Winslow, lecturer on in- before the authorities (even those of nine years of age) confessed to spending stolen money in sanity at Charing Cross Hospital, has written a the purchase of cigarettes and cigars." book entitled 'Mad Humanity,' in which he stigmatizes ' the cigarette as one of the curses of the age.' He refers to the well-known ex- the subject of tobacco-smoking, said that it was periment of a leech dropping dead upon the sip a great nuisance. He would do away with tobacco-smoking, not only by juveniles but also of a cigarette-smoker's blood, and draws a dis- by adults. That is probably due to the fact that tasteful picture of enervation, hypochondriasis, he does not smoke himself, and because, when dwarfish development, tendency to consump- tion, 'suffering lives and early deaths.' One he tried to smoke Nature revolted to such an extent that he had to desist, and is now making death immediately due to the cigarette was that of a boy aged eleven years, who had smoked a a virtue of necessity. But whilst I-having dozen or more cigarettes daily for ten months. myself given up smoking recently-would like It is well attested that early smoking often to see others abandon the habit, yet I cannot see that the two questions, the question of juvenile leads to a craving for alcoholic stimulant. Dr. smoking and the question of adult smoking can be Ross, M.L.A., who has introduced the Juvenile deemed to be parallel. They are totally different Smoking Bill into the New South Wales Parlia- questions. The question of juvenile smoking ment, writes, 'Juvenile smoking, particularly is one which is fraught with great danger. As cigarettes, affects the stomach, liver, brain, we all know, it stops growth, it prevents the heart, kidneys, and nervous system, leading development of mind and body, it demoralises, often to congestion of the lungs; it interferes and so forth. The honourable gentleman, in with the growth and with the development of a dilating on this subject, mentioned that he was sound mind and healthy constitution.' School- I do not think anybody can gainsay what is "It appears evident that, owing to the neglect Sir, the Hon. Mr. McLean, in dealing with 