£2,000 should be put on the estimates for addi- tional Inspectors of Mines. An Hon. MEMBER .- You can take it off some other vote. Mr. McGOWAN .- That sort of argument will not do to get out of the hole you have been put in, I am afraid. I intend now, just for a few minutes, to deal with the consolidated expendi- ture, so far as the departments I have control of are affected. Other Ministers can deal with their own departments. I do not intend to take up the time of the House one minute more than is necessary. Now, I quite admit, taking first of all the Justice Department, that there is an increase in the expenditure, and it must in- crease. We cannot help it, because the popu- lation is increasing. Taking the amount required for the head office in 1890-91 as compared with the present time, the ex- penditure for that year was £1,249, while in 1901-2 there is $2,254, showing an in- crease of £1,005. Now, the cause of that increase is this: The Native Office as a distinct office has been wiped out, and the offi- cers belonging to that department have been added to the Justice Department. The result is that this increase of #1,005 is accounted for at once, for it is represented by the salaries of the officers who have been taken over. Now, if we take the Crown Law Office, the amount set down for 1890-91 was £2,160, and for 1901-2 £2,500, being an increase of £340. This addi- tional expenditure is accounted for by the fact that a cadet has lately been added to the staff, and that the salary of the Law Draftsman was increased some two years ago. If we take the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 Supreme Court, you will find the amount in 1890-91 was £9,016, while in 1901-2 it is £6,645, showing a very considerable reduction. Then, again, if we take Bankruptcy, and here is a point I wish to emphasize: In 1890-91 the amount set down under the head of "Bank- ruptcy " was £6,731, while for 1901-2 it is £3,987, showing a saving of £2,744. Now, that is a very important matter, and is accounted for by the increased prosperity of the people during the past year as compared with 1890-91 when a Conservative Government was in power. These are facts that cannot be disputed. Mr. MASSEY .- You tell it very well. Mr. McGOWAN. - The honourable gentleman says that I tell it very well. At any rate, I merely tell the House what is the fact. You may take the figures and turn them which way you please, but there is no getting over the fact I have just stated. During that year the ex- penditure of that department was the amount I have stated, and during 1901-2 there is a saving of £2,744, and I think we ought to be congratu- lated upon that head, at any rate. Now, then, again we come to District, Magistrates', and Wardens' Courts, which are the Courts of the people at large. Under this head there has been an increase, and one need not wonder at this, for, in addition to increased work in other directions, there has been a vast expansion of the mining industry. In that connection I would like to say to the honourable member for Mr. McGowan posed to make a reduction in the salary of the Stipendiary Magistrate in Dunedin, I wonder how he would like it. I suppose the honourable gentleman, like a great many other honourable members, would say, "Make reductions any- where else, but not where I am concerned." They are quite willing to reduce "the other fellow," but not the people they are them- selves interested in. It is an easy thing to make a general statement about the neces- sity for reductions, but it is different when you come to work it out. We have members appealing to the House and showing the neces- sity for this or the other gentleman being better paid-and I admit, myself, the Resident Magis- trates and Wardens are entitled to a higher salary if the House is prepared to grant it. These Courts, as I have said, are the Courts of the people, and they are often more important to the people in general than the Supreme Court of the colony. The Supreme Court, of course, is the high Court of the colony, but the Magis- trates' Courts are the Courts to which the grievances of the people at large are brought for redress. I need not go over the whole of the other heads. In regard to criminal prosecu- tions, I may say it is a branch of the depart- ment you cannot put down for any specified sum, because one year it may be more and another year it may be less. There can be no stated sum, as the amount required depends entirely on the crime that has taken place during the year. Now, with regard to the vote for Coroners-inquests and salaries-there is an increase of £1,580 compared with 1900-91, but this is accounted for by the passing of the Payment of Jurors Act and by the increase in the number of inquests consequent on the in- crease in population. Now, Sir, I think the Justice Department can be charged in no way with extravagant expenditure, and I am giving the House these particulars in order to prove that there is no justification for charging that particular department with extravagance in any direction. Further, in regard to the increases, I would like to say that where they have taken place they have been mostly on salaries below £300. That is another fact I want to emphasize. Most people think that we are going on increasing the salaries of those who have already pretty good incomes, but the position as regards that de- partment is the reverse. It is the lower paid salaries that have been increased, and I think the Government are to be commended on that point. I have a statement here giving the whole of the particulars, and I am quite cer- tain that were I to read it it would astonish the House to see the number of those receiving small salaries who have received an increase as compared with the number of those more highly paid who have been similarly treated. I will come now to the Mines Department, and I will deal with it shortly in the same direction. Taking the expenditure of the Mines Depart- ment for 1890-91 as compared with 1901-2, there is a considerable increase, amounting to £4,170. Now, I may be asked how has this great 