matter of form, the House was so pleased to get the information the Premier himself had refused to give, and had fought against giving, that they would not punish the offender. That is the great breach of privilege case the Pre- mier has quoted as a precedent. Now, with regard to the present offence, I say undoubtedly the representative of the Dunedin Star has taken the only course he could possibly take- that no man in his position could take any other course. But what, I say, about the man who supplied him with the information ? What about the gentleman whom the Pre- mier had to beat up a party caucus for to-day to protect ? What about the real offender - the only man who could give the information ; be- cause there was only one member present on the Committee who could give the information in an honourable way, and that is the person who had the custody of the papers? Now, from the evidence there are only two persons who had the custody of the shorthand writer's report-the Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Jackson Palmer, and the Clerk, Mr. Izett. It was very clear from the evidence given before us that the Clerk of the Committee could not possibly have given the information. An Hon. MENBKR .- Who did ? Mr. PIRANI .- As you ask me the question, I say it lies between two persons - the Clerk of the Committee and the Chairman ; and I ex- press my opinion that the Clerk of the Com- mittee could not have given the information. I add, further, that the only person left who could have given the information was the Chairman of the Committee. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about Mr. Cook ? Mr. PIRANI .- I am going to explain about Mr. Cook. Of course, the other persons who had the information were the witnesses. Mr. Easton gave evidence before the Committee that proved he was not in a position to give the information for publication in this newspaper. Mr. Cook certainly had it in his possession long enough for the publication to take place, but it was against Mr. Cook's interest for the evidence to be published, for this reason : that the evidence that was published only contained Mr. Cook's partial defence. He asked for Mr. Easton's evidence to enable him to meet the charges that were laid there, and to cross- examine Mr. Easton, and the charges had not been met by Mr. Cook when this evidence was published. Therefore it is reasonable to assume that no man would be a party to the publica- tion of evidence that went against his own interest. And another thing is this: that Mr. Cook was the person to complain of the publi- cation. Mr. Cook brought it before the Com- mittee, not the member for Bruce. We have it in the evidence that the Chairman, Mr. Palmer, said it had been brought before the Chairman of the Mines Committee by Mr. Cook. The Premier is now whispering to the Chairman of the Mines Committee, and I object to the Premier telling him that I have absolutely accused the honourable member of it. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is the insinuation. Mr. Pirani sinuation, and I repeat it. There were only two persons who could give the evidence- the Chairman of the Committee and the Clerk- and there is undoubtedly evidence that the Clerk of the Committee did not do it. Mr. PALMER .- You mean to say I did. Mr. PIRANI .- You can take what meaning you like out of it. Mr. PALMER .- I move, Sir, That the words be taken down. I am accused of an offence by the honourable member, who has gone in an underhand way about it. I have heard the accusation surreptitiously uttered by Mr. Pirani outside, and I take it as an insult. I think every member of the Committee will admit that I have conducted this matter fairly. He is now making these insinuations, and I ask that the words be taken down. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The usual course is to ascertain if the honourable member makes a charge, and I think there can be no doubt that the only meaning that can be assigned to his words is that he does charge the honour. able member with giving away that evidence. I therefore ask the honourable member to withdraw the charge he has made. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I did not charge the honourable member with having given the evidence. The matter is not so clear as that ; but I repeat what I said : that there are only two persons who had possession of the evidence in such a way as to have given it to the re- porter of the Dunedin Star-the Chairman of the Committee and the Clerk of the Committee -and I say that, personally, I do not think the Clerk of the Committee did give it. I leave it to honourable members to draw their own con- clusion. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- That is, to my mind, an indirect insinuation that the honour- able member has given it, or that the evidence has been obtained from him, and it is a rule of this House that the statements of honourable members as to their not having given evidence must be accepted. The honourable member, not only in his place in the House but as a wit- ness before the Privileges Committee, has stated that he did not give the evidence, and did not know who had given it, and he has also made that statement again this afternoon. I must ask the honourable member to withdraw the insinuation. Mr. PIRANI .- I withdraw it. Mr. PALMER .- I think he should express regret for making the insinuation. I think I am entitled to have that. I think it is not suf- ficient that he should make the statement and withdraw the charge. Mr. DEPUTY - SPFAKER .- I think my ruling is sufficient. The charge was not made in a direct way, but only by implication, and I have held that a charge made by implication was not in order, and that the honourable mem- ber should withdraw it, and he withdrew it. I have insisted that this should be done, and the honourable member has done so. Mr. PIRANI .- If the honourable member wishes me to express regret I shall only be too 