obstructing and resisting the police "; and in | am situated. We are now back from South view of the increases of this vice amongst the people, as shown by the Police Commissioner's report of 1901, wherein he states, " During the year the number of charges of drunkenness was 7,299, being an increase of 1,010 on the figures of the preceding year : this increase far exceeds that of any previous year so far as the records show "-he will introduce legislation placing further restrictions on the sale of alco- holic liquor as a beverage ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said that, anticipat- ing this question, he had intimated that he intended to bring in an amendment of the licensing law. ## RETURNED TROOPERS FROM SOUTH AFRICA. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) asked the Premier, Why there is still delay in paying the troopers returned from South Africa ? The information in his possession was as follows: that one returned trooper, who was helpless, had $50 due to him, which he could not obtain. He was financed by two friends of his He was informed in Dunedin lately that several mem- bers of the First Contingent had not, up to a few weeks ago, been paid. On his way from Dun- edin lately he was informed at Oamaru that five men of the Fourth and Fifth Contingents at that place had not been paid. He asked them if it was so, and they replied in the affirmative. Unfortunately, owing to the train moving on he was unable to ascertain their names. He could not understand why there should be such delay. He thought the whole matter had been fixed up. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said no one regretted more than he did that there should be any delay, but he could not, of course, get over impossibilities. The paysheets of the men must be made out. The trouble seemed to have arisen in South Africa ; the paysheets had not been made out there. Mr. J. ALLEN. - Does that apply to all the contingents? Mr. SEDDON said it applied to all. For instance, money was sent to Captain Jackson, and he brought it back with him from South Africa and paid his men here. He (Mr. Sed- don) had told the Under-Secretary for Defence to have advances made up to the full amount, and he could easily make the accounts out and get the vouchers completed afterwards. He knew of one case where advances had been made, and it turned out that the man had got more than he was entitled to, and yet he was one of the men who was pressing for a settle- ment. The difficulty was in getting the officers in command to make out the accounts and submit them to the department. The staff had been increased by the appointment of three extra men, and he had told the Under-Secre- tary to keep the men working overtime and get these accounts out of the way. Here was one letter :- "Owing to my position at present I am forced to write to you to let you know exactly how I Mr. Ell Africa for two months, and have drawn a paltry £10, leaving a balance of close on $40. And while waiting for the balance, which we are daily expecting, we are contracting other ac- counts, and at the present time if I were to get my money I have simply to pay it away again." Then he went on further complaining. He (Mr. Seddon) had felt annoyed at this man's treatment, as mentioned in the letter, but this was the upshot :- "This is one of Captain Jackson's squadron. Captain Jackson brought Imperial money to pay his own men, and from notice received in this office Captain Jackson appears to have already overpaid the trooper who writes the letter." That memorandum was from the Under- Secretary, Sir Arthur Douglas. At all events, he was not responsible. Respecting the pay of a lot of the men, the officers had brought money from South Africa, and if the men were not paid it was not his (Mr. Seddon's) fault. He might mention that in his zeal to meet these men he had had several overpayments. That, of course, was not right, but it was no fault of the officers of the Defence Department that the men remained unpaid. There was a heavy staff at the present time doing nothing else but attending to these matters ; but it seemed that there were no paysheets, that no accounts had been kept, and with men going all over South Africa it was natural enough matters of this sort should have fallen into arrears. And they had to make up two years' pay, and when there were three thousand men concerned, and the work had to start de moto. and they had to trace matters from the time the men left the colony up to their return and make up the accounts, finding out what had been drawn, it took some time; but they were getting through the work as quickly as possible, and he would be very glad to see the work accomplished. If a man had money coming to him and could get it he could then make some use of it ; but if he was kept hanging on, well, then he wanted to go back to South Africa. He was as much annoyed at the delay as was any member of the House, but he could not be responsible for what had happened in South Africa. The accounts ought to have been so kept that they could be completed as soon as the men came back. It should also be understood that the colony only paid the difference between Imperial and colonial pay. Mr. HERRIES. - Is there any reason why the First Contingent should not be paid ; they have been back twelve months ? Mr. SEDDON said that, when speaking to the Under-Secretary for Defence on the subject, that official said that the department had sent vouchers in some cases and could not get any replies. These were isolated cases. The men had shifted, and he (Mr. Seddon) had directed that inquiries should be made at the original address - that the men should be followed up, and vouchers sent to the nearest post-office. 