given the ruling, would have remembered it, and have reminded the honourable gentleman of the fact. Captain RUSSELL .- I have the ruling of Major Steward, which is equally as good. Mr. SEDDON said the last ruling was that of Sir Maurice O'Rorke, and that was binding. Then, the honourable member for Hawke's Bay had told them about a conversation in a railway- carriage, and some one asking, " How much longer are you going to allow the Premier to do as he pleases ? " Exactly the same thing had been told them by the honourable member during the session immediately preceding the general election, but what had been the result ? Instead of the country sending members to turn him out, it had sent people to assist him and to keep him in his place, and had given him so much support that the leader of the Opposition sat disrated. It was all very well to repeat such conversations as that mentioned, but they did not express public opinion ; the expression of public opinion took place at the ballot-box-the people were the judges, not the honourable gentleman. He (Mr. Seddon) wanted the resolution that he was about to propose to be carried, and wished them to proceed with it. He could not give the honourable member the returns, for the same reason that he could not go on with the debate, and in this they were merely following out what had been done for years. If the honourable gentleman would refer to Hansard he would see what had transpired in Mr. Ballance's time, and in Sir Harry Atkinson's time. Sir Harry Atkinson had taken very good care that he https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 would neither give returns nor answer questions, nor do anything else, pending the comple- tion of Supply. Why should different treat- ment be meted out to the Government now? It would appear that the business of the House, the leading of the House, and the conduct of the business, was to be taken entirely out of the hands of the Govern- ment and vested in irresponsible persons ; and not even a party, because those honourable gentlemen got up and protested and declared they had no party. Then he said every private individual-and the honourable member for Hawke's Bay was no more than that, according to his own statement-had a right, as a member of the House, to say, " We will put the Premier and the Minister for Public Works in their place, and they must do what we tell them." The fact of the matter was that he (Mr. Seddon) wanted to go on with this motion. If members would arrange to facilitate the completion of the financial debate he was prepared to do his part. He was told at the last moment there were five more speeches to be delivered. He said it was no fault of his. If he did anything that might end the debate it would be said at once that he was autocratic-that he tried to interfere with the liberty of speech. An Hon. MEMBER .- You tried on Friday night. Mr. SEDDON said he did nothing of the kind. He was led to believe on that occasion Mr. Seddon the other side of the House. He repeated that : and if the information conveyed to him was imperfect that was no fault of his. It was given to him in good faith. He could have done other business, but he did not wish to take up a dictatorial position. If he had risen in his place and merely moved this motion without offering any reasons he would have been blamed for it ; but because he tried to be courteous, and asked the permission of the House to move a resolution to postpone ques- tions, he was met with this kind of treatment. He was not going to allow himself to be blamed by certain members of the House and not answer them. The Government must give their reason why they were not answering questions to-day. That reason was because of the delay in the completion of the financial debate. He wanted to get the business of the country gone on with. The House divided. AYES, 31. Russell, G. W. Allen, E. G. Lawry Bennet McGowan Seddon Buddo Mckenzie, R. Stevens Thompson, R. McLachlan Carncross McNab Ward Carroll Meredith Willis Collins Witheford. Colvin Millar Mills Field Morrison Tellers. Hall-Jones Fraser, A. L. D. Palmer Hornsby Parata O'Meara. Houston NOES, 18. Rhodes Hogg Atkinson Bollard Russell, W. R. Hutcheson Smith, G. J. Ell Lang Laurenson Fisher Tellers. Allen, J. Monk Graham Pirani Massey. Hardy Haselden PAIRS. For. Against. Herries Duncan Smith, E. M. McGuire. Majority for, 13. Motion agreed to. # MORNING SITTINGS. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he was not going to condemn the morning sittings, al- though he was now moving to rescind the re- solution which enabled the House to sit in the mornings ; but he thought members would admit it was necessary after what had taken place with respect to the Committee-work, and if they were to get through the Committee-work and finish up the session it was impossible for them any longer to have morning sittings this session. Then, there was the question of the estimates. When the House was dealing with the estimates, if the House did not sit after half-past ten, it would be a very long time be- fore they got the estimates through. In fact. he doubted whether they would ever get them through the House under such circumstances. 