provided two civil cases and four bankruptcy cases, and under those conditions he did not think the country would be justified in having all the paraphernalia of a Court set up in the district for transacting business of this limited character. # MONEY-LENDERS BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 2 .- " In this Act 'money-lender ' in- cludes every person (whether an individual, a firm, a society, or a corporate body) whose business is that of money-lending, or who ad- vertises or announces himself or holds himself out in any way as carrying on that business ; but does not include - "(1.) Any duly licensed pawnbroker in respect of business carried on by him in ac- cordance with the provisions of ' The Pawnbrokers Act, 1868'; or " (2.) Any society registered under ' The Building Societies Act, 1880'; "(3.) Any society registered under 'The Friendly Societies Act, 1882'; " (4.) Any body corporate, incorporated or empowered (before the passing of this Act) by a special Act of Parliament to lend money in accordance with such special Act; or " (5.) Any person bona fide carrying on the business of banking or insurance or any business not having for its pri- mary object the lending of money, in the course of which and for the pur- poses whereof he lends money." Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) moved, That subclause (4) be struck out. Amendment agreed to. Mr. HALL-JONES moved, in subclause (5), to strike out the words "not having for its primary object the lending of money." Amendment agreed to. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) moved, That progress be reported, in order that the Bill may be referred to the Statutes Revision Committee. Motion, by leave, withdrawn. Mr. HALL- JONES (Minister for Public Works) moved to add to subclause (5) the words " at a rate of interest not exceeding ten per centum per annum." Amendment agreed to. The Committee divided on the question, " That the clause as amended be agreed to." AYES, 44. Allen, E. G. Fisher Heke Hornsby Arnold Flatman Atkinson Fowlds Houston Barclay Fraser, A. L. D. Hutcheson Bennet Fraser, W. Kaihau Gilfedder Buddo Laurenson Graham Lethbridge Carncross Hall McGowan Carroll Mackenzie, T. Collins Hall-Jones Colvin Hanan Mckenzie, R. Ell McNab Hardy Tellers. Mills Tanner Thompson, R. Napier Rhodes O'Meara. Russell, G. W. Ward NOES, 9. Tellers. Haselden Pirani Allen, J. Smith, G. J. Lang Massey Thomson, J. W. Herries. Monk Majority for, 35. Clause as amended agreed to. Clause 3 .- "(1.) Where proceedings are taken in any Court by a money-lender for the recovery of money lent after the passing of this Act, or the enforcement of any agreement or security made or taken after the passing of this Act, in respect of money lent either before or after the passing of this Act, and it appears to the Court that the interest charged in respect of the sum actually lent is excessive, or that the amounts charged for expenses, inquiries, fines, bonus, premiums, renewals, or any other charges are excessive, and that, in either case, the trans- action is harsh and unconscionable, or is other- wise such that the Court would give relief, the Court may reopen the transaction, and take an account between the money-lender and the per- son sued. "(2.) The Court may, notwithstanding any statement or settlement of account or any agreement purporting to close previous dealings and create a new obligation, reopen any account already taken between the money-lender and the person sued, and relieve the person sued from payment of any sum in excess of the sum ad- judged by the Court to be fairly due in respect of such principal, interest, and charges as the Court, having regard to the risk and all the circumstances, considers reasonable; and if any such excess has been paid or allowed in account by the debtor, may order the creditor to repay it ; and may set aside either wholly or in part, or revise, or alter, any security given or agree- ment made in respect of money lent by the money-lender, and, if the money-lender has parted with the security, may order him to indemnify the borrower or other person sued. "(3.) Any Court in which proceedings might be taken for the recovery of money lent by a money-lender shall have and may, at the in- stance of the borrower or surety or other person liable, exercise the like powers as may be exer- cised under this section where proceedings are taken for the recovery of money lent. "(4.) On any application relating to the ad- mission or amount of a proof by a money-lender in any bankruptcy proceedings, the Court may exercise the like powers as may be exercised under this section where proceedings are taken for the recovery of money lent. " (5.) Nothing in this section shall affect the rights of any bond file assignee or holder for value without notice. " (6.) Nothing in this section shall be con- strued as derogating from the existing powers or jurisdiction of any Court." Mr .: NAPIER (Auckland City) moved to strike out the words "a money-lender " in sub- 