New Zealand. Premier (exclusive of travelling £ 1,800 allowances and expenses) .. Chief Justice 1,700 .. Puisne Judges 1,500 . . In Victoria and New South Wales the Chief Justice receives two and a half times as much as the Premier; and in South Australia the Chief Justice receives twice as much as the Premier. In Queensland he receives three and a half times as much as the Premier; and in New Zealand the Premier receives more than the Chief Justice. The following is a compari- son of the salaries paid to Premiers and Minis- ters in New Zealand and Australia :- Victoria. £ Premier 1,400 Five Ministers (each) 1,000 .. New South Wales. Premier 1,370 .. Six Ministers (each) . . 1,370 South Australia. Premier 1,000 .. Four Ministers (each) 1,000 .. Queensland. 1,000 Premier Seven Ministers (each) .. 1,000 New Zealand. Premier 1,800 .. Minister for Railways 1,500 .. Six Ministers (each). . 1,200 .. And, in addition, travelling allowances and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 expenses last year amounting to £3,335 15s. 11d. Take the Premier alone, and what do we find ? Salary, £1,800 = £36 per week ; travelling-allow- ances. $259 10s. = £10 10s. per week for 173 days ; travelling-expenses, $305 = £12 5s. per week for 173 days ; travelling-allowances, Cook Islands trip, £52 10s. = $10 10s. per week for 35 days ; travelling allowances and expenses, Common- wealth, #251=£5 per week for the whole year ; Assets Board, £250=£5 per week for the whole year ; the " Tutanekai " trip to Cook Islands, £1,151, plus Secretary's photo- graphs, literary author-a total of $4,069, plus endless cost at Ministerial residence, et cetera. I have shown that the Premier drew thirty-five days' travelling-allowance for expenses attend- ing the Commonwealth celebrations, although he had an invitation to the Commonwealth the same as I had. But the difference between his invitation and mine was that I had to pay my own expenses and he had his expenses paid for him. I have shown the outstanding liabilities against balance at credit of Consolidated Fund on the 31st March to be #206,828; and trans- ferring $500,000 as proposed to Public Works Fund would leave only £32,000 to meet these accounts, leaving a deficiency of £174,000 to be We have provided for out of future taxation. seen that the balance at credit of Public Works Fund on the 31st March was £232,000, while there were accounts owing of £1,292,000. So that. even when the balance of loan-$800,000 \-authorised last year is raised, there will re- main still a deficiency of £260,000. By trans- ferring the proposed $500,000 from the Con- solidated Fund and raising the proposed fresh loan of £1,000,000 the available funds will only be £1,240,000, less cost of raising, instead of over $2,500,000, as shown by the Treasurer. Ho has simply blotted out of his calculations alto- gether the £1,292,000 of debts owing on the 31st March. Although the Government has raised £2,225,000 by taxation for public works, the increased burden of interest on the general tax- payer is put down this year at $135,450 more . than in 1896, not including €137,893, for which the colony is responsible, for interest on ad- vances-to-settlers and land-for-settlements loans. While the population of the colony has, since. 1896, increased by under 10 per cent., the in- direct taxation of the people has increased by percentages ranging from 27} to 74} per cent. The mortgage-tax falls upon improvements as. well as on land ; it falls upon the mortgagor, not on the mortgagee, and most heavily upon small borrowers, just as rates do upon rent- payers. It is nearly five times as heavy as the tax upon incomes. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Time is up. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) .- May I be allowed to make a personal explanation ? The honourable member for Nelson City, through over-sensitiveness, was unable to put up with a simple interjection from myself, when he there- upon made an unwarrantable, unfounded, and splenetic attack on myself. An Hon. MEMBER .- Is this in order ? Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER. - The honour- able gentleman must withdraw the word " splenetic." Mr. WILFORD .- I withdraw it, and say un- warrantable and unfounded attack on myself. He stated further during his empty oration that, as far as I was personally concerned, I was a member who dropped into the House and made a few interruptions, and that was all the work that I had done. My constituents would tell him otherwise. Now, I will say this on behalf of myself, egotistical though it may seem, and I am able to put this on record : that in the two sessions I have been in Parliament I have never been absent 'from my place for a day beyond the time allowed by Parliament, and have had no deduction made from my pay for a day's absence from the House. If the honourable member can say the same-and I know he cannot - he has got a good record. I would like, however, to say this : that it is an unjust thing for a member who has been so long in the House as the honourable member for Nelson City to make a charge such as he has made against a young member who is trying to do his best for his constituency and the coun- try, and it shows a poor spirit. I would like to quote a definition of over-sensitivensss to illus- trate the honourable member's position if I may do so. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable member is going beyond the bounds of a per- sonal explanation. 