not the finance that is wrong, but that their figures." When I first entered this House I objection is due to some disappointment. They are either disappointed because they have not been appointed to Royal Commis- sions or because they are not Ministers. I Treasurer that we had ; but after getting used would advise the Premier to create three or four more portfolios and dangle them like a quence, I have come to the conclusion that he bunch of carrots before honourable members. If ever I become Premier-and there is no knowing what may happen - I will always keep several portfolios vacant, and I will say, " You must not play the silly goat or you will not get one of these portfolios," and thus I will keep these members in order. As to the mem- ber for Riccarton, no one ever knows where to find him. It reminds me of a story that I heard about him when he was engaged in another occupation ; and, in my opinion, the honourable member has mistaken his calling honourable members and the messengers on in becoming a member of this House. It was said that the honourable member sometimes formed his arm ached for a week afterwards. preached the same sermon three times in one day, but upon three different texts-he worked in one sermon on three texts. I am of opinion that the honourable member thinks he knows more about every subject under the sun than any other man. It does not matter lobbies. whether the subject is land, labour laws, finance, factories, insurance, marine, defence, pharmacy, Native land, or dairy industry, he knows more about every one of these subjects, according to his own showing, than any other man. In my opinion, however, he knows less about these subjects than any other man I have ever met. He dares to lecture the members of this House, and yet he is never prepared to take any " gruel " himself. He is the most thin- sition benches, and he challenged any member skinned member of this House-politically, I mean. The honourable member makes fre- quent interjections and interruptions in other members' speeches, but the moment any one attacks the honourable member he is at once up in arms. An Hon. MEMBER .- Who is that ? Mr. SYMES .- The member for Riccarton, the member who represents a majority of one. The other night the honourable member advo- cated the buying of estates round Wanganui for the purpose of cutting them up for close settlement. I then said it was rubbish-that he did not know what he was talking about- and I still say so. I know Wanganui as well as I know this room, and I can safely say that, if any land is wanted around that place, the people there are cute enough to cut it up for themselves. They will not wait for the Go- vernment to do so. The honourable gentle- man's knowledge of Wanganui and the pur- chase of estates is just about as reliable as his knowledge of finance. The next member of the fourth party I want to refer to is the honour- able member for Nelson City, Mr. Graham, who used all the eloquence at his command to condemn the Government. He challenged any one, in the most pleading and pathetic tones, to disprove his figures. In my opinion, no one need bother with his figures, as they are on the 31st March last (1898), the respective thoroughly unreliable, but perfectly harmless ; sums being: 1891, £143,966; and 1898, an "audacious and odious juggling with was under the impression that the member for Nelson City was the only heaven-born Colonial to his venerable appearance, combined with his liberal and persuasive manner and power of elo- does not understand finance, notwithstanding his long acquaintance with and manipulation of metals and handling of tin, and I do not think he could be relied upon as a Colonial Treasurer. When he was delivering his eloquent oration the other evening my thoughts were carried back to a much more memorable occasion in 1898, when he was so warmly congratulated by, I think, nearly every member of the House. So many hand-shakes do I believe he received from account of his eloquent address that I was in- In view of this, it is strange to say that we did not see a single member congratulating him the other evening, not even a member of the Opposition or a messenger. An Hon. MEMBER. - You were not in the Mr. SYMES. - I did not see him in the lobbies ; but it is clear to me that he is not wanted by the Opposition. And at that time we saw a long article in the leading paper in the City of Nelson lauding him to the skies. Whe- ther it was inspired or not I cannot say, but it looked as if it was. On that memorable occa- sion in 1898 he not only denounced but abso- lutely demolished every financier on the Oppo- on that side of the House to disprove one of his facts, figures, or tables. He went further, for he offered to put up a large sum of money on these conditions, namely : that if any honour- able member on that side could disprove his figures the money was to go to the Nelson Hos- pital. He had in view, no doubt, the getting of & Government subsidy of £1 4s. in the pound, clearly showing that he has been reckless from the beginning, and could never make a careful Colonial Treasurer. Now he condemns the Go- vernment. Sir, he also offered to double his stake if any honourable gentleman on 9.30. that side of the House would swear or take an affidavit that he had of himself, without the use of the Treasury officials of this colony, disproved one of his facts or figures. And, strange to say, that stake has never been claimed, clearly proving that at that time the honourable gentleman's figures could not be refuted. This clearly shows his masterly grip of finance at that time, gained during his tenure of office as Chairman of the Banking Committee; but he has forgotten his lesson for want of practice, notwithstanding his handling of the baser metals. This is what he said at that time :- "The surplus of this prosperous seven years is the difference between the balance to credit on the 1st April, 1891, and the balance available 