they have stated, all the sheep in the colony would require to be sold to get the profit. I put the fat sheep of the colony at about 2,500,000, and I think that is about a fair amount for the sheep exported and for home consumption. Well, Sir, if we take that at 5s. per sheep extra price, it only amounts to £625,000. And how is that going to make up for two millions, as we have been told by the so-called farmers of the House that the one would balance the other? I am afraid that this year there will be a falling-off of £2,000,000 sterling; and I believe there are instances where men in the back blocks have offered the wool to anybody who would shear the sheep and take it away. Mr. SEDDON .- You are drawing a long bow now. Mr. BOLLARD .- Well, I do not know that of my own knowledge, but I have been told it. Now, it has been said by the Right Hon. the Treasurer that we on this side of the House, and some critics on his own side, have made out that the colony is in such a condition that we certainly ought not to be clamouring for money for public works ; and the North Island Trunk Railway has been mentioned, and we have been told that we are clamouring to have this railway constructed within the next three years. Personally, I do not think it will be constructed within the next ten years by the present Government. However, what I wish to say is this : that we do not grumble at a moderate amount of money being borrowed for public works. ' What we do grumble about is the extravagant expenditure of the Government. The difference in the cost of carrying on the Civil government of the country now and what it was ten years ago is something alarming. The population has not increased anything like in proportion with the extra expenditure ; if it had done so the population of the country ought now to be a million and a half, instead of 750,000. Now, with reference to the Main Trunk Railway, we Auckland members have been twitted with having asked for large amounts for this railway. We do not want a shilling of the colony's money if we get the assets belonging to the railway. The assets- that is, the land purchased out of the million loan-are quite sufficient for the purpose. The Treasurer, if he wished to do so, could issue short-dated debentures against that land, and it would produce more money than would con- struct the railway. Mr. SEDDON .- We had better have another loan. Mr. BOLLARD .- There is no use in talking about another loan. It is the assets belonging by Act of Parliament to that railway that are required. It would be inadvisable to sell the land. It would be far better to issue deben- tures against it, because when the railway goes through it it will be worth double the money, and two years ago it was worth £830,000. But the Treasurer says, If we ask until we are blue in the face we shall not get it. Now I want to say something with regard tinually stated on the Government side of the House, and by members of the Government especially, that there is not a man on this side of the House who would not be afraid to repeal that Land for Settlements Act. Well, I, for one, am not afraid to repeal it-or, at any rate, to considerably modify its provisions, if I can get the chance. There is also the Advances to Settlers Department. Between those two de- partments we shall have expended somewhere about five millions of money. I say that the system of acquiring improved lands for settle- ment, and of lending money to farmers in the way it is done here, is bad in principle. The system adopted by the Government of bor. rowing money from the foreign money-lender is the very thing that caused all the trouble in Ireland. Up to a few years ago, when they got better land-laws there, the large landed proprietors were taking rack-rents out of their tenants and spending their money, not for the benefit of the country in Ireland, but in England and on the Continent, and thereby impoverishing the country. Is not the Govern- ment of this colony doing the same thing ? What is their position in connection with the moneys borrowed for this purpose? They are simply taking the interest out of the people and sending the money out of the country to the money-lenders. Just imagine what will happen if this system goes on. The whole of the lands of the country will belong to the English capitalists, and the interest we shall have to find year after year will go out of the country, just as it did in Ireland, causing any amount of trouble and impoverishing the country. But, assuming for a moment that it is a right thing to borrow money for such pur- poses, why not take it out of the Government Savings-Bank and Government Insurance De- partment ? You could take more money out of those departments than would satisfy all the requirements. An Hon. MEMBER .- We are doing it. Mr. BOLLARD .- And what rate of interest do you take it at ? 3 and 3} per cent. And at what rate of interest did the honourable gentle- man take the money ? He paid 3 and 3} per cent., and yet we could have lent that money out to the farmers or used it for the resump- tion of land and got 4 per cent. for it. I say, Sir, it is a great mistake, even though the money might be obtained cheaper, to go to England for it while there was sufficient money in the colony for our needs. By what they have done the Government have done an in- justice to those who put their money in the Post - Office Savings - Bank, and also to those who, expecting to get a reasonable bonus added to their policies, insured their lives in the Go- vernment Insurance Department. Then, in regard to the land, I have repeatedly stated, and I say again, that the administration is bad, and that the manner in which the rents are allocated-assuming the lands have been bought at a fair price-the rent placed on some of the allotments cannot be maintained in the future. Let us have a period of depression and you will 