PAIRS. For. Against. Mills Fraser, W. Hall Lethbridge Thomson, J. W. Thompson, R. Majority against, 9. Motion to report progress negatived. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) said that last session the Postmaster-General gave a promise to him in connection with the wages of messengers, which promise he had fairly well carried out. He noticed, however, there was one messenger in Auckland who received only 6s. a day, and the Premier had said that that was not a living-wage. Mr. SEDDON said if there was a case of that kind it had been an oversight. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) said, In reference to the Deaf and Dumb Institution at Sumner, he had last year called the attention of the Minister to the danger of housing the inmates in a wooden building - the danger through fire. A section of land had been pur- chased for the purpose of erecting a new build- ing, and the Minister had said that plans were being prepared. Up to the present time no- thing had been done, and if anything in the nature of a fire occurred the results would be very serious. He wanted an assurance that something would be accomplished in order to put this building upon a proper footing. He also desired to draw attention to the fact that the Wellington Gaol was old, greatly crowded, and most unsuitable. He hoped the Minister would speedily remove the present inadequate https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 and insanitary premises. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) replied that it had been considered desirable to obtain information regarding such buildings elsewhere, and this had caused delay. As to the Wellington Gaol, he did not think it could be so crowded as had been represented, and he was quite satisfied it was not in an in- sanitary state. He would have to consult his colleagues as to what was most desirable to be done in this matter. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) was not by any means satisfied. The same promise that was now made as to the Institute at Sumner had been given last session ; but, though land had been obtained, everything was in readiness, and the money voted, nothing had been done. He complained that there had been an unwarrant- able delay in the establishment of the Ine- briates' Home, for which $5,000 had been voted last year and £1,000 the year before. All that had been done was the appointment of a Master and Matron and the securing of a site in the neighbourhood of Dunedin. He sug- gested that the Government should subsidise the societies for the prevention of cruelty to animals. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) would like to know whether those suffering from forms of defective speech would be admitted for training to the Sumner Institute. A gentleman in his con- stituency had applied for admission for his boy, but he was unsuccessful, because the child simply wanted to have him admitted for train- ing, and was quite willing to pay. Mr. HALL-JONES did not think the insti- tution was being used for the purpose of curing those suffering from stammering, stuttering, et cetera. There were those in the colony who took in hand cases like that. He would ascer- tain as to where cases such as those mentioned in the letter handed to him by the honourable gentleman could be treated. Mr. ARNOLD (Dunedin City) referred to the hours of labour and the rates of pay of the warders in the gaols of the colony. The warders in all the gaols, he considered, had good ground for complaint. Mr. PIRANI moved. That the vote, " Legis. tive Council, $1,870," be reduced by $50. Last year the expenditure was only £1,822. The Committee divided on the question, "That the vote be reduced by £50." AYES, 5. Bollard Tellers. Hutcheson Ell Hornsby. Pirani. NOES, 30. Palmer Allen, E. G. Hall-Jones Seddon Arnold Heke Herries Stevens Atkinson Barclay Houston Symes Bennet Kaihau Ward Witheford. Carrol! Lawry Colvin Massey Duncan Tellers. McGowan Field Mckenzie, R. Carncross Fraser, A. L. D. McNab Laurenson. Guinness Millar Majority against, 25. Amendment negatived. Mr. ELL moved, That progress be reported. AYES, 8. Arnold Herries Tellers. Atkinson Collins Massey Monk. Ell Hutcheson. NOES, 27. Heke Allen, E. G. Seddon Hogg Barclay Stevens Hornsby Bennet Symes Carroll Ward Houston Witheford. Colvin Lawry Duncan McGowan Field Mckenzie, R. Tellers. Fisher Carncross McNab Fraser, A. L. D. Millar Laurenson. Hall-Jones Palmer PAIRS. For. Against. Fraser, W. Mills Lethbridge Hall Thomson, J. W. Thomspon, R. Majority against, 19. Motion negatived. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) hoped the Premier would supply the House with infor- mation with regard to the Cook Islands. They 