Tobe's private hospital, St. David Street, Dun- edin, under immediate care of Surgeon-Captain Closs. I have visited every man after super- intending their transhipment, and seen that they are comfortable. I have also arranged for accommodation in case of further sickness." What did honourable members think he was recommended to do? He was recommended to put these men on the quarantine-grounds at Port Chalmers by the doctor, because there was not sufficient accommodation in the Dunedin Hospital. He said, "No; put as many as you can in the hospital and put the others in private hospitals in Dunedin." This was the telegram :- "Brigade-Colonel Surgeon De Lautour, Dun- edin .- Have forwarded your telegram re sick- ness troopers on 'Tagus' to Commandant and Colonel Davies and to Captain-Surgeon Thomas. I do not approve suggestion re Quarantine Island. It is bleakly situated, and the convalescent pa- tients would, in the majority of cases, prefer to get to the districts from which they come; and in respect to those from the North Island the climate and surroundings are favourable to recovery. In the case of the patients confined to bed, those belonging to Otago should go to the Dunedin Hospital, and if they are more than there are beds for in the public hospital the balance should be sent to a private hospital. If there is any danger to patients proceeding to Lyttelton and Wellington, in such case such patients should be removed to hospitals. In this my communication I have simply ex- pressed my opinion and do not instruct, and leave to you or the surgeon-captains to do what you think best in the interests of the sufferers. You may, however, take an instruc- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 tion that no expense is to be spared in doing everything possible and practicable to restore to our returned sons that greatest of God's blessings, good health. "R. J. SEDDON." He was advised to put the men on the quarantine station at Port Chalmers, and his decision on the matter was contained in the reply he had just read to the House. Mr. J. ALLEN .- That is not the communi- cation from Albany. Mr. SEDDON said he would read the com- munication from Albany too soon for the comfort of the member for Bruce; and, if the honourable member had still remaining some spark of what should belong to those who had finer feelings, and to those who had the feelings of a gentleman, he would with- draw everything he had said. He had told the House time after time that before the "Tagus " left Capetown the suggestion was that the vessel should make for Wellington, and between that time and the time he re- ceived the communication from Colonel Davies the destination was changed-that was, after the vessel had left the Cape-to the Bluff. Then, there was a controversy with the ship- owners and the Transport Department as to whether it should be the Bluff or Dunedin, and that was the point at issue at the time the boat was delayed three days in Albany. Cables, of course, were sent Home about the matter, and he had proof of them. The men were actually forced to stop there for three days while at- tempts were being made to get the order to proceed to the Bluff altered, because the owners did not want a long vessel with only one screw to go to that port. The point in the dispute was as between Dunedin and the Bluff. Now, the communication he received from Albany was this :- "Dr. Thomas, P.M.O., 'Tagus,' officially notifies me very unwise expose troops been through Beira to cold voyage to Bluff. Also, on account of sickness on board at present. He strongly recommends port of arrival should be changed. Please instruct. " Lieut .- Colonel DAVIES." . That was the only communication he had received. Mr. MASSEY said that bore out every word the member for Bruce had stated. Mr. SEDDON asked, Did that bear out what the member for Bruce had charged him with doing? Was there a word about it being dangerous? Was there a word about the warmer route? Why, as between Dunedin and Wellington it was only. a matter of eight degrees. But the point at issue when the boat was at Albany was Port Chalmers or Bluff ; not Bluff or Wellington. The fact was this : that when the dispute was going on between the owners and the Government as to the boat going to the Bluff or to Port Chalmers, Lord Kitchener and the Transport Department de- sired to meet the wishes of the New Zealand Government and the people of Otago and Southland. Was there anything in the com- munication to show that the route to Port Chalmers would imperil the health of the men, and was dangerous to take? No. Was it on the telegram from Colonel Davies that the honourable member had founded the charges he had made against him that night ? An Hon. MEMBER .- Is there another com- munication ? Mr. SEDDON said he had received no other communication. Parliamentary rules 12.30. would not allow him to use language sufficiently strong to mark his indignation. He had nothing to conceal. These communi- cations were public property, and the House could have them with pleasure. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Did you read your reply ? Mr. SEDDON said he did not think person- ally he had sent a reply, because the "Tagus " had left. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Oh, yes, there was. Mr. SEDDON .- Whatever reply had been sent would be given to the House. He might point out that on the 10th June the tempera- ture at Wellington and the Bluff was the same. He hoped members had noticed that Dr. De Lautour, on the arrival of the steamer, said that the pneumonia was owing to the over- crowding of the hospital. He had not heard from the doctor nor from any one else, since the day the men landed, any complaint, nor anything whatever except from the lips of the honourable gentleman that night. Dr. De 