ing and writing purposes for a House more numerous than this. The large or main library room up above was a beautiful one, but it was wasted space and waste money as it was now used. Only half that space would be sufficient for the storage of the valu- able books we have here, and the other part might well be devoted to the carrying-out of the business of the country. That should be the first consideration. There was a chamber there large enough for two hundred or two hun- dred and fifty persons, and let members go there at any time and they would find it comparatively unoccupied, while members complained on all sides of the Chamber that there was no con- venience for carrying on the incidental busi- ness of Parliament. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) said he did not know what was coming over the judgment of the Premier. He seemed to be losing his grip. What were the facts ? A debate arose in the House a few nights ago about the accommodation provided for honour- able members in which to receive their con- stituents, and the Premier took upon himself to see that some redress was given. A little later he (Mr. Hutcheson) was in the lobby, and he saw the Premier bustling about in his endeavour to give effect to his promise to mem- bers, and the Premier said to him (Mr. Hutche- son) and to others who were with him, " Come along, I will show you the room "; and he entered the library and marched straight to the room that was occupied by the staff, and, striking an attitude, said, "There you are; you complain of the lack of a substitute for the old tea-room ; there is an ideal room for you." He (Mr. Hutcheson) would take that back for no man. The Premier did say that : "There is the tea-room." The Premier had given them clear proof of his intention to give effect to members' wishes. He did that in good faith, in good earnest, and at once. The bulk of the members of the Legislature, however, would not agree to it. Personally, he made bold to say that this room that was now proposed to be taken was most essential to the successful working of the library, in its present use; for before a library could be properly conducted it was necessary to have a workroom where the books could be unpacked and codified, and where the members of the staff could make themselves acquainted with the works, so that they could locate the whole of them. Now, because the Premier had not been able to give effect to his wishes in this direction, he wanted to do something entirely different to show to the House that he was in earnest. Well, he thought the House would not condemn the Premier for not having given effect to its original desire, but would thank him to stay his hand and leave things as they were. He did not think it was going to do a little bit of good to the library staff or its efficiency, nor yet to the members of the House. On the other hand, he thought it would cause inconvenience, loss of time, and unnecessary cost. If the Premier would rest satisfied and say, "I have done all I can to VOL. CXVIII .- 49. supply members with the accommodation asked for, and I suggest to the House that they should use the two rooms, G and H, at the head of the main stair during certain portions of the day until more permanent arrangements can be made," the House would acquit him at once, and say he had done his very best, and thank him for it. He did not know what the Librarian's views on the subject were, but his idea was that a classifying- and unpacking- room were as necessary to the library as even & reading - room was. The area of the library was more than ample for all purposes. If one went into either of the two reading-rooms avail- able for members one found that nothing like the accommodation provided was used at any one time during the session. What was wanted was more privacy-in the matter of subdividing the area. Reference had been made to smoking in the downstairs rooms, but, as a smoker himself, he was quite agreeable to discontinue smoking within any portion of the, library. Did honourable gentlemen know how it happened that the second room came to be used as a smoking- room? It was through the supercilious caddish- ness of one man, who did not know his way about among men. He thought the Premier must now agree that it would be well not to use this second room for social purposes; and, having come to that commendable conclusion, why go any further and seek to deal with another matter-the management of the library -while the other question of rooms was un- solved, and through no fault of the Premier at all ? He approved of the suggestion that that portion of the library contiguous to the portico should have an entry from the portico and be subdivided into several rooms for the reception of constituents by members. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) moved, That the re- port, with the Premier's suggested addition, be referred back to the Committee. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) said, Con- sidering the enormous expense of the new building, the conveniences were less than they used to be. He thought Bellamy's was being reduced to a mere drinking-shop, and if his vote would do any good he would vote to close it. In regard to some parts of the new building, the light was so wretchedly bad that it was almost impossible to see at all, and there was an absolute neglect of proper ventilation. He thought, too, that if any new rooms were to be added to the library they should be kept at a normal temperature. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) did not see how the Premier could move an addition to the report. He would move, That the words pro- posed to be added be not so added. The House divided on the question, " That the words proposed to be added to the report be retained." AYES, 30. Allen, E. G. Flatman Carroll Gilfedder Collins Arnold Hall Duncan Barclay Field Hall-Jones - Bennet 