Tellers. Russell, W. R. Meredith Haselden O'Meara Thomson, J. W. Pirani. Ward. Palmer PAIRS. For. Against. Herries Duncan Allen, J. Morrison Smith, E. M. McGuire. Majority for, 15. Words inserted. On the question, That the resolution as amended be agreed to, Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City), said, The motion is incomplete in its present form. I have not taken any part in the debate so far, and I think the matter has been threshed out very fully. I do not, therefore, propose to detain the House at any length ; but if we pass the motion in its present form we should be putting on record a motion that is not complete in itself, and will not do credit to the House as a whole. I propose to add these words " by John George Moody, the publisher of the Evening Star, within seven days." I do not think Mr. Cohen should be called upon to pay the fine. Mr. Cohen has defied the Com- mittee by refusing to answer a question, but this resolution refers to the publication of the evidence, and we are dealing now with a breach of privilege committed by the publisher. That being so, we ought to specify that we are penalising the publisher, and order him to pay the fine. If the House decides that Mr. Cohen was guilty of contempt-as I think he has been - we ought to have another amendment deal- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 ing with him, and ordering him to pay a fine. I certainly think the House would do well to specify who is to be fined, who is to pay the fine, and order that it is to be paid within a http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero certain time. I therefore move the addition, after " £15," of the words, " by John George Moody, the publisher of the Evening Star, within seven days." An Hon. MEMBER .- Who is he to pay it to ? Mr. G. J. SMITH .- Provision is made for that in the Standing Orders. As this matter has already been dealt with at considerable length, I do not wish to discuss it further ; but to complete our work, and to make the motion somewhat readable, I think we ought to specify whom we are fining, and order the fine to be paid by a certain date. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - Sir, I may Bay- Mr. PIRANI .- Oh, do not say any more. Mr. SEDDON .- I have to come in at the finish. Mr. PIRANI. - But we follow you. Mr. SEDDON .- Honourable members will nov see how hollow have been the professions of those members who have all this time insisted on a penalty being imposed in connec- tion with this matter. They have now had a warning which I hope will be a lesson to them. Notwithstanding the fact that those honourable gentlemen voted for two penal- ties of $25 each, or a total of $50, on the I will not be a party to it. When a party (Mr. Fisher), yet when the question of imposing a penalty of £15 was put they voted against it. I felt almost inclined to say to our people, " Come into the 'Noes' lobby now, for that will practically mean carrying the Pre- mier's motion as originally brought down." Those gentlemen who have been responsible for delaying the business of the country for two days have in the end practically voted for my resolution unaltered. Sir, I know what underlies their action : they want to pose now as the party opposed to a penalty. What do we find by reference to the division-list ? We find that it stands to their condemnation, because there is not one of those members who has really committed himself to and insisted upon a monetary payment being made. The only member who has not gone contrary to his own action is the member for Waitemata, and he walked out of the House. As I have already said, for two days the business of the country has been stopped. All that was contended for was that there ought to be a monetary penalty to uphold the dignity of the House ; but, when those honourable gentlemen were called upon to vote for such a penalty, what did they do ? I hope that this will be a warning to the honourable member, Mr. Fisher, and other honourable members, to believe that those gentlemen opposite were sincere in their desire to have a monetary penalty imposed. What they are now really aiming at is to be in the position of saying, "We upheld the Press ; we believe in the Press flouting the House and breaking the Standing Orders. We proved our belief, because when it came to inflicting a penalty we voted against doing so." Where now, Sir, is the force of the 11.30. remarks made by the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), who said that if that resolution was carried he would con- sider himself absolved from observing the Stand- ing Orders ? Where are now the honourable gentlemen opposite ? I ask, what explanation can they give? There is the position in its hideous nakedness, because I do not know that I have heard the opinion of members so de- finitely expressed ; and when they themselves compare their votes with what they have said during this debate, then members on our own side of the House who may have had some doubts will have those doubts removed. Mr. FISHER .- I will pose in future as an injured innocent. Mr. SEDDON. - The honourable member has in this instance been consistent. He said if we did not vote for the $50 he would walk out. But, Sir, I object now to this proposal. We have deliberately placed in the motion the words $15, without mentioning who is to pay it. It has been done deliberately, and with an ol- ject in view, and it will be paid, I have no doubt. . But it will not cast a personal reflection that is intended by this amendment, by singling out the publisher and singling out the reporter. and embalming their names in Hansard as having been penalised. That is what is intended, and 