before I sit down to quote a short passage from a work by Mr. Hyndman for the benefit of the honourable member for Patea-a passage which points out that in Britain many a land- owner is positively ignorant of the fact that he himself is but a pensioner upon the labour of the ill-fed agricultural labourer who humbly touches his cap to him at the park gates. The passage is as follows Mr. SPEAKER .- Time is up. Mr. LETHBRIDGE (Rangitikei) .- Sir, the honourable gentleman who has just sat down, when he started his speech, led us to believe that he was going to give us something extra good. But all that he gave us was the same old tables to which we have been accustomed about directly interest-earning loans and those that are not directly interest-earning, and he gave us a disquisition on money. He takes an opposite opinion from most of us when he argues that a small birth-rate is the best for the country. The honourable gentleman also told us that the State should go in for a State note-circulation. Well, as far as I can see, the State now gets as much as it should get out of the banks' note-circulation. It gets 2} per cent. on the circulation of the bank, and it would cost the State another } per cent. to print and procure notes for circulation ; so that we have practically 3 per cent. interest on the notes the banks have in circulation. Now, I do not intend to criticize the Statement. because it has been thoughtfully done by several members on both sides of the House ; and probably if I were to go into a lot of figures I might, instead of assisting the people to under- stand the financial state of the country, only succeed in befogging them more than they are https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 at present. I could not help noticing that the method adopted by several thoughtful mem- bers on the Government side of the House in criticizing the Budget has been similar to the method adopted by members on this side of the House for several years past. We have said, in effect, that the cost of administration was increasing at a greater ratio than was the population of the country. I am not re- ferring to borrowed money, because I say that borrowed money properly spent on railways and roads is not to be complained of, nor do we complain of it. I shall have, however, a few words to say later on as to whether the money has been properly spent. Now, as to the causes of the continued prosperity of the country, the country has been prosperous -no one denies it-but some of us say it is in spite of the Government, and although it has been prosperous we may see occur- ring again what we have seen in the past. We have seen times of prosperity, when the Government officials and their salaries have been increased considerably ; and then a time of depression comes, and something like a panic takes place. The country then demands that the estimates shall be reduced, and that Go vernment employés should be sent right and left out of the public service. Then, the very fact of these people being " sacked " at such a time only goes to increase the depression in the country, because they are immediately thrown into com- petition with those in the country who are looking for work. Sir, we have seen that hap- pen in the past, and if we are not careful it will come upon us again. Now, some honourable members have said that they see signs of depression already. Let us see if there are not signs of depression and panic. Is not wool, our principal staple product, lower than it has been for the past thirty years? It has fallen from 8}d. a pound to 4}d. a pound, which is practically a reduction of 50 per cent .; and if our income from wool, which amounts to something like five millions a year, is to be reduced by half, then the spending- power of the people must be reduced, and the revenue must fall in consequence. Butter now is fetching a good price, and we hope it will continue to do so. But what are the indica- tions? We hear that Russia is starting to supply butter, and can supply it in England at 74d. per pound, and when we recognise the immense amount of country and everything that Russia has in its favour - a short passage to England-it will be seen that they can produce it, as I say, at a very much lower rate than we can, and that will tend towards cutting us out of the market. The Argentine is doing the same thing. Canada is increasing its output wonderfully. I do not say it will mean that we are going to get a less price for our butter, but, still, it should warn us that we cannot always expect to get these high prices for our produce; and when once the price of butter comes down the whole of the system under which the Go- vernment is acquiring land for settlements breaks down. The people placed on the high- priced land will have to leave their holdings, and the present high prices of land cannot continue. And, then, where comes the honourable gentle- man's table of the direct interest-producing money ? The honourable member for Ash- burton gave us an amusing history of the Farmers' Union-its start and progress in the North and in the South Island. He said it had even taken root in Ashburton. I think I can give some of the reasons why this thriving institution has taken root in the colony. One of the reasons, I think, is the valuations. There are valuers traversing the colony the whole time. If those valuers see a man improving his property by putting in a post, or putting up a stockyard, they immediately revalue the pro- perty, and increase the value. In our district, at any rate, that has been the fact. The valuer comes round and increases the value of the property at once; and the funny thing is that, although he watches the improvements made, he puts the increased value on the unimproved value only. The Premier states that something like eight millions has been added to the im- proved value and £6,375,000 has been added to the unimproved value of land. If this Valua- tion Department were not such a serious thing to the farmer this paragraph would be a scream- ing farce. I will read it :- " A careful revision of the land-values of the colony is now in progress, but it will take some time yet to complete this work. The result so <!-- PageNumber="1" --> 