Mr. SEDDON said he had been requested by his colleagues to ma e a statement. ception had been taken to the photographs that appeared in the Review of Reviews on various grounds. He happened to be away at the time, and his colleagues made the selection of these photographs, and sent them away, and he never knew which were selected until they were in the paper. He had stood the brunt of the attack to-night, and last night he had stood a good deal, and he made this announce- ment now He did not care who it came from, but he would not allow anything to be said against himself or to go into Hansard without having something to say on it. He meant to fight his battles here as in the past and during his lifetime; and what had been done was well considered, and the Government had nothing to regret. Mr. G. J. SMITH moved, That the item be reduced by £1, as an indication that the ex- penditure was unnecessary. The Committee divided. AYES, 22. Atkinson Fowlds Lang Bollard Fraser, W. Laurenson Collins Hardy Lethbridge Haselden Ell Massey Meredith Hutcheson Fisher https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 END OF ONE-HUNDRED-AND-EIGHTEENTH VOLUME. By Authority JOHN MACKAY. Government Printer, Wellington. Monk Tellers. Russell, G. W. Graham Pirani Ex- Tanner. Smith, G. J. Rhodes NOES, 33. Allen, E. G. Parata Hogg Arnold Hornsby Seddon Houston Bennet Stevens Kaihau Buddo S\\mes Lawry Thompson, R. Carneross McGowan Ward Carroll Mckenzie, R. Willis Colvin Witheford. McNab Flatman Mills Teilers. Gilfedder Hall Barclay O'Meara Fraser, A. L. D. Palmer H ll-Jones Heke PAIRS. For. Against. Allen, J. Field Herries Duncan Mackenzie, T. Morrison McGuire Smith, E. M. Russell, W. R. McLachlan Wilford. Thomson, J. W. Majority against, 11. Amendment negatived, and item agreed to. Progress reported. The House adjourned at five minutes to one o'clock a.m. (Thursday). 