there would be no necessity for proceeding with the similar Government Bill before that Cham- ber. He therefore thought the Premier should take the opportunity of putting this School Attendance Bill through its remaining stage in the House, as it was absolutely necessary they should have a measure of this character on the statute-book this session. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said, As the object of the motion was to save the time of the House, he would vote for it. But there ought to be appended the condition that the Government should not themselves introduce Bills which were not intended to be passed, and which could not possibly be passed this session. One of these Bills was the Licensing Bill, which the right honourable gentleman had announced his intention of introducing this session. He (Mr. Fisher) had made it his business to inquire who asked for this Bill --- who wanted it. He found that the total abstinence party did not want it. He was confirmed in that view by the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson) and the honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. J. G. Smith). The brewing interest did not want it, and he would like to be told who did want it. It would be far better to let the licensing question alone. There was sufficient machinery in the existing law to carry out all that was intended by the Legislature, and all that was necessary was to call the attention of the police to the derelic- tion of duty on their part. If the honourable member for Wairarapa wished the tied-houses question dealt with effectively, that could be easily done. The Premier said the other day https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 that he had evidence to the effect that the tied- houses sections in the existing Act had been evaded. Mr. DEPUTY.SPEAKER said the honour- able member could not refer to past debates. Mr. FISHER would advise the honourable member for Wairarapa, if he wished to deal with the tied-house question, to introduce the provisions of a Bill which he (Mr. Fisher) had introduced some years ago, and he undertook to say that there was no brewer or brewery company in the colony that would be able to evade that measure. In fact, he would advise the Government to avail themselves of the clauses of his Tied-houses Bill if they wished to deal with the question effectively. The introduction of Bills which had no possible chance of passing was unfair to those members who had complained of the non-observance of the Standing Orders, which demanded that questions should be answered, and that unop- posed motions should be taken from day to day. Now, there were unopposed motions on the Order Paper, in regard to which he was in a position to say there could be no possible objection. Whether the Government refused to allow those unopposed motions to be taken from some little feeling of pique or not, he could not say ; but, even if there was objection taken, why not take the motions as opposed, and use the time of the House in debating those questions which were of interest to members and to the public in general, instead of wasting the time on those VOL. CXVIII .- 43. Bills which, in the case of one or two at least, he undertook to say they should not pass. He did not care whether they were proposed by the Premier or the Government, or anybody else. An Hon. MEMBER .- Oh ! Mr. FISHER said that was the only method of speech which appeared to be understood. If he voted for this motion, he hoped the time taken from private members would be usefully employed by the Government in pushing ou legislation that had some chance of passing. Mr. SEDDON said, When moving his motion, he naturally expected that the fathers of some of the Bills that would have to be destroyed would object; but he was rather surprised at the honourable member for Wairarapa object- ing, seeing that he himself had deliberately executed his own little Bill the other day, ask- ing that it be struck off the Order Paper. How- ever, the honourable member was aware that the Government intended to proceed with a Bill dealing in a different way with the same question, and he therefore would have an op- portunity of speaking on the question. regarded the Cycle Boards Bill, he had been assured by its promoter that there would be no objection to it; but the other evening he found there was considerable debate, and progress was reported, and that there was considerable objec- tion, more particularly in the country districts. If the House was prepared to pass it without wasting time over it- An Hon. MEMBER. - It will take a long time to get that through. Mr. SEDDON .- Just so. He believed there was strong objection to it in certain quarters. He was always prepared to give effect to the general wishes of the people; but if there were a number of members who objected to a mea- sure of this sort, and it was still retained on the Order Paper, he would be accused of par- tiality, and of preventing the Government business from progressing. He believed the cycles had come to stay, and there was no doubt they were a great public convenience ; but, like all other legislation of a progressive and experimental character, members would have to be very careful in regard to it or there would be trouble. The experience the honour- able gentleman had gained during the debate on his Bill would enable him to introduce several amendments, and make provision to meet the objections that had been raised, and he would be glad to see the Bill passed through the House in a perfected form at some future time. As to the Libel Bill, he thought that such a Bill should be passed. After what had occurred in the House a few days before, in respect to the Press of the colony, and after what had been said by the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), he almost felt inclined to take up and support the Bill of the honourable mem- ber for the Taieri. A little more of that, and his sense of justice and fair-play would call upon him to do something in the way of amending our libel legislation. It had been practically proved recently that there was no criminal libel in regard to publication in book or pamphlet form, and the law in that respect for the safety 