year we celebrated the jubilee of the Canterbury Province ; the Premier was there, and we were pleased to see him and treated him well, and he stated, in the fullness of his heart, that he would honour Canterbury by appointing a gentleman to the Legislative Council. He ap- pointed a gentleman connected with the liquor trade in Christchurch ; and I venture to say if a referendum had been taken as to the appoint- ment of a citizen of Canterbury to the Legis- lative Council 95 per cent. of the people would have voted otherwise than for putting Mr. Louisson into the Council. I say nothing against him personally, or against his reputa- tion. Honour Canterbury forsooth ! Sir, there are hundreds of men in Canterbury 3.30. who have distinguished themselves in public life, who have devoted their whole lives unselfishly to the promotion of our institutions, and who have distinguished themselves in the Parliament of this colony, and yet all these gentlemen were overlooked, and a man who had never served in any capacity save that of Mayor of the City of Christchurch was selected to do honour to the people of the Provincial District of Canterbury. Could any greater insult be offered to the intelligent respectable people of the Provincial District of Canterbury than that appointment ? I say that the sooner the con- stitution of the Legislative Council is altered so as to be in touch with the enlightened opinions of the electors of this colony the better. It is an anomaly that this House, consisting of seventy- four members, should be elected by the people of the colony, and should be a reflex of eight https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 hundred thousand people, and that we should have a second Chamber- one half the Parlia- ment of New Zealand - in the gift of one man. Why, Sir, has there been anything in the http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero pages of history to equalit? Here we are in the twentieth century, in this new colony, and we, the representatives of the people, tole- rate the continuance of such a wrong. From my place in this House, and on the platforms in my electorate, I have advocated time and again the election of the Legislative Council. The Premier says, " Trust the people." Yes, trust the people. I am prepared to trust the people. I have been in the hands of the people for the past eleven years, and I am prepared to trust the people for the future. It is my duty, as a representative of the people here, to denounce all such irregularities and anomalies as the nominations to the Legislative Council of this colony. It cannot be denied that every appointee to that Chamber must swear fealty to the power that puts him there. Sir, in the Statement the question of remission of the mortgage-tax is referred to, and the Premier states that if he remits that tax it will be necessary to place an additional burden of taxa- tion in some other direction. I have considered the question very carefully, and I support the member for Waihemo in his contention that it is an unfair tax to charge } per cent. of a mort- gage-tax. It falls upon the mortgagor, very often the poor man. I say, remove this }-per- cent. mortgage-tax, and the result will be that Mr. Meredith money required by the settlers in the colony. I am willing to give the Government the greatest credit for its excellent management of the Advances to Settlers Department. It has been a boon to the people of this colony. It has broken down the back of a wealthy monopoly in this colony, and put a stop to the usurious rates of interest that have been charged ; but, Sir, the days of 10 and 15 per cent. are past and gone, and will never come to life again in this colony, and in my opinion I think if this }-per-cent. mortgage-tax were removed we would find private enterprise would advance money at 4 per cent. and 4} per cent., and there would be very little money required for Government advances to settlers. At the same time, I do not desire nor do I recommend the abolition of the Government Advances to Settlers Office. Let it remain, and if there is any attempt on the part of private investors and capitalists to raise the price of interest, then let the Government show its hand, and by so doing the whole thing can be kept in check. Sir, I regret the Government has not seen its way to submit to the consideration of this House a differentiated Customs on goods im- ported from Great Britain. We appear to give a preference to America. The imports and ex- ports of this colony disclose the fact that, while our trade with the United States is only equal to half a million, the trade of the United States with us exceeds a million a year. A few days ago I went down to the wharf, and I saw there a large steamer of 10,000 tons. She was loaded to a very large extent with iron for our rail- ways. Sir, I venture the opinion that, inas- much as we are under a great obligation to the Mother-country, iron for that purpose should not be imported from a country that is not prepared to deal even-handedly with us. The United States get more out of us than we can possibly get out of them, and I think that ordering iron rails, rolling-stock, et cetera, for our railways from the United States is a mistake. A preference should be given to the Mother- country, or I would rather see the whole of the rolling-stock required for our railways made in the colony. Let us double-bank the number of employés at the various workshops, and the result would be that we would keep money in the colony and find employment for our own people. I say we are under a great obligation to the Mother-country. That is our market for £10,000,000 out of #13,000,000 of our products. Sir, if Britain were to put on a duty of ¿d. a pound on our wool, butter, cheese, and mutton of last year's exports, it would mean on wool £146,569, on butter £20,124, on cheese £11,999, and on mutton €215,130, or a total of $393,922. An Hon. MEMBER .- America shuts us out altogether. Mr. MEREDITH .- Yes, America shuts us out altogether. I regret, Sir, that my time is about up. My friend the member for Lyttelton outflanked me yesterday. I intended when I spoke to move a resolution, and I will ask your guidance, Sir, as to whether it is in order or not. I move it in all sincerity. I move it as 