Workmen - Workers' Compensation for Acci- dent- Act-Rates on Crown Leases by County Councils-Southlaud Volunteers-Newtown Park -Physical Drill in Public aud Native Schools Bill School Attendance Bill (No. 2)-Shops and Shop-assistants Bill-Eight Hours Bill-Cycle Boards Bill. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Stamp Act Amendment Bill. # THIRD READINGS. Counties Bill, Statutes Compilation Bill, Miners' Rights Fee Reduction Bill, Rabbit Nuisance Bill. # CHRISTCHURCH-LYTTELTON RAIL- WAY. On the motion of Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christ- church City), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing the cost of construction of the Christchurch-Lyttelton Railway, and the net revenue earned during each of the past five years. # EARNSCLEUGH RUN. On the motion of Mr. W. FRASER (Waka- tipu), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return of the annual cost incurred by the Department of Agriculture in destroy- ing rabbits on the Earnscleugh Run, from the date such run was resumed possession of by the Government to the 31st March, 1901. OF FOREIGN COMPANIES: PAYMENT STAMP-TAX. On the motion of Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City), it was ordered, That there be laid be- fore this House a return showing the number and names of foreign companies trading in New Zealand who have paid the stamp-tax of 1s. per £100 of their capital as provided in " The Stamp Act, 1882." ## INCOME-TAX, 1901. On the motion of Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing, separately, the total amount of income-tax paid for the year ended 31st March, 1901, by residents in the North and South Islands of New Zealand. # STUD ANIMALS IMPORTED FROM BRITAIN. On the motion of Mr. MASSEY (Franklin), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing the total cost to the colony of the stud animals recently imported from Britain by the Agricultural Department ; and also giving the price paid for each animal, the pedigree of each animal, and the name and address of the breeder or former owner in each case. ## WELLINGTON GAOLS: ESCAPED PRISONERS. On the motion of Mr. HUTCHESON (Wel- lington City), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing, in detail,-(1) How many prisoners have escaped from Wellington gaols during the past five years; (2) what authority has inquired into the relation of prison officers thereto ; and (3) what punishments, if any, have been inflicted on prison officers in connection therewith. # ARBITRATION COURT PRESIDENT VALIDATION BILL. On the question, That this Bill be read a first time, Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said. It is my inten- tion to ask the House to pass this Bill through all its stages as a matter of urgency, because I found out three days ago that the appointment. of Mr. Justice Cooper as President of the Arbi- tration Court had not been made. He had been appointed as Judge of the Supreme Court all right, and probably it might have been pre- sumed the one appointment carried the other. We find that it requires a separate appointment for the position of President of the Arbitration Court under the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act. An Hon. MEMBER .- Was that done in Judge Martin's case ? Mr. SEDDON .- It was not necessary in Judge Martin's case ; it was not required, see- ing he only filled in a term. Of course, I have to take the responsibility of the oversight. There was not a separate appointment in Judge Martin's case, because he filled up the gap which was left. Mr. Justice Williams was ap- pointed for three years, and Mr. Justice Edwards acted for a portion of the time. It is pro- vided that a Judge may be appointed to fill a part of an unexpired term. Mr. Justice Martin filled another part of an unexpired term. How- ever, as another vacancy had come round, it wanted another appointment before the matter was in order. It was an oversight, and this Bill is necessary to rectify it. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) .- Per- haps it may not be out of place to ask the Premier whether he still intends to proceed with the payment of fees to the Judge of the Arbitration Court ? Mr. SEDDON .- This Bill has nothing to do with the question of fees. Mr. HUTCHESON .- Oh, yes, it has to do with the question of fees ; and the Premier will hear more about it before we have done with this Bill. I consider the payment of these fees is a highly unconstitutional thing. Bill read a first time. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, I move the second reading of the Bill. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- Will it not be necessary for the Premier to move for the suspension of the Standing Orders ? Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER .- No; it is a matter of urgency. Mr. HERRIES. - Sir, I think we want more explanation from the Premier about this matter. 