would have to go slow and see how the Acts | of the colony. The honourable member for would work, and that the people should not expect too much. And I am of that opinion too. But take the report of our Labour De- partment for this year and we find that in New Zealand 1,320 married and 1,798 single persons, having dependent upon them 5,432 persons, have been assisted by the depart- ment. And I would like to know what would be the position of the country if we had not that department to look after these people ? The colony would be flooded with swaggers, as it was in 1886, when Mr. Mitchelson, as Minister for Public Works, offered 3s. 6d. a day to able- bodied workmen, and 3s. and 2s. 6d. a day for men who could not keep up with men who could make 3s. 6d., and soup-kitchens for those who were not considered worth 28. 6d. Our policy is to allow the people to make their own soup with the money they have earned. We need not go back to that condition again. We find that of this number 519 were sent to private employment, and 2,605 on to the Government works. The majority of those who were relieved were labourers and miners, and not tradespeople at all. The tradespeople can find plenty of work, and our manufacturers have been very busy all the time. We find, again, there are forty thou- sand males and thirteen thousand females at work in factories. And what do the returns show? The honourable gentleman says we are not pro- gressing-that we are going back ; but to show the number of hands in factories are increasing more in New Zealand than in New South Wales I give the following figures : New South Wales had, in 1891, about fifty thousand fac- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 tory hands, and in 1900 only sixty thousand ; yet in this country, under the Act of 1894, there were forty-eight thousand hands em- ployed in factories for the year ending 1889-90, / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero and for the year ending 1900-1901 fifty-three thousand an increase of 4,522 hands for one year. If our labour laws had been one-half as bad as they are made out to be this increase would not have taken place. The honourablo gentleman says, " Will any one invest in manu- factures in the colony to-day? " Of course they will, and they have been so investing, otherwise this increase would not have taken place. We do not wish to see one section of the community get the better of another, but I say we ought to support each and every sec- tion while we hold a seat in the House. The honourable gentleman will go to the labourers and try to get their votes at the next election, and why should he allow them to be neglected during his term in the House? We have all a right to legislate for every section of the community, the rich and the poor alike. A great deal has been said about the amount of money that has been squandered, and so on. How has the money been squandered ? No honourable member who has spoken has yet shown how the money has been squandered. No one says it has been squandered in his dis- trict. All I know is that whatever the Govern. ment has borrowed and whatever it has spent has been done at the instance and support of the various members of the different constituencies Ashley said the other night that the finances of the colony were being recklessly dealt with ; but let that honourable gentleman turn to a speech he delivered a few sessions ago. A small sum was on the estimates-I think it was $250-for advertising our frozen meat at Home, and the honourable gentleman said on that occasion, " Let the Government be liberal, and put £5,000 on the estimates for the Agent-General to advertise our frozen meat." He is one who advocates spending money, and then comes and lectures the Ministry for reckless expendi- ture. His speech was the most illogical I ever read. The only sound part of it, to my mind, was where he complimented the Minister for Railways. He is reported to have said,- "He complimented the Minister upon his administration, but he held that rolling-stock, buildings, and repairs should be done out of revenue. Had this been done last year the surplus on the working of the railways would not have been nearly so large." That is logical argument, and that is the proper way to talk to Ministers; it is sound argument, and I compliment him on his re- marks. He spoke also about the setting-up of Royal Commissions. He said, "This alarmed one, and gave the Opposition a chance of bringing charges of bribery and corruption." Now, if the Commissions had all been taken from one side of the House his argument might have had some weight ; but there was a very fair sprinkling of members from each side of the House, and therefore there was no need for the honourable gentleman to raise that storm in a tea-pot. What he might have said was that " the setting-up of so many Commissions without me is alarming"; but there seems to be a large amount of petty jealousy on the part of the honourable gentleman. Had he been called to take a place on one or more of the Commissions, then no doubt he would have been satisfied, and the country would not have heard of his objection in that respect. Now, as far as I am concerned, I did not know until a letter reached me asking me to take a position upon the Rivers Commission that I had been appointed to that Commission, and when I accepted it I did my best in the in- terests of the colony ; and if I am asked to do so again I shall probably accept the office and do the work, although honourable members all round the House know that after one has paid his expenses out of the allowance of £1 a day there is very little left. If one has to leave a person in charge of his business while he is away, I ask, What has a member left out of £1 a day for himself ? He will in many cases be money out of pocket. Where does the bribery come in, as the honourable member for Ashley suggested, I should like to know? I say that the Commissions have done good and honest work, and that it was necessary to appoint them. Well, Sir, we have been told from various parts of the House that we need fear no rivals in this colony in regard to the disposal of produce, either north or south, but I say we have to look to our laurels. We find that Canada is sending 