1901 ?- Yes. " Mrs. Cook owes £100 in calls ?- Yes; the first and second calls. " Has any shareholder been summoned for calls in this company ? - No. "To Mr. Easton : The articles of association in the Tucker Flat Company are signed by William George Somerville, stationer, Dunedin ; Charles Leijon, Dunedin ; Allan Holmes, solici- tor, Dunedin ; J. Davidson, accountant, Dun- edin; James Gregg, Dunedin; William Holsted, manager, Dunedin ; and Thomas Henry Thomp- son, accountant, Dunedin. Each of these seven gentlemen is responsible for one share. I take it that Mr. Somerville holds fifty or a hundred shares ; Mr. Leijon the same ; but Mr. Holmes is the holder of only one share. That is not shown on the register. I could not give an explanation of the omission to show Mr. Holmes as the holder of one share. I pre- sume that Mr. Holmes's is a share transferred from Mr. Cook's holding. " Should not the holder of each share be shown ?- The total number of shares allotted is shown on the register, but whether each single share should be shown is a matter which I would not like to give an opinion upon. All the shares are included in the total number allotted to the various holders. " How many of the seven who signed the articles of association are not shown on the register ?- Three -- Mr. Holmes, Mr. Thompson, and myself. "Then, three people who signed those articles of association, and were supposed to have taken up one share each, have never paid anything on https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 those shares, and their names do not appear on the share register. Is that so ?- I do not think you put the question quite fairly. As a matter of fact, my share was a gift from Mr. Cook, and he paid my calls. " Then, that makes an additional share ?- No ; the 6.000 are accounted for. " Mr. Cook has transferred one share to you ? -No. "Then, how do you become possessed of one share if you do not pay for it ?-- It is paid for by Mr. Cook. He gave it to me. That is the posi- tion. " With reference to the secretaryship of this company : have you acted as secretary to the company ?- I have, and am still the secretary. " Did you receive the secretarial fees ?- While I was manager for Cook and Gray I did not. I was not entitled to hold any private fees. " Who received the secretarial fees of the company at the time you were acting as secre- tary and managing for Cook and Gray ? - As manager I paid them into the account of the firm of Cook and Gray. " You were not actually the secretary of the company ? - Undoubtedly I was, and am now. " But were you receiving the secretary's fees ? -Yes. My arrangement with Cook and Gray was that I received a salary, and anything out- side that I handed over to Cook and Gray. " Then, at the time the public were allowed to know that you were the secretary of the clerk in Cook and Gray's employ, receiving a stated salary from them, and remitting the secretary's salary to them ? - Yes. " Were you aware at the time you were doing that that Mr. Cook was a director of the com- pany ?- Undoubtedly I was. "Then, Mr. Cook, as director, was making a. profit out of the secretarial fees : is that so ?- I should say that he was not. Cook and Gray may have been making a profit, if there were a profit made out of them, but that is very questionable. " What I want to get at is this: Cook and Gray were receiving the secretary's fees in the Tucker Flat Company, and not you ?- The firm had the fees, in addition to other sources. of income. " And at that time you were quite aware that Mr. Cook was a director of the company ? -Undoubtedly I was; he was elected at a meeting of shareholders. "I understand that the prospectus of the Tucker Flat Company states that there was a deed of sale from Wylde to Cook-i e., the deed by which Cook acquired the claim. That deed is stated to be on view at your office. Were you aware of that ?- Yes; it is so stated on the prospectus. " Will you tell the Committee who removed that deed from your office ?- It was not re- moved from the office. " Was it ever placed there ?- Yes, because I took it out myself. " Who took it away ?- I did. "At what date did you take it away ?-- When I came away on Tuesday last. It has been in the office all the time. "Are you aware that a written application was made to produce that deed previous to the last extraordinary meeting of the company ?-- I think you are making an error there. You applied for the deed in connection with the Lees Ferry Company then, and made a further application last Monday through Mr. Somer- ville for this Tucker Flat document. Mr. Somerville came to me, attended by his solicitor (Mr. MacGregor), requesting the production of this document. The Lees Ferry deed was in the hands of the company's solicitor when they asked for the Tucker Flat deed, and I told them then that I thought it was in the hands of the solicitor, the same as the Lees Ferry document. It subsequently occurred to me that I had put the Tucker Flat deed away in my safe, and I immediately went and hunted it up, and not half an hour later I received Mr. Palmer's wire asking me to come here. That is why the deed was not produced when Mr. Easton sent for it. " Was no request made to you on the 8th August for that deed ?- Not for the Tucker Flat document, to my memory. I do not recall the Tucker Flat deed being applied for. " At this stage a telegram was read from a late director of the Tucker Flat Company (Mr. Somerville), who wired to Mr. Easton on the 8th August as follows : 'Tucker Flat meeting 