operations of the Act in that colony. Whilst pointing out that the New Zealand Act has ' never been put to any severe test, such as a decision adverse to the employés in a large strike,' and that 'disputes are sometimes fo- mented by agitators,' he reports that the Act has ' brought about better relations between employers and employés, prevented strikes of any magnitude, and is approved by a very large majority of employers as well as workmen.' The fomenting and long duration of disputes drawback he attributes chiefly to the Concilia- tion Boards, and to the fact of their being paid by the sitting. " On the other hand, Mr. Seddon, the Pre- mier of New Zealand, who is the leader of the party which promoted and believes in the Act, has been telling a deputation of trades-union- ists that he is 'anxious as to the future of con- ciliation and arbitration. He deprecated the wholesale summoning of employers. There was no necessity to do so, and it was riding the Act to death. In time both the men and the em- ployers would get sick of it. That was what was going to happen. The employers did not want to be everlastingly in turmoil. What the country wanted was to have awards, and go on working. Some one had to stop what was going on. The law was a good law, but of late had been brought into disrepute. Great care must be taken or there would be a revulsion of public opinion.' " Mr. Wise explains Mr. Seddon's remarks by saving that the failings in the operation of the New Zealand Act noted by Mr. Seddon are due to (1) the Conciliation Boards; (2) the permis- sion given to any seven men to form a union, with power to bring disputes before the Court ; and (3) the want of provision in the Act em- powering the Court to lay down a ' common rule '-that is, to make a decision binding not only the particular dispute referred to the Court, but all similar cases that may arise in the trade. These failings are guarded against in the amended New South Wales Bill, and, as public opinion is so strong behind its principle that it is certain to pass, we make no further comment than that we strongly suspect the failing will be found in the principle rather than in any machinery of the Act, and that our information as to the disposition of New Zealand employers towards the Act differs con- siderably from Judge Backhouse's." Judge Backhouse was, of course, the Judge who was recently sent here from New South Wales to report on the labour laws of this colony. And now I come to a question that is of the utmost importance, the question of our mar- kets. We have it from the member for Waira- rapa that he is of opinion that the Government are insincere on the question of cold-storage in London and Africa. If that is so, I tell them emphatically that unless they are sincere, and unless they do take some steps to establish cold-stores, and otherwise to deal comprehen- sively with this important question of markets -and particularly a meat-market-in the chief market centres of the world, we are going to have a very bad time, and the Government will Government may possibly be timid, if not in- sincere; but at the same time the country has nothing better to expect from the other side of the House. We had that amply exemplified in the debates last session on the subject of the meat monopoly. The Opposition, if in power, would not help to put down mono- polies, middlemen, and other " fat " exploiters of our produce. They would be the very last to do it. They represent that class of individual, and would be very careful of his interests. On this subject it seems to me the Government might very well study, if they want a good example, what is being done in the other colonies in respect of markets. In South Aus- tralia they have their own freezing-works. They take charge of the produce, they kill the stock, they arrange shipping and insurance, they make advances at low rates, and they sell the meat in the Old Country. In Victoria there are Go- vernment freezing-works, and the Government there also pay the closest attention to the markets of the colony. In Queensland they have their Produce Export Acts, and other pro- vision is made for the encouragement of trade. In New South Wales they have their Board for Exports, and other methods are devised for securing to the producer a fair market for his produce. There is no reason, it seems to me, why the Government should not take a firm stand and bring the producer and consumer closer together. It is not, as the Opposition calls it, interference with private enterprise ; it is the first duty of the State. At the present time the produce of the colony is subject to exploita- tion by a number of greedy individuals, rings, and combines, at whose mercy the producers commonly are; but the thing can be remedied if only the matter is dealt with firmly and in a businesslike manner. And it is not only the produce that goes outside the colony that is thus affected ; there is a very rotten state of things prevailing regarding many of our markets here. Take, for instance, the market-garden produce in this colony, where this market is largely run by the Chinese. We have boss Chinamen, and Chinamen rings, and they attend the produce sales in this city, and the prices are kept down to starvation rates for European-grown produce. It is then sold at their own price, because they have command of the market, and there is no one to compete against them. The whole market is in their hands, and we are ruled by the Celestial. The remedy is not easy. No doubt it wants think- ing over ; but doubtless it would be found in the establishment of proper municipal mar- kets. Of course, cold water has been thrown upon this proposition ; but if the larger Muni- cipal Corporations would only do as has been recommended by the honourable member for Masterton and myself over and over again, and establish regular markets on proper lines, we should soon have a very much better state of things existing than heretofore. As representing a district in which 3.0. there is one large lunatic asylum and another about to be established, I feel I must 