ployés a certain portion of the profits earned during the year. I think that is a just and fair principle. It is only fair to the miners that they should receive some benefit when the employers make very large profits. Now, Sir, I do not intend to take up the time of the House much longer, as it is getting late, but I will say that a great many charges have been brought against the Government, not only on the Opposition side of the House, but also on this side. I do not blame honour- able members on the other side for the charges they have made; but I say that if ever I made a statement such as others have made, I would be prepared to follow my voice by going into the lobby against the Government when the time came for voting. If I had got up and charged the Government with squandering thousands of pounds of the people's money-and some honourable members have made such charges-I would not care to remain longer on the Ministerial side of the House. But, after all, I do not give some honourable gentlemen on this side of the House much credit for sincerity in the way they have spoken about the Government. A great many things have been said about the Civil Service. I believe that we have a good Civil Service, and that it is equal to any in the colonies; and I know that we pay our officers less than is paid in any of the other colonies. Some of the heads of our departments are not receiving sufficient in salaries. I have heard remarks by some honourable gentlemen in this House about co- operative labourers. Now, let me say I have had a great deal to do with the labour- ing classes ; I have mixed with men who are the real workers, and I can honestly say that I have always found the working-man does an honest day's work if he is paid honestly. There are no co-operative labourers in my district, and therefore it cannot be said that I am seek- ing for votes when I say that there is as good work done under the co-operative system as under any other. The honourable member for Hawera said the co-operative labourers did not do their work properly. Well, all I can say is that the Westport Harbour Board had wharves to build, some of which were done under con- tract, but some of the contracts were changed to day labour, and the work was given into the charge of a man who employed day labour, and in that way the Harbour Board saved on one piece of work over £5,000. That was the difference in that instance be- tween day-labour and contract work. I am therefore sorry to find honourable gentlemen getting up in their places in this House and running down the work ng - classes of this colony, because, although we may find one or two of the working-men not shaping as they ought to do, their fellow-workers are on the whole doing their work faithfully and well, and carrying out their duty as honestly as any honourable member in this House. An Hon. MEMBER .- There are black sheep in every flock. Mr. Colvin have now only to thank honourable gentle- men for the way they have listened to me. Debate adjourned. The House adjourned at one o'clock a.m. # LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Friday, 6th September, 1901. Shops and Offices Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. SHOPS AND OFFICES BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- This Bill has been circulated with the amendments, and honourable members are no doubt familiar with what has been done in regard to it. Although they do not all go in the direction I would wish, still I am prepared to accept the Bill as it left the Council. I beg therefore to move, That the Council agree to the third reading. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI .- Sir, I do not like this Bill, and as this is the third reading I think it right that I should say a few words by way of protest against it. When the Labour Bureau was established, this was done for the purpose of finding employment for casual labourers. Since then it has grown in a most wonderful way. It has grown and grown until it has become a great monster in the community, and for the last ten years we have, in legislating for the country, had nothing before us but labour legislation-legislation which has proved itself to be detrimental to the best interests of the community. It has crippled a great number of enterprises, and has benefited practically no one. Sir, no doubt the department must keep pace with the times, otherwise it would be shut up; and, so as to show some need for its existence, legislation of some kind or another is submitted to us every session. The Bureau from its commencement up to the present time has been an injury to the community as a whole. We have not to go far to see what the effect of that legislation has been. We are all cognisant of it ; and we now begin to think that the Labour Bureau and its advocates are virtu- ally the Government of this colony, for they are dictating to the Crown. I am perfectly satisfied, as far as Ministers are concerned, that they never thought they would be driven into the position that they are in at present by the Labour Bureau. Sir, this Bill was referred to the Labour Bills Committee, and it is not very often when a Government measure is referred to a Committee that it is mutilated in the way this Bill has been. The Committee has taken upon itself to place in that measure clauses which are most arbitrary, and which will prove ruinous and heart-breaking to a great number of people, and which will, if carried out, affect the methods of a great number of hard-working people in the manner in which 