will be altered before the scale is introduced. The general wish of our teachers at the present time is to be in city schools, and it is becoming very difficult to find any of the best of our assistant masters who will take charge of dis- trict schools. Now I come to that portion of the speech made by the honourable member for Wallace in regard to equal pay for equal work claimed by the female teachers through- out the colony. I consider-and I am not alone in my opinion-that the Commissioners would have perhaps better fulfilled their part if they had stated that, whatever position was to be filled, the pay for teachers, whether male or female, should be equal. And I would point out that no radical change would necessarily be brought about under this alteration of the sys- tem. It would be left entirely to the Boards and the School Committees as to whether a male or female teacher would be best suited to the circumstances, and to advertise for such accordingly ; and if it was considered that a female teacher was equal to the work that had to be done, then I consider the female teacher should be paid the same salary as would be paid to a male teacher if he had been appointed to occupy the position. I consider this is about the weakest point of the whole of the Commis- sioners' finding. I think it would have been more satisfactory, both to the female and the male teachers throughout the colony, if the Commissioners had left the matter of selecting male or female teachers to Education Boards and School Committees to fill the positions, and had stated that the salary attached to a certain position should be so much per annum. Now, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 there is a necessity to encourage our teachers. The work is of a nature which is trying, and the results in many respects are commendable. The public, as a whole, feel that the life of a school-teacher is not a bed of roses. There is a natural ambition to be first in the race, not only from pride in the work done, but also from the fact that by attaining a high degree of success in the school of which they have charge the teachers may be selected for other and more important charges in larger schools. In this respect the ambition of our teachers is commendable. Another matter I wish to draw attention to is the question of the scarcity of male teachers for staffing our schools. Person- aily, I have no reason to think that there will be any scarcity. We find that, if 25 per cent. of our pupil-teachers are males, the supply would be ample for the requirements of our public schools ; and the North Canterbury Edu- cation Board recently issued an order to School Committees that every fourth appointment should be a male pupil-teacher. I believe that in recent years the headmasters of most of our public schools have been recommending girls as pupil-teachers, as being more useful in the infant departments of the school. This is not as it should be, and the immediate advan- taze of the school should not be allowed to militate against the system by training more female teachers than can be ultimately em- ployed, and a sufficient number of male pupil- teachers should be trained as will ultimately be for the benefit of our education system. There seems to be a weakness in the finance of our training - schools. There are several of them in the colony-in North Canterbury, in Otago, and in Hawke's Bay; and I understand that a training-school has also been started recently in Auckland. The grants for training teachers under any new system of scale and grants must be largely increased if the normal training-schools are to continue -and I hope they will, as their work cannot be adequately superseded by a college or high-school course. I think the Government should be more gene- rous in respect to training-colleges, and con- tinue a system that has given excellent results. There is another matter I wish to bring before the House, and that is the question of the over- loading of the primary-school syllabus. I believe that members of Education Boards and Inspec- tors feel that our syllabus is overloaded, especi- ally for children in the Fourth Standard. I admit that our country-school teachers are at a disadvantage in this respect : that lack of assist- ance obliges them to group the children of more than one standard together. The result is that the lower standard children are burdened to keep up with the higher standards they are classed with. This is not as it should be; a child should never be taxed with lessons above his or her capacity if their future physical and mental well-being is to be considered. It would be of great service to the future generation if a Commission of inquiry were made into the syllabus of our public schools, with the view of seeing whether it would not be possible to make it lighter, giving more attention to the training of the hand and eye, and lesser tasks for the little brain. Most parents believe, as I do, that it is necessary that our children should be physically as well as mentally developed. One of the strongest advocates of education in this century was the late Professor Huxley, and I remember a little encouragement that he gave to some un- successful graduates when he addressed them on the occasion of presenting prizes to the successful students. He said that if he had a boy about to go out into the world, and a good fairy came along and promised to endow the lad with three aids to success in life-that if Professor Huxley would only state those aids the fairy would endow the boy with them. And Professor Huxley said, -- " If I had that opportunity I would say, first of all, put a good stomach in the lad, and I feel sure he will have an important factor to lend success to his efforts in after-life. Secondly, give him plenty of industry ; and, thirdly, give him a full measure of perseverance ; and then, if after all his efforts he is not in the prize- list, he will be well equipped for life, either as merchant or artisan, soldier or sailor ; and success must attend your efforts if you have only these particular aids to success. And none of these aids can be possessed by a child unless he is trained physically as well as mentally." The Government propose to assist manual and technical instruction throughout the country, but I would like to point out that 