stand it to be the privilege of every mem- ber of the House to express his views upon any question under consideration, and I say that I am satisfied that this Budget is a fair sample of the manner in which the welfare of this country is guarded and promoted by the honourable gentleman at present in power. Now, with regard to the remarks that have fallen from honourable members who are dis- satisfied with this Financial Statement, and who have sought to cast a doubt upon the present financial position of the colony, I have heard some honourable members say that the figures in this Statement are not to be seriously accepted as correct, and that it is not a satisfac- tory Statement as compared with the Statements of previous years. But, Sir, I ask, How are we to know which honourable member's figures are correct ? I say we can confidently leave that question until the Colonial Treasurer replies, and then we shall be able to form our own opinions as to who is right and who is wrong. Now, with regard to the proposed expenditure for public works-for roading and improving the various districts throughout the colony- I think the majority of members must agree with me when I say that that is money expended in a right direction : that will be money expended upon reproductive works, and from those reproductive works the Trea- Bury will be eventually replenished Now, Sir, with regard to the railway administra- tion, I must say that it seems to me that the forecast given by the Hon. the Minister for Rail- ways is entirely satisfactory. I see, Sir, that considerable reductions have been made both in passenger fares and railway freights, and there- fore I say that I think the colony has every right and reason to congratulate itself upon the present position of affairs. Why, Sir, this Statement shows beyond question that these re- ductious have been entirely justified. In spite of the fact that such large reductions have been made, we find that the revenue derived from the railways is greater than it was before these re- ductions were made. Sir, the same is the case with the reductions made in the Postal Depart- ment. We find that since the institution of the ponny post a larger amount of revenue has actually been received by the Postal Depart- ment. Sir. when that Bill was brought down before this House I was one of those who sup- ported it, because I was satisfied in my own mind at the time that if a penny postal service was introduced in this country people would write more letters to their friends and rela- tives ; and, in consequence, that a greater revenue would result to the Postal Depart- ment, although the charge was reduced from 2d. to ld. That, Sir, is another matter upon which I say the colony has every reason to congratulate itself. And, Sir, I do not con- fine that remark merely to the European population of the country. I intend that remark to include both the European and Maori residents of the colony. Now, Sir, with regard to the dissatisfaction that has been ex- pressed by certain members of this House in VOL. CXVIII .- 22. expended in connection with the visit of their Royal Highnesses in this colony, I say, Sir, that in my opinion the expenditure of that money was entirely justified. I say, Sir, that the fact of that money having been expended in that direction is in itself a proof of the joy which was felt by both European and Maori residents in this colony on the arrival of their Royal Highnesses, because the result must be that the young man, His Royal Highness the Duke of Cornwall and York, will carry home to his Royal father, King Edward the Seventh, a very pleasant account of his visit to this country, and will tell him of the loyal and enthusiastic manner in which he was received by all of the residents here. Further than that, he will be able to tell the King that. he has actually himself personally seen the Maori people in their own home. And I say that no member of this House can ever convince me by any argument whatever that it was anything but right that that gathering of the Maori tribes that was held at Rotorua should have taken place. I feel certain, Sir, that it was a gathering entirely unique of its kind that we may never again have such a vast concourse of the Maori people gathered together from all parts of the colony, as they were on that occasion, unless it may be that on some future occasion we may again be favoured with another Royal visit. Sir, that was an opportunity that should never have been missed. An opportunity was there afforded to the Maori people to assemble from all parts of New Zealand to demonstrate personally their loyalty and love towards the Throne. The Royal grandmother of the young Prince who came recently to this country, our late beloved Queen, only knew by hearsay what the loyal feelings of her Maori subjects in this country were, but now her grandson the Prince has been himself an eye-witness of the strength and genuineness of that loyalty, and will be able to convey to his Royal father in person his own impression of it. I say, Sir, that that was, as I have already said, an occasion that we must always look back upon with happy recollections, because it was an oc- casion unique. of its kind, which will empha- size the loyalty of the Maori people of this colony just as much as it reflects and shows the lovalty of the Europeans in this country. The Maori inhabitants of both Islands looked forward with keen longing to meet the Prince face to face on his arrival in the colony. I will ask members to remember the address of wel- come presented to the Duke on his arrival at Rotorua by the Maori inhabitants through the Native Minister. I think no better evidence is available of the extreme loyalty of the Maoris of the South Island than the fact that they came from the extreme south to Rotorua days before their Royal Highnesses' arrival, at, in many instances, extreme personal inconveni- They left their businesses and their ence. homes, and paid their own fares to Rotorua, and were there in time to welcome the Duke. There is but one thing in connection with the 