stances he would not be a party to dismiss this officer when nothing was proved against him. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City) did not think the action of the Government had been just either to the people of Auckland, to the man concerned, or their own reputation in the matter. At the time of the general election there was a widespread feeling of dissatisfac- tion amongst the people of Auckland in regard to this officer's performance of his duties, and he believed there was some cause for this dis- satisfaction. The point was this : after the election a deputation waited on the Premier placing certain facts before him, and he gave an unequivocal promise that an inquiry would be held. Later on, a public meeting was held, and resolutions were passed demanding that a public inquiry should be held. These were sent on to the Government, and representations were made to him (Mr. Fowlds) on the matter, and both publicly on the floor of the House and privately he had the assurance of the Colonial Secretary that an inquiry would be held. It was all very well for the honourable gentleman to say facili- ties were offered to enable these people to take action ; but the position was this, these people had what they considered satisfactory evidence on which to take action, and they wanted to take action, but on the strength of the promise of the Government on the floor of the House they were deterred from taking action until it was too late. Mr. SEDDON said it was not too late. Mr. FOWLDS said it was too late ; and if the honourable gentleman did not know the law he ought to look it up. The time had https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 passed within which the people could move in the matter. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, As his name had been brought into the question, he might http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero say that he did distinctly promise that an in- quiry should be made. But he was not the man to lay a charge against a public officer, and particularly against one who was a statu- tory officer, working under an Act the same as a Magistrate, without first making sure that there was good ground for taking action. That was the correct course. Members forgot that in the performance of the duties of Registrar the officer was a statutory officer, and as such must accept the sole responsibility of his actions ; it was not the responsibility of the Government at all. He was liable to those persons who were justly aggrieved or injured ; and before they could deal with an officer hold- ing that position they must make sure there was sufficient evidence to warrant them in taking the extreme stop. In this case, before anything was done, this officer was called upon by the Colonial Secretary, who went into the whole matter. It was found that there was no breach of faith whatever, and, as a result of the preliminary inquiry that took place, not only did this officer justify everything he had done, but the evidence went to show that, if fault was to be found, it was that he had been more than fair and had erred in a direction quite contrary to what members opposite alleged. Sir J. G. Ward work, certain men left Auckland very hurriedly. And, as the result of this officer doing his duty was probably to make these men leave Auckland hurriedly, was it right that he should be pil- loried on the floor of the House and subjected to inquiry? If that sort of treatment was to be meted out, where were they going to get men to do their duty fearlessly ? It would be im- possible to get them. While an officer held a position under the Government, it was the duty of the Government to support him. If there was found to be sufficient grounds to warrant an inquiry, then let an inquiry be held. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said, " Inconsis- tency, thy name is Seddon!" The Premier had told members that he had no more right to interfere with this officer than to interfere with a Magistrate ; and yet on the quiet the Premier had actually brought this officer down to Wel- lington with his papers, and had held a little private inquiry of his own. If a public inquiry was held, and all parties concerned were allowed to appear, they would be sure that what went on would be fair and above-board ; but if the Government was going to bring a statutory officer before them and make him answer to them, and not to the public, there would be an end of it. Mr. SEDDON asked, Who was to lay the charge against this officer ? Mr. PIRANI said, If the Premier appointed somebody to hold an inquiry there would be fifty charges made. Letters had been published in the papers over the signatures of the writers making charges against this officer, and appa- rently the manner in which this man was carry- ing out his duties had become a crying scandal. The Premier had spoken of people being obliged to leave the colony in order to escape the con- sequences of something they had done in con- nection with the Auckland electoral rolls. If there was any one in the House who made vague irresponsible charges it was the Premier himself. In this case the Premier had no grounds whatever for his assertion. There were bona fide instances where this officer had shuffled and humbugged people until it was too late to get on the roll at all, and he believed he had done this, if the term was permissible, out of pure devilment. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said, as to the statement of the Premier that certain people had had to leave the colony : if people had broken the law let them have the whole thing out, and let the people concerned take the con- sequences. The House had had the assurance of the Premier and Colonial Secretary that there would be an inquiry in connection with the conduct of the office of Registrar of Elec- tors for the Auckland City and suburbs, but such inquiry had not yet been held. Instead of that Mr. John King was brought down to Wellington, and he made an explanation which was considered by the Government to be quite satisfactory. It was not satisfactory, however, to the people of Auckland and suburbs. A: the last clection there were hundreds of names which should have been placed on the roll 