was present when the troops landed from the steamer at Port Chalmers. He went with them to Invercargill. He was not going to deal with the question of whether the member for Bruce (Mr. Allen) was now dealing with the question he referred to in the financial debate. He would recall the condition of the weather at the time the Fourth and Fifth Contingents arrived in the colony. He supposed it was the worst weather the colony had experienced for ten years. From the North Island to the South Island it was, he supposed, the coldest spell of weather they had had for years. When they left the North Island there was snow every- where, and that state of things continued right down to Stewart Island. The vessel, therefore, would have experienced cold weather wherever she went. Whatever action the Premier had taken with regard to bringing the troops to any one part of the colony it was surely impossible for him to foretell what the weather would be on their arrival. The troops went first to Port Chalmers, and not to the Bluff. The honourable gentleman had said that the Pre- mier was in some way responsible for the deaths that had taken place. Without giving names, he would give the particulars of each case. The first man took ill immediately after leaving the Cape, and he died before the vessel reached Albany ; the second was so ill on arriving at Albany that he had to be taken to the hospital there, where he died after the departure of the steamer ; the third man took ill on leaving Albany, and died of embolism before arriving in New Zealand ; the fourth died on the steamer, and never landed on the shores of New Zealand ; the fifth man was very ill when they landed at https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 Port Chalmers, and had been ill on the trip across from Albany. He was taken to the Dun- edin Hospital, where he died of pneumonia. Sir J. G. WARD .- He did not go to Inver- cargill at all ? Mr. McNAB said that none of those he had mentioned had gone to Invercargill. The sixth man went to Invercargill. There was nothing wrong with him at Port Chalmers, and, as Invercargill was his home, he would have gone there in any case. He subsequently left his own home-so he (Mr. McNab) was advised -and went to Dunedin, which was a very un- fortunate thing for him to do under the circum- stances. He took ill, he understood, at Dunedin, and then returned to his home, where he died. That was a very sad case indeed. The seventh case was that of a man who was ill nearly all the. way across from Cape Colony ; he was operated on twice for abscesses. He never went South, but was shifted with great care to the Dunedin Hospital, where he died from the effects of the abscesses. He never went south of Dun- edin. The eighth man died at Timaru. He could not trace whether he was one of the sick men who were left on board the steamer at Port Chalmers, and shifted from there to Timaru, or whether he was one who, being in good health when he landed, went to Invercargill and came back to Timaru. But beyond these facts, and that he was a member of the Geraldine Rifles and died at Timaru, he could not tell what his movements were. What was the reason so many men were in that condition when they came away from South Africa ? They had been in the interior and in a warm climate for a long time, and the first appearance of illness came on when they were mobilised at Worces- ter. They took colds, and got into such a con- dition that they had to be hurried away from that place to prevent a high mortality taking place. It would be as reasonable to blame Lord Kitchener, who was responsible for ordering the men to be mobilised at Worcester, for what had taken place as to say that the Hon. the Premier was to blame because, in agreeing to the wishes of the Invercargill people, he ordered the men to go round by Invercargill. There were no grounds whatever for supposing that the result would have been anything else if the men had come to the North Island instead of to the South Island, because the two men who might not be included in the category of men who arrived in the colony ill would have had to be sent on to the South in order to reach their homes. He did not think there was one single circumstance that could have been foretold. In connection with the trip to Invercargill there was a good deal of sickness, which was the result of exposure for three days after they got ashore ; but it was a happy thing to be able to say that, as far as they could trace it at the present time, no one lost his life in consequence of it. In regard to the question of drafting, he was on board the steamer when the men were passed by the doctor, and eighteen or twenty of them he would not allow to go, and sent some to the hospital and some were kept on the steamer. As one who was present when the men landed in this colony, who went round to the Bluff in the steamer with them, and who came as far as Gore, at any rate, with the men, he did not think any human being could have prevented the unfor- tunate illness and death of these men. Together with the member for Invercargill and other members he was present at Port Chalmers when the men landed. The members of the Dunedin Reception Committee were also there -the Mayor of Dunedin (Mr. Denniston), the Chairman of the late Reception Committee that sent the men away (Mr. Kempthorne), and Messrs. J. F. M. Fraser and J. Chisholm, who had taken an active part in connection with all the arrangements : and there was not a man in this colony more insistent than were these gentlemen on the men going to Invercargill and the original programme being carried out. They telegraphed to the Premier to have the programme carried out, and not to disappoint the Invercargill people. It was very much to be regretted that the feelings of the parents and relatives of these fine young fellows who had lost their lives, unfortunately, on the eve of re- turning to their homes-some in sight of their native land and some after landing-should be harassed, and have their feelings torn asunder as they would be where any person in the colony was charged with circumstances which would lead inevitably to the conclusion that there was a responsibility between the Premier 