ing work altogether outside the Government Printing Office. It could not be said that this large increase in the printing and stationery -estimates had been caused by any exceptional printing in connection with the Royal visit, for most of that was done ; but it seemed to him an extraordinary thing that a book like the " Right Hon. R. J. Seddon's Visit to the South Sea Islands," which was purely a private con- ·cern, should be printed at the expense of the taxpayers at the Government Printing Office. An Hon. MEMBER .- What edition was that ? Mr. PIRANI said this was the second edi- tion. He understood there were two editions of this book. The first edition had on the out- side, in elegant gilt letters, "A Premier in Search of Health." Besides that, there were a number of beautiful pictures that did not ap- pear in the second edition. The Minister in charge of the Printing Office was in his seat, and might say a few words in explanation of this fact : On very good authority he had been told that there was an edition of 2,500 copies of the work printed, bound, and destroyed. Mr. HALL-JONES .- Utterly incorrect. Mr. PIRANI said, Well, he had been told so. Printed on the cover was " A Premier in Search of Health." He would not enter into a full description of the illustrations-they were really beautiful-but they had been left out of the second edition. The books had been printed at the Government expense, and if the Printing Office was to be used for printing works of the kind, it was an improper use of a Government department. He knew a little about printing himself, and his estimate of printing 2,500 copies of the work was £280-illustrations and all. It did not say whom the book was written by, although he had no doubt that the Premier, among his multifarious duties, had taken upon himself to write it. That was not the only in- stance of work being done at the Printing Office which had blocked the returns and other reports that ought to have been ready for Parliament. This, he contended, was a misuse of the power of the Government. If the Government wanted to issue a special work of the sort, permission ought to be obtained from the House. There was another item on the estimates that was just as bad-namely, £260 for a number of copies of the January issue of the Review of Reviews, which contained an article in praise of the Ministry. It was not right to throw money about broadcast in this way. The Government Printing Office was becoming an enormous tax upon the people of the colony ; and if members had been asked to vote separately on many of the different items of printing that had been done in the last few years at the Printing Office, he was sure a great many of them would not have been sanctioned. Honourable members knew how the House had treated the proposed expenditure on a work of irrigation : it was struck out of the estimates. Unfortunately it was reinstated later on, as the Government had committed themselves to the expenditure on the work. Mr. HALL-JONES .- It was not done at the Printing Office Mr. PIRANI was aware of that ; he was simply pointing out the evil of getting work of the sort done without the permission of the House. All extraordinary printing that could not be classed in the ordinary printing should be paid for out of a special vote. He felt certain that the House would deal very tenderly with the vote for the Review of Reviews, and also with "A Premier in search of Health." He doubted if, when members had to go to the Government cap in hand for £100 for a road or a bridge and could not get it because money was not available, the House would sanction such a vote. He was not speaking about the 11.0. quality of the work, or whether it was a useful work or not ; but there ought to be a special authorisation if work of this sort was to be carried out at the expense of the colony at the Government Printing Office. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he was not going to sit there quietly and hear said what had been stated by the member for Bruce, and that on the flimsiest, the most paltry, the most unfounded, and the most unwarranted pretext and foundation. If the honourable gentleman said he had foundation for his statement to the effect that the medical officer of the "Tagus" said it would be un- wise to bring the men to the Bluff-was that the only justification for what the honour- able member had said? If that was all the honourable member had heard, and if that was all that could be heard, and if that was all that could be brought against him (Mr. Seddon) he would ask, What conclusion could" members come to? The only conclusion they could come to was that the honourable mem- ber must have been suffering mentally at that time-he hoped only temporarily - and that he had really forgotten for the moment what he was saying, who he was speaking to, and where he was. He thought the honourable member should express his contrition for what he had stated. He believed now that the statement had been made designedly, and that the honour- able member endeavoured by that, probably, to create a mild sensation. He wanted to take public opinion away from the finances of the colony. The honourable member waited his opportunity, just as history told them certain other persons waited their opportunity and then struck a blow. He bided his time and struck a foul blow. It would be unparliamentary for him to say they had a political anarchist in that House, but the action of the honourable gentleman was exactly the action taken by those enemies of organized society, those fiends When a charge was made in human form. against him by the late member for Patea, whom he afterwards brought to book, and when he was placed in a position of defending himself, that gentleman refused to attend the Committee, and his opinion was the same course would be followed by the honourable gentleman opposite, who had said that he did not want a party inquiry. Now, the late member for Patea did attempt to justify himself, because he did pro- duce something-which afterwards proved to be a forgery. Had he taken the action on that 