they were deprived of previously. Sir, I by £15,800, upon cigars and cigarettes by £9,100, and upon sugar by £3,500. These, I think, will be considered as luxuries, because a man will not smoke unless he has the money to spare ; and so with regard to the other articles I have named. If we want further argument, let us take the Post-Office Savings-Bank. What do we find there? We find that last year the excess of deposits over withdrawals amounted to £343,012 over the previous year. We find that the total amount in the bank is £5,809,552, or an average of £29 8s. 7d. on each account, or an increase in each indi- vidual account in the Post-Office Savings-Bank of £4 6s 3d. Does not that show that the majority of people are in as prosperous a condi- tion and in as comfortable a position as pre- viously ? The total number of accounts under £200-and I take it that those who have under £200 in the Post-Office Savings-Bank may be considered as belonging to the working-classes -the total number of accounts under £200 at the 31st December last was 189,572 ; and ten years previously, in 1890, it was only 94,865, so that in that ten years the number of those who have under £200 in the Post-Office Savings-Bank has just about doubled itself. Now, Sir, if it were not that the rate of interest is very small in the Post-Office Savings-Bank, the amount of money and the number of those who have accounts there would be very much larger than it is at the present time. Now, what do our friends opposite want? Do they desire to see the swagger again in the country? Do they wish to see these people brought back into our towns, and the position of affairs brought back to this colony that was so ably described by the honour- able member for Masterton a day or two ago, when he described the children as ill-clad, and the mothers and fathers in want. Indeed, one might enlarge upon that thought. Or, do they desire that the working-classes should share in the prosperity of the country, and that the country should continue to prosper as it is, and as it has during the last ten years ? If so, then, I say, we must continue the policy of the Liberal Party. Look, Sir, from the picture that has been described by the honourable member for Masterton to that which may be seen to-day. How are the people dressed to-day ? Why, Sir, when the Duke and by our second-class carriages can hardly recog- Duchess were here, and the children assembled in large numbers, and at the breaking-up of the various schools, when numbers of members of this House meet with the school-children, what do we find ? We find that these children show upon their very countenances, show by their features and physique, that they are well fed, that they are well looked after, and that they are well dressed. Go back ten years and you have a comparison which tells its own story. Look at the children to-day who are passing the Fourth Standard, and, while it is a most lamentable fact even now that a consider- able number of these children are taken away from their studies, and have to go to work, yet large numbers of children over that age have dicted by others who were not in such close their education continued, and are being touch with the men. What has been the taught music and various other things that think this proves two things :. in the first place it proves the prosperity of the country, and in the second place the thrifti- ness of the people of our colony. I wish now to compliment the Minister for Railways for the work that is being done by his department. I have mentioned to-night the amount that has been returned to the people of the colony by the reduced fares and by the other concessions that have been brought about under the railway management. We have been told in this debate that the railways should be managed as com- mercial affairs are. What is meant by that? I presume that, as a commercial man strives to do as much business and make as much profit as he possibly can, so we, as a Government, should keep the fares as high as we possibly can in order to make as much profit as possible; that the freights should be kept high, and that the whole business should be transacted in such a manner that the revenue should be made as high as it possibly could be. So far as I under- stand it, the policy of the present Government is that 3 per cent. shall be the maximum of the profits made through these railways. Sir, I contend that the railways of the colony occupy a very different position to the railways managed by a private company. The railways belong to the people of the colony, and I think that we have no right to strive to make a very large profit from them; and conse- quently I trust that the Minister for Railways and his colleagues will continue their present policy in regard to the railways. Has it not been successful ? A few years ago, when those gentlemen were in power, we were told that an experiment was made one Christmas with re- gard to cheap fares. We were told that it did not pay, and it was discontinued. What do we find now ? Why, that over #39,468 was the in- crease from the passenger traffic last year ; and £103,646 was the increase for the carriage of goods. Sir, we find that half a million more passengers travelled upon the railways than the year previously ; that over a million tons in ex- cess of the previous year were carried ; and that the total revenue increased by £154,226. In ad- dition to that, Sir, look at the improvements that have been made. Those who travel to-day nise or realise the inconveniences that existed a few years ago. We have had dining-cars put on, we are having the Westinghouse brake fitted to our rolling-stock; and, coming to a point which I must not omit to mention, one can also congratulate the Minister upon the treatment of the employés under the present management. We were told last session, and have been told session after session, that if the employés of the railways could possibly do so they would be brought from under the present condition of affairs and placed within the scope of the Con- ciliation and Arbitration Act. Those who were in touch with the employés knew differently, and said so in this House, and were contra- result ? We find that out of a vote of 1,407 