officers. Last year they struck £1 off the esti- | be consistent with the dignity of the House. In regard to the other matters mentioned by mates as an instruction to the Government to honourable members, he thought it was for the bring down in detail this session the items Premier to indicate to the House the direction contained in a certain vote, but the Govern- in which improvement could be made. He ment had disregarded that instruction. Per- sonally, he saw nothing objectionable in visi- thought the proposal of the Premier that per- sons wishing to sce a member should obtain a tors getting into the lobby or the Library; but, if there was any harm in it, it was the ticket before being admitted was a great slight to honourable members. What he did object Premier who was responsible for it by. en- couraging deputations of single individuals to to was the want of conveniences for members visit him. If Ministers permitted this, surely of the House to see strangers visiting them on common or " garden " members ought to be as public business, and the appointment of twenty Serjeants-at-Arms would not affect this phase accessible. Mr. SEDDON said time was being wasted of the question. It was for the Government to provide more conveniences for members in this upon a frivolous matter, and matters of im- portance would probably have to be dealt with direction. He also thought sufficient care was when the members who had been occupying not taken, in connection with gentlemen visit- time over minor matters were quietly in their ing the floor of the House, in showing them beds. The statement by the honourable mem- the proper way out of the buildings. He in- ber for Eden was without foundation. He had tended to support the maintenance of the office of Serjeant-at-Arms, and personally he looked never interfered with any officer or servant of to the Premier or Speaker, or whoever had the the House, but officers were appointed on the recommendation of Mr. Speaker. If they were control, to see that the Serjeant-at-Arms car- salaried officers they must be appointed by the ried out his duties to the fullest extent. Government ; that was always so. The officer referred to by the honourable member for parently a number of members, like the member Palmerston was not a parliamentary officer, but for Lyttelton, who thought that the position of Serjeant-at-Arms was a sinecure, but if the the steward of Bellamy's. The office had be- come vacant, and the officer had been selected duties were properly carried out the position by the Government, but was not made until the was a most responsible one. He would read for House Committee met. The appointment had the information of honourable members what May, the great parliamentary authority, had to not been made, as stated, at £300, but at £250, and last year the sum of £350 had been paid as say on the subject :- salary for the same office. Some one of ex- perience was wanted, and the Government had made the appointment, the office never having Her Majesty with addresses. been under Mr. Speaker. As for the fact that the Government had been accessible, and had received numerous deputations introduced by members, it was rather unkind, when this cour- tesy had been extended at much personal incon- venience by Ministers, that members should complain of it as responsible for the disorgani- zation that had been mentioned. With an efficient and capable Serjeant-at-Arms, with definite instructions as to his duties, a good deal of what members complained of would be stopped. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) said the House Committee were doing their best to pro- vide accommodation for members and their friends. Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera) would not support the abolition of the office of Serjeant-at-Arms. In regard to strangers being introduced to all parts of the House, he thought a large part of the blame lay with Ministers, some of whom could not be interviewed without going through the lobbies. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) said it might be admitted that some of the duties of the Serjeant-at-Arms might be exercised by a messenger, but the Serjeant-at-Arms was the executive officer of the House as between the Speaker and members and the outside public, and he did not think it desirable that the high and important functions laid down as belonging to that officer should be carried out by one of the messengers ; it would not Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said there was ap- " His duties are to attend the Speaker, with the mace, on entering and leaving the House, or going to the House of Lords, or attending It is his duty to keep the gangway at and below the bar clear, and to desire the members to take their places, and not to stand with their backs to the Chair, nor to stand, nor remove from their places with their hats on when the House is sitting. He takes strangers into custody who are irregularly admitted into the House, or who misconduct themselves there ; causes the removal of per- sons directed to withdraw ; gives orders to the doorkeepers and other officers under him to lock the doors of the House upon a division; in- troduces, with the mace, Peers.and Judges at- tending within the bar and messengers from the Lords ; attends the Sheriffs of London at the bar on presenting petitions ; brings to the bar prisoners to be reprimanded by the Speaker or persons in custody to be examined as wit- nesses. For the better execution of these duties he has a chair close to the bar of the House and is assisted by a Deputy Serjeant. Out of the House he is intrusted with the execution of all warrants for the commitment of persons ordered into custody by the House, and for removing them to the Tower or Newgate, or retaining them in his own custody. He serves by his messengers all orders of the House upon those whom they concern. He also maintains order in the lobby and passages of the House. It is another of the Serjeant's duties to give notice to all Committees when the House is going to prayers. He has the appointment and super- vision of the several officers in his department, 