quantity of gold exported for the year was on. It is surely the desire of the Education Department to give such inducements that 389,558 oz., valued at £1,513,173, being the will bring the brightest and best boys and highest for twenty-six years previously, the ex- girls into their service and cause them to re- port shows an increase of 24,347 oz., value main there, and I hope the Government will £94,389. It is not unreasonable, therefore, to expect that the yield for the present year will do the best they can to carry out the proposal to allow the grant of £4 2s. 6d. next year. Of equal, if not exceed, that for the year 1899." course, there are many other things that, per- hand the question of handling tailings coming sonally, I should like to see in that report. I should like to see a better allowance to small on to private properties, even apart from the schools ; but, when we consider the vast num- rivers. It is a matter of very great difficulty. ber of small schools that have been established In some parts of Central Otago the farmers are in Marlborough, Nelson, and down the West crying out against it, and at the same time the Coast, you will see the absolute impossibility of miners themselves are in great difficulty as to increasing the salary of the teachers of those getting rid of their tailings, as the farmers are small schools, and of also doing anything like claiming heavy damages. I have also to thank I the Minister of Mines for the concession he has justice to the other teachers in the service. hope that when the £4 2s. 6d. is granted some- granted in respect to the water-supply at Naseby. thing better will be done. An Hon. MEMBER .-- What about equal pay done otherwise, and I thank him for what he for equal work ? Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- That has been pro- has done in that direction. Then we come to this important question-the Premier calls it vided for up to £130 a year. That is what is "How to help the farmers." Sir, that is a very advised. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why not carry it out ? big contract. The honourable gentleman says, Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- It will be carried out. "The importance and desirability of helping those located on and living directly from the An Hon. MEMBER .- To the higher grades ? Mr. T. MACKENZIE. - It was discovered products of the soil is admitted by all." Further on he says, " From the information we have to from the evidence submitted that, with few exceptions, the women were not able to take hand it would be necessary to have cool-stores the Fifth and Sixth Standards. Some of them for New Zealand produce established in South were ; and personally I strongly advocated that Africa." Then he goes on to say the Govern- where they had the capacity for the work it ment will also consider the question of establish- should be within the discretion of the Board and ing cool-stores in London. He says, "The the head-teacher to give that work to them. That erection of cool-stores in the Mother-country alone would be of little advantage " ; and further was the position I took up in that connection. I on, in connection with trade in South Africa, should like, of course, to see technical schools established in mining and agricultural districts, he says, " We have therefore come to the con- clusion that to be a success it is essential that while lads who are going to follow those occu- pations, when they get to the Fifth and Sixth a line of steamers trading with South Africa should not go beyond South African ports, but Standards, could receive important instruction should return to New Zealand." At that point in those departments which they may not have I interjected "Empty? " and the honourable the opportunity of obtaining later on. I should gentleman was a little nonplussed. We do not like very much to enlarge upon this subject, but often find him in that condition, but he cer- my time is so limited that I must at once part tainly was a little nonplussed on that occasion. from it. I must, however, congratulate the Returned troopers, measles, and enteric is the Minister of Mines upon the fact that the gold only cargo available, and that will not pay; and yield is higher this year than it has been for I say that to subsidise a line of steamers to the over six-and-twenty years, exceeding, as it does, Cape alone is utterly unworkable, and you will £1,500,000. It is very gratifying to see that this have to devise some other method of opening up is so, though, of course, many swindles have trade with South Africa. I quite approve of occurred in connection with dredging : so much the honourable gentleman's action in deciding so that I think the Minister should take the to wait for the advice of Mr. Gow before pro- matter up, with a view of providing legislative ceeding to erect cool-stores there, because I protection to investors, so as to save them from know Mr. Gow to be a capable man, and not the sharpers who have been travelling about flighty, and, if he advises that cool-stores and victimising people. The Statement says,- should be erected, I think the Government " Gold-mining generally is steadily progress- should be largely guided by his conclusions. ing, and, although many companies which were Coming, however, to the question of the floated more for the purpose of collecting calls establishment of cool-stores in London, the from shareholders than for the purpose of win- Minister has said it would depend upon what ning the precious metal have been and are being support was obtained within the colony, wiped out of existence, the yield of gold is in- as to whether the Government should take creasing. . The quantity and value exported for the control of the whole produce trade or not. the half-year ended the 30th June last was Any one who has studied the question must 217,478 oz., valued at £344,888, being an in- realise that the work is a most stupendous one, crease of 38,175 oz., valued at £150,029, over the more especially in regard to cool - stores and first half of the year 1900, and, as compared I hope to see that the Minister will take in That will enable our land to be worked 9.0. profitably, which could not possibly bo 