consideration. Sir, what did he say? He said Mr. PIRANI .- No; I was questioning the that the whole of his suspicions had been upon Premier putting words into my mouth I never me, because I had said in Committee. what uttered. The DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- It is not par- members have said in this House to-day- namely, that I considered the reports of the liamentary to say that the Premier's statement Committees ought to be published, and that is untruthful. Mr. PIRANI .- I withdrew that, and substi- I could see no crime in it. Have there not tuted exactly what the Premier stated he said been others outside this House who had this to me-that there was not a tittle of truth in evidence? Has suspicion been attached to any the statement made by the Premier. one else ? 'Why did the honourable member for Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I pointed out Palmerston go behind my back and brand me with this ? that was an unparliamentary way of contra- dicting a statement the Premier may have made; the honourable gentleman must, in the ordinary parliamentary way, withdraw. back, and that is what I object to. Then, he Mr. PIRANI .- I withdraw the statement. talked of fair and honourable conduct on the part of the newspapers, and the honour of . I am very pleased to hear you say it is un- Parliament-the honour upheld by Mr. Pirani, parliamentary ; I thought by your previous the member for Palmerston. If parliamentary ruling you ruled it to be parliamentary. But I say the Premier has quoted my words language permitted me to express my opinion of the honourable gentleman I would do so. absolutely incorrectly. I never used the words he imputed to me. Then, if he wanted to act fairly and justly, Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- I wish to if he wanted to act as a man of honour, he would have given both sides of what make a personal explanation, which is merely happened before the Committee to-day. He to testify to the correctness of the statement knew perfectly well that witnesses had that of the honourable member for Palmerston that he made no balls for me to fire. I wished evidence out, and he also knew that others be- to refer to the precedent of 1874, quoted by the sides witnesses had been in that room, irrespec- tive of members of the Committee. He wants Premier. I had in my hand the 5.0. Journals of the House for that year, me to exculpate myself by branding other but I wished to amplify my illustration by members, by stating that they might have quoting from Hansard. I sent a messenger for done it. I have confidence in my Committee, and I do not care how the evidence was got. a particular volume of Hansard, and the honour- able member for Palmerston, Mr. Pirani, hap- To make such an insinuations is unworthy of a man who desires to have himself respected pend to have Hansard before him. While the by members of this Parliament. He knows messenger was searching for the copy I had sent him for, that honourable gentleman sent it to perfectly well that in the beginning the Clerk said that there were only three copies of the messenger, and that is how it came to me. As a further personal explanation, I would like the evidence, which were locked away in a safe, and that one copy was supposed to be missing. to say that it was quite unnecessary for the Premier, when speaking to my amendment, to Notwithstanding this, six copies were produced say that he would allow it to be withdrawn. before the Committee, and yet a copy was Sir, I claim independent action for myself in supposed to have been missing. Does he say that I, and I alone, could have taken it ? If this House. I will not allow the honourable he had made that statement at the beginning gentleman to "allow " me to do anything. I will do what pleases me. of the proceedings it would have been far more Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I think the honourable. He would then have been com- honourable member is going beyond the bounds pelled to withdraw it. I do not think it fair to make such a statement now. Sir, if you will of a personal explanation. follow the evidence you will find, in regard to Mr. FISHER .- Very well, Sir. It seems that after the caucus meeting the honourable the six copies that he accuses me of having gentleman has changed ground. I will have ordered, that their existence is fully explained in the evidence, which I ask honourable mem- some further remarks to make when his amend- bers to read. I subsequently told the Com- ment of the motion comes on. Mr. PALMER (Ohinemuri) .- Sir, I rise to mittee that I had ordered six typewritten copies, and gave reasons for doing so. The make a personal explanation. The honourable evidence had to be sent out to the witnesses ; member for Palmerston made a statement to the members that had asked questions had the effect that to-day's caucus was called to also to get it, and it had all to be corrected. shield one of the Government members, and in Three copies were therefore not sufficient. doing so made an insinuation against me. I frequently get reports of the different Com- Through you, Sir, I appeal to the members mittees sent to me now. Is the report which who were present at that caucus to say whether is submitted to the House the only one that is that honourable gentleman pointed to me, and issued ? We all know that that is not the case. whether the statement he made is correct. When I now get evidence from other Com- Honourable members can judge that for them- mittees of which I am a member, the first selves, and then judge the honourable member thing I do is to burn it, so that no one may be for Palmerston at his worth. If any one but able to say that I have been guilty of negli- the honourable member made that statement gence or carelessness. I submit that this is the the House would have given it more dignified Mr. PIRANI .- It was done to your face. Mr. PALMER .- It was first done behind my 