newspaper uses the shorthand report of the Committee, which is the property of the Crown ?- Yes, it would be a more serious breach, I should say ; but being paid for by the Crown it is paid for by the people, and thus a lot of people know what has been paid for by the Crown by the report being published in the newspaper. "Do you see any distinction between your own contention, that the proceedings of this or any other parliamentary Committee should be open to the public, or to the newspapers generally, and the fact that this report was exclusively obtained by one newspaper only ?-- I think the Committees should be open to all newspapers." Then the question arose about the triplica- tion of the evidence, and it was stated that it was very unusual for a Committee to desire more than one copy of the shorthand notes of the evidence given before the Committee, and it transpired it was on the Chairman's own order, without reference to anybody, that three copies of the evidence were produced by the reporter. He was asked by myself,- " Were any instructions given by the Com- mittee to triplicate the evidence ?- No, there were not." "The instruction came from you ?- Yes; I thought it was the most expeditious way." It is very clear, if any member has any sus- picion as to how the evidence came to be pub- lished, the suspicion can only fairly be obtained from the evidence given before the Privileges Committee. I regret very much that the honourable member should have been the one to lend colour to the aspersions made against him. In regard to this matter, I think the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 proper course would have been for the Premier to have allowed this witness to come before the House and express his regret, as an honourable member is compelled to do when he offends- express his regret completely at having com- mitted the offence. If he had done that, the House could very fairly have dealt with him as a first offender, though I do not know whether the Probation Act would apply in his case. In regard to the amending of the Standing Orders, we should be clear as to what is best to be done. I should strongly oppose any attempt to throw Select Committees open indiscrimi- nately to the Press. There might be no objection to an honourable member's suggestion of one man being accredited for the Press of the colony ; but where would you get a man to go to Committees and report for the whole of the Press ? The proper course would be either to authorise the Committee to publish the evidence, or I think the proper course would be to report to the House the evidence given before the Committee day by day, and it would then be in the possession of the public. But if you are going to open all Committees indiscriminately to the Press-there are, I think, something like a hundred and fifty newspapers in the colony, then anybody who wanted to be present at a meeting would only have to get a note from any paper he knows the proprietor of, and Mr. Pirani whole proceedings. I feel sure the course I suggest is the only proper course. I regret the Premier, by his motion, has obscured the main issue, and mixed up the ques tion of privilege 'and the action of the Com- mittee, and I hope the House will, notwith- standing the direction of the Premier, take the proper course, strike out the words of the resolution, and-I do not say adopt the resolu- tion of the member for Wellington City, but adopt some resolution that would express the sense of the House as to what has been done in contravention of its Standing Orders. So far as the assertion of the Premier is concerned -that I have been giving the member for Wellington City information in regard to the matter -- it is absolutely incorrect. The honour- able member for Wellington City wanted 3 copy of the Hansard which I had, and asked me in the lobby about it, and through & messenger I sent him the copy. But before he got my copy he had already got another one, and did not want it, and used his own. This is a full explanation of the understanding be- tween the honourable gentleman and myself. I hope I have got more sense than to attempt, & the Premier elegantly put it, to make balls for the honourable member for Wellington City to fire. Mr. SEDDON .- I wish to make a personal explanation. The honourable gentleman said a caucus of the party was held for the purpose of shielding one of the party, and that at the caucus I had said so. I give that a most un- qualified denial. There is not a tittle of truth in the statement. Mr. PIRANI .- Is the Premier in order in saying there is not the slightest truth in my statement ? Mr. SEDDON. - I said "not a tittle of truth." Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I think that ex- pression is not out of order. Mr. PIRANI .- All I have to say is that the Premier's statement is untruthful. Mr. SEDDON .- I move, That those words be taken down. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I must first ask the honourable member to withdraw the words as being unparliamentary. Mr. PIRANI .- Is it unparliamentary for me to say the Premier's statement- Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable gentleman must withdraw the words at once. Mr. PIRANI .- I will withdraw them, Sir. and will say that there is not a tittle of truth in the Premier's statement. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable gentleman must see the distinction between what he has said and what the Premier said. The honourable member made a statement that the Premier had said a certain thing at & caucus. The Premier said there was not s tittle of truth in that. Then, the honourable member got up and said it was not a truthful statement the Premier made ; therefore he con- tradicted a statement of fact which the Pre- mier, and the Premier alone, is cognisant of. 