and the Registrars have not winked at its evasion, it is most vexatious in its operation. It is absurd to say that a road or street should be not less than 66 ft. in width, say, on the Kai- warra or Kilbirnie hills, and that it must be formed and metalled as well as dedicated. I say it is nothing short of robbery to insist on roads of that kind. We do not want 66 ft. metalled roads on the top of hills like those above Kaiwarra. A road which is a chain wide and 10 chains long occupies an acre of land ; if the community wants land at that rate from private owners, it should pay for it. The present procedure amounts to confiscation. As I said before, "Everything in the garden is lovely "-especially in the Premier's. The garden of the colony has been enlarged by the annexation of the Cook Islands; and the Premier's garden has been, or is about to be, en- larged by another annexation. Section 26 of the Public Works Amendment Act of last session was not originally in the Bill, nor was it in a supplementary Order Paper containing the amendments to be proposed in Committee by the Minister in charge of the Bill ; but it was put in, without previous notice, between two and three in the morning, just a clear week before the end of the session. It reads as follows :- " The definition of ' public works,' contained in section two of ' The Public Works Act, 1894,' shall be deemed to include Ministerial resi- dences and other public buildings, and the Minister may acquire any land adjoining any such Ministerial residence or other public build- ing for the purpose of securing the same from fire or any other purpose." https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 Now the "other purpose " for which the Act was passed, and for which it is being worked, is for enlarging the garden of the Minister, who resents that his neighbours should have a bigger garden than his own. This section of the Public Works Act is well known in Wellington as " the Ahab clause," but honourable members from other parts of the colony may not be so familiar with it. I have got a summary of the facts concerning its operation, or proposed operation, which is contained in a letter written to the New Zealand Times of 22nd May last by Mr. Martin Chapman, one of the three owners concerned. It was written as a comment on some editorial article that had previously ap- peared in the same paper :- " Speaking for myself, I say that no inquiry whatever was directed to me as to my willing- ness to sell my land. The very first intimation I received that anything was in the wind was the intimation from a Government agent, who told me the Government had resolved to take a piece of my land under the Public Works Act. He was even able to indicate the exact piece. No question of willingness or unwilling- ness to sell came in. I was informed the Go- vernment would take the land. Further, no request or suggestion has ever been made to me that I should sell, or that I should name a price ; and, moreover, I have never named any price, and am not willing to do so. I am averse to selling at all ; and it is quite incorrect to say that I ever showed myself otherwise. I may add that I have for many years desired to acquire this piece of land, as I have always thought it a most desirable addition to my garden. My neighbour at last consented to sell it to me ; and is it likely I should be ' not averse ' to parting with it within a few months of my acquiring it. You further say- no doubt still sitting on your tripod-' negotiations are still proceeding.' Negotiations with me have never begun ; no offer or request has ever been addressed to me. Again, ' the Public Works Act has never been invoked.' As to this, a Govern- ment surveyor entered on my land, surveyed it, and made a plan. He informed me he was to survey the land, which was to be taken. He stuck pegs in my ground, and cut broad arrows on my fence. Was not this invoking the Public Works Act ? If not, then that surveyor com- mitted a trespass. The above are the assertions I take exception to. The next is more pleasant. ' Our information is that there is no intention of acquiring the land compulsorily.' This is good news, if true. If your Muse is correct in this I will cheerfully burn a grain of incense at her altar (or would a libation be more accept- able ?). I should like to be assured that the proposed, or, let me say, dreaded, ' taking' is not to be accomplished, as I should like to completo my contemplated improvements of my part of the 'kail-yard.' No such assurance has, how- ever, yet been given me. I do not profess to know what has taken place between my neigh- bours and the Government ; but since one has always refused to sell his land to me, and the other appeared to me bursting with indignation at the approaching loss of his property, it sur- prises me very much to hear that they are ' not averse ' to selling. The power to take land for public works is a beneficent power, so long as it is properly exercised. I am willing to concede that the power to take land for close settlement is also beneficent, with the same qualification. But how will the country be benefited by my little piece of land being torn from me against my will, to s well the dimensions of the garden of a Minister of the Crown ? And if my land is to be taken, whose shall be safe ?" No one is safe in the City of Wellington. Thorndon might be at once annexed by such a Proclamation under the Public Works Act, and it would settle the affairs of this rebellious city if they annexed the whole city by instalments shortly afterwards. There is no protection. The proceedings have been stayed, I believe, owing to the publication of the facts. Whether the land is to be actually annexed under the Public Works Act or not is immaterial to my argument now. We have given the Ministry power, and there is no check except their own sweet will. The House of Representa- tives never would have given the Ministry that power had it known how far-reaching was the effect of the clause. I am informed by a gentleman more learned than myself in Hebrew lore that there is an Apochryphal scripture, in which it is recorded that "as Ahab walked in the garden which was afore- time the vineyard of Naboth, he heard a 