the Government have done in connection with There is no 'accounting for taste. If the honourable member for Bruce could have his the expenses incurred over that visit ; and no way he would move for the repeal of the laws which have conferred such advantages on the further charges that may be made, even if they amount to an extra £100,000. As farmers of this country. He would not borrow for advances to settlers ; he would not borrow soon as the Government is in a position for railways, roads, or bridges. He would sap to indicate what the extra charges are this will the very vitals of our industrious settlers, not letting the country know the full cost of and the member for Riccarton, in sympathy with him, says this is brilliant finance. The honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds) deprecated the fact that there is a preponderance of southern Ministers in the Ministry. The honourable member, I think, regard to the remarks of the honourable mem- will not gainsay the fact that the North Island has received the fullest considera- tion from the Ministry. I have never yet found in my peregrinations throughout the beautiful North a disposition on the part of the people to relegate myself or any mem- of the revenue of our railways we should pay for ber of the Ministry to private life. There is no doubt that the people recognise that we have endeavoured to do what is fair to the colony as a whole. I think it is time the country got over any feeling of provincialism, and should recognise that the best men he wait until he had earned that amount or possible are selected for the positions of take it out of his earnings, or would he in Ministers, irrespective of where they may the ordinary way borrow the amount and live. I think, indeed, that the country already recognises that. I should not like it to charge to the business the interest upon it? Of course he would, unless he was go forth that the Government or the (overn- ment party were in sympathy with my honour- money without injury to his business. able friend in his ideas with reference to taxing heard the honourable member for Geraldine the land. The honourable member suggested say that the views of the honourable member that by raising the land-tax to 1d. and 3d. we for Ashley were sound upon this matter. I would be able to get a very large increase of thought at the time he was joking; but I would revenue-I think he said the whole of the tell both honourable gentlemen that if they revenue required. want increased rolling-stock for our railways Mr. FOWLDS .- No, you quite misunder- it cannot be got in this way. If, however, the stood me. money was to be got from revenue in the way Sir J. G. WARD .- What was the amount ? suggested, an enormous sum would have to be Mr. FOWLDS .- £294,000 for each 1d. principle is both unsound, undesirable, and im- Sir J. G. WARD .- Yes, that was what I practicable, and the first to feel it would be the understood. The honourable member spoke of producers, as higher rates would be absolutely the effect upon the whole of the land-tax essential. It would be a policy of retrogres- pavers in the colony. I took a note of his sion. While complimenting the Railway De- figures at the time, and I worked out what it partment generally, the honourable member for would mean to the land-tax payers of the colony, Kaiapoi found fault with it for not doing and I found it represented no less than £46 per certain things, and complained particularly annum to each of them ; and that would be an with regard to the shortage of wagons. Now, enormous increase upon the people, particularly Sir, as we have heard so much on this subject, upon the average small man. The honourable I desire to place one or two statements on member is, I have no doubt, sincere in his record which, I think, will be of interest to advocacy of this system, but I venture the' members and the country generally. From opinion that if it were attempted to be adopted time to time, since I have had control of the the country would rise up against it. That is railways, some honourable members have been my view, which I wish to place upon record. asking the Railway Department to make bricks Now, Sir, with regard to the complaint of the without straw, but I have not yet found any honourable member for Napier that the total honourable member who can do so himself. cost of the Royal visit to the colony is not The following is a comparison of locomotive given in the Financial Statement, I would say rolling-stock on the New Zealand Railways on that all the Government can do is give in the the 31st March, 1895, and the 31st March, Statement the actual charges that have been Government would attempt to keep back any be done. The Government have no reason for this Imperial visit. It was a great and memo- rable visit, the cost of which the country will not in any way grudge. Sir, that is my answer to the honourable member for Napier. With ber for Ashley, perhaps I should say- But of all plagues, good Heaven, thy wrath can send, Save, save, oh ! save me from the candid friend. I would ask, What is his idea on finance in connection with the supply of rolling-stock for our railways? Why, Sir, he suggested that out the whole of our rolling-stock ; but what would that mean compared with an ordinary business transaction ? If a business-man proposes to erect a structure at a cost of, say, £20,000 in order to further develop his business, would a millionaire and could spend his own I taken from the pockets of the people. The 