" You could not give it to him ?- No, in all good faith. Mr. Somerville mentioned the Lees Ferry deed, and I said I thought the Tucker Flat document was in the hands of the solicitor with it. " Where was it ?- It was in my safe. " Where was that ?- In my room. " You have an office now separate from Cook and Gray ?- In the same building. " You are carrying on by yourself, but are in the same room, and the deed was there all the time ? - Yes. " Is the statement that Mrs. Cook owes £100 for calls in the Tucker Flat Company correct ?- Yes. " And also the statement that Mr. Cook owes €90 ?- Yes : $65 and #25. " With reference to these calls that Mr. Easton objects to pay : If a man of straw put in a transfer-a man whom you did not know- would you pass it ?- Not if there was any liability on the shares. But I could not transfer the shares ; the directors would do that. " But they would not do it in such a case ?-- No. decidedly not. "You acknowledge that it is not right to transfer shares in a company when a call has been made and not paid previous to the trans- fer being put in ? - I should say it is not right. " Do you ever transfer shares when there is a liability on them ?- No : but it has occurred. " It is a most unusual custom ? - It is an illegal custom. " Has Mr. Wylde not received his 750 paid-up shares ? - No. "Why? -- Because the directors have not al- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 lotted them. The directors were advised by the company's solicitor not to allot them for some time after the company started-until, at all events, they were perfectly satisfied about the http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero title, &c. : and since that, on account of the Various questions that have been raised, and the consequent trouble in the mining-market, the directors have not taken steps to allot them. " The company has been registered ?- Yes. " Are they not satisfied with the title ?- Yes, I think so. " Has Mr. Wylde received no consideration for his title ?- As far as the company are con- cerned, he has received no consideration. " Has he signed the transfer ? - I presume so, or else the solicitor would not have ad- vised, as he did since, that the paid-up shares be allotted. " Do the company still hold the ground ?- Yes : we still pay the rent. " Has Mr. Wylde applied to have these shares transferred to him ?- Yes, I think he has. " What do the minutes say about it ?- I do not think there has been a demand from Wylde before the directors. "There is an agreement that Cook cannot pay Wylde until Cook gets the paid-up shares from the company ?- Yes. "Has Mr. Cook applied for these paid-up shares in order to pay Wylde ?- I do not think so. " Why did the solicitor advise the company not to allot these shares ?- Because if the com- pany went into liquidation it would complicate matters if the vendors' shares were allotted. He said it would be better to make an arrange- ment with them. in the event of liquidation, that they should not insist on their right as vendors. " In order to facilitate liquidation ?- Yes. " What would be the rights of Mr. Wylde in case of liquidation ? - I understand that he could insist on the capital being called up. "That is the law, is it not-that the sub- scribers' shares can be called up? - Yes: it would inflict a hardship on the subscribing shareholders. " Have you got the minute with the solicitor's. opinion ?- No. "Can you tell us from memory what his opinion was? - That the vendor be written to and asked to voluntarily forego any vendors' interests-not to insist upon the shares being allotted. " Which vendor ? - Mr. Cook. " You know nothing about Mr. Wylde's posi- tion ?- No. " You were secretary to this company ?- Yes, and I am still secretary. " Also a clerk in Cook and Gray's service ? -- I was at that time. " Were you allowed to do any work outside of Cook and Gray's office ?- No. "You were entirely in their service ?- Yes. " Was Mr. Cook a director of the company at that time ?- Yes ; he was elected a director at the start. " How much was paid as secretary's fees ?- £75 per annum, including office-rent. " Who was it paid to ?- It was paid to Cook and Gray. I paid it into their account. " So that in reality Cook was both director to the company and secretary, acting through you ? - Yes, putting it in that way. " When Cook was superintending the boring on the West Coast what remuneration did he receive ?- None, except as director's fees. He received no separate remuneration. " Are you aware whether it is legal for direc- tors to transfer shares until all calls on them are paid up ?- I understand that is illegal. " Do you know the law on that point? I want to know whether you know yourself that all calls must be paid before a transfer can be made ? - Yes. " You know that to be a fact ?- Yes. " Were you secretary to the company when the shares were transferred from Choyce to Easton ?- Yes; but I will amend my state- ment in this way : when I say I am aware. I am not here to say that it is so. " Did your sign the transfers ?- No, I do not- think so. " Which directors passed the transfers ?- The directors present at the meeting were Messrs. Leijon and Somerville. " You stated, in reply to Mr. Cook, that it was customary in Dunedin to pay application and allotment together ?- Yes. "Can you cite any cases where it has been done ?- It would be rather difficult to speak of individual cases, but there have been several that I know of. 