member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) told me that the member for Nelson City, Mr. Graham, had informed him that there was likely to be a deficit, and that the Right Hon. the Premier had said he could hardly make two ends meet in his finance. I said to the mem- ber for Dunedin City that was not a correct statement of what had been said by the Pre- mier, and I went on to say to him that my im- pression was that it was the Public Works Fund the honourable gentleman had referred to. Now, as regards the question of courtesy, I wish to say that whoever gave the Nelson Colonist the report of the proceedings did not give a true and correct report. I desire to state most emphati- cally that the Right Hon. the Premier received us in the most courteous manner, and listened to every member of the deputation very patiently, after which he replied to us to the effect that he could not undertake any big works without borrowed money, and that he would sooner leave the Treasury benches than go in for a loan of three millions and a half. That, Sir, is a correct statement of what took place at the deputation. The report to which I take ex- ception has since gone round the colony, and some members of the Opposition, as well as some members on the Government side of the House, have said that it was the Premier himself who gave the Lyttelton Times the re- port which that journal published of the pro- ceedings on the occasion. Sir, I am in a posi- tion to refute that statement. I know who gave the information to the Lyttelton Times. He is a gentleman who has been for a number of years the Westland correspondent of the Lyttelton Times and the Canterbury Times. He has long been connected with the Press, and he happened to be in Wellington at the time when the deputation waited on the Premier, and he was asked by some of the gentlemen from the Coast to accompany the deputation. He did so, and hence the Lyttel- ton Times got the information we have since heard so much about. That is all, Sir, that caused me to rise in my place, and make the statement I have made. Now, as I have re- marked, after so many speeches have been made it is really hard to say anything new. However, as regards the mineral resources of the colony, I wish to say that I am a strong believer in their great value. I believe that in the mineral resources of this colony we have an asset that is sufficient in itself to pay off the national debt, if only properly managed. But these gold-mines and coal-mines have been badly treated in the past, and those concerned in their development have not received that en- couragement from the country which they had a right to expect. Now, all that we require is a few thousand pounds to open up roads and tracks in the mining districts of the colony. It is well known that on the West Coast par- ticularly the goldfields are situated for the most part in rough bush country, and it will not be possible to fully develop them unless we get roads and bridges to help in opening them up. The miners are a free and independent lot of men ; they ask for no protection and want no Mr. Colvin favours. All they ask is that facilities should be given them to penetrate the bush country and thus allow them to get in there. If this is done, they will find the gold and develop that industry. The gold industry of the colony is only in its infancy. We have been hitherto. as it were, only scratching the surface, and I know and feel that if proper facilities were given, a great population could be kept on the goldfields. Now the people on the goldfields have to bear much heavier burdens than any other class of people. We have heard to-day, and I think the honourable member for Pahiatua referred to it, that heavy wethers are bringing 22s. to 23s. : those were the prices yesterday at the Addington market, and ewes brought from 16s. to 21s. Now, Sir, I want to point this out, if we on the West Coast buy this stock at Addington or at Wanganui, it costs 3s. per sheep and 30s. per head of cattle to land them on the West Coast, and this is in addition to the waste that takes place. A sheep that will weighs 70 lb. in the Addington market will only weigh about 60 lb. when it arrives on the West Coast. Now, I also want to point out that the people in the district from which I come receive no benefit whatever from the Land for Settle- ments Act or the Advances to Settlers Act. Honourable members can see in the Land Report that under the Crown Tenants' Rent Rebate Act the rebate to the Crown tenants in Westland was nil, and in Nelson, among two or three hundred settlers, they received £5 rebate. Now the Government are willing to spend money in subsidising steamers to open up markets for the settlers of the back blocks, and are giving shipping facilities to them. What I want to point out is that if the Government would spend money in the district from which I come, on the gold-mines and on the coal-mines, there would be a considerable increase in the population at these places, and this would mean that the settlers would have no need to send their pro- duce to foreign markets. We would have a population in the districts I refer to who would get their supplies from the settled dis- tricts. If facilities were given for opening up the country, and the land-laws were more liberally administered, I feel sure we should have a large population on the West Coast. Owing to the dispute with the Midland Rail- way Company, people on the West Coast were unable to get land unless under the Mining Districts Land Occupation Act. Under that law lessees could only get land for twenty-one years, and it was open to anybody to come in on the lessees after they had improved their land and take it up for mining. They could not acquire the freehold, neither would they get sufficient compensation to properly repay them for their labour if the land was afterwards taken away from them under the Mining Act. For bush land these people had to pay the Nelson Land Board from 6d. to ls. an acre per annum as rent. Under the Occupation Act they had to live on the land ; they were not compelled to make any improvements. There- fore, I say, if the Minister of Lands would look into these land - laws and give facilities for 