pleased to do so, but I am now going to read the evidence, which will put the matter before honourable members in a stronger light than I could. This is the evidence given by Mr. Jackson Palmer, M.H.R., Chairman of the Mines Committee, Question 19 :- \- " Did you have in your possession at any time a typewritten copy of the evidence ?- Yes; as Chairman I had half a dozen copies for the use of members of the Committee." Every member of the Committee denies having had a copy of the evidence, except the one copy which had been used by members of the Committee and witnesses for the purpose of correcting their evidence. Then, question 23 :- "You have reason to believe that copies of evidence were left lying about in that room ?- T'es. We have not got that room all to our- selves. We left some copies in that room." Now, the evidence of the Clerk of the Com- mittee is that he did not produce the evidence to the Committee or to the Chairman until the meeting of the Committee on the 22nd, when it would have been too late to have given it to the Dunedin Star to publish ; but he placed the evidence, when it was not being used for witnesses to correct, in a cupboard in the Committee-room, to which there were three keys-like the custody of the public securities. One key was held by the Chairman of the Com- mittee, one was held by himself, and one was held by the ex-Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Carncross. The latter did not go to the Committee-room at this time at all, and that accounts for the three keys. Sir J. G. WARD .- It is only fair that you should give what Mr. Izett says. Mr. PIRANI .- I will come to that. Ques- tion 25, - " Of course, it is possible that some person might have had access to those copies ?- Quite possible : for, as I say, we have not got a Com- mittee-room to ourselves. Other Committees use that room." Question 28,- "Notwithstanding which, you think it pos- sible that copies of evidence may have been left about ? - It is possible ; I do not say they have been, but I do not want to say they have not been left about when they might have been there." Now, we have the first question, in which the Chairman said they had been left about, and we have the subsequent question, to which he says he would not say they had been lying about. Question 38,- " You say that copies of the minutes of evi- dence were left lying about ?- Yes ; I have seen them." But he would not say he had seen them lying about. Then, again, Mr. Palmer said, in answer to question 61,- "So that, independent of any possible leak- age there may have been from the room, there were at least eight other persons who could have given the Dunedin Evening Star the evidence which has been published ?- That is so." Then, again, the most extraordinary evidence given by Mr. Palmer is what was given on the last day of the sittings of the Committee. Mr. Palmer came up to the Committee to explain how careless a Clerk he had got. Apparently Mr. Palmer and the Chairinan of the Com- mittee, Major Steward, had been in conversa- tion about the carelessness of the Clerk. The Chairman of the Privileges Committee asked Mr. Palmer to tell the Committee what had transpired in regard to the custody of the Com- mittee's documents, and, in answer to that, Mr. Palmer goes into a long explanation as to how careless the Clerk was in leaving documents lying about. Now, coming to question 155, he was asked by Mr. Fisher how he would describe the giving of the evidence to the Dunedin Star. and he says,- " My own private opinion is that the property in these things belongs to the public, for whom we are only trustees, and the newspapers repre- sent the public." Mr. Fisher then asked question 156,- "Then, according to that definition, the Crown or the Parliament has no property in the shorthand report of the evidence, and that therefore it is perfectly permissible or right on the part of anybody to obtain possession of that report in any way ?- I do not say the Crown has no exclusive property, but I think Parliament are only trustees for the people. I do not think we should have any Star Chamber inquiries at all. I think a Committee meeting should be open to the public, unless it is a secret Committee, and in cases like a secret Com. mittee it should be a very serious breach of privilege to publish the evidence. Otherwise I fail to see that it is any crime at all to publish the evidence taken. It is no political crime; it is merely against the Standing Orders, which should be altered." What does the House think when the Chair- man of the Committee who has custody of the documents declares in evidence before a Pri- vileges Committee that there was " no political crime " in publishing evidence, but it was "only against the Standing Orders"! Who has placed suspicion on the honourable member ? He himself, in his own evidence, has located the suspicion, and it was not until I heard his evidence that I had the slightest idea he was concerned in the matter. The honourable member's statement that I had gone about aspersing him is just as incorrect as the state- ments he made on the Committee. With the exception of a reply to an inquiry made of me by a member of the Committee, in regard to who I thought was the offender, and which inquiry has been repeated to the honourable member, I have not made the slightest attempt to prove he is the offending person ; but his own evidence must give a very great deal of that complexion to the case. Then, questions 160 to 162 are as follow : - "May I call your attention to what I con- ceive to be a broad distinction. I will put two cases : If a member of Parliament gives an abstract or epitome of proceedings before a Committee to a newspaper he is guilty of a breach of privilege ?- I believe so. 