be extricated from the grip of the foreign bond- holder ? Is it political to urge upon the Premier that he should have some consideration for those natural laws belonging to politics, as the farmer has for those under which he produces his crops? Is it political for them to urge that we should live in higher aims, and have a patriotic concern for the welfare of the national life that will continue after their own span has ceased to mingle with its exist- ence ? I know that these are new strains to our ears. For years we have been so unused to them that we have come to regard them as no part of politics, and to think that they have no connection with the administration of the country. Will the Hon. the Premier tell us that they are non-political ? No man knows better than the Premier that they are political. No man knows better than him- self that it is a ghastly farce to say they are not political, and no man can tell us better than the Right Hon. the Premier that politics are as inseparable from our being as the air we breathe ; and he can tell us, further, that the basic principles upon which sound politics and good administration rest are as definite and scientific as the laws that govern mathematics. And that is what we claim on this side 8.30. of the House. We are not going to descend to any personalities. Our appeal is in the name of those principles, and in their recognition only can the Government of a country be right. Then, those henchmen of the Premier's will tell him that the union is non-party ; but that is more absurd still, to ignore that mysterious quality, good versus bad, that constitutes the alternating tug-of-war that we realise in our own individual as well as commercial life. The Premier knows that the principle which should be adopted by his Cabinet as well as by every member of this House / http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero is to have less concern as to whether we belong to the submerged minority, but rather as to whether we belong to that may-be' small band of brave men that will loyally adhere to truth and right for its own sake, unsuborned by the attractions with which the crowded ranks of opportunism can entice. Now, let me tell the Premier, if he is going to win the farmers-and he can do so-it must be by some- thing more tangible and businesslike than talking about sending cargoes of our produce to the Cape and bringing back huge steamers with clean holds, and carrying only suffi- cient coal for the return voyage. the farmers want is enterprise in which the Premier will be willing to embark his own money. Sir, I think the Premier got a lesson when he and Freyberg undertook to teach the timber merchants how to trade in lumber, and to enhance the value of the woods of New Zea- land. You know how the unfortunate tax- payers' money was lost over that business. It did not come out of his pocket, only as a tax- payer. There are certain principles in econo- mies that cannot be ignored, and it is certainly not the province of statesmen to interfere with the individual enterprise that is already well stimu- Mr. Monk ever thought that, though we rightly grumble at our present freights for our frozen mutton, butter, cheese, and wool, there is some diff- culty at the present time in getting bottoms for our produce ? That I admit. But has the Premier ever thought what we should have to pay for the export of those articles were it not for the large amount of merchandise that comes to us as return cargo? In this way we get cheaper rates. Does the Premier think that he is going to win the farmer by the paltry gift of a few doubtful stallions that he wishes to pose on at the cost of the taxpayer ? Does he think that private enterprise will coddle down cheek by jowl with his Civil ser- vants, who, so long as their salaries are secure, never feel that competitive emulation which quickens the enthusiasm of private enterprise. Does he think that he is going to successfully compete against the private individual in this way? Does he think that he will be able to train bulls without horns, and get cows to volun- tarily pour their milk into buckets whilst wait- ing for the farmers to get up at the same time in the morning as the dwellers in the city ? Does he think that his Poultry Department will be able to entice men from his co-operative works at half their present wages to pluck cocks and hens and spring chickens, and to twitch the pin-feathers out of the breasts of ducklings ! Not at all. They will not come away while we have such extravagant molly-coddling of the people of New Zealand. And the mothers and daughters of the farmers have already too much to do; theirs is already the life of un- ceasing assiduity, and they have no spare moments for the claims of cottage industry. Then, with regard to oats : I admit the demand of the Home authorities for big steamers no doubt has lessened the supply of those vessels, and bottoms have been somewhat scarce. Bu: if cargoes of oats have been prevented from going away it was on account of the margin required between the pittance paid to the producer and the price invoiced to the Im- perial Government and the Barcelona buyer. The difficulty has not been the scarcity of steamers, but the margin necessary to satisfy the greed of the agents. The policy of the statesman for New Zealand is that which will rigidly endeavour to lessen the cost of the local transit of the farmers' produce, not interfering with anything beyond the littorai of New Zealand, and by that means to swell its volume and bring to the aid of the What Farmers' Union the opportunity which a wider competition will afford, and enable it to lessen the price we will have to pay for the transmission of our produce. That is the way to make the country prosperous, and is the pro- vince of true statesmanship-let me tell the Premier that in his own interest. And outside the laudable purpose of helping the farmer it is to the interest of the Government to do this, on the principle of nourishing the goose that lays the golden egg. That is the way that other Go vernments have made their people prosperous. That is the way, Sir, in which we may bring 