in the way I have stated, and I say it is very unfair, because it is incorrect. At the bottom of this matter an insidious attack has been made against the Premier. It was at first thought by some members opposite that they would be able to fasten the offence on a member of the House; but when the report of the Com- mittee came down, and it was shown that that could not be done, then immediately those members turned round and made an attack on the Administration. And we have the member for Riccarton accusing the Government-of what ? Of not knowing their mind for twenty- four hours at a time. The honourable member ought to be the last member in this House to make such an accusation. If the honourable member, with his ability, would only be con- sistent, and use the great abilities he possesses to the best purpose, he would attain to a much more prominent, position in this country. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I can wait my time for that. Sir J. G. WARD .- Yes; but the trouble is that the honourable member does not maintain any position he takes long enough ; he is always running away, and he does not give those who would support him any opportunity of doing so. It is the honourable member who does not know his own mind for twenty-four hours at a time. Those members opposite desired that a Committee should be set up, and then after it has reported still they are not satisfied. They are like the boy with a plaything. The honour- able member has not heard the whole of this debate, and yet he gets up and accuses the Ad- ministration- Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I took part in the first portion of the debate. Sir J. G. WARD .- I said the honourable gentleman did not hear the whole of the de- bate. It is quite correct that he took part in the first part of the debate. The Government, after the report came down, framed a resolution which they believed to be on just lines, and I believe so still. Honourable members know perfectly well what has taken place since. To talk about a ten-pound or a five-pound note pro- tecting our privileges and upholding the dignity of the House is absurd. It is only a question of degree, and that degree is represented by $15, which is the extra amount represented by this resolution. I fail to see, myself, where the dignity comes in, and I think the sooner honourable members clearly see the position the better. This is an attack made on the Govern- ment by some honourable members, and the attack could not be much worse if it was a motion of want of confidence. This question has been discussed on the floor of the House for two or three days. An Hon. MEMBER. - You have taken up some time. Sir J. G. WARD. - I have had to, as I thought it necessary to throw some common- sense into the proceedings. I should not have risen now if it had not been for the statements made by the honourable member for Riccarton. I thought it necessary to give him a castigation. Sir J. G. Ward I do think the sooner honourable members real- ise that this is an attack on the Government the better, because that is what it is. And if we had followed the common-sense precedure adopted by the Imperial Government and the House of Commons last July this matter would have ended when the first resolution was brought on the floor of this House. But when I heard statements made against the Government such as those made by the member for Riccarton it was impossible for a cool, calculating individual like myself to sit still and not say anything in reply. I would like to ask the honourabie member, has the Spectator, a journal published in Christchurch, never committed a breach of Why, that journal commits a privilege ? breach of privilege almost every week. I be- lieve that the honourable member, in the posi- tion he has taken up, really wants to have tha: journal brought into prominence. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Will you limit the fine to £15 ? Sir J. G. WARD .- I believe I would make it £500 in that case, in order to mark our sense of displeasure at the extent of the breaches of privilege it commits. I think honouralle members are making a great deal too much of this matter, and I feel sure it would have been better if they had adopted the course suggested in the first instance; but if members of this House think an Administration which has self- respect, and which intends to maintain it. is going to be kicked about in a manner just as they like, I am afraid they are altogether mis. taken, and it is about time we realised the posi- tion. Mr. ELL .- Lay the party Whip on. Sir J. G. WARD .- There is no party Whip about it. The honourable member ought not If he was sitting on these to be too sensitive. benches would he allow an attack to be made on members of his Administration without re- plying to it ? Mr. ELL .- The Administration was not at- tacked. Sir J. G. WARD .- The honourable member knows that that is not the case, and he knows. too, that the Government would not be doing their duty unless they clearly indicated their position and gave the House to understand that they were not prepared to allow a matter of this sort to be converted into an attack upon them. Why have such questions been raised as that an attempt has been made by the Pre- mier of this colony to bring himself under the notice of the Home Secretary-Mr. Chamber- lain-in connection with the Governorship of Fiji? Is that not an attack upon the adminis- tration of the Government ? Mr. ELL .- That was said only five minutes ago. Sir J. G. WARD .- The honourable member is wrong. At any rate, if the statement bas been made, is that not a good reason in itsaf why I should take the earliest opportunity of replying to it ? However, I have been speaking myself for twenty-five minutes, so that it must be more than five minutes ago since the attack 