ment office printed the tickets for the Railway Department because they had special machinery for doing so, and because it would not pay private firms to purchase that machinery on the chance of getting these tickets to print ; but he ventured to say that, generally speaking, the district railway printing was done cheaper than it was done at the Government Printing Office. He felt certain that if up-to-date machinery were obtained, and if the Govern- ment Printer were allowed to put his depart- ment in a thoroughly efficient state in that respect, there would be a great saving in this department. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) hoped the Hon. the Minister in charge of the Govern- ment Printing Office would not rush into the purchase of either the linotype or the monotype He did not know whether these machines. machines were suitable for turning out work of very wide measure-say, thirty "ems." Hẹ assumed that in this matter they would be If the guided by the Government Printer. newspaper-work done by these machines in this colony was to be taken as a guide, he certainly did not think it would be regarded as satis- factory by any competent printer. It could not be regarded as first-class work. He would recommend the Government not to hurry the Government Printer, but to allow him to exer- cise his judgment in this manner. Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui) said the question was whether the matter would be left to the Government Printer. If it were left to him, he (Mr. Willis) would be satisfied, because he believed from that gentleman's experience he https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 knew perfectly well what was the best course to \`adopt. With regard to the linotype and monotype machines, there was only a certain class of work that required the wide measure http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero referred to by the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), but there was a vast quantity of other work which had to Surely, if be done with a narrow measure. these machines had been adopted all over the world, it was time that the Government con- sidered whether they should not be introduced into the Government Printing Office. If the Government Printer was given a free hand, his opinion was that it would not be long before these machines were introduced into the Go- vernment Printing Office. With reference to the statement that good work could not be done by machinery, he had seen book-work done on the linotype machines the excellence of which had surprised him. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said it must be remembered that the linotype in the private printing-offices had displaced a large number of men, and that had led to a considerable amount of distress. Now. the course he con- sidered should be taken was not to suddenly displace a large body of men, but to gradually draft them away. Mr. WILLIS .- That is what I advocate. Mr. SEDDON said that was what the Go- vernment intended to do. The Government had been placing some of those thrown out of VOL. CXVIII .- 44. employment for others, and if the matter were left to the Government they would do what was in the best interests of all concerned. As to the criticism on his travels in the South Sea Islands, he was looking forward to the time -and it would certainly come- when members would not ridicule his visit to the South Sea Islands, but would admit that the inclusion of the islands which had resulted therefrom was a great benefit to the colony. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) had very grave doubts as to any benefit accruing to the colony from the possession of a few little atolls eighteen hundred miles distant ; but what he protested against was the Premier charging the people of New Zealand for the publica- tion of an advertisement for his own vainglory. He would not have alluded to this publication at all but for the fact that the Premier had charged the people of New Zealand for it. Here was an extract from the book he alluded to :- " The vessel rolled, but the headlong plung- ing ceased ; the motion became only a heaving. twisting lurch, instead of a series of crashes, and the direct pummelling by Neptune was over. It was about time. One of the male passengers was asked soon after we turned whether he could eat anything yet, and replied that he had just had ' a good feed of seidlitz powder '-quite light and æsthetic diet." It must be exceedingly interesting to posterity" to know how much depended on "a good feed of seidlitz powder," and would go a long way towards securing a "Greater New Zealand." But that was only one example of the lavish use the honourable gentleman made of the people's money. They had also the MeKeague incident. Mr. HALL-JONES said that had nothing to do with the Printing Department. Mr. HUTCHESON said the amount involved was paid for by the taxpayers of New Zealand. Then, there was the book entitled " Old Marl- borough." Of course, the Government Printer did not do that, but the work came out with the imprimatur of the Government Printer upon it, and in all probability they would see a vote for the amount brought down on the When honourable supplementary estimates. members saw how this department had been abused, it made them wonder where it was going to stop. Let them take as an instance those slobbersome posters issued in connection with the visit of the Duke of York. If he could get one member to divide the House with him he would take an opportunity, by moving a reduc- tion, of expressing his disapproval of the abuse of the people's rights in connection with the publication of such things simply to satisfy the vainglory and the desire for self-advertisement of the Premier and his colleagues. If they wanted to advertise themselves, by all means let them pay for it. Mr. HALL- JONES said the book " Old Marlborough " was not printed in the Govern- ment Printing Office ; the McKeague's book was not printed there ; nor did he believe that any of the illuminated cards in connection with 