ago, was present with other honourable mem- bers, and took an active part in the discussion, as he always has done during the tenure of his seat in this Council. He was a man who was upright in all his ways. He had made many friendships in this Council, and we all concur, I am sure, in what has been said by the Minis- ter. The honourable gentleman will be sadly missed by his fellow-Councillors. Of course, I only speak for myself, but I am sure all the members of the Council will agree with me when I say that the Council as a whole feels sympathy with the widow and the family of the late honourable gentleman. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON .- Sir, I would not like the motion to be passed without adding a word in indorsement of what has been said by the Minister of Education. I had not the pleasure of the Hon. Mr. Kerr's acquaintance until he was appointed a member of the Coun- cil, but at the same time I can bear testimony to the fact that even as an opponent he was generous, and that as a friend there was no one more trustworthy. I am sure that he is one whom we can very ill afford to do without in the Council. I regretted very much indeed when I heard of his death, and I do not think there is one of us who does not feel that the Council has sustained a severe loss in the death of our colleague. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- So far I have taken no part in any discussion such as that now before the Council, for the reason that I have always thought it proper to leave all refer- ences to such subjects to the older members. But, Sir, I had so much esteem for the late https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 honourable gentleman, Mr. Kerr, that I would like to say a word or two on this occasion, more especially as it is not likely there is any more work to be done to-day, and, conse- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero quently, I shall not keep honourable gentlemen in the Council too long. I do not think in the course of my life I have met a more sincere, a more honourable, and a more just or more upright man than the Hon. Mr. Kerr. That is the opinion I formed of him during the short time-covering the three past sessions, this being the fourth-that we have been ac- quainted. Sir, I do feel that this Council has lost in the departed gentleman one of its best members, one of its truest men, one whom it could very ill afford to lose, and I am certain that there is no one of any party or any sect in this Chamber who does not deeply regret the sad loss of the late Mr. Kerr. I really think that, considering the worth of the honourable gentleman who is now no more, this tribute to his memory is being allowed to pass too briefly. I tell honourable gentlemen that they might show a little more feeling, and that, Sir, is my excuse for trespassing on the Council : I thought a little more feeling might be infused into the subject. It is Nature's stern award to all : we all shall come to this some day. I certainly trust in our case the end may not come so suddenly or unexpectedly as it has to the late Mr. Kerr. I merely wish to say that I regret-very deeply regret-the unex- Hon. Captain Baillic of whom it might be said,- His life was gentle, and the elements So mixed in him, that Nature might stand up And say to all the world, This was a man ! The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK .- Sir, as one of those twelve members who were called to the Legislative Council in 1892, and of whom the late Mr. Kerr was also one, I desire to add a word or two to the tribute that is now being offered to the memory of the late Mr. Kerr. It was my privilege, in company with the Right Hon. the Premier, the Minister of Education, the Hon. Mr. Jennings, and the Hon. Mr. Rigg to go to Greymouth to attend the funeral obsequies of the late honourable gentleman. I need say little about the esteem in which the late honourable member was held in this Council, but I would like to say to the Council a word or two as to the regard in which the honourable gentleman was held in the locality in which he had lived for the best part of his life. The feeling in the district was not merely one of speaking well of the dead. The feeling was that of absolute love for our late departed colleague. I saw the body in the coffin, and I witnessed the grief of the bereaved family, and it was a home of grief indeed. I fully indorse all that has been said about the honourable gentleman in the Council to- day. A characteristic of his nature was that he was a fair man all round. He never voted at anybody's beck and call, and never said any- thing unless he had something that was worth saying. There was this too that was noticeable about him : When he had something to say he received the almost rapt attention of the mem- bers of the Council, because his honesty and the sterling nature of his character always made itself felt, and always impressed us. Sir, it was a melancholy satisfaction to me to have had the privilege of being one of a deputation to represent the Council on the day of the funeral of the honourable gentleman, and all I need say is that he was a just man, an honest man, and a true man, and I close my remarks with these two lines :- The sweet remembrance of the just Shall flourish when he sleeps in dust. Motion agreed to. The Council adjourned at ten minutes to three o'clock p.m. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Wednesday, 4th September, 1901. Exclusion of Strangers-Commandant of the Forces -Financial Statement. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. EXCLUSION OF STRANGERS. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) gave notice to ask the following question : If the Government will, by 