regret of the representative of that journal," for there are some words expressive of regret in the letter sent by Mr. Cohen. It is true I do not, myself, think they are satisfactory to the House ; but, Sir, in order to show that I have no feeling in the matter, I would accept these words as an expression of regret-" the expres- sion of regret of the representative of that journal, and," and after the word "and," cut out the rest of the sentence and insert these words-and I do ask the House to really con- sider whether it is not the more dignified course to adopt-to put in, after the word "and," "resolves to impose a fine of £10 on the publisher of the Evening Star for committing a breach of the privileges of the House of Representatives, and a fine of £5 on Mr. A. E. Cohen for refusing to give evidence before the Privilege Committee." Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- He did not refuse to give evidence. Mr. J. ALLEN .- He refused to answer ques- tions. I will alter that to "refusing to answer questions," but it is the same thing. It is ad- mitted that there were two offences-one, com- mitting a breach of privilege, and another, that questions put to the witness were not answered. The penalty that I suggest is not increasing the penalty suggested by the Premier. It is the same sum of $15, but it is at least covering the two particular offences that are plain and patent to every member of the House. I ask the Premier to accept that in good faith. I do not move it as a slap in the face at all, but I move it as I believe the matter is one in which the honour of the House is concerned, and if some- thing of the kind is not done we are stultifying our position as members of the House, and stultifying our position as representatives of the people. I hope, Sir, that the Premier will accept that in good faith. If he does not, I will ask some one to move it as an amendment, in order that we may vote upon it. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) .- I have listened to this discussion which occupied the whole of yesterday's sitting, and which has con- tinued on almost the same lines to-day. The honourable gentleman who has just sat down says he has no feeling in this matter, and the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson) used the same expression. Now, I believe these expressions are genuine. They have no feeling in the matter, so far as the so-called breach of privilege is concerned. But, Sir, let me ask any one who has listened to the speeches of these honourable gentlemen, is their no feeling there ? I have never yet, while I have been a member of this House; listened to a more blatent piece of invective than that delivered by the honourable member for Wel- lington City (Mr. Hutcheson) with regard to the Premier. The breach of privilege is brushed aside. I can understand, and believe to be per- fectly honest, the position taken up by the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher). His position is clear and distinct, but I say that the position taken up by other honour- able gentlemen in this House is not in the same Mr. J. Allen speakers has been to endeavour to put the Premier in a difficult position. Hon. MEMBERS .- No, no. Mr. McGOWAN .- It is no use honourable members telling me that story, because the honourable member for Bruce in his first speech yesterday referred most strongly to that posi- tion, and made it distinctly a party question. There is no getting away from it. Mr. J. ALLEN .- How ? Mr. McGOWAN .- The honourable gentleman has as good a memory in that respect as I have, but, in the meantime, I will go on with the remarks I have to make. Take the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty, Mr. Herries, What is the position he has taken up in regard to this ? He took up this position -- namely, that a great stigma rests upon the members of the Mines Committees with regard to this breach of privilege. Who feels the stigma ? Mr. HERRIES .- I do. Mr. McGOWAN .- Well, for any man to feel the stigma is enough to throw suspicion upon that honourable gentleman. A man whose con- science is clear fears no stigma. "Let the galled jade wince." I say there is no stigina on any member of that Committee. They went before the Privileges Committee and gave their evidence. Mr. Fisher, at any rate, put the question to myself in regard to how this evi- dence may have got out. He said : " Do you think it possible that any person could have possessed himself of one of those copies ?" and my reply was, "I think it is possible." I will refer to the looseness with which copies of this evidence were placed in the hands of witness's for correction, and also of its lying on the table. Question and answer are given here, and it will prove that there was ample opportunity for any smart fellow-and every honourable member in this House has commended the reporter of the Dunedin Star for being a smart journalist - to get the evidence from that room. An Hon. MEMBER. - How ? Mr. McGOWAN .- Because that room was occupied by other members outside those on the Goldfields Committee, and there was no place for keeping the papers, and that Commitice often sat until after one o'clock, and the whole of the papers were bundled up. And on severst occasions there were gentlemen there who were not in any way connected with the Committee. but, owing to the great interest in this matter, they attended, and it is easy to see that by some indirect means this evidence got out. There was ample opportunity for this evidence to have been used by any reporter smart enough to obtain it. But we have got beyond that. We have all admitted that it is the duty-I am not saying whether it is right or wrong-but there is a general admission that it is the duty of > reporter to obtain information for his cew> paper in the best way he possibly can. Mr. FISHER .- The best way, not the wor -! way. Mr. McGOWAN .- The honourable gente- man says, "In the best way." I have ".) doubt that when the honourable gentleman 