we would be doing that which could not raise | honourable man, and he assures us he got it in an honourable way, and I have no doubt when the dignity of this House in the slightest pos- he says so that he got it in a proper way. This sible way. Now, what is the corollary of the information which he obtained, and which he action proposed by the honourable member for says he obtained in an honourable way --- Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) ? If we brought the representative of the Dunedin Star to the bar of the House-either the reporter or the publisher-and fined them each $25, and they very freely words such as " surreptitiously " and other strong terms; but I say if I were the still refused, we should have to bring them representative of a journal, and if an honour- again before the Committee, and ask them to disclose the source of their information, and, if able member came to me with some informa. tion which was of public interest, I would not they still refused, to bring them back before the House and fine them again, and so on. That ask him where he got it, or how he got it, or anything of the kind. I would, if it was a is what the House would have to do, because, if the House inflicted a fine of £25, and then, not doing a dishonest or improper thing. My according to some honourable members, went opinion is that the proprietors of the Dunedin no further, it would be bringing a great amount of indignity on members of this House by going its representative here by £100. He is a keen through the farce of proposing a penalty of £50, and smart man, and has simply done his duty ; and stopping there. Mr. W. FRASER .- It was done before. and if he got hold of that information properly, and did not send it to his paper, then he ought Sir J. G. WARD .- The House, you say, did it in the case before. Yes; we fined the Presi- not to be here. Any other reporter would have dent of the Bank of New Zealand $500 for re- done so if he got the chance. The course fusing to do that which, as the representative ber of Parliament-has been what I have sug- of the institution, he regarded as a dishonour- gested. I remember the case of a member able thing to do. And so, I say, it would have been a dishonourable thing if he had done so. of this House who gave away information from And he had taken an oath, also, not to disclose a secret Committee-and he declared that he information of that kind; and this House, in information, and he said deliberately that he order to satisfy itself in that matter-did what ? It imposed a penalty of $500. And who paid it ? The Bank of New Zealand. Mr. PIRANI .- How do you know ? Sir J. G. WARD .- Well, it has been said so Mr. George Hutchison, and there was not a member of this House who was then in favour repeatedly ; and it is perfectly well known that of imposing a fine of even £5. the President himself did not pay, and I do not https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 suppose the honourable member for Palmerston paid it for him. Mr. TANNER .- What became of it ? honourable member giving information in that Sir J. G. WARD .- I know the Library Com- mittee, of which the honourable gentleman is a member, wanted to get that £500; and that shows, perhaps, that some honourable members may have been actuated by a desire to increase the source of his information. the funds of the Library by imposing a penalty of $500 ; but it had no effect whatever so far as the breach of privilege was concerned by the and the publisher $25. I do not care where he President of the Bank of New Zealand. An Hon. MEMBER .- It swelled the surplus. got the information from. I know the informa- Sir J. G. WARD .- Yes ; and in turn the Government increased the Library vote, as choose to disclose the source of that infor- honourable members know. That $500 was, at the time, a solatium to the wounded feelings of honourable members, because a man would not commit a breach of trust by disclosing, before appears to me that some members are actuated the Committee, information which he had by other motives. Some members have made up their minds where this information has come sworn not to divulge to any one. An Hon. MEMBER. - It was quite a different are doing-the man they suspect a grave injus- thing to this. Sir J. G. WARD. - Very different-the differ- ence between Tweedledum and Tweedledee. Very well, in this case information reached the journalist. I do not know how he got it. An Hon. MEMBER. - No, "obtained it." Sir J. G. WARD .- Well, it has reached him. If he obtained it it reached him; but to use the of the Press, like the honourable member for word of the honourable gentleman I will say Wellington City, trying to force a journalist to " obtained "; but the Star representative is an An Hon. MEMBER .- He was a receiver. Sir J. G. WARD .-- Members are applying public matter, take it and use it. Sir, he was Evening Star ought to increase the salary of taken all along-ever since I have been a mem- would give it away again if necessary - secret would do it again, and defied the House. An Hon. MEMBER .- Who was that ? Sir J. G. WARD .- The member for Patea, An Hon MEMBER .- No comparison. Sir J. G. WARD .- No comparison! An case-it was just as important by way of com- parison as a member giving information to the representative of a journal in this case, and in maintaining his honour in refusing to disclose The whole thing apparently now turns on the fact that Mr. Cohen refuses to disclose the source of his information ; and you want to fine him £25, tion has been got, and a breach of privilege has been committed, and, Sir, if he does not mation that is his business, and, as a matter of honour, he is in that respect right. It from ; they may be doing -- and I believe they tice. They want to injure a third party and cast reflections on somebody in connection with this matter. I say nobody knows where this information comes from. Mr. FISHER. - Mr. Cohen docs. Sir J. G. WARD .- Yes, he does. I am very much surprised to see a former representative 