placing on the estimates last session a portion of the increases. He had an amended classi- fication in hand now, but as to when they could submit it for consideration of the House ' he was unable at the moment to tell the honourable member ; it depended upon the final decision of Cabinet. An Hon. MEMBER .- This session ? Sir J. G. WARD .- As I have just said, I am unable to say. CARRIAGE OF WOOL BETWEEN OXFORD AND CHRISTCHURCH. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will favourably consider the application of Oxford settlers to have their wool carried to Christchurch at the same rate as wool from Sheffield to Christchurch, on the Spring- field line, the distance being the same-forty miles ? This question had been on the Order Paper a considerable time, and since putting the question he had received a reply from the Minister in writing. He would, however, like the honourable gentleman to give a similar reply now, as the matter was really a public grievance at Oxford. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the rates from Sheffield and certain other stations on the Springtield line were made for competitive purposes, to induce wool carted by road to come to the railway. They had not, however, led to any considerable increase of traffic; and it was not proposed to make such special rates the basis of the charges for con- veyance of wool over lines where there was no competition. The wool rates throughout the colony were now being revised, and it was https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 proposed to make reductions in the classified rates only, leaving the competitive rates as at present. MUSSEL BAY RAILWAY-CROSSING. Mr. E. G. ALLEN (Waikouaiti) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will, in order to lessen the liability to accidents, erect gates at the railway-crossing at Mussel Bay, Port Chal- mers ? This crossing was situated at the entrance to Port Chalmers. A portion of the line at this crossing was obscured by a high bank, and the people coming down the road were unable to see trains leaving Port Chalmers until they were right upon them. Several acci- dents had occurred at this crossing, and the erection of gates would minimise the risk of accidents. The gates originally standing there some twenty years ago were knocked down by a passing train, and no steps had been taken to have them re-erected. A crossing-keeper was stationed there, it was true, but as one child had been killed and another knocked over very recently and seriously injured it seemed that some further precaution was necessary in order to protect children and others. He hoped the Minister would see his way to have gates erected. The only further expense to the department that would be incurrred would be the cost of providing the gates. A crossing-keeper would have to be employed whether gates were pro- vided or not. Sir J. G. Ward Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said he was advised that the traffic over this cross- ing was exceedingly small. The crossing was protected by a crossing-keeper, who resided near the crossing, and it was considered that this amply met the requirements of the place. Gates would not afford any better protection than now existsed. WOODVILLE POST-OFFICE. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) asked the Post- master-General, If it is the intention of his department to erect a new post-office at Wood- ville, or again place a patch on the present unsightly structure ? He did not think it was necessary for him to tell the Postmaster-General that that was not the first time he had brought the matter under his notice. The present structure was unsuitable, unsightly, and, in his opinion, insanitary. He felt sure, if the Minister were to send his Health Officer to the district, he would condemn the building and have it removed. Since the building was first erected it had been almost patched out of existence. The original building was of tin or iron, and was at first used as a telephone-office. It was afterwards converted into a Postmaster's residence, and still remained as such. The Minister had promised to visit Woodville and see the building himself, but so far that visit had not taken place. He hoped that after the session the Minister would find time to inspect many of the buildings that were being used as post-offices. The unanimous opinion of several honourable members who visited Woodville last session was that the post-office there was un- suitable for that purpose. The quicker it was removed the better. He hoped the Postmaster- General would not consent to have another patch put on it, and thus make the building an eyesore and a disgrace Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) said it was his intention to go to Napier by Satur- day's express, and he would then take the op- portunity to carry out his promise to examine the building. He had been told that the build- ing was not in the disreputable state repre- sented. He should be pleased to have the honourable member with him ; and, as Minister of Public Health, he would also see that the sanitary part received attention. # HECTOR FRASER. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will accede to the prayer of Mr. Hector Fraser, asking for a free pass on the railways for himself and wife ? The question would, no doubt, interest the Minister very much. He believed that he had received a letter from Mr. Fraser asking for a free pass. He desired to inform the House that Mr. and Mrs. Fraser were the father and mother of eighteen living children. They had had twenty-one. Not one of them had a mark of any description against his character. If the whole population of the colony were com- posed of such worthy persons they should not require any policemen, nor a great deal of the machinery of government that now costs so 