this, the information and evidence supplied to that Committee was made public property from day to day in the London Times. Therefore, I think, it is quite time that the rule under which the public are prevented from being sup- plied with information given before Committees by the papers, if they desire to do so, shall be rescinded. If a motion to this effect is brought forward by the Premier, I shall vote for it. At the same time I think, as a matter of right, and as an expression by the House that a breach of its privileges has taken place, and also to satisfy the feelings of the Mines Committee, who have a grievance, I must vote for the amendment moved by the member for Welling- ton City. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) .- Mr. Deputy- Speaker, I do not consider that either the resolution or the amendment is absolutely satisfactory. The resolution, as moved by the Right Hon. the Premier, altogether dismisses from consideration the act of the principal offender. Sir, this House the other day solemnly resolved that a breach of privilege had been committed by the publisher of the Dun- edin Evening Star, in having, contrary to the provisions of the Standing Orders of this House, published certain evidence taken before a select Committee. That position is not altered in the least degree by what has taken place as regards the evidence of Mr. Cohen. It remains as an absolute fact that the publisher of the Erening Star has committed a breach of the privileges of this House. Now, then, logically, this House should proceed to do something in the matter, and, to dismiss the original matter because another matter has cropped up since-that is, the refusal of Mr. Cohen to disclose the name of the person who supplied him with certain evidence -to dismiss the whole principal matter because this other matter has been imported into it, seems to me to be highly illogical and improper. The right honourable gentleman, in taking the course that he has done as leader of the House, has not dealt satisfactorily with the case. It is vain to argue at this stage that we should amend the Standing Orders. I am quite pre- pared to consider and support a reasonable amendment of the Standing Order, but I say that so long as the Standing Order exists that Standing Order ought to be enforced. For what would be said of this position : Supposing public opinion by a majority in this country was believed to be against capital punishment ; supposing it were also believed to be an almost ascertained fact that in the next session of the General Assembly a Bill would be passed doing away with that capital punishment : would that justify any Judge in refusing to pass sentence of capital punishment upon a murderer who had committed his offence between a time prior to that at which the Judge was acting and, of course, prior to that future session of the General Assembly ? Certainly not, Sir; and in this case, however much the newspaper may be right in thinking that the matter should be brought to an issue with a view to the House amending its Standing Orders, that does not Mr. Monk ingly committed a breach of a law which it knew to exist, and it must, therefore, take the consequences. And I say that, unless this House is prepared to insist that there shall be some con- sequences following upon a deliberate infraction of its rules and regulations it may as well cease to pass any laws whatever. The question, to my mind, answers itself ; and how any honour- able gentleman who is usually so clear in his view as the Premier can have missed the true conclusion-which seems to me to be evident to every other person-I cannot understand. I cannot understand how it is that he seems to fail altogether to see, no matter what his opinion may be as to the expediency of amend- ing the Standing Order, that it is absolutely ne- cessary that while it exists the House should require it to be observed. Now, I do not say that there should be any vindictive punishment. I am quite prepared to admit, so far as Mr. Albert Cohen is concerned, that he has done his best to furnish to his newspaper what was, no doubt, very useful and valuable matter. I am further prepared to say that the publication of that evidence may have been in the interest of the public. But I say it was not for Mr. Cohen to be the judge of that; it was for this House to be the judge, and that, if Mr. Cohen did really wish to get that evidence published in the public interest, then, fairly, he should have allowed it to be published by every newspaper in the colony, which would have given it a much larger amount of publicity. Why did he not, as head of the Press gallery, make a representation to the Mines Committee, suggesting that that Committee should ask the House to give authority for the publication of the evidence ? Had he done so, I believe the Committee would have asked and obtained that authority, and then not only the Evening Star, but also every other newspaper in the colony. could have published the evidence, and then a hundred times the publicity would have been given. But no, Sir; Mr. Cohen wanted the evidence solely for his own newspaper, and that newspaper gained a distinct advantage. I do not say that he was not entitled to get it for his own paper if he could, nor do I say that the newspaper was not entitled to receive it ; but I say that when it proceeded to publish it, it did so knowing that it would have to pay such penalty as this House may choose to impose. I do not ask that the penalty should be a severe one ; but I think the Premier, after hearing Mr. Cohen's explanation, whatever it may be worth, that was read to the House to-day, might have ended his proposed resolution as follows : "in-so-far as regards the said Albert Elias Cohen ; but that the principal offender, to wit. the publisher of the Evening Star, be fined $20 for each offence against the Standing Orders- namely, for the publishing on the 23rd and 27th days of August of certain evidence taken before the Goldfields and Mines Committee." A fine of that amount would not have hurt the Evening Star, I admit, because if the proprietors were fined £40 for the publication, still the "copy " has been well worth the money to 