ments in Canterbury, and show me that they have ever paid anything like 4 per cent. Many of these estates are bought by and sold to the Government, and then are roaded and cut up at a considerable cost ; and the local bodies in and around Christchurch are so particular that they will not even take over the roads until the Government shingle them and put channelling in them. Well, the result is that one-half of these sections are not taken up, and here is the Crown paying 4 per cent. on the whole cost of the estates, in addition to the cost of road- ing. While the Government are entitled to every credit for their efforts in connection with the land-for-settlements scheme, and also for the land-purchase scheme, I say that the advances- to-settlers scheme has proved the greatest success ever undertaken by any Government in any part of the world. I have not the returns at hand, and if I had, some members might think I was not quoting them correctly, but I know it has been stated on what might be called reliable information, in this House, by people who are responsible-I have seen the returns myself, published under authority- that scarcely any money at all has been lost, and that of the whole of the branches of the public service that has practically come out best for the Government. Now, I am going to imitate that splendid example of my honour- able friend the member for Wanganui. If I recollect aright, every time that honourable gentleman speaks his peroration is, " Place a sum of money on the estimates to open up that great bush country at Wanganui" ; "Give subsidies to make a harbour at the mouth of the Wanganui River " ; give us everything we want, and then give peace in our time, O Lord! Now, there is in our district, which, as I have stated, is the most important agricultural district in New Zealand, great http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero mineral wealth as well. There is now a dearth of coal in Canterbury, and the Minister for Public Works will acknowledge what I am saying when I say that we have in our district large measures of coal equal, if not superior, to the Kaitangata coal. During the last winter, owing to the visit of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall, we poor farmers have not been able to get a single ounce of Westport coal-we have had to take Kaitangata coal; and, yet in the country I speak of there are coal-measures of equal value to those in Kaitangata. All that is required is a small line of railway, put not to one but to several pits, and then it would run down of its own motion, and from Ashburton it might distribute east and west and north and south. That is something which it is worth while for the Government to con- sider. There is another matter that concerns my constituents, and I hope the Government will not overlook it. I was looking at the returns, and I can see that last year the Ash- burton County Council is represented by a blank under " Advances to Local Bodies." do not know that I would ask the Government to give it an advance, but I would mention that the terraces of the district are very high. it is good sheep country -- in fact, there is no Mr. Me Lachlan better in New Zealand, according to stock- carrying capacity-but it cannot be occupied for want of water. The ratepayers there- and the Government owns land there too - had some scheme of water-supply. The people borrowed £5,000 or £6,000 and spent the money under the best engineering advice they could obtain ; but a very heavy flood came on and washed away what might be called the lip of the water-race, and all this money is absolutely lost to the ratepayers, who have taxed themselves to the highest rate allowed by law-or it will be lost to them un- less the Government comes to the rescue by granting a vote. Now, seeing that the Ashbur- ton County has never asked for a vote, surely we are entitled to expect the Government to come to the rescue of these people by granting a vote. The honourable member for Geraldine is a good deal interested in this, as well as myself, and I am sure the Government will give attention to it. It does not mean one vote, but two votes, in this House; and with parties pretty evenly divided that would mean a balance of power. I am sure the Premier will consider this. Then, there is a bridge called the Rangitata Bridge, which connects two important districts, and the river is seldom fordable for sheep. It is a dangerous river. The Government have put a railway-bridge there : and all we ask is that the Government will vote a few thousand pounds to widen the bridge and make it capable of carrying ordinary stock, so as to connect the two districts. Well, Sir, these are objects which I think I am justified in bringing before this House, because honourable mem- bers, when they look up the supplementary estimates by-and-by and see several thousand pounds applied to these purposes, will be apt to say, "Here is corruption and bribery " ; but when they remember that I, in open House, gave thoroughly good reasons for these things, they will vote for them to a man. Now, Sir, I could, if I were disposed, fill up my time very easily by reading a lot of printed matter ; but I am sure so much printed matter has been placed in Hansard by nearly every other member who has spoken that I should be in- clined to strike it out of Hansard as perfectly unintelligible matter. On the whole, I con- gratulate the Government on the position of the country, as outlined in the Financial Statement, and upon the manner in which they have come through the ordeal of this debate. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) .- Mr. Deputy-Speaker, I propose to address myself to-night to answering some of the statements which have been made by some of the members on this side of the House in criticizing the Budget and estimates. I propose to show to honourable members the absolute fallacy of the so-called arguments which have been introduced into this debate by the honourable member for Nelson City (Mr. Graham). And I think I shall be able to demonstrate before I have finished I that, as far as the statements made by the honourable member for Nelson City against the finances of the Government are concerned, they are absolutely fallacious and incorrect. The 