under the Hon. Mr. Seddon the colony is more took the same gloomy view of finance in 1895 as he did during his speech a few days ago- prosperous than it has ever been before." the revenue was falling, the expenditure was too great, he wanted great care and economy ; provement that had taken place in the general we wanted "able administration on these position of the country, and wound up in this benches, and not men who had let the way :- colony drift ahead and get into financial whirlpools." That was the honourable mem- question you will be asked to answer by your ber's utterance in 1895 : the Customs revenue votes will not be a personal issue between was going to the dogs, the Budget of that year the Conservative and Liberal candidates. The was the most Tory budget ever brought down to questions you have to answer are these : 'Do the House, there was no initiative in the you want the Liberal policy to be continued ? ' Cabinet at that time-just the same remarks If so, vote for G. W. Russell, the Liberal candi- as we have had from the honourable member date. Or, ' Do you want Messrs. Seddon and during this and last session. It is nothing Mckenzie to be put out, and the country new for the honourable member to make such handed over to the party who brought New remarks. If these honourable mem- Zealand to the brink of ruin in 1890?' If so, 7.30. bers were gentlemen in whom the vote for the Conservative candidate." colony had confidence, and relied upon the statements that they made, their speeches kept faith with those who sent him here; they might have created a very injurious effect on know the narrow majority by which he came the colony. Now, Sir, in that speech which here, and an honourable gentleman who takes the honourable member for Riccarton made in up the attitude he has taken up has only one the Budget debate of 1895-a speech, as I have course before him as an honourable man-to hand back his trust, and ask his constituents if said, on almost similar lines to the one he has delivered during this debate - among other they approve his action since he came here? matters that he referred to in connection with I was referring to the honourable member for. the Budget of that year was the absence of any Ashley, and his reference to the salaries and expenses received by Ministers last year, and provision for old-age pensions and to the solu- tion of the " unemployed " question. Now, it the misleading statement he placed before the is very remarkable that shortly after he de- House. I say this was a false statement, which livered that speech in 1895 he left this House no man with respect for himself and those who for a term, and immediately he left the House sent him here should allow to appear in Han- the position of the colony began to improve. The sard. He puts down amounts which are utterly "unemployed " question solved itself so com- at variance with facts. He put down the amounts received for 1900, and not one single pletely that at the present time there are no unemployed. The Old-age Pensions Act was Minister received the amount he named, and carried through the House, and has now been many received several hundred pounds less. in force for some years. I do not know if the He put down one Minister as having received recent speech of the honourable member will be £1,000 who had received only £473 2s. 4d. ; followed by a similar improved condition of another Minister at £1,000, who only received affairs, but if it leads to an increase in the £575 16s. 2d .; another at £1,000, and that prosperity of the colony, as his speech did on Minister only received £424 14s. 7d. Then a previous occasion, I at all events shall be the honourable gentleman went on to say satisfied. If members will look up the report that each Minister received $200 for house of the honourable gentleman's speech in this allowance. I say that is utterly incorrect, debate they will find that it was almost a repe- and he must have known it was incorrect when tition of the speech he delivered in 1895. He he made the statement. Each Minister does said then, as he said this year, that the policy not receive that amount. As members know of the Government was the policy of the well, those who occupy Ministerial residences do Epicureans : "Let us eat and drink, for to- not draw house allowance. Then, he took a morrow we die." When I look back on what most extraordinary attitude. In speaking of occurred since he left the House, and how he the expenses of Ministers he had the temerity to add on to the cost of Ministers the private came out at the last election as a supporter of the Government, and his actions since he has secretaries, who are actually engaged upon been in the House, I am astonished. departmental work, and he put them down at $500 a year each. They do not draw that An Hon. MEMBER .- He has seen the error of his ways. amount, even including travelling allowances. Mr. HALL-JONES .- He did so before, and But, looking at it from a business point, each secretary is as much engaged in departmental repented, and what happened ? He came out work as any officer in the department. If those as a supporter of the Government. Here I secretaries were not with Ministers to reply to have a pamphlet issued by the honourable the correspondence of members, and to deal with gentleman with a magnificent portrait of him- various matters which are brought before them self, in which he advertised himself as a sup- from different parts of the colony, members porter of the present Government in large, would have to wait much longer for their replies prominent type-" a supporter of the present than they do at the present time. And if the Government." He says,- cost of private secretaries are to be added on to "I am a supporter of the present Govern- He then went on to indicate the vast im- " Electors of Riccarton, on polling day the Well, honourable members know how he 