they say " There is to be new veterinary surgeon, cannot you get him to live here?" That is the practical reply to gentlemen who tell us that we have too many Inspectors in the country. Where would the North Island be without its dairy industry, and will any honourable gentle- man opposite say there are too many dairy Inspectors. We could do with more. Any one with a grain of fairness in his composition will admit the work they have done to advance the dairying industry ; and the North Island lives by that. Then, whoever thought of getting cool-storage, and grading for farmers, until the present Government came into office? The fact is, we have educated the other side to such an extent that if they came into office they might possibly pursue this policy. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about the kauri- gum ? Mr. CARNCROSS .- Our legislation helped to keep the kauri-gum. If it had not been for our legislation the Austrians would have run away with all your kauri-gum by this time. What about poultry experts? Sir, that 12.30. is a splendid department. I remember when it was first proposed to establish that department one gentleman on the other side of the House denounced it, lock, stock, and barrel. We do not want to depend entirely on our wheat, and oats, and wool, and on nothing else. It is the small industries that require to be encouraged, and in time they will be the means of bringing millions of money to this country. That poultry industry is growing rapidly. Our exports are increasing every month, and it is going to be taken advantage of by the small farmers of New Zealand. Then, take another of our recent departures, the importation of stud horses and cattle. Is that not an enor- mous advantage to farmers ? An Hon. MEMBER .- Not a bit. Mr. CARNCROSS. - Sir, the farmers are clamouring all over the country to have these horses sent to their districts; and yet the honourable gentleman says it does no good at all : and he is a man who poses as an authority on agriculture! One of the great drawbacks to the success of the dairy industry has been that you were not improving the breed of your cattle sufficiently. A miserable and bad cow costs as much to feed as a good cow, and our policy is to get the best milking-strains into the country, in order that the farmers may get the benefit. Consequently, we have imported stud cattle. Then, there is the advances to settlers. Has that been of no benefit to the farmers? Was anything of the kind done before we reached office ? There is the carriage of lime, the great reduction in railway-fares, the free carriage of mauures. Did the honourable gentlemen on the opposite side do or attempt to do anything of that kind ? Then, there is the exemption of improvements from taxation, which is of enor- mous benefit to the farmers. And all this has been done since we came into office. Search the statute-books through, and will you find that the Opposition has done anything of that kind ? Here is a list of the reductions in rail- way freights for one year :- € Reduction of rate for butter and cheese under 10 cwt., bacon, eggs, poultry, factory butter, and factory cheese .. 4,000 Reduction of rate for artificial manures from Class E to Q, and reduction of minimum from 30 cwt. to 5 cwt. .. 5,400 Free carriage of lime, and butter, eggs, 4,500 and fish empties . . .. Agricultural produce 45,000 .. Butter and cheese 5,000 .. Artificial manures 1,000 .. .. Wool rates 10,000 Live-stock rates 25,000 Firewood, chaff, and lime 8,000 .. £107,900 Then, take our Customs tariff, and search right through it : you will find that we have been continually making reductions for the benefit of the farmers ; and yet, Sir, those gentlemen on the opposite side of the House and some of their supporters have the great impudence, if I may use the term, to go through the country and endeavour to set the farmers against us by making them believe we are their natural enemies. Sir, the farmer now knows that what we have done has been of benefit to him, and he knows that we have been legislating and administering the laws in his interest. There never was a Government on the benches in New Zealand that ever did as much for the farmers as the present Government; and that, in the face of all this. those honourable gentle- men on the other side should endeavour to set the farmers against us is preposterous. I say there is not a man on either side of the House who can go on the public platform and honestly assert that what we have done has not con- ferred more benefit upon the farmer than any other Government that ever sat upon these benches. Mr. COLVIN (Buller). - Sir, in rising to speak at such a late hour, and after so many members have already addressed the House on the Financial Statement, I feel it is a difficult thing to say anything new or anything inte- resting. I did not intend to speak at all ; but, out of fairness to the Right Hon. the Premier, I wish to explain to the House what my im- pression was of what that honourable gentle- man said to the famous deputation that waited on him from the West Coast prior to the Fi- nancial Statement coming down. Sir, I was one of that deputation. There were also at it three or four other members of the House, three members of the Upper House, and several gentlemen from the West Coast. The deputa- tion urged very strongly that certain public works should be proceeded with on the Coast; and, in reply, the Right Hon. the Premier told the deputation that the Public Works Fund would not stand the strain. He said, "If I have to go in for so many public works I shall have to borrow three millions and a half of money in London; and I would sooner leave the Treasury benches than do anything of the kind." He did not refer to the Consolidated Fund at all. On the following morning the 