tion. By making these unfounded assertions he published his own exposure. he does himself no good, but the reverse. My own opinion is that the honourable gentle- man does not know what was done by the Sir. The honourable member had to with- caucus. I will prove this. We have had a draw the same allegation a short time ago. number of members getting up in their places The member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkin- and asking, "What is coming after this ?" son) is very anxious, if he possibly can, to They seem to be astounded, and did not know fasten on to me statements, so that he can get where they were. If the member for Palmers- me to commit myself. I may tell the honour- ton had known what had happened they would able member that I did nothing of the sort. all have known it, and there would have been The honourable member may like it to appear no necessity for them to get up and ask, in Hansard that he said this and I did not "What is coming next? Will the Minister object to it. The next thing he would say is of Mines tell us what he is going to move that I admitted it because I was silent on the next ? " I say, Sir, if there had been a breach matter. But, Sir, I have been longer in Parlia- of confidence on the part of the members that ment than the honourable member, and I know attended the caucus, there would not have what he is driving at. All I say as to the been any necessity for those honourable gentle- publication of the transactions with respect to men to put such questions. The honourable the formation of these companies is this : The member for Palmerston has at times been manner in which they have been promoted is guessing, and at other times gassing. Now, in shown by the fact that some of the companies respect to this matter, I desire to say that the did not exist at all; and, if you take their words " as satisfactory " were considered to be own officers, these officers are given shares that they do not know anything about ; and superfluous. The House is not called upon to put them in. I have been looking up pre- the man's own partner says, "I do not know cedents, and find that the House does not go anything about it, and I will not pay the lia- bilities charged against me, and I shall force on the length that we went in the original motion. We simply say that we accept the motion with- a dissolution of partnership rather than have out the words "as satisfactory." It follows my name mixed up with transactions of such a that if we did not consider it as satisfactory, we nature "-I say all that is public property, and would not accept it. I cannot see that it has it was only to be expected that any paper would the bearing placed upon it by the honourable deem it its duty to expose such a state of things. member for Palmerston. The plain English of I go further than that, and I will undertake to say that, if you get the Bank of New Zealand's the case is this : A breach of privilege was com- opinion of Mr. Cook, and get the opinion of the mitted a fortnight ago. It has been before a Committee of the House, and it has been the unfortunate sufferers in the Guthrie and Lar- subject-matter of comment by the Press all nach's business, and of those interested in other over the colony for some time. Notwith- companies for which he has acted as liquidator, and if you can then appreciate his dealings and standing this, we are called upon at the last moment to hang somebody. I consider, Sir, conduct, it is more than other people can do. that the dignity of the House has been up- And, Sir, because some one has taken the held, and that the privileges of Parliament trouble and the risk of exposing transactions of a are sufficiently protected by the motion as peculiar character in regard to dredging claims submitted. Heat and feeling have been intro- with which Mr. Cook has been connected, is duced into the matter, and an attempt has it to be said they shall be pilloried and brought been made to make capital against the Govern- before the House ? To members opposite I say, Let them protect people of that character, who ment and myself. This no one can doubt, nor take part in transactions of that kind, if they can I for one moment have any doubt as to the attitude of the honourable gentlemen oppo- choose; but we on this side of the House aro not prepared to have ourselves identified with site. Their action has been deliberately taken. I am firmly convinced, if I had moved that a anything of the kind, or with people who lay fine of $50,000 be imposed, with two or three themselves open to be assailed. I am satis- fied that if everybody had their dues, and if exceptions on that side of the House, they would have opposed it, but because I have moved as I one-half of what is alleged was proved, then it have done we have had the House divided by is not an erring paper that would be before the those honourable members. If, therefore, there House ; it would be somebody else that would has been-as I have no hesitation in saying be before the House. If you have no wish there has-a demand from the public of this or desire to protect them, and it is proved to you, as it must be if you have read the evi- colony for this exposure of Mr. Cook and his doings-and I am sorry to say he is not alone, dence- for the public have been fleeced by other "wild- cat " company promoters- yet. Mr. ATKINSON .- He exposed himself, you and I have also read the evidence of the Privi- said just now. Mr. SEDDON .- So he did. He gave his leges Committee. evidence, and the actions he took with respect to these promotions and with respect to these than that. I have a personal knowledge. I flotations. I do not care who reads the evi- dence- come from the West Coast, where one of these Mr. ATKINSON .- You said ten minutes ago Mr. SEDDON .- I did nothing of the kind, An Hon. MEMBER .- You have not read it Mr. SEDDON .- I say I have read some of it, An Hon. MEMBER .- That is not the evidence. Mr. SEDDON .- I can tell you what is more 