Then, as regards Bills of a debatable character, he would like to know what measures could be introduced that would not be debatable? He did not know of any Bill-either the Licensing Bill or any other Bill -to which some objec- tion could not be taken. There were none on the Order Paper that he knew of at the pre- sent time. With regard to the Licensing Act Amendment Bill, it was well known he took a line of his own ; it was neither those connected with "the trade," as it was termed, nor the Prohibitionists that influenced the Govern- ment in . respect to this matter. The fact was, the law was defective, and members know that just as well as he did, and the sooner they removed the defects in the law the better for all concerned. If introducing a small Bill of a technical character to remedy existing defects was to excite opposition, he could not help that ; it would be his duty to persevere and to endeavour to get the laws as perfect as possible. One serious blot above all others at the present time was the dropping of licenses in one part of an electorate and taking them up in another. A case had come before him recently where an attempt was being made to remove a license that was forty miles from town, in a country district, to a town, and that a town where the votes of the people had been in favour of no increase in the number of licenses. If they allowed that sort of thing they would allow what was not right or just. If he brought in a Bill to try and stop that, and the majority of the House would not allow that to proceed, they must take the responsibility, but he was determined to do his duty. His honour- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 able friend Mr. Fisher, in mentioning those who desired licensing legislation, had forgotten to mention the name of Mr. Tunbridge. He (Mr. Seddon) thought that gentleman ought to be able to advise the Government with respect to the working of the laws and the difficulty in carrying them out. Mr. FISHER .- He says you are responsible for the increase of drunkenness in this country. Mr. SEDDON said he could only deny this impeachment. If making the country pro- sperous had tended to increase the consumption of alcoholic liquors, then, of course, he had had something to do with it. And, whilst he re- gretted that people should when in bettered conditions spend some of their substance that way, still he must persevere in making the colony prosperous. He thought what they would have to do in the House was to appoint a censor, not only with respect to Government Bills, but with respect to private members' Bills, and he did not know any one who could fill that position better than the honourable member for Wellington City, Mr. Fisher. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about the School Attendance Bill ? Mr. SEDDON said, As far as he knew, a Bill had just passed the Council which was to come to the House, and the House had just passed a Bill to go to the Council. He would look at the two Bills, and would see which they could Mr. Seddon passed the most speedily he would select. The House divided on the question, "That the motion be agreed to." AYES, 37. Rhodes Allen, J. Hall-Jones Russell, W. R. Bennet Heke Buddo Seddon Houston Smith, G. J. Lang Carncross Carroll Lethbridge Stevens Thomson, J. W. Colvin Massey McGowan Ward Duncan Field Mackenzie, T. Willis Witheford. Mckenzie, R. Fisher Mills Fraser, W. Monk Tellers. Gilfedder Allen, E. G. Morrison Graham Flatman. Parata Hall NOES, 13. Pirani. Hardy Atkinson Haselden Barclay Tellers. Bollard Hogg Fowlds Hutcheson Collins Hornsby. Lawry Ell Majority for, 24. Motion agreed to. SUPPLY. CLASS II .- COLONIAL SECRETARY'S DEPARTMENT. Messengers and Office-keepers, £4,937. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said, He noticed that under the head of " Office-keeper, Auck- land," £255 was expended, and that this year £314 was required. Perhaps the Minister would explain what made up the difference ? Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) said the present office-keeper had had an increase in his salary, which was covered by this item. bringing the salary up to $200. Since then he had been transferred to Wellington, and what- ever salary was fixed for the new officer would be a matter for the Administration. Mr. MASSEY wished to know if the vacancy had been filled in Auckland ? Sir J. G. WARD said, Not yet. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) would like to ask if the whole of the eighteen messengers for whom provision was made were in the big buildings ? Sir J. G. WARD said they were not all in the big buildings. The number would include some messengers now in Parliamentary Build- ings attached to Ministers. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) wished to know where provision was made for the mes- senger in the Government Life Insurance Buildings ? Sir J. G. WARD said, In the Government Life Insurance estimates, at the end of the estimates. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) would like to know where the office was which was covered by the vote : "Dunedin-Office-keeper, $110; Office-cleaner, £104 ; and Watchman, £45." Sir J. G. WARD might tell the honourable member that the messengers were generally 