AYES, 17. Pitt Barnicoat Kelly, T. Smith, A. L. Kelly, W. Bolt Smith, W. C. Louisson Gourley Swanson Morris Jenkinson Walker, W. C. Ormond Jennings Pinkerton Jones No, 1. Twomey. Majority for, 16. Clause retained. New clause 5A .- " (1.) It shall not be lawful for any director to receive or for any company to pay any directors' fees or other remunera- tion to any director who is indebted to the company in respect of calls on his shares, or who has been absent from the meetings of the directors for a period of three months or up- wards, unless he was so absent with the leave of the directors. "(2.) Every director who receives any pay- ment contrary to this section, or who is party to any such payment, is liable for each offence to a penalty not exceeding fifty pounds, and any money so paid may be recovered at any time within three years by the liquidator in the event of the company being wound up." The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK moved to strike out the words " unless he was so absent with the leave of the directors," at the end of section 1. The Committee divided on the question, "That the words proposed to be struck out stand part of the clause." AYES, 17. Swanson Morris Barnicoat Bolt Ormond Tomoana Pinkerton Twomey Gourley Walker, L. Pitt Jennings Walker, W. C. Kelly, T. Reeves Smith, A. L. Louisson NOES, 4. Feldwick Jones Smith, W. C. Harris Majority for, 13. Words retained. New clause 15A .- " (1.) In the case of mining companies the directors shall transmit to every shareholder, at his last known place of abode, a half-yearly statement of the receipts and ex- penditure of the company during the preceding six months, and of the assets and liabilities of the company at the date of the account. "(2.) If default is made in compliance with this section every director of the company shall for each offence be liable to a penalty not ex- ceeding ten pounds." The Hon. Mr. REEVES moved to strike out the word " half " before " yearly." The Committee divided on the question, "That the word be retained." AYES, 15. Smith, W. C. Barnicoat Jones Bolt Kelly, T. Swanson Gourley Tomoana Pinkerton Pitt Twomey Harris Smith, A. L. Jenkinson Walker, W. C. Noxs, 6. Ormond Feldwick Louisson Reeves. Jennings Morris Majority for, 9. Word retained. Bill reported. On the question, That the third reading of the Bill be made an order of the day for to- morrow, The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY said,-With all due deference to the Chairman of Committees, I wish to call your attention to the fact that I was prevented moving a clause that is on the Order Paper on the ground that it ought to have appeared in a Mining Bill. Now, Sir, I call your attention to this : that just a few minutes previously this clause was passed :- "In the case of mining companies the directors shall cause to be submitted to every shareholder, at his last known place of abode, a half-yearly statement of the receipts and expenditure of the company during the pre- ceding six months." That is a clause which it was wrong to insert in the Bill if it was wrong to put in mine. My point is that the companies to which I was referring are registered under the Companies Act, and that the Mining Act is completely ignored by them. In that case why not put these things into the Companies Act, and not into an Act which is a dead-letter ? Here is another point, Sir : Clause 36B says,- "' The Companies Act Amendment Act, 1900,' and this Act shall apply to all companies, whether registered under the principal Act or ' The Mining Companies Act, 1894.'' That is in the Bill, and yet I am not allowed to move my clause in the face of these facts. Either these clauses should be struck out or my clause admitted. The Hon. the SPEAKER .- I would suggest that the honourable gentleman should endea- vour to obtain the recommittal of the Bill on the question for the third reading, and I will take a notice of motion from him to that effect. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- Very well, Sir, I will do that. Third reading of the Bill made an order of the day for to-morrow (Friday). The Council adjourned at five minutes past nine o'clock p.m. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Thursday, 12th September, 1901. First Readinga-Defence Report-Egmont County Bill-President Mckinley: Attempted Assas-i- nation-Privilege-Postponement of Questions - Morning Sittings - Financial Statement-Ad- journment. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READINGS. Limitation of Profits and Prevention of Rings and Combines Bill, Mining Bill, Ocean Beach Public Domain Bill. 