in saying that; can you give us any case in point ? - It would be extremely difficult to name cases. " Do you know of any ?- I could not give you the exact names, but I know of cases. I could turn them up. " Outside of Cook and Gray's companies ?- That is another matter. I have myself paid application- and allotment-money together out- side of Cook and Gray's companies. " In what company ?- The Happy Valley. "Who were the directors of it ?- I really could not tell you, but I think I paid the two together in that case. "At the time of the application ?- No, the time of the allotment. "What I wish to get from you is, do you know of any other cases in which brokerage was paid on shares before the application-money was paid ?- You asked me to speak of a definite case, and I cannot undertake that. " Is it usual in Dunedin to pay brokerage on shares when there is no application-money paid ?- It is commonly understood to be so. " Can you say that of your own knowledge ? -I cannot of my own knowledge speak of other places. " Do you know of your own knowledge whether that is a fact ?- I could not say of my own knowledge ; I would have to look up the books. " What do you think of it as a business trans- action ? Do you think it is fair or legitimate ? - Yes, I think it is, for the reason that the directors can recover from the broker if the calls are not paid. " Who is responsible for this application- money ?- I presume the broker is. " Suppose a broker accepts men of straw, say, for $100,000, who will never pay any appli- cation-money, do you think the directors could legally pay him the brokerage when the appli- cation-money is unpaid ?- It does not appear that it is legal on the face of it. " You say that the salary paid to the secretary is £75 a year ?- Yes. " Is the same amount paid by every company ? -No ; some pay less than others. "How many companies have Cook and Gray ?- There were fourteen or fifteen at one time, but there are not that number now. "What would be the average amount paid by each of them per year ?- I think they were paying $75 a year each, with two exceptions. I may add that £75 a year is the average secre- tarial salary in Dunedin, but there are several higher than that. " How many hands were employed in Cook and Gray's office then ?- There was myself, the accountant, the assistant accountant, the typist, and the boy-five altogether. " What would their wages average per year ? -The accountant's salary was £175 per annum, assistant accountant £135, the typist's and two juniors, say, another £100. " What was your salary ?-- £5 a week. "That would make about $650 a year for salaries ?- Yes. VOL. CXVIIL-6. year. "Mr. Cook was the official liquidator for some companies. Did you do work for him in that connection ?- We had nothing to do with that in the Dunedin office." Mr. PALMER (Ohinemuri) .- Sir, may I make a personal explanation to the House ? Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER .- Yes; the honourable member is entitled to make any explanation. Mr. PALMER .- I wish to say this in answer to what the member for the Bay of Plenty has said : The report the honourable member refers to was brought under my notice, and I took particular care to find out all about it, and I found that the report was published before the House declared the publication of the 23rd instant to be a breach of privilege. I went to the representative of the Evening Star and I said, " Is this going to continue, or is this pub- lished in defiance of the wishes of the House ?" The reply was " No, it will not continue ; and is not in defiance of the House, and as soon as the House desired that there should be no further publication of the evidence all publication had ceased from that moment." The reporter told me those were the circum- stances under which the report of the 27th instant appeared; and as we are already look- ing into the matter, a Committee having been set up in regard to it, I did not think it was necessary to again move the House and have another Committee of inquiry set up. I think the one inquiry will suit the whole case. I do not know that we should endeavour, as the paper has published another report, to specially signalise for our attack that paper from any other paper in the colony. Mr. FISHER. - The paper has signalised itself. Mr. PALMER. - Well, you may put it what- ever way you like, but I think we are signalising it if we take any further action. However, as the Committee are now looking into the breach of privilege, I did not think I was called on to move the House in the matter. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) .- Sir, I think the House will agree with me that there is no necessity to raise another question of breach of privilege. We now have a Privileges Committee set up, and it is investigating the question of the publication of the evidence that appeared in the Dunedin Evening Star of the 23rd instant. I understand the paper the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty has read from is dated the 27th instant. Well, that is a continuation of evidence which has gone out from the Committee, and which has been published ; and, I take it, it will be the duty of the Privileges Committee now inquir- ing into the first set of evidence published by the Dunedin Star to make investigation into the continuation of the evidence published in While I am as the paper of the 27th instant. anxious as any other member of the House that the privileges of the House should be main- tained, I think we ought to allow the Privileges Committee to go on with its investigation. The 