out the twenty-six pages, and the exordium and the peroration, here is all we want to know, and all the country wants to know. These are the figures-pago v. of the Statement-supplied by the Treasury officials : - "RESULT. "The revenue for the year was £5,906,916, and the ordinary expenditure £5,479,703, leaving a balance of #427.213. Out of the balance brought forward from the previous year (1899-1900) of £605,351, a transfer of $500,000 was made to the Public Works Fund, leaving £105,351 to be added to the results of the year's transactions, producing at the close of the year a balance amounting to £532,564, which I indicated in my introductory remarks." That gives the net result of the year's finance. Suppose it be admitted that there was some justification for the warnings given by the member for Dunedin City, the member for Wairarapa, the member for Nelson City, and the member for Ashley, still they were antici- pated upon every point, for the Colonial Trea- surer in the Statement gave three warnings for their every one. There are nine warnings in the Statement. Here they are :- "The only possible foundation that could give rise to what appeared in certain papers was a statement made by me warning a deputation of members and other gentlemen against pres- sing for an excessive public works expenditure, thereby entailing borrowing and squandering. Incidentally I stated that the revenue returns, as furnished by the departments, did not war- rant the suggested expenditure, and that this caused me some anxiety."-Warning No. 1. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 " It is well, however, that I should, in respect to the expenditure, urge the absolute necessity for prudence and economy."-Warning No. 2. "Correspondingly there should be a jealously guarded expenditure, for a restricted population can only bear a limited and reasonable impost of taxation." -- Warning No. 3. "The more prudent course is to defer any further reduction in revenue to a more favour- able opportunity, and the national expenditure should be cut down to the lowest limit con- sistent with efficiency after providing for the necessary requirements."-Warning No. 4. "The eager and pressing desire for the rapid construction of public works and conveniences has forced borrowing up to a limit beyond which it would not be safe to go."-Warning No. 5. "In respect to the expenditure on several classes of public works, district railways, and especially buildings and works which are more a matter of convenience than of necessity, pru- dence demands that there should be a reduc- tion in the expenditure thereon, especially seeing that our population is so slowly increas- ing."- Warning No. 6. "Coming to the demands upon the consoli- dated revenue, the several services of the colony have necessarily increased, and the strictest economy is necessary ; for if ever the time arrives when increased taxation is required to meet the ordinary expenditure, so surely will reductions in salaries eventuate. To avoid the contingency, and the injustice which arose in the past, it is well for those having responsi- bility to do their utmost to keep down expendi- ture."-Warning No. 7. "It will be some little time ere any Joan could with advantage be floated in the Mother- country. It becomes necessary, therefore, that a large proportion of the amount required and authorised should be raised locally ; and, this being the case, there should be a careful public works expenditure until a favourable oppor- tunity for raising the money in London ar- rives."-Warning No. 8. " Having given a general summary of the situation, which, viewed in the light of the elasticity of our resources, is, if anything, on the side of caution, I will now proceed to give the details of the receipts and expenditure of last year."-Warning No. 9. These warnings should meet all the demands of those four members in regard to prudence and caution. Mr. MILLAR .- What has the Statement asked for ? Mr. FISHER .- That you should consult the meteorologist, and go slow. Sir, I have already alluded to the fact that those mem- 9.30. bers who have complained of the lavish expenditure of the Government have not at any previous period called attention to the rate at which, financially, the country was travel- ling. Now, Sir, last session I did call attention to that fact. In speaking on the Customs Duties Bill I called attention to the large remissions which the Government had made in many directions. The Customs Duties Bill was discussed on the 3rd August, 1900. I will read a portion of what I said :- "The proposed remissions have been made in a generous and liberal way. Indeed, so gene- rous are the remissions that if I were the leader of the Opposition I should not greatly relish the prospect of succeeding to the Government benches for many years to come ". I now take a more cheerful view of that. I will make a prediction ; it is this: Within three years I shall occupy a seat on those benches as a Minister of the Crown, not by the gracious will of an individual, but by the good- will and accord of members of this House or the next House. "-for should a period of depression unhappily set in after his accession to office he would feel severely the financial strain resulting from the present extensive remission of Customs duties." Now, Sir, why did not these honourable gentlemen who have condemned the Govern- ment for their excessive expenditure, and the rate at which the expenditure of the colony has been proceeding, call attention to what the Government have done in the matter of remissions and concessions as a set-off to their excesses and extravagances? Here is the list of remissions, concessions, and of the extra- ordinary expenditure for the last financial year :- 