shall hold office only for the residue of the term of his predecessor." Now, I understand the Premier to have stated that when Mr. Justice Williams resigned his place was filled by Mr. Justice Edwards as a casual vacancy ; and when Mr. Justice Edwards resigned his place was filled by Mr. Justice Martin, also as a casual vacancy. Now, I want to know if, when Mr. Justice Martin resigned, the whole period was up or not ? Mr. SEDDON .- It was partly up, so far as I can recollect. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Then, I understand, Mr. Justice Cooper also took up the position as a casual vacancy for a time. Mr. SEDDON .- No, Mr. Justice Cooper's would be a new appointment. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Now, we are getting at the facts. I did not understand that. I understand now that the Premier says that when Mr. Justice Martin resigned the whole term was not up ; but before the appointment of Mr. Justice Cooper the term had been fulfilled, and that Mr. Justice Cooper's appointment was not there- fore to fill a casual vacancy, but was a new appointment ; and that, by some error, although he was gazetted a Judge of the Supreme Court, he was not gazetted President of the Arbitration Court. That, of course, is an error on the part or somebody or other who is to blame. Possibly it was an oversight, and there may be no reason for our raising any serious objection to this Bill. But, Sir, I want to say a word or two with regard to the position put for- ward by the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson) ; and I hope, Sir, that the Premier and the House will insist this ses- sion that this matter shall be placed upon a satisfactory footing. It is not now on a satis- factory footing-that a President of the Arbitra- tion Court should be allowed to receive fees which are gazetted, and not fixed by statute law. Mr. PIRANI .- Does he receive them ? Mr. J. ALLEN .- Yes ; he may receive them now. They are fixed by Gazette. Mr. PIRANI .- We have not been told so. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I understand this is so ; or, at any rate, that there is a Gazette notice with regard to the fees that the President of the Arbitration Court may receive-the fees men- tioned in subsection (8) of clause 112, namely :- " Prescribing what respective fees shall be paid to the members of the Court (other than the President) and to the members of the Board." I say these ought to be fixed by statute so far as the President is concerned, and gazetting them is not in accordance with law. Then with regard to travelling -expenses : If by 3.0. Gazette notice you can gazette one scale of travelling-expenses, by Gazette notice you can gazette another scale, and that is not a satisfactory position. That ought to be fixed by Parliament, and the Government should not be open to the possible accusation of raising or diminishing those allowances or the fees. Mr. SEDDON .- You want a change in the regulations respecting the Judges. Mr. J. Allen Mr. SEDDON .- No, they are fixed by regu- tion and by the Government, as provided by the Civil Service Act. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I understood they were fixed by statute. Anyhow, there is one point. I should like the Premier to refer to in reply. What I want to ask the Premier is this-and I desire that he should consider it with a view, if possible, of amending the Act this year, so as to put the matter upon a more satisfactory footing : 1 am informed that there is sitting on the Conciliation Board of one district a gentle- man who is also the secretary of one of the labour unions. An Hon. MEMBER .- What district ? Mr. J. ALLEN .-- I will read the whole para- graph of the letter,- " As you are no doubt aware, there is at pre- sent sitting on the Conciliation Board here " -- I do not make any accusation against him, and I may as well give the name-the name is Mr. R. Ferguson-"who is also secretary for one of the labour unions-the Mill Employs, Otago and Southland ; he may be acting in the same capacity for other unions of which we have no knowledge, but we can speak with cer- tainty in connection with the millers' union." I think that is the Flour Millers' Union; and they go on to say : "We fail to see how any employer can expect to obtain justice in a Court which allows a man to be both a judge and a servant of one of the parties interested in the case before him." Now, I do not say they would not get justice. I make no accusation ; but it is evi- dently open to the suggestion that the em- ployers will not get justice in a Court one of the members of which may be a judge, and at the same time a servant of one of the parties before the Court ; and that objection ought to be removed by Parliament. It is surely a fair objection, and in any amendment of the statute, I think, there would be no harm in saying that nobody who is officially connected with a union, or an employer whose particular industry is under consideration, ought to be at the same time a judge, and a servant of either body that is before the Court. It is evident that the employers feel that they may not get justice. and it would be wise to remove from the statute the possibility of an interpretation such as has been placed upon the meaning of the statute by the gentleman who writes to me with regard to. this. I hope this suggestion will be taken in the spirit in which I give it, as I am simply trying to make the Act more workable, and to remove any suspicion of unfairness to either employers or employés who may be seeking justice from this Court. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) .- I think the Premier, in reply, might give us a little more information with regard to this extra- ordinary blot that we have been asked to remedy by this Bill. Was an appointment ever made of any kind with regard to Judge Cooper ? The words of the preamble are,- " Whereas his appointment as President was not formally made and gazetted in manner pre- 