clearly stated. It is a table that shows the increase of the debt between 1891 and 1901, and how that increase is made up. It is as follows :- Table showing the Increase of Debt during the Period 1891 to 1901. € Gross public debt, 31st March, 49,591,245 1901 Gross public debt, 31st March, 38,830,350 1891 .. .. .. Increase for ten years .. £10,760,895 Made up as follows :- Direct interest-earning- £ Land settlement 2,075,566 Advances to settlers .. 2,380,000 Loans to local bodies 1,205,900 Lands improvement .. 500,000 Bank of New Zealand preferred shares 500,000 New Zealand Consols 459,389 District railways 47,000 Addition to open lines 625,000 Dairy industry 1,781 7,794,636 Non-direct interest-earning- Purchase of Native lands 649,700 Public works 1,910,000 Increase by conversion 646,312 Sinking - fund accre- 1,407,700 tions Naval and military 27,226 settlers https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 Government Accident Insurance 2,000 4,642,938 Less redemptions- 12,437,574 "Consolidated Stock Act, 1884" 1,260,420 Other debentures 416,259 .. 1,676,679 Increase of public debt, 1891-1901 £10, 760,895 Now, it will be observed that I divide the amount borrowed into two distinct parts, that which is directly interest-earning and that which is not directly interest-earning. Under the former head we find that the total comes to $7,794,636, or close upon £8,000,000. All this foreign money is directly interest- or rent- producing ; practically it is money we have received as middlemen, which we have taken in with one hand and handed out to the people with the other. The people pay us interest or rent in return for it. Under the other head come amounts totalling $4,642,939, which is practically all the money we have borrowed during the last ten years for public works and other services not returning us a direct ascer- tained annual sum by way of interest or rent. In the Financial Statement for 1899 there is a most useful and valuable table, showing the in- crease in the public debt divided into amounts Mr. Barclay which were not, as I have shown in the table just given. It also showed what each amount earned, and the result was that, of the in- terest- and rent-paying millions we borrowed, we were about #70,000 to the good so far as income was concerned ; that is to say, we re- ceived in rent and interest more annually than the money actually cost ; and, as to the money which was not directly interest- or rent-earning, the $70,000 practically paid the interest on that. My belief is that if such a table were compiled again and submitted to the House and the country it would be found that the interest which was earned by the borrowed money which comes under the head of interest- earning money would actually pay the interest on the balance of the loans which are not direct interest-earning. Well, again I say I see nothing very much to be alarmed at in that. Now, one or two members on the other side of the House have uttered a warning with regard to the rate at which we are borrowing. I should like to remind those honourable gentle- men opposite of the utterance of one of them- selves, one who is not the least respected, not the least honest or capable of his party. What did that gentleman say ? He said,- "The Government deserved credit for stick- ing to its policy of land-settlement and for pursuing a policy of moderate borrow- ing. The Government had just borrowed enough to prevent the pressure of interest being felt in the colony." That was said on the public platform by one of their number. Have they any respect for the name, do they attach any weight to the opinions, of the Hon. William Rolleston, be- cause those words which I have quoted are his ? He is one of the most able and honourable of the gentlemen of the Opposition party, though not now actually in this House; and from the time he uttered those words there has been no change whatever in the borrowing policy of the Government. We are borrowing just a million a year for public works, roads, bridges, et cetera. An Hon. MENRER .- When did he say that ? Mr. BARCLAY .- In December, 1899, or it may have been in November. We have bor- rowed at exactly the same rate since then as we did before. We borrow exactly a million a year for public works, and only just so much as is necessary for advances to settlers and the pur- chase of land for settlements. I say this year there is exactly the same proposal to borrow a million a year for public works, which we can- not possibly do without. So far as the advances- to-settlers and the land-for-settlements policy is concerned, those Acts will come before the House in due course ; but, so far as the Budget is concerned, the only proposal is to borrow a million a year. Mr. SEDDON .--- We have never had less than a million a year since the public-works policy was initiated in 1870. Mr. MASSEY .- What a statement to make. Mr. SEDDON .- You will see. Mr. BARCLAY .- One honourable gentleman to-night has said we ought not to borrow. I 