these fees were fixed by statute at the rate of 3d. per month, and unless there was an amend- ment of the statute the Government could not in any case make an exception. The question as to whether or not they should legislate to alter the system was one which he would be very glad to bring before his colleagues, and, if after inquiry it was deemed desirable to make a change, he would introduce fresh legislation. # RAILWAY CHARGES. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) asked the Minister for Railways, If it is a fact that in effecting reductions of the charges for the transit of goods on the New Zealand railways during the year ending the 31st March, 1900, there was an inequitable discrimination in favour of the South Island, so that the reduc- tions made in the South Island amounted to £60,012, while the reductions made in the North Island only amounted to £15,009; and, further, if the reductions granted to Canterbury and Otago amounted to £57,775, while the re- ductions granted to Auckland only amounted to £2,727? He understood that the rates fixed in the year referred to were rates for the whole colony, but it so happened that the reductions were made on articles which were not largely produced in the Provincial District of Auckland or in the North Island. He wished to ask why the reductions were not spread over the com- modities produced in both Islands, so that the result would be a fair reduction to each Island respectively. This was a matter in which the people of Auckland took a great interest- namely, the discrimination of charges as against their province and the North Island. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said he would be very glad to have that opportunity of answering this question. There could be nothing more unfounded than the statement which had appeared in the newspapers to the effect that the Government differentiated in favour of the South Island. In making reduc- tions in rates the department did not dif- ferentiate in regard to the various provinces, but it followed that, when a reduction was made on articles produced in all parts of the co- lony, the province which did the largest traffic in that particular commodity received the greater benefit, for, while receiving the same benefit per ton, the aggregate amount involved was greater than in the case of the district in which the traffic was smaller. The amount saved in each case, however, was proportionate to the railage paid. Taking the reductions on grain as an example, this was equal to about 20 per cent. on the rates previously in force, and the reduction was exactly the same in Auckland, Wellington, Napier, Taranaki, Can- terbury, and Otago. If, therefore, the grain traffic in Auckland bore in volume the same relation to the other classes of traffic that it bore in Canterbury and Otago, and the distance carried was equal, then the reduction per ton enjoyed by Auckland must of necessity be exactly the same as Canterbury, Otago, and elsewhere, because the reduction was uniform the amount of grain-as was the case-carried in Auckland was small in relation to other classes of traffic as compared with elsewhere, then it followed that the reduction per ton in Auckland computed for all classes of traffic would not bear the same relation as the reduc- tion per ton on the whole of the traffic in Can- terbury and Otago did in consequence of the be- fore-mentioned reduction of 20 per cent. on grain. The statements made by the honourable member did not take into account the classes of goods carried in the provinces alluded to. They were, he concluded, arrived at by dividing the ton- nage carried in the respective districts into the amount of revenue received for goods, irrespec- tive, as he had before stated, of the classes of goods carried and the distances. Such argu- ments, therefore, were useless, unless one was prepared to quote a universal rate for all dis- tances and for all classes of goods. This, low. ever, would be contrary to the general principle of rating as adopted by all railways through- out the world, and could not be justted. That was the answer to the whole statement. In the South Island the grain traffic was very heavy, but the grain rates applied to the whoi colony. Some one in Auckland had taken the total reductions made, and, dividing the reduc- tion, had brought it out as upon all classes of goods, irrespective of whether they were A, B. C. D, or E, and immediately stated that this was giving a preference to the South Island. As a man of business, the honourable member would see, as any person must see, that what had been done was entirely misleading-that the calcula- tion had misled the person who made it and was likely to mislead the whole colony. The statement was foundationless. There had not been, and would not be, any attempt to differ- entiate between the rates in the North Island and the South Island so long as he had any. thing to do with the control of the railways. ## MAIL TRAINS: ONEHUNGA AND AUCK- LAND. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will confer with the Postmaster-General with a view of ascer- taining if the speed of the Royal mail train be. tween Onehunga and Auckland can. consist- ently with the safety of the public, be increased to such an extent that the transit and delivery of the mails over the distance of seven miles can be accomplished in less than four hours and a half, as was the case on Saturday, the 17th August ? The delay in delivering the southern mails in Auckland, on Saturdays especially, had long been a sore point with the mercantile community of that city. The steamer left New Plymouth at ten o'clock a: night, and ordinarily got to Onehunga about nine o'clock the next morning. Merchants' offices closed at one o'clock on Saturdays. and if letters were delivered before noon or at half-past eleven on Saturday morning the merchants could deliver the goods c.r. dered by that mail from Taranaki by the Sur day's or Monday's steamer from the Manukau. 