Mr. PIRANI .- No; I have searched through in the matter, and that in the last paragraph it, and it would please me if the Premier would find another paragraph in which the word F: " regret " appears. An Hon. MEMBER .- Repeatedly. Mr. PIRANI .- No, it is not. I will read the majority of the members of this House to go whole letter if you like :- into the subject at issue at all. There has 1\. "I wish to address your honourable House through you in respect to a matter which is to engage its attention to-day. "The House has already decided that the publication of certain evidence given before its know very much about the workings of ; Mines Committee prior to the report of the Committees, but if the work of other Com- latter is a breach of its privileges; and the Privileges Committee, to whom the subject was 1-1 referred, have reported that, with regard to .. of the evidence which is given before Select certain questions put to me as a witness, I declined to answer the same. " With respect to the first point, I wish to state that matters of the greatest interest to the people of New Zealand generally, and of Dunedin (where the publication took place) in particular, are involved in the question of the promotion and flotation of companies concerned in the dredging industry. "Your honourable House was petitioned to make the fullest inquiry into alleged grievances, lished broadcast evidence, and I do not know and I believe the Select Committee were en- deavouring, in the public interest, to sift the matter thoroughly. Nothing, in my judgment, could aid them so completely in prosecuting their investigations as the publishing of the evidence, for thereby the public knew what were the subjects being inquired into and what were being omitted, and what evidence therefore remained to be supplied to the Com- mittee in order that they might have the whole facts before them before making their report to your honourable House. From information re- ceived, I can state that the report in the Dunedin Star will have the desired effect, and the Committee have tendered to them evidence which will enable them to make a far more searching inquiry than would otherwise have been the case. It was simply with the desire of enlarging the scope of the Committee's in- vestigations, and thereby of assisting your House and one of its Committees, that I pub- lished the evidence. It was not with any view of transgression against the wishes of the House or the Committee that the report was made. action of the Government in raising money on Proceedings of the Committees on the Counties and Factories Bills have been published by most of the papers of the colony, and with beneficial results. From the views enunciated in the House on these two measures, it is the desire of the present Parliament to make these Bills suitable to the wishes of the inhabitants of New Zealand ; and by the publication, before the Committees have concluded their labours, opportunities have been afforded of obtaining the consensus of opinion of the people directly concerned in the passage of both measures." And then there is a long rigmarole about our Standing Orders; and then comes the final paragraph I have read, and that is the only thing approaching an expression of regret. I am glad the Minister of Mines shows by his interjections that he can see eye to eye with me the expression of regret is not such an expres- sion as ought to have been made. The diffi- culty with regard to the whole of this matter has been that there has been no attempt by the been no attempt on the part of members to examine the evidence that was presented before the Committee ; but that evidence reveals a most remarkable state of affairs. I do not mittees is carried out in the fashion it appears to have been in the Mines Committee the only thing that surprises me is that the whole Committees, and which is not intended for publication, is not published. But, before going into that matter, I think it is only fair to do justice to the ex-member for Patea in regard to several aspersions that have been made against him to-day. Any one listening and not knowing anything of the circumstances would have thought that the ex-member for Patea had committed some terrible offence against the privileges of this House - that he had pub- what, in reference to what had taken place before the Select Committees. What are the facts ? The Public Accounts Committee, under the manipulation of the Premier, had gone on for months pretending to investigate a matter, without reporting it to this House. An Hon. MEMBER. - You are making the case. Mr. PIRANI .- No, I am stating the case ; if the Postmaster-General can contradict my facts he will have the opportunity of doing so. The Public Accounts Committee had over and over again burked reporting the matter, which was one of great importance to the House at the time. The question which at that time the Committee was investigating was whether the Government had collared the sinking funds belonging to the local bodies' loans. But we could get no information; the Committee would not report, and Mr. Hutchison placed on the Order Paper a notice of a motion in which he stated that the House regretted the debentures issued against the sinking funds of local bodies' loans to the extent of £85,200. That was the offence ; that was the crime he committed. For daring to do that the Premier brought him before the House, and had the offence of publishing these figures made a breach of privilege. An Hon. MEMBER .- You voted for it. Mr. PIRANI .- Decidedly, because, as a mat- ter of form, it was a breach of privilege. I always vote right. Mr. SEDDON .- Then, you were whipped into line ? Mr. PIRANI .- Undoubtedly ; but the Pre- mier was afraid to face the consequences. When he was asked afterwards to move a motion dealing with the offender the Premier was not game. He knew very well that, while a 