practice. If the honourable gentleman would mary at the conclusion of the paragraph in - say that we should bring in an increase of the the Statement bears that out. The Com- mission did go into the matter exhaustively ; graduated land-tax to make up for the loss by remission in the mortgage-tax, so that it would they went into the whole question, and it took not affect our finance, then we would have them a long time, but they have acquired some very valuable matter which later on will enable something to work upon ; but the mortgage-tax the House to come to a decision upon this matter. is one of the questions the Government have promised to deal with, and which they intend They show that the cost of the line as stated to deal with at the proper time. The honour- here was £654,411, giving full payment upon able member knows that when the Government a fair basis. Then, taking into consideration make a promise they invariably carry it out, the carning-power of the railway, and taking it over a series of years and allowing so much and this one, with the others, will be kept, the for prospective increase, they bring down the same as our promises in the past have been kept ; and while exercising caution we shall, value as #192,833, and the colony has con- as I have said, deal with the question of tributed, through its land-grant, no less than decreasing the mortgage-tax. As to the votes $313,000 towards the cost of the railway, or a greater sum than the value of the line upon for roads, I admit there is a good deal in the basis I have indicated. Now, I fail to see what the honourable member said. I have why, and upon what grounds, members should had to deal with those votes, and it is express such strong feelings about the matter, annoying to the department, and certainly not the wish of the Government, that votes or should desire to do what, it appears to me, would be unfair to the colony, although it may passed by the House should come up again be to the advantage of the debenture-holders. year after year. We would rather have a vote When I heard the honourable member for which has been passed by the House expended Nelson, Mr. Graham ; the honourable member in the financial year. But it so happens that for Ashley, Mr. Meredith ; and the honourable in many cases the local authorities do not member for Riccarton, Mr. Russell - when apply for the grants, or that surveys have to I heard them speaking about the need for be made, or that some extra work might have devolved on the Chief Surveyor, or that there taking an "honest course" in connection with this matter, I could not forget what is some other unavoidable reason for delay, the colony had suffered in connection with and therefore the money cannot be spent until after the 31st March. I have myself had the transaction. There were the enormous land reserves set on one side, locked up occasion to speak to the officers of the depart- for years, and which so injuriously affected ment on this matter, and have at all times urged that, as far as possible, votes should be the prosperity of Canterbury, Nelson, and Westland ; but very little was done, and cleared off and that we start the next year with a clean sheet. I think the member for Tuapeka at the expiration of the contract time they would proceed no further with the was rather severe in his reference to the labour legislation of the colony. Sir, what is the work, and honourable members are aware object of our labour legislation ? It is for the what then took place. Now, then, what about the loss the people of the colony suffered protection of the health and the lives of men through the non-completion of this contract? who are the least able to protect themselves. The people of Nelson suffered considerably- That is the one great object we all aim at, and the labour legislation we have dealt with first, through their lands being locked up ; and, has not been necessitated by the action of the secondly, through the loss of business in the district on account of the non completion of ordinary employer. The average employer is the contract. But the honourable member a man who looks after the interests - the for Nelson, the honourable member for Ashley, lives and the health - of his employés. In most classes of labour a man's health and and the honourable member for Riccarton, strength is his entire capital. Destroy that forgot all about their constituents' losses, and man's health and you may as well destroy that became special pleaders for the company and man's life. The object of the labour legis- for the debenture-holders. It seems to me lation, then, was to protect that man's health that our duty is to be fair to the colony, and life, and I say the average employer does as well as to the debenture-holders; and we this. But you have a certain class of employers must bear in mind what the colony has lost through the non-completion of the contract. who do not take ordinary precautions to pro- tect the life and health of those who work for At the same time we must be unfair 5.0. them. What happened before the first Act on to no man. I am satisfied with the work done by the Commission. I was pleased the subject was passed? Men were working under the most insanitary conditions, crowded with the care and attention they showed in every detail, and with the businesslike nature together in rooms where there was no ventila- of the report they presented ; and I believe tion-rooms that had not been cleaned for years-and where, consequently, the lives of the honourable member had a good deal to the men were injured through being worked in do with the drawing-up of that report. The honourable member also referred to the mort- gage-tax, and before doing so he impressed on carried their trouble to their homes, and as a the Government the necessity for caution in result their wives and families also suffered. connection with our finance. Well, we are going to be cautious : that has always been our those close rooms and under such insanitary conditions. Their health suffered, and they Sir, I hope there is not one man in this House 