as they are paid £1,000, and £200 for house- allowance, and if we gave the Premier the £200 in cash it would pay the colony better than that he should continue to keep the house that he is now in at its present cost to the colony. As will be seen by an examination of the esti- mates, Ministers are still far from being satisfied. Do the Hon. the Ministers deny the statement I have made? Like the honourable member, Mr. Millar, I am sorry the Treasurer is not present, but it is not our fault that he is away. I have shown how great is the burden borne under the mortgage-tax, which he could lighten without any increase of the graduated tax ; but, if needs must be, the graduated tax on land would be a fairer tax than to continue so heavy a burden on small mortgagors. According to the last valuation of lands in 1900, there were 394 owners who held land valued at $11,559,306, an average of $29,338 ; 92 held land valued at £6,186,336, an average of $67,242 ; 39 held land valued at $5,068,876, an average of £129,971; 11 held land valued at £3,815,259, an average of £346,841. Now, those are the people who ought to pay an increase of graduated land-tax. There is a source of revenue that will bring the Treasurer in not only the £25,000 a year he says he cannot afford to lose, but far more. Sir, it would relieve the small taxpayers of the colony. I hope the country will take notice of what I have said : that the mortgage - tax is largely paid by the small taxpayers of the colony, and that the Premier is keeping the burden upon them, although he is spending in other ways far more than the amount necessary to make the reductions. I leave the matter there. If the Premier will not take notice before it is too https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 late the country may do so. Now, Sir, I have very little time left, but I do want to refer to the Midland Railway question very shortly, and I want to do it more particularly because I hap- pened to be a member of the Commission that was appointed to make what has been termed- and, I believe, was-an exhaustive inquiry. The Treasurer says in his Statement. " A Royal Commission was appointed, and, after a very exhaustive inquiry, has reported practically that the company and debenture-holders have been very well treated." Now, Sir, as a mem- ber of the Commission, I was not aware that they had said anything of the kind, nor do I think that they did say anything of the kind. The Commissioners did not report, nor were they asked to report, nor were they even permitted by the terms of the Commission to report, as to whether the debenture-holders had been well treated or ill treated. They were tied down within the four corners of their Commission, and they could not do anything else. There were only three or four crucial clauses of the Commission out of the twelve, and under clause 1 they had to ascertain what the railway constructed actually cost in construction. This they found to be #1,108.628, as is correctly stated by the Treasurer. By clause 2 they had to find what it ought. with due economy, to have cost, and they found as follows : For the Still- water to Reefton and the Brunnerton to Jack- son's Section, $550,021 ; Belgrove-Norris Gully Mr. Graham Section, £61,585 ; Springfield-Patterson's Creek Section, £63,178. That gives a total of £674,784 as the reasonable cost of the railway. They had to find also, and they found, that the sum realised by petitioners for sale of land, plus value of unsold land and land granted by Go- vernment for railway, was $312,310, plus money found by Crown, £38,439, totalling £350,749. The difference, therefore, between the reason- able cost of the several sections of railway and the total amount contributed by the Crown was about $324,000. It is a question for Par- liament to decide how much or how little of this sum ought equitably to be paid to the debenture-holders. The Treasurer says,- "The Commissioners, on the hypothetical basis that the several contributing parties to- wards the creation of this asset should share in its distribution rateably, apportioned the selling- value of $192,833 as follows : To the debenture- holders, £126,788 ; to the company, nil ; to the Crown, £66,045." I say again, Sir, that in finding this value the Commissioners were tied down to finding the selling-value on the basis of capitalising the net annual profit from the date of seizure, with the addition of limited prospective net revenue as the lines stood, without any refer- ence to any further construction or extension of the different lines of railway, and simply taking them as they stood then, isolated pieces of work which of themselves as they stood could not represent their real value to the colony, but which, with the additions which are being made, are absolutely essential and valuable to the colony, and they ought to be estimated at what their reasonable cost was. There is no doubt about that. Under the terms of the Commission it was simply an arithmeti- cal sum, and that sum could produce no other result than that arrived at by the Com- mission. I have the calculations and can show them to any honourable member if desired. In proportion to the capital invested by each the share of the Crown was £66,045, and of the de- benture-holders $126,788. My time is nearly up, but I want, before concluding, to compare the salaries of the Ministers and Judges in New Zealand with the salaries of Ministers and Judges in Australia :- Victoria. £ Premier 1,400 . Chief Justice 3,500 .. Puisne Judges (each) 3,000 .. New South Wales. Premier 1,370 .. Chief Justice 3,500 . . Puisne Judges (each) 2,600 .. South Australia. Premier 1,000 .. .. Chief Justice 2,000 Puisne Judges 1,700 .. . . Queensland. Premier 1,000 .. Chief Justice 3,500 .. Puisne Judges (each) 2,000 .. 