your hands to fight for us. That I have im- plicit confidence in you as a believer in the rights of the workers is understood by the trouble I have gone to in my calculations, and the fact of placing our troubles with you. trust that your endeavours on our behalf will be met with success, and that you will be re- warded by the gratitude of all asylum attendants throughout the colony. Personally speaking, 1 would like you to know that I have been several years in the service, and I have been well and fairly treated by those holding office over me, and I have not the slightest ground for personal .. complaint. I have approached you solely on behalf of our common cause." Then comes a table showing that in one month of thirty-one days the attendants worked 373? hours. Their hours of leave are eighty-seven, and their hours of confinement to the building, in addition to hours actually worked, are 283}. Those figures alone show a state of things that should not exist. The hours are too long, and the pay is certainly too small. I will now give in short form the contents of the papers referred to in the foregoing communication, and which the department might consider for the better work. ing of the asylums by a small in crease of staff :- " The present staff consists of twenty-one men ; if you increase it by seven men, and allow four men away each day for leave, it will leave an increased working staff of twenty-four -- namely, eight junior attendants, one cook, and one fireman, all to commence at 6 a.m. and finish at 2 p.m. ; three charge attendants and one tradesman, to commence at 8.30 a.m. and finish at 4.30 p.m. ; eight junior attendants to relieve morning shift at 2 p.m. ; one night at- tendant, to commence at 10 p.m and finish at 6 a.m. ; and one head attendant, to work at various hours. " From 6 a.m. till 8.30 a.m. there would thus be ten men on duty, and frem 8.30 a.m. till 4.30 p.m. there would be fourteen men on duty. At 2 p.m. the juniors would relieve. From 4.30 p.m. till 10 p.m. there would be eight men on duty, and from 10 p.m. till 6 a.m. there would be one man on duty. "The above shows clearly that a staff of twenty-eight men could manage the duties and allow for four men on leave. The leave should be a day and a half per week and fourteen days at end of twelve months. " The arrangement of the men for duty pur- poses could be altered in various ways to suit the convenience of the institution. " Present Salaries. One head attendant .. 120 . . 110 One head carpenter .. 300 Three charge attendants, at £100 200 Two gardeners, at £100 . . One fireman 100 . . 100 One cook .. Two tradesmen, at £80 160 . . Two junior attendants, at £80 160 One nightwatch 80 .. Seven junior attendants, at £70 490 .. £1,820 One head attendant .. 150 One head carpenter .. 120 Three charge attendants, at £120 360 Two gardeners, at $120 240 .. One fireman 110 . . . One carpenter 110 . . One cook 120 .. One painter 110 . .. One nightwatch 110 .. Sixteen junior attendants, at £100 1,600 . . £3,030 "Nine men should be married, and have rent-allowance of £15 a year = €135. There are thirteen nurses, at present average $45 = $585. Increase to seventeen nurses, say, average at £50, $850. "The increased salaries would be-Male attendants, £1,210; rent - allowance, $130; nurses, $265 : total, £1,610. "The nine attendants who are married would only be entitled to one meal a day, thus saving eighteen rations per day for 280 working-days= £252. . "The extra expenditure would be £1,610, but, the saving being #252, it would only amount to £1,358, which could also be saved. "Mount View represents about one-tenth of the New Zealand asylums, therefore the cost to the colony would be €13,580." That seems a very feasible scheme, and it reduces the hours practically to an eight-hours system. It divides the day into three parts, which is a very proper thing to do if it can possibly be managed. Under this scheme there would be far more encouragement given to the men to work and to improve themselves. They would be more satisfied with their lot ; and they would be more patient, because they would be more satisfied. There would be less of the undesirable changes of attendants which are constantly occurring, and there would be less liability to retaliate in the case of violent treatment by patients, and altogether a more satisfactory state of things would prevail. Furthermore, there would be more comfort to the patients. It is dreadful to think that in the asylums of the colony all the patients indiscriminately should have to go to bed at seven p.m., when there are among them men and women, many of them having lengthened intervals of sanity, who would like to read for a few hours ; yet they are forced to go into a ward with a number of others and lie awake with chronic patients and the attendant horrors all round them. No wonder that the percentage of recoveries is small. The whole subject wants carefully inquiring into by a strong Commission. I regret that there is no reference in the Budget to the purchase of the Wellington-Manawatu Railway. I was in hopes that some satisfactory announcement would be made with regard to the purchase of that line. I trust that the time is not far distant when the Government will see their way clear to purchase it. I am, however, convinced that the proper mode of purchase would be that provided under the 