not less than £2,250,000 has already been ex- pended on land for settlements throughout the colony it will be understood that the land- for-settlements policy has not been slow. In regard to our public debt, this debt, I submit, is advancing by leaps and bounds ; but it must also be borne in mind that a great deal of the increase of the public debt of the colony is of a nature that is productive. That is to say, advances to settlers, land for settlements, and other public works of the colony, which are returning good interest on the outlay, have been the means of building up a very consider- able portion of that debt ; but this leads to another question, and that is the question of raising loans either in the colony or out of the colony for the purpose of carrying on these public works. At the present time the money- market in the Old Country is somewhat re- stricted, and loans are only raised on very considerably higher terms than formerly, and special advantages must be given with re- gard to the payment of interest. Under these circumstances, it will be understood that the increase of our public debt will go on at a much higher ratio than the results warrant. It is true that the Imperial Government has, within the last few days, converted some of its outstanding Treasury bills at easier rates and on easier terms than since the commence- ment of the South African war, but there is no reason to believe that loans will be raised more readily or easily in the Old Country within the next twelve months than has been the case during the past twelve months ; and, under these circumstances, it behoves us to consider https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 very carefully how fast our public works should be carried on and additions to public debt be made at the present time. I say this should not be done without careful consideration of the future finances of the colony. My own impres- http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero sion is that perhaps in Australia or New Zealand there may be small sums of money that may be raised for the purpose of carrying on public works, but these sums are, necessarily, very limited : and I consider the Government should be extremely careful as to the means they adopt in raising loans at the present time or private loans of settlers will be difficult to raise. We find that the country's demands for public works are very great. Every newspaper in the colony, whether it is published in In- vercargill or in Auckland, demands the same thing -- more railway construction . and more roads and bridges-and public money must be spent if the public are to be satisfied. I say it is the duty of the Government, and it is the duty of the State, to be careful in the expendi- ture of public money when they see that it cannot be borrowed except under circumstances which add very materially to the public debt, and are altogether out of proportion to the benefit to be derived from it. At the present time we have interest leaving the colony an- nually of not less than one million and three- quarters, and I also believe that might be added to very considerably and not be outside the mark if the various charges which must be added to that annual interest are taken into Mr. Buddo account. Now, Sir, I should like to deal for a few minutes with our railway system, and it is pleasing to notice, amongst other things, that it has become an institution for employ- ing a very large amount of labour in the colony. We find now that the number of employés in the Railway service is 7,793, and the annual revenue #1,727,236. Of course, it will be understood 1 am quoting figures that at the present time are somewhat out of date- this year's returns not being available -- but they are sufficient for my purpose. I wish to point out where our railway system might be im- proved with advantage to the colony, and cer- tainly in the interests of a considerable number of settlers who are not loud in their demands for improvements. I consider that in Can- terbury, and also in Otago, our grain traffic has not been carried so expeditiously as it might be during the past grain season, which has resulted in produce being allowed to accumulate in large quantities at roadside stations until wagons were available to take it away, and this was not the farmers' fault. I know last season it was extremely rare that wagons which arrived at the station in the evening were not filled with grain by the settlers immediately on their arrival-farmers working until midnight or in the early morning to facilitate the work of the railway service-and the wagons were taken away by the morning trains. It was not until days afterwards that those trucks again arrived to take more grain away. Another question that I wish to speak of is that of an expensive service. The settlers do not want fast trains. They do not want special services, or any luxuries of that kind ; and while they wish to see the tourist traffic encouraged by through express trains, they wish at the same time to see that some energy is put into the local traffic management that will utilise night trains and overtime, and so allow the farmers to get their grain away as speedily as possible, instead of allowing it to lay in the paddocks for weeks at the mercy of the weather. I know of one case in which a thousand sacks of produce Were sent from one station, and from the day on which the first wagon was sent away a full three weeks elapsed until the last portion of the consignment was taken away, and there were other cases of the same sort. That is not a right state of affairs. Luckily, it was a dry harvest season in Canterbury ; but, under any circumstances, it was a dangerous risk : and 1 contend that as far as possible the railway staff should see that this class of work is carried on in a more satisfactory manner than it has been in the past. Farmers work overtime, and they have a right also to expect overtime and night trains to assist them in the harvest season, and I know of no employers that would object to this course. An Hon. MEMBER. -- Where was that ? Mr. BUDDO .-- I can give the honourable gentleman the information privately, and there is more than one case, and I do not want to mention names in debate. I wish now to point out that some eighteen years ago a system of night trains, with casual hands, was employed 