GISBORNE APPOINTMENT TO UPPER HOUSE. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) asked the Pre- mier, If it is true, as reported in the Auckland Star of the 2nd September, that the Premier intimated to the local (Gisborne) Chamber of Commerce that if the district would select a man the Government would appoint him to the Upper House ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, No. # NEW ZEALAND PRODUCTS IN LONDON MARKET. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) asked the Premier, If he will ascertain the cost of obtaining regu- larly, through the Agent-General or from some other reliable and disinterested source, cable messages giving accurate information respect- ing the price of New Zealand products, such as wool, meat, and flax, in the London market ; and, if the expense is not too great, will he cause such cablegrams to be despatched and published? He thought it would be admitted that the question of obtaining by cable regular and reliable information concerning the value of our principal products in the London mar- kets would be of considerable interest as well as of considerable benefit to the colony. It would be quite as interesting, he was satisfied, as some of the cable news that was now received and published in the daily papers, stating, for instance, where the Chinese Court would in future be located, how Russia was getting along with Manchuria, in what direction a defalcating lay-reader had travelled, and whether Prince Chun should rub his nose in the dust to pro- pitiate the Kaiser. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said a cable was now being received every week giving the quotations for meat and flax, also dairy produce. It re- quired a great deal of Mr. Cameron's time to ob- tain the necessary information to enable him to base his quotation, therefore he did not think it would be wise to burden him further. He might say, with respect to the cable messages that appeared in the papers, that he quite agreed with the honourable gentleman that there was a lot of rubbish that was of no good to the colony or to the papers that paid for it. But the Government had no say in the matter ; it lay with the news-purveyors who sent this stuff to us MORVEN TRAINS AND MAILS. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Minister for Railways, -- (1.) Whether he will arrange for the stoppage of the express trains at Morven ? (2.) Whether, as Postmaster- General, he will arrange for mails to be made up for despatch by the said express ? This had become a very important station, being the out- let for the settlement of Waikakahi. During the last grain season there had been forwarded from that station alone no less than 55,000 bags of grain. There was consequently a good deal of business transacted there, and it was necessary that the settlers should have better facilities than they enjoyed at present. The express train did not stop there, and therefore there was no opportunity of sending away letters to connect with the ordinary mails. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) was exceedingly sorry he could not give the honour- able member a favourable answer. The stop- ping of the express train at this station would necessitate its stopping at a number of other stations where there was a much greater volume of work, and this would prevent the time-table being adhered to. If he could have seen his way to have given effect to the honourable gentleman's request he would have been glad to do so. # WAITAKI RIVER ANGLERS. Major STE WARD (Waitaki) asked the Post- master-General, Whether, as in previous years, he will cause the state of the Waitaki River to be telegraphed to certain stations every morn- ing during the fishing season for the benefit of anglers? In previous years the honourable gentleman had, for the benefit of anglers, many of whom were tourists, arranged that the morn- ing state of the Waitaki River should be tele- graphed to certain stations. He was asking now, on behalf of the Acclimatisation Society, whether the Minister could see his way clear to issue similar instructions this year. Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) said, Yes, he would do so. # ELLERSLIE RAILWAY-STATION. Mr. LAWRY (Parnell) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will, at the earliest possible date, take steps to erect a verandah in front of the Ellerslie Railway-station, as requested by a large number of residents in that important district? He regretted this question could not be asked when the honourable member for Manukau was in his place. He thought the Minister would recognise that Ellerslie was one of the most important passenger-stations be- tween Auckland and Onehunga. He had on many occasions seen the station crowded, and there was no room for the passengers to screen themselves from the rain or from inclement weather. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said this was one of the works on the list to be given effect to, provided sufficient means were avail- able for this and other works throughout the colony. # RAILWAY CLASSIFICATION. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) asked the Minister for Railways, When he intends to bring down the Railway Classification Bill promised by him last session? This matter had been exer- cising the minds of the railway officers from one end of the colony to the other, and some of them seemed to be under the impression that the Minister did not intend to bring down a Bill this session. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said this was a very difficult matter, but he had had both a superannuation and a classification scheme prepared for some time past. Part of the classification scheme was already given effect to by the House by the Government 