of affairs for the farmers when the Government has a monopoly of the money-lending business, and when there is nowhere else for the farmers to go. But, Sir, coming back to this much- boasted-of half-million loan, it is well for us to remember that the colony paid interest on it for a considerable time before we received the greater part of the money. The conditions under which it was raised were as follows : Five per cent. on application, 45 per cent. on the 7th May, and 50 per cent. on the 4th June ; but we were paying interest on the whole of the money from the 1st April. So that when we take into calculation the loss made in this way, and the cost of advertising, which was particularly heavy- because it was adver- tised at length in every trumpery little paper from one end of the colony to the other - it will be seen that we are paying, not 4 per cent., but a great deal more. Then, what utter non- sense it is for the Treasurer to talk of taking £100,000 from the A.M.P. Society simply to oblige them. Why does not the Treasurer admit that he is borrowing all the money he can get hold of at a certain rate of interest ? And why does he not tell the House what the rate of interest is ? Of course, I am willing to admit here that it is necessary that money should be found for the purpose of carrying on the public works of the colony. I am afraid to think of what would happen if that army of co-operative workers whom we have heard so much of this afternoon and even- ing were turned adrift as unemployed. But what I do say is this : that in connection with money matters we ought to " go slow " until https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 at least the London money-market has resumed its normal condition. Then, we have seen from the special Gazette which was published a few days ago that the Government have raised another half-million in London at 4 per cent. More particulars are not forthcoming, but I presumo the money has been raised upon short-dated debentures. The position is this : during the first quarter of the financial year the Government, as we know, has added be- tween £1,100,000 and £1,200,000 to the debt of the colony. How much more will be added up till the end of the financial year it is im- possible to say. And then the Premier talks about the good steamer " Finance" going along steadily, with the indicator standing at "slow." Why, Sir, the good steamer "Finance " has been running so long under high pressure that her fuel is almost exhausted, and her boiler-fires are now being fed with 4-per-cent. debentures, and, in view of the unsettled weather which seems to be approaching, it is doubtful whether a sufficient supply will be forthcoming to enable her to reach port. But her wily captain has his traps packed up and a lifeboat ready for launch- ing, so that, on the first indication of danger, he may make for Fiji, where there seems to be a vacancy at present, or some other congenial clime, leaving the ship of which he so long has had charge to the owners and the underwriters. Then, Sir, with regard to the half-million which we had lent to the Bank of New Zealand by way of preference shares, there is very little to Mr. Massey be said. The Bank of New Zealand paid the money to the Public Trustee, as provided by the Act of 1895, and they were within their rights in so doing, and the Public Trustee re-invested the money in the securities of the colony. That is to say, it was lent to the Government, and no doubt the Government were exceedingly glad to get it, and would be exceedingly glad to get some more on the same terms. In the Financial Statement it is admitted that the public debt has been increased during the last financial year by no less a sum than £1,627,675-an enormous increase for one year. No doubt there are many honour- able members, just as there are many people outside this House, who are anxious over this state of affairs. We are informed that at the 31st March last the public debt was £48,557,751 ; but this does not include Treasury bills which are outstanding to the amount of £700,000, so that the actual debt at the present time, or at least at the commencement of the financial year, comes to a great deal more than that - £49,257,751. And yet we find members like the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), and members like Mr. Mills, the Commissioner for Customs, who stood up and told the House this afternoon that although the public debt had increased during the last ten years by ten or eleven millions, yet that we are paying less in interest than we were in 1891. Mr. MILLS .- So we do. Mr. MASSEY .- What absolute nonsense ! I cannot understand any member with parlia- mentary experience making such a statement as that; but when we find Ministers of the Crown making such statements what are we to think of them ? Have members never heard of the alteration made in the method of dealing with the drawing loan of 1867, and how that affects the position so far as interest and sink- ing funds are concerned, or, if they have heard of it, what is their position ? The only conclu- sion that we can come to is that they are at- tempting to mislead the House and the public. If these members will look at the estimates they will find that the actual interest and sink- ing fund for last year was £1,957,188. That is the actual amount that has been paid. 9.30. Then, Sir, if we go to B .- 25, 1899, showing for 1891 the sum payable according to the present method of dealing with the drawing loan of 1867, we will find £1,660,237, and that deducted from the sum first named leaves $296,951, which is the increase of interest and sinking fund in ten years. That is the actual position. Of course, it is only fair to admit that the sum includes interest on moneys which have been borrowed under the Land for Settle- ments Act and the Advances to Settlers Act. But, deducting these two items, which amount to $137,963, there still remains a net increase of #158,988, which the taxpayers of this colony have to make up. Mr. MILLS .-- According to your figures. Mr. MASSEY .- And my figures are correct. The figures I am using are the figures of the estimates ; they are not mine at all. Then, Sir, 