place -swaggers seeking employment on our roads ? No; there is prosperity to be found on every hand. Our imports between 1888 and 1899 increased in value by £3,183,606, and our exports increased by $4,536,129, of which £4,544,612 is the produce of New Zealand. Our wool has increased in value very largely -- namely, $1,209,619. The value of our frozen meat has increased £1,345,885. 4.30. Sheepskins, butter, cheese, and ne- cessarily our Customs revenue, also our out- put of coal, have also increased. Our gold has increased from $801,066 to £1,513,245. Mr. HERRIES .- What year's returns are you referring to ? Mr. HOGG .- I am referring to the returns for 1888 and 1899. Mr. PIRANI .- They are two years old. Mr. HOGG .- I have not been able to get later information, but, judging by the figures available in connection with land-values, and railways, and other matters, I have no doubt that there has been a proportionate increase in the subsequent years. Now, Sir, I would like to say a few words on the subject of education before I sit down. I travelled with the Commis- sion appointed to deal with school teachers' salaries, and I had my eyes opened as to the necessity that exists for considerable reforms in our educational system. The report of the Commission is before honourable members, and at this stage I do not wish to refer to it in any way, because, being Chairman of the Commission, I hardly think it would be right for me to do so. I hope and believe, however, that if the report of that Commis- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 sion is adopted the position of our school teachers will, without entailing any great sacrifices, be greatly improved, and the condi- tion of our Education Boards, and particularly of our schools, will also be improved. I con- sidered it an honour to be on that Commission. Generally speaking, my colleagues were ex- perts. They devoted a good deal of time to the taking of evidence, and gave anxious considera- tion to the preparation of a report, which I am satisfied will be of advantage to the country. I know of nothing more likely to be of benefit to any country than the perfecting of its educa- tional machinery. Education is the arms of a country. It constitutes the rifles, the swords, the bayonets, the ammunition, by which the battles of the people must be fought. It is our duty to give our people the benefit of the best education we can possibly afford. Every parent who has the slightest regard for his children will endeavour to give them as good a school training as possible ; and the State, being the supreme parent, should make it its endeavour to place at the disposal of the young the very best education possible. I hope the time is not far distant when the primary schools will be materially improved, when our secondary schools will be available to every class of children in the community, and when the education received there will be followed up by having the doors of our universities thrown open to those cap- able of receiving a higher education. But, Sir, Mr. Hogg now against extreme selfishness-that selfish- ness that has prevailed all down the centuries of the past. Fortunately, some of our most enlightened men are casting selfishness aside. They are placing little or no value upon mere money ; they are not afraid of those millions that some honourable members dread so much. The most enlightened men rise above money matters. They wish to give comfort and happi- ness to the people. They wish not only to see their sons and daughters happy and contented, but they have a heart and soul for the crowd outside as well. They do not seek to drive in palatial cars while they look through the win- dows at the starving crowd in the rain and mud. They have a heart and soul above that. What we want is legislation of the right stamp and reformers prepared to submit to insult and contumely, serene in the contemplation of doing their level best for their fellows. We require reformers-zealous, active, self-sacri- ficing, afraid of nothing that you put in front of them. Such men despise selfishness, greed, and avarice. They want to make the lands the property not of the few, but of the people. They want the industrious settlers in our bush districts tied down to their homesteads and not allowed to sell their properties, so that one man can come along and scoop up the whole of the country. These are the men who are looking forward to the future. We should look forward to the time when New Zealand will be much better off than she is now. Then, do not despise the army of co- operative labourers who were referred to in this House an evening or two ago. I wish, instead of over five thousand, they numbered fifty thousand, or five hundred thousand, because they are doing magnificent work in the country, and while doing the work of the coun- try many of them are at the same time endea- vouring to carve out homes for themselves and their families. They are doing a noble work ; they are making highways and by-ways through the bush in every part of New Zealand-over our mountains, into our hills - and leaving a work behind them that for all time will prove a blessing to those who come after them. I con- tend that these men, notwithstanding anything disparaging that may be said about them, are \- earning their money dearly and honestly by the sweat of their brow, and they are leaving behind them a monument and memorial that will be regarded with gratitude by future generations. We must not allow the workers in a country like this to be maligned or misrepresented. But what have we been doing on their behalf ? We have been attacking the hoary-headed usurers ; we have been rescuing the small farmers from the clutches of the money- lenders, who were squeezing their 10 and 15 per cent. interest out of them, robbing them of all the profit of their farms. We have removed the load of taxation imposed on them through the medium of the property-tax ; and now some of our land-reformers would get rid of the lease in perpetuity --- Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Time is up. 