how it affects other members' districts, but, rather, as regards the progress of the colony Sir, I contend that the syllabus contains too as a whole. I may say I feel very great satis- many subjects, and teachers are called upon to faction to think the colony has gone through do more work than they are able to do the last year with that amount of prosperity efficiently within the number of school-hours which is indicated by the Customs returns and at their disposal. I consider there should be the Financial Statement. When we find that, a differentiation between the work required in notwithstanding the very considerable amount the small country schools, where the teacher of remissions there have been in the Customs, is unaided, and what might be expected from the in the railway-passenger rates, and through the large fully staffed town school. With regard to penny-postage concession, the revenue of the kindergarten work, sufficient attention has not colony has kept up, we must concede that the been paid to it in our schools. I may say that result of the year's revenue has been as satis- in some of the schools that we visited in Auck- factory as the House and country could expect. land the teachers exercise great care and devote much time and trouble to kindergarten instruc- tion, and we saw a very good exhibition given by the children of what they are able to do in that direction. With regard to manual and technical education, a great deal of the future success and prosperity of this colony depend upon the techni- cal training of the rising generation. If we suc- ceed in training the hand and eye to work in unison by direction of the brain, and in giving a scientific bias to our pupils, we will be doing a great deal to equip our boys and girls, especially the boys, for the battle of life. In conclu- sion, I must express the hope that the House will see that the recommendations of the Commission will be carried into effect, and if the second scale, drawn up by gentlemen of ability and practical experience, be adopted, very few teachers throughout the colony will be I prejudicially affected by the colonial scale. may point out that the second assistants in the two larger Invercargill schools are receiving abnormally high salaries compared with what teachers in other parts of the colony get, and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 the same applies to the assistant and head- master in the Napier School. I consider the Commission had a difficult task to perform to harmonize the various systems in operation http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero under the different Boards, which, no doubt, were based on the results of practical ex- perience, and were adapted to the circumstances and needs of the districts. We endeavoured to discharge that important function to the best of our ability, and I think that honourable members will recognise that we have performed that task in a manner that will give satisfac- tion not only to the teachers, but to the people of the colony. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi). - We have just listened to a very full explanation of the work of the Commission on teachers' salaries, and I am sure we are all indebted to the honourable member for Wallace for the very full account of the work in which he has recently been engaged ; and we are agreed that the Commission has fully borne out the contention of the North Canter- bury Board of Education when it stated that some readjustment was necessary not in order to raise high salaries, but to assist poor teachers in country districts. I do not intend to go into any criticism of honourable members' speeches ; it has always been my habit in speaking in this debate to confine myself to matters of criti- cism on the Financial Statement, also with re- gard to the work of the public service through- out the colony. I shall proceed to deal with the Statement without endeavouring to show VOL. CXVIII .- 2. The specially satisfactory matters we have a right to feel proud of are that the Customs duties, notwithstanding the somewhat decreased spend- ing-power of the settlers, have increased by a considerable amount, and that the income-tax, which is always a sure barometer of commercial prosperity of the colony, has increased by no less an amount than £43,000. All this is evidence of material prosperity, and it ought to be our duty to the country to try and find ways and means to retain this prosperity. A few words with regard to land for settlement. I feel that it has not been making that progress that most of us would desire. In the almost extraordinary ex- penditure which has been undertaken in regard to public works, it is a pity that, side by side, the waste lands of the colony-more especially those in the North Island -- were not utilised for the purpose of taking up surplus labour when our public works are near completion. There is a great future before those waste lands, and that future is mixed up with the settlement of the young people of the colony. I do not mean to say that those employed on public works will find land settlement congenial employment, but. if settlers' sons take up land for settlement there would be room for other employés to take up the work they left. In regard to lands for settle- ment, and the almost insatiable wants of the people in our colony when land is cut up in a closely settled district, I feel that perhaps the best interests of the whole of the people are not conserved in regard to the ballot system. The ballot system, while it may not have the unqualified approval of the public, is at least the only system by which we may expect fair- play to all applicants. Not only has this colony and Australia adopted it, but it is in use at the present time in the United States of America, where large areas of land, recently purchased from the Indians, have been settled under the ballot system, which has given, if not universal satisfaction, at least fair results. However, with regard to the system of allowing transfers at an early date, it is true that trans- fers may be necessary; but I say transfers should never be allowed from one individual to another. All transfers should take place through the Land Boards, and it ought to be their duty to put that particular section to the ballot again, weighted with improvements, and let the public have an opportunity of balloting for it. Our land-for-settlements policy has been a costly one-I do not say too costly-but, at all events, when we come to consider that 