Mr. HARDY. - Is the right honourable gentleman not satisfied ? Mr. SEDD .N .-- I have said I do not believe that the honourable gentleman took the notes he was reading, or was competent to do it. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- I rise to a point of order. The Premier has just said across the floor of the House that he does not believe the honourable gentleman. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I must uphold the dignity and authority of the Chair in this House. The Premier knows that to refuse to accept the statement of a member is not parlia- mentary. Mr. SEDDON .- I have accepted the honour- able member's statement ; but what is in my own innermost conviction I will give to no man. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I must ask you to withdraw unreservedly the doubt you ex- pressed as to the honourable member's state- ment. Mr. SEDDON .- I withdraw it; but my con- viction is the same. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Now, the Pre- mier must know that that is not a proper way in which to make a withdrawal. I hope he will not show such an example to honourable mem- bers, but will obey the ruling of the Chair. Mr. SEDDON .- I withdraw it according to your ruling. It is all the same to me. Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER .- The Premier must see that he is required to withdraw un- reservedly, without making any comments. Mr. SEDDON .- I withdrew it when I said I did not think the honourable member was com- petent to make such notes. Mr. HARDY .- As for my competence, Mr. Speaker, I have to leave that to my consti- tuents, not to the honourable gentleman. If he had his will I should never have appeared in this House. I do not wish to go into ancient history, but I could tell a tale to members of this House that would make their hair stand on end if they only knew what the honourable gentleman did to keep me back. As I say, I do not like to give ancient history. I have a very great respect for the Premier, and I do not care about slinging mud. I thank you for your sympathy. You know I am a young member, and you always give protection to young members. Going on to the member for Ashburton, I want to be quite clear about this, because I took a note of it and want to read it, and I think I shall be in order, because if I trust to my memory probably I shall not quote him accurately :- "I want to draw your attention to his state- ments about the Farmers' Union, and think he must have made a mistake when he spoke in such derogatory terms about educating them. I am sure, Sir, they are at least as intelligent and praiseworthy a portion of the community as the honourable gentleman who represents them ; for are they not the backbone of the country? I think their endeavours to form a union are commendable. This is the day of unions, and every class should be united ; for you know balance of power that justice can be obtained. I should like the union formed and conducted absolutely independently of party politics, and think that on these lines it will be a power in the land. It is not a case of town against country, but country to the front, for the towns can well look after themselves." In reference to the muddle made about the pro- posed colonial scale-I am speaking now about education-that will be dealt with later on. Amongst the members of the Commission were two teachers with low-grade certificates, whose influence on the work- Mr. SEDDON .- I ask whether the honour- able member is quoting some other member's speech, or is it his own speech he is reading ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - Is the honour- able member quoting from a written speech ? Mr. HARDY .- I say at once I am not, and I do not think I am like the Premier. I am not going to take up the Premier's time. I feel certain, when he comes out with his sledge-hammer on the members who opposed his policy, he will clear the atmosphere, and we in opposition will be satisfied with the position then. I was speaking, Sir, of the teachers with low-grade certificates that the Premier placed on the Commission. I think it has been a siur upon all the leading men in the colony-men who have had a university training. But, Sir. it is like the Premier. It was done for a pur- pose, but what that purpose is remains a secret in the breast of the Right Hon. the Premier alone. At any rate, this is the Budget I am quoting from now. I wish to draw the atten- tion of the Premier to this fact : that I am quoting from his own Budget. Speaking of the Crown tenants' rebate of rent, he says its work. ing has not been satisfactory or equitable in its incidence, and an amendment of the Act is necessary. Who ever heard of such a thing, and who but the Ministry is responsible for such a bungle? Probably the Premier will make that matter clear, but certainly the Crown tenant will demand an explanation, and the country generally. Indeed, Sir, the Govern- ment takes all the credit of settling the people on the land. I do not really know what they do not take credit for, but that is one thing for which they certainly do. I will now relate an incident that took place in my own district about ten years ago. When the late Mr. Bal lance was down in Canterbury, driving about to see some of the village settlements, he drove with Mr. John Holmes-a former member of the House -- Mr. Gordon Holmes, Mr. Coster. and others, with myself, out to see the Rakaia village settlement, and on looking over the fence of one of the prettiest little homesteads in New Zealand, said, " Well done, Mr. Rolleston, to you belongs the honour of our land policy." This, Sir, was the exclamation of an honest man, one who did not care to take honour where honour was not due. Sir, the monu- ment says, " Ballance loved the people." And when the memorial is being erected, as I hope it will be erected, to the Premier, I think we might well inscribe on it, "He loved himself." 