important trade. It cannot be denied that the freights as ruling just now are a good deal too high, but it is satisfactory to know that we have realised good prices in the Home market for our dairy produce. This is a very important factor in bringing about the general prosperity of the colony and in promoting the well-being of the back blocks. In numerous instances we find that settlers in the remote parts of the country are making sufficient . money to buy out their sections, to substan- tially improve their holdings, and to become independent men and women. It may be true that in two or three parts of the colony children are engaged at rather unreasonable hours in connection with this industry, but it must be borne in mind, as the honourable member for Egmont says, that in any pioneering district the young people will have to work long hours and perform rough and arduous work ; but perhaps in any other occupation they might have to endure greater hardships than they experience in following the dairy pursuit. We find from the report of the Inspector of Schools for Taranaki for last year that the children of these dairy farmers are very regular in their attendance, and although they have to rise early in the morning and get their work done, they have the rest of the day for the pur- pose of going to school and attending to their studies, and they do so. Like a previous speaker in this debate, I would just like to say a few words on the great education question. It cannot be denied that with the growing pro- sperity of the colony, and the increased effi- ciency of labour, the wages of the mechanics / https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1. 32106019788253 and artisans, and even the labourer, have con- siderably increased, and the condition of the members of every trade, occupation, and pro- fession has become brighter, better, and happier. But if there is one class of public servants more than another who do not in any way participate in the benefits of this general prosperity of the colony, it is that very deserving band of con- scientious men and women who are engaged in the highest and noblest of professions- the discharge of that important and national duty, the intellectual and moral training of our youth. The educators of the rising generation, who are doing so much to mould the character of the future men and women of this colony, should receive every consideration and encouragement. Honourable members are aware that a Commission was set up quite re- cently to inquire into the advisability of esta- blishing a colonial scale of staffs and salaries. With regard to the administration of the thirteen Education Boards, it must be conceded that they have done excellent work. Each one of these Boards working out it own ideal in its own way, and each one, being acquainted with the local circumstances and the necessities of its own district, has been doing its very best to promote the educational welfare of the children in that district, and to provide the best teachers that the limited funds at its disposal would permit. But within the last twenty-three years -that is to say, since the present Act came malies and disparities have crept in. We have teachers in one education district receiving a much better salary than those in another. We find the schools differently staffed in different districts. We find in Otago, for ex- ample, the teachers have a great deal more work to do than in Canterbury, and, for the most part, they are better paid. Some of the Boards have been very liberal in the establish- ment of small schools. Small schools do not pay ; they are a severe drain on the resources of the Board ; and the salaries of teachers in those districts are not so high consequently as in the education districts where the Boards have exercised greater caution and prudence in the establishment of small schools. Take the Auckland District : There are a very large number of small schools there, and the same applies to Marlborough, Nelson, Westland, and Grey. The argument put forward by the Boards is this : that settlement is progressing, and as people take up land in the back country, where they make homes for themselves, the Boards would be neglecting their duty-they would not be performing the functions for which they were called into existence-if they did not afford these people every facility to get educa- tion for their children. Consequently, small aided schools have been established in the out- lying localities, and therefore the salaries of the teachers in these districts must be minimised in proportion to the number of the small schools established. In some districts the schools are very liberally staffed. In North Can- terbury there is a very liberal system indeed. In Otago it is not so liberal. The result is that the Otago Board, which has a good number of large schools, a low percentage of small ones, and has not been guilty of over- staffing the schools, is able to pay good all- round salaries. Now, we find the best teachers in the colony are attracted to those centres where they receive the highest pay, and con- sequently those schools are able to do the best work. Therefore we perceive the action and reaction. First, we note the prudence in staffing and establishing small schools, the offering of high salaries, and the attraction thereby of the best teachers, who are thoroughly efficient and are able to do the greatest amount of work. The system under the administration of the Boards has become more or less parochial- that is to say, the teachers from one district have little opportunity of getting promotion by removal into another education district. The respective Boards consider it incumbent upon them-they consider it to be their duty- wherever suitable opportunity offers to pro- mote those teachers who have been engaged for a number of years in their service in the smaller schools, and, possibly, there may be some justice in their contention. But, after all, is this fair or not so far as the teachers Take a Board like the are concerned ? Marlborough one, which is financially weak. There are only one or two large schools in Marl- borough, and the "plums" of the profession, in the way of fairly good salaries, are few and 