present. The Hon. the SPEAKER .- If it is the desire of the Council, I have no objection to giving my ruling now. Hon. MEMBERS .- Hear, hear. The Hon. the SPEAKER. - Section 249 of " The Companies Act, 1882," gives power for mining companies to be registered under that Act. It therefore would seem that a clause giving power to make regulations for the regis- tration of mining companies can hardly be called foreign to this Act. That is my opinion. Of course, what I have said has nothing to do with the merits of the clause. It seems to me the whole thing is in a nutshell. Mining com- panies can be registered under the Companies Act of 1882, and therefore this clause cannot be called foreign to the Act. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- Sir, I would ask that you add to the question that we should vote on the recommittal of the Bill for the con- sideration of either of the two proposed clauses. For myself, I do not feel inclined to vote for the recommittal of the Bill for the consideration of clause A, but I think the Council might take up clause B. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, I think it is only right that the Council should not prevent the recommittal of the Bill. I think we desire to see the honourable gentle- man put in the same position as he was in last night. Honourable members, I am pleased to say, have not expressed any opinion on the two clauses. For myself, I am prepared to agree to the recommittal of the Bill to put the honourable gentleman in the same favourable position he occupied last night. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 Amendment agreed to. Bill recommitted, and reported. On the question, That the Bill be read the third time, / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY said, - Before the motion is put I would like to say a few words. I will not keep honourable gentlemen long. regret to say that I was handled needlessly roughly by certain members because I tried to do my best to improve the law so as to prevent the frauds which have been going on. I was told that I had squealed, and that if.I lost a little money I could not do so without squeal- ing. Honourable members see me in the lobby, and I do not think they see much squealing about me. But here is the whole country being absolutely robbed. The evidence before the Committee shows the most villainous scoundrel- ism that the mind of man can conceive, and am I to sit here and do nothing to protect the people at large from a few scoundrels who are fattening on their ill-gotten gains ? I have evi- dence and proof that there is a parcel of con- spirators in this country combining together, both in a legal and in an illegal way, to pick the pockets of the people, and many people have been ruined through it from end to end of the colony. This is why I am taking an interest in this matter. I have not lost much, and I will survive it ; but there are people who have lost thousands of pounds to my hundreds, and I Hon. Mr. W. C. Smith protect people from these swindlers. Now, we are told that this is a gamble, just like the totalisator. What an absurdity to compare this with the totalisator! I go on the race- course, and I put my pound on-which I never do. Hon. MEMBERS .- Oh ! The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- I do not do so, but I might put my money on the totalisator and either win or lose. I am sure I would lose if I put it there, and consequently I do not invest at all. On the other hand, a man comes to one with a glowing prospectus, showing what magnificent results have been found by boring and testing a claim, and on the strength of his statements one invests his money. Men who are supposed to be honourable men give the information, and then, when a company has been formed, the first thing that is done is to test the claim, as false reports have been given out about it. Parliament ought to discover some means of putting that down, and that is why I am taking an interest in the matter. So far as I am concerned, it does not matter to me. I have lost what I have lost. It is gone, and I will take care I lose no more. I am not making the matter a personal one at all, although I have perhaps unwisely, in order to convince the Council, introduced some of my own private affairs into the debate. I did not do so because I was squealing. I was simply giving the Council my experience in the hope that they would prove equal to the occasion and find a remedy for the evil that exists. I have no hope now that much will be gained by the Bill, and I really do not care whether it passes or not. I do not think it will work much good. And we are told it will have still less effect when it passes another place. Sir, the evil of the whole thing is this : The shareholders are powerless ; they are spread all over the colony ; and what is every one's business is no one's business in the end, and the swindling I directors escape and carry on their nefarious traffic with immunity. Why should I go to Dunedin, or to the West Coast, or to Auck- land, or to anywhere else because I have a few shares in a company when no one else will do it? Of course, I am not going to do it. and nobody else will, and consequently these men carry on their villainy in immunity from legal consequences. There ought to be a public officer to prosecute in cases of the kind. and some of the suggestions I have made would help to stop the evil. However, the Council has seen fit to reject almost all my suggestions. I do not complain of this ; I bow to the wisdom of the Council. Probably they have done the right thing ; probably my suggestions were in a crude form ; but what I do blame honourable gentlemen for is that they made no attempt to improve my suggestions. They made no attempt at all in the direction I was point- ing out. If attempts had been made to do something to get at the evil and stamp it out ! would have been satisfied. Sir, in the past I think I have not shown any vain-gloriousness in asking questions or moving motions in the 