sent up for examination to pass the Sixth Standard, and that the whole of them failed. The facts were substantially proved by the members of the Committee that there was only one pupil in his school sent up to pass the Sixth Standard, and that pupil passed. Mr. Von Blaramberg was proceeding to bring up further statements in support of his peti- tion when he was interrupted by a member, who said, "We do not want to hear about these statements at all." The petitioner was, in his opinion, further prejudiced by a letter sent by the then Minister of Education, which letter had been admitted to be a private one, being published in the Wanganui papers ; this letter had certainly been prejudicial to the petitioner as regards prospects of obtaining any position in the education service, or even if he wished to start a private school. The petitioner's contention was that the Minister sent the letter to the Board after refusing his proffered evidence, and when no inquiry had been held at all. The facts were so strong in connection with this case that, in moving the motion, he would ask to withdraw it if the Minister would see his way to grant the petitioner what he asked - namely, that a full and impartial inquiry should be made into the allegations which had been sworn to, and that if it were found that he had been injured he should It was not asserted by any obtain redress. member of the Petitions Committee nor the de- partment that the petitioner was not qualified to teach a school. An examination that was held in 1891 in the school of which he was then headmaster - nothwithstanding the disadvan- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 tages which honourable members were aware attached to a country school or a new district- resulted in the average passes being 82.7. There was no one in the Council but must admit that to be a very high average. The Petitions Com- mittee of the House of Representatives had reported in 1894 to this effect : "The Commit- tee considers the case one demanding diligent inquiry, and recommend the Government to thoroughly investigate it." He thought it was only in the interests of justice that a man who had the highest qualifications, who had proved himself capable in the public service of the colony, and who was labouring under a feeling of great injustice, that when he came to the highest Court of the land he should obtain that justice. If petitions were to be dealt with as they frequently were, it would be better for Parliament to say there was no use sending them. If this stand was taken up it would save trouble, anxiety, and expense to people. He hoped that the Minister, knowing the cir- cumstances, and that there had been injustice done, would support him in altering his motion to the form that the Government should be asked to institute an inquiry before a Stipen- diary Magistrate into the petitioner's allega- tions. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON said the facts, so far as he knew, were shortly these : In 1881 the petitioner was a schoolmaster in Welling- ton ; he applied for the position of third master went before the committee of the Education Board, and he was told by telegram from the committee that it was successful. The ap- pointment, however, was refused ratification by the Board. The unfortunate part of the matter was that the secretary of the Board had in the meantime wired to the petitioner asking how soon he could be in Wanganui, which was rather a strange thing for the secre- tary to do. The petitioner replied that he could be there at the end of the month, or, if neces- sary, he could wind up his affairs and be there earlier. Before he received word that the Board would not appoint him he had wound up his affairs in Wellington with a view of starting to Wanganui. He then received word that the Board would not sanction his appointment, but that they offered him the position of master in the Matarawa School, which was in a growing district, and which would be probably as good a position as that he tried for. The petitioner accepted that position and was there for some years. He did not think any fault had been found with his teaching capabilities; but he was rather a difficult man to get on with, and appeared to make trouble in some way, and eventually he was appointed to a school at Terrace End, Palmerston North. Here, his own story was, that in a very short time the persecution of the Wanganui Education Board followed him. That was the petitioner's story. At any rate, the friendly feeling that should exist between the master and his Committee and the Board was remarkable for its absence, and the result was he left the school. He now came to Par- liament with a petition for inquiry and redress. For Parliament to grant an inquiry would mean recommending the Government to appoint a Royal Commission of inquiry. This was what he asked for. Now, what further facts could be elicited by a Commission ? The facts were plain enough, and the whole trouble lay between Mr. Von Blaramberg and the Education Board, and, as the Board had statutory power in appointing or dismissing teachers, it was not a case for parliamentary inquiry or interfer- ence. The only point, perhaps, that wanted inquiring into was as to the substitution, in a letter of Mr. Von Blaramberg's, by an officer of the Board of the word "perse- cution " instead of "promise." The Com- mittee did not know exactly what Mr. Von Blaramberg wanted on this point, and he was asked to explain. He was also asked to let the Committee have particulars as to the amount of hardship ho had suffered owing to the sub- stitution of the word "persecution " for the word "promise." That seemed to be the only point a Magistrate or Commission could inquire into. He seemed to have made a mistake in selling off his furniture and going to Wanganui before he had actually got the appointment ; but no inquiry could do anything in that matter. He (Mr. Jenkinson) thought that the letter written by the Minister of Education, Mr. Reeves, to the Education Board was simply a formal one, and was based entirely on 