quired under the Land for Settlements Act at the Lower Hutt. First and foremost, as mentioned by the member for Wairarapa, the member for Bruce made some suggestions that a member of the House was interested in the purchase. At first I regarded the remarks as affecting myself, but on second thoughts I decided they could not be meant for me. They must have been meant for somebody else. But the member to whom I presume they were intended to apply has since spoken, and, though I was not in the House at the time, I trust he treated the remarks as they deserved, with silent contempt. and did not refer to them at all. The member for Bruce said the Epuni Settlement was a failure ; that the land was not being taken up ; that too much was paid for it ; that it was too far from a railway-station to be of any use ; and, generally, he asserted that it was a glaring instance of the rotten land-acquisition policy of the Government. He said that this settlement was between three and four miles from the Hutt Railway-station. As a matter of fact, it has not been a failure; more than half of the sections have been taken up, and if it had not been for the fact that there are no roads to the land, and that you have to clamber over fences and other obstructions to get to it, the whole of it would have been taken up by this time. Far from being the case that it is three or four miles from the Hutt Railway - station, the actual truth is that it is only a mile and a half from the railway-station, as proved by a memorandum of Mr. McKerrow, Chief Land Purchase Officer, which I hold in my hand. And, even had it been three or four miles distant from the railway-station, I do not think that would have been a fatal objection to selecting it for this purpose. I contend, as Mr. McKer- row contends, that in the case of flat land three or four miles or even more from a rail- way-station is not too far away to establish such a settlement, because of the ease in getting to and from it by bicycle and otherwise. The honourable member for Bruce further said that too much was paid for this land. The price paid for it was, he said, £90 per acre, whereas. the Government valuation was only $35, and the real value £60. As a matter of fact land in the immediate vicinity was sold recently at a far higher price than $90 an acre. And beyond McNab's Gardens, practically as re- mote as is this land, open paddocks without improvements have been sold at the rate of over $200 an acre. Land in the Hutt Valley close to the Epuni Settlement has fetched upwards of $300 per acre, and land further away still has sold for $200 per acre. This is one of the cases in which the Government have purchased land at a cheap rate. It has been suggested that in other cases the Govern- ment have paid too much for the land. I hope that is not the case. I have always urged that under the Land for Settlements Act the Govern- ment should be most careful not to pay too high a price for the land, because I think the time is not far distant when, in some localities at any rate, we will have to face a reduction in land-values. Then the member for Bruce re- Mr. Field ber for Auckland City that wool was not one of our chief industries. What the senior mem- ber for Auckland City actually stated was that wool is not at present our chief staple industry. The remarks of the member for Auckland City were challenged by the member for Waihemo last night, as to whether wool is or is not our chief staple industry. According to the returns for 1900 it is true that wool appears as our chief staple industry ; but it remains to be seen whether, with wool down to 4d. a pound, the returns for the current year will not disclose that it must take second place to frozen meat. Very possibly such will be the case, and the statement of the honourable member for Auck- land City will be found to be correct ; probably it will. Now, coming to the question of the Farmers' Union, the intermediate member for Wellington City stated, so I am told, that Mr. Moore and myself were the only members of the Producers' Union. I am one of those members who, before I ever heard of the New Zealand Farmers' Union, did my utmost to get the farmers to combine. Before I was a week in this House I saw that a combination of the farmers was the only method by which they could get their rights. I addressed meetings, wrote letters, did everything in my power, and I spent many pounds over it, and at last I got the farmers in my district to move. The far- mers in many parts of my district were ripe for combination when the Farmers' Union came along. I at once joined the Farmers' Union, even before I was acquainted with its platform, and am still a member of it, and intend to give it my entire support so long as it is worked on non-party lines. But, on seeing its platform, it was quite plain to me that originally it was an Opposition organization. This will be amply shown by reading two short sentences of that original platform. One sentence is as follows : " All Crown leaseholders to have a clause inserted in their leases giving them the right to purchase at any time during their lease." Well, there is the grant of the freehold, which is contrary to the policy of the present Government. I am one of those who approve of the freehold, and differ from the Government in this point of their policy ; but that does not alter the fact that this was a direct attack on the present Government's land policy. I go on to the next plank : "No land to be taken com- pulsorily while there are Native and Crown lands in the hands of the Government." This, again, directly assails the land-for-settlements policy of the present Government. Looking at these two planks alone, I say no member can come to any other conclusion than that the Farmers' Union was an Opposition organiza- tion in its inception. Well, it may be said that the proposal to start a non-party union at Pahiatua was premature. Possibly it was. But it was owing to the Opposition nature of the Farmers' Union platform that the Pahia: ua meeting was called. It was the conference at Palmerston of the delegates of the New Zea- land Farmers' Union which first placed the platform on a satisfactory basis, and that was subsequent to the date of the Pahiatua meet- 