Postal Department to the cost of carrying it back to Wellington. He knew it would not be of the slightest use to propose reducing the total vote as a protest against this sort of thing, because such a motion would not be carried, but he took this opportunity of recording his protest against it. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said he did not know why the honourable member for Palmerston had such a strong objection to the visit of the Premier to these islands and the publication of this book. It was the member for Palmerston who told the House that the engagement of Mr. Tunbridge at Jubilee time more than paid this colony for all the expenses of the Premier's visit to England. Was this book not sufficient solace, for this reason : that the Premier when he embarked on this voyage was in a very feeble state of health, and when he returned was quite restored to his usual vigour. But he was sorry to say, although the Premier derived so much benefit from that visit to the Islands, he felt himself compelled, at a meeting held in Wellington on the 17th March, to say that " he felt he was becoming an old man, and at times tired of the cares and worries of official life." It seemed that the trip to the Islands had not had a very lasting effect. However, the pleasures and incidents of the voyage were detailed and placed in historic form in that book, and went down to posterity as the visit of the King of New Zea- land to the many kings of the cannibal islands. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) had not intended to allude to the contents of this book, but, as the Hon. the Minister for Public Works had https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 stated there was a great deal of useful informa- tion in it, he would like to point out that cer- tainly there was some truth in the statement of the Minister, because, for instance, what http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero more useful information could be desired in an official publication than this :- "There was only one very small buggy available, so Mr. Seddon mounted his pony, which, although not apparently built to carry 20 stone, did its noble best, and the pride of carrying a real live Premier into the presence of a king gave it prodigious strength, for it per- formed the feat without turning a hair or rendering necessary a prosecution for cruelty to animals. Had the pony been given, like Balaam's ass, the power of speech, it would not have corroborated the poet, who said, 'How sad it is to say farewell !"" Why, Mark Twain was not in it compared with that book. The passages of unconscious humour from beginning to end of the book were enough to make a cat laugh. He wondered that the author had not put his name on the outside, although he was told that in the first edition the author's name was there. They were told by the Minister that the first edition had not been destroyed, and that the depart- ment would be recouped for the expenditure by the sale of the work. Now, he would guarantee that if the Minister would offer copies of the first edition for sale in the shops of this town they would fetch very good prices. Mr. Massey the cost of the country as part of the official printing of the colony. He did not wonder that the expenses of administration in very many departments were going up by leaps and bounds. The expense of this department com- pared with 1898 had increased something like £12,000. This year the cost of printing would be very much higher than proposed, although there was a larger amount on the estimates, because there had been a much larger expendi- ture-and that was probably justifiable-in connection with the Royal visit. It seemed to him that this department was growing at such a rate that, unless members took the matter into their serious consideration and stopped this enormous expenditure, a suggestion made by the Premier in the Financial Statement with respect to the reduction of salaries might arise. He might say, in conclusion, he thought something should be done in regard to this ex- penditure, which was growing at such a rate, and, as he had pointed out, upon such extrava- gant and useless work. Mr. HALL-JONES said the net expenditure in 1890 was £23,700, and the net vote proposed for this year was £23,175, thus showing that although the work had so largely increased, yet Parliament was asked to vote a less sum than was voted ten years ago. In 1890 the railway work amounted to 8,670,000 copies, and last year to fourteen million copies ; for the Post Office sixteen million copies in 1890, and thirty- four million copies were printed last year. The total number of copies for 1890 was thirty-one millions, and for 1900 sixty-one millions. There had been an abnormal amount of work done for the Railway Department last year, and for the Postal Department the amount of work done was larger than had ever been done for that department before. This year, perhaps, the amount of work would not be so large. That largely accounted for the increased expenditure of last year. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said that in 1890 the credits were £8,500 and the total vote was £32,200, as compared with this year of £50,704, so that actually there was nearly double the amount in printing. Mr. HALL-JONES .- How are you going to get over the large increase of work turned out for the Postal and Railway Departments, the vote asked for being only £23,175 ? Mr. PIRANI said the Minister must not think that members were a lot of children. In referring to the millions of copies of works printed for the Postal Department the Minis- ter included telegraph-forms. But it was not in connection with the printing done for other departments that he made any complaint at all. He would say this: that if the printing absolutely necessary for the State was only done, and if up-to-date machinery was employed, in- stead of the gross cost of the department being £50,000 it could be reduced to £30,000. Mr. HALL-JONES said he only wanted £23,000. Mr. PIRANI said, Well, instead of the net cost being £23,000 it could be reduced to 