offshoot of the Review of Reviews published were being cut down to almost vanishing-point at Home by Mr. Stead. He (Mr. Seddon) it was unfair to ask honourable members to support expenditure of this kind. It was a understood there was no business connection most unfortunate admission that the Premier between the two periodicals, and that they had made, that he did not know what form the were distinct proprietaries. Hon. MEMBERS .- Oh ! Mr. SEDDON said he had seen it stated by the proprietor of the Australasian Review of Reviews that, beyond getting permission to use the same title, the Australasian edition had nothing now to do with the Home publication. Mr. PIRANI .- He did not say it. Mr. SEDDON said that was his recollection of what the proprietor of the Review of Reviews said. At any rate, he could say this : that the Australasian edition was not connected with the Home periodical. He also desired to say that the Rev. Mr. Berry was not a paid official of the colony. He had heard that statement made, but there was no foundation for it. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) said the Pre- mier had remarked that it was due to the Government that an explanation should be given of this matter. He (Mr. Fraser) con- sidered it was still more due to the House that that explanation should be made. The Premier took credit for the fact that he had in a straight- forward manner asked for a vote on the esti- mates which he could have hidden up in " Un- authorised." Had he put it under " Unautho- rised " it certainly would not have appeared on the estimates, but it would have appeared in the particulars of " Unauthorised," which had sooner or later to be presented to the House. The question whether the Review of Reviews was a pro-Boer paper or not had nothing what- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 ever to do with the matter in dispute. He agreed that it was a good thing to advertise the colony ; but advertisements in the form of an article such as this could not do much good. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero The Premier said he did not inspire the article, but he must have known pretty well what Mr. Berry's political proclivities were. He thought there ought to be some limit to the Government rushing into expenditure of this kind without the authority of the House. He would vote against the item, simply to record his protest against such a waste of money. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) intended to vote for the amendment. As far as he could recollect, the article was eulogistic of the colony, and particularly so of the legislation of the last few years and of the Right Hon. the Premier him- self. He did not expect anything else, but he objected to the taxpayers having to pay for it. The Premier said he did not know what the article was to contain; but the plates must have been sent over by the Government, be- cause similar plates appeared in the work that was under notice last night. Mr. SEDDON said, That was so. Mr. MASSEY said that, instead of being worth £260 as an advertisement, the article was not worth 260 pence. It was not nearly so able an article as the one that appeared in the previous January number from the pen of the Hon. Mr. Twomey, or one that had recently appeared, writ- ten by Mr. Bruce, the late member for Rangiti- kei. At a time when the public works estimates article was going to take, and it was a most unbusiness-like arrangement on the part of the Government. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said they were in a difficulty about the amendment, be- cause if the money had already been paid there was little use voting against it. Mr. SEDDON said he believed it had been paid. Mr. FISHER said that what he objected to in this matter was that the money had been paid to a traitor of the Empire. Dr. Fitchett was not a traitor, but Mr. Stead was, and the money went to the business firm of Stead (Limited). The Boers had voted £50,000 of their secret-service money for the purchase of English newspapers, and it was beyond doubt that Mr. Stead had received his share of that money, and now this colony was giving him $260 more. Mr. SEDDON .- It has nothing to do with Mr. Stead. Mr. FISHER asked if Mr. Stead was not the owner, or part owner, of the magazine. Mr. MASSEY said that the Premier had stated he made the arrangement with Mr. Stead. Mr. SEDDON had said nothing of the kind. He had no communication whatever from or with Mr. Stead. Mr. Stead had no connection with the Australasian Review of Reviews what- ever. Mr. Fitchett had stated that Mr. Stead was not the editor of the Australasian Review of Reviews, and it was absolutely distinct from that published in England. Mr. FISHER said that the two editions of the magazine were run separately, but their business interests were the same. As to the article on New Zealand which appeared in the January number of the magazine, there was nothing in it that was original and had not appeared before in our own publications. If this article was so valuable as was represented by the passing of this vote, what became of the statement that the Agent-General was so able an exponent of everything that affected the interests of New Zealand? If it were not for the fact that this money had been paid he would vote against it as strongly as he had spoken against it. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said that months ago he was given to understand, and he still believed, that Mr. Stead was not the owner of this paper. When the Government were asked to insert the article that appeared in the Australasian Review of Reviews in the Review of Reviews at Home the Government did not see their way to do so. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) held in his hand a copy of the issue of the paper for which the House was asked to vote $260. On one of the pages appeared the words, " Review of Reviews for Australasia : English editor, W. T. Stead ; Australasian editor, W. H. Fit- chett." 