ceive us or was deceiving his constituents when he addressed those words to them. Now, I have devoted far more time than I had in- tended in order to show that I could not and would not accept the analysis of those honour- able gentlemen of our financial position, and I say once more, after proving that they are not worthy of credence, Should not the honourable member for Hawke's Bay and the honourable member for Bruce be congratulated for having · so successfully drawn those honourable mem- bers, and having encouraged them to make such a political exhibition of themselves as they have done within the last few days? An Hon. MEMBER .- What about Ashley and Dunedin ? Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- Well, Mr. Meredith, no doubt, will be attended to during the debate. But I somehow regret that those honourable gentlemen have taken the stand they have, be- cause they receive no sympathy from any part of the House. They have no sympathy from those gentlemen sitting on the Opposition benches, nor have they any sympathy from the gentlemen of whom I respectfully speak as the "left wing." They are simply laughing at them. It is a morganatic marriage; nothing good can come of it ; even the issue will get no And therefore I say they benefit from it. should have our pity. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about Mr. Millar ? Mr. A. L. D. FRASER. - Sir, these interrup- tions strengthen me in my belief that there is no sympathy for them. You are laughing at them, you are enjoying the fun, and you are de- lighted to see those honourable gentlemen under the lash. Mr. PIRANI .- We have been through it. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- No doubt, and pro- bably my time will come some day. But the http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero speeches of the honourable member for Riccarton and the honourable member for Nelson City -comparing their late speeches with what they stated to their constituents, and led them to believe was the true state of our finance-brings back to my mind the analysis of a politician as given by Winston Churchill in his maiden speech in the House of Commons not many months ago. He said a politician was the most paradoxical person in the world ; he was asked to stand, he wanted to sit, and he was expected to lie. We will leave those two gentlemen. I shall briefly refer to the honour- able member for Dunedin City by saying that he has suddenly taken a very keen interest in the financial position of the colony. I notice he also has been damned by faint praise from the Evening Post, which said he had been either too negligent or too indifferent to go into the financial position of the colony until yesterday afternoon, and that is what I say. Here is an honourable member who has more than the average ability as a poli- tician, and until yesterday he could not lay the views that he had on the financial position before this House and the people of the colony, and I say it is to the discredit of the honourable member. He has neglected his duty as a mem- Mr. A. L. D. Fraser stituents if he has "laid low " and encouraged false hopes and aspirations in the hearts of the people of the colony, and by his silence led them to believe that they were in a sound financial position when they were not. He took us on a marine excursion ; he took us in tow-to adopt his marine phrascology or metaphor-and, judg- ing from the views that he enunciated, I felt as I have often felt on a marine excursion ! In fact, it was nothing more or less, if his deduc- tion of the financial position of the colony is true, than another " Marine" scandal. The honourable member, as I have said, took us for an excursion ; and I may say that there is no member of whom I can speak with greater re- spect than the member for Dunedin City, Mr. Millar ; but the honourable member has been unfair to himself and to the country. To follow his metaphor, he has gone to sea as one of the crew of the good ship "Finance " ; he has pretended to be a friend, helper, and assistant of the captain, and yet when danger looms the mask is thrown off and he attempts to scuttle the ship! In conclusion, I regret that, if the honourable member really expressed his honest convictions when speaking in this debate, he did not speak equally fearlessly eighteen months ago, though, to do him jus- tice, he does accept some personal blame. As I have very few minutes left I shall not be able to deal with several matters of some im- portance. Suffice, as a student in the school of politics, I have endeavoured to prove that I am justified in not accepting the dictum of the junior master, who would usurp the functions of the principal. The latter has been consis- tent in his financial problems, the former in- consistent. The comments, so hostile, of the colony's finance come from those whose actions in the past leave them open to gravest censure, for if our financial position is as they would have us believe they must have assisted to bring it about. They now endeavour to foist the blame on other shoulders, and deny re- sponsibility. There is, however, one feature in the finances of the colony that strikes me as being a fair barometer, and that is the income-tax. That is one of the most reliable tests we can have-informing us whether there is a storm to be expected in the near future, or whether the horizon is clear. But, before touching that point, it should not be for- gotten that we have had a very extraordinary and abnormal expenditure during the last year or two. and this brings to my mind the remarks of the member for Wairarapa that in the estimates the whole of the expenses have not been put down. I cannot help but express this opinion : that, as far as I am able to judge, one of the most important parts of the abnormal expense has not been recognised by the Government, because I cannot conceive that the expenses that this colony has been put to since last January in receiving the Imperial troops, in receiving the Indian troops, and later in receiving their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess of York, have only amounted to £52,000. I say that the Government can- 