clause 33 of the Act in question could not apply to the King-country (Rohe-potae), because a poll had never been taken there, and these petitioners were apparently determined that the residents should not be allowed to have a poll taken. He hoped the honourable gentleman would give a decisive answer, and show to these petitioners they were endeavouring to induce the House to ask the Government to break the law of the country. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said this was cer- tainly a very large and important question, and had created a considerable amount of dis. cussion throughout the colony. It was the duty of the Government to see there was a due observance of the law, and he could not understand why those who were always saving they were willing to trust the people refused to allow them within these boundaries to have a say on these matters, in the same way as people had in other parts of the colony. Mr. FOWLDS .- You do not allow the same people to deal with their land. Mr. SEDDON said, At all events, those who contended for the principle he referred to should allow the white people within the boundaries to decide the question. As mat- ters stood, it did not matter whether they were white people or Maoris. They were allowed no say on the question, simply because there were a number of people who had come to the con- clusion that the sale of liquor in the King- country would be inimical to the best in- terests of the Maoris. While he appreciated their motives in connection with the existing state of affairs, if those who were agitating https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 against any change were made fully acquainted with the true position of affairs, he doubted very much whether they would take the same action they were doing. Mr. LAWRY said the honourable gentleman missed the point. The point really was that there were petitions before this House asking the Government to enforce clause 33 of the Alcoholic Liquors Sales Control Act of 1895. Now, if the Government were to enforce that clause as requested by the petitioners, the Go- vernment would be absolutely breaking the laws which were now on the statute-book. Mr. SEDDON said the honourable member's interpretation of the law was quite correct. Section 33 was not applicable to the King- country at all. The existing conditions were such that he could not say anything more than that. As these petitions had not yet been dealt with by the Committees, he would probably be brought up for breach of privilege if he did so. # FIJI. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked the Colonial Treasurer, Whether the long cablegram appearing in the London Times of the 20th July with reference to the Ordinance passed by the Government of Fiji is to be paid for out of the vote on the estimates of $300 for Reuter's telegrams? The telegram he alluded to had appeared in the Times on the date mentioned, and was stated to have been received through Mr. Lawry to the cablegram, although he thought it a little too lengthy, but he wanted to know whether this $300 that was on the estimates was to be used for supplying information to the news- papers or whether it was meant for supplying information to the Agent-General. He asked whether this cablegram was going to be paid for out of this $300 vote. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he would make inquiries into the matter. # CO-OPERATIVE WORKMEN. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) asked the Go- vernment, If the co-operative workmen in Go- vernment employment are insured against accident under the Workers' Compensation for Accidents Act ; if not, will they arrange or undertake to pay compensation for accidents on co-operative works equal to that provided by the above-mentioned Act to be paid for accidents by private employers ? This was a question of considerable moment to a large number of men working on the co operative works. Of course, the Government might have or might not have taken the steps he had in- dicated, but, at any rate, he hoped steps would be taken as soon as possible in that direction. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, so far as the co-operative workmen employed on roads and railways construction were concerned, they were not insured, but inquiries were being made in respect to the matter. His own opinion was that the State, if in the same position as private employers, should do its own insurance. # WORKERS' COMPENSATION FOR ACCI- DENTS ACT. Mr. LETHBRIDGE (Rangitikei) asked the Government, Whether the lending departments of the colony are seeing that their investments on mortgage are protected under the Workers' Compensation for Accidents Act of last session ? He understood there was no doubt the agri- cultural labourers and others did come unde! the Act, and in many cases the land was not worth what a labourer would get in the event of an accident happening. He thought the department should see that they were insured. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said it was the case in regard to the Public Trust Department, and also the Advances to Settlers Department. ## RATES ON CROWN LEASES BY COUNTY COUNCILS. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) asked the Premier. If he will consider the advisability of prevent- ing the levying of rates on Crown leases County Councils when such Councils de nothing in the way of road-making or in any way relieve the necessities of back-bl. ci settlers ? This was a question which affected nearly every newly settled district in the colony. Local bodies had levied rates on land settled by the Government when, so far as those settle- ments were concerned, those local bodies had not spent one penny in their construction o: maintenance. He did not think it was far. and he hoped the Premier would at once adopt 