Mr. SEDDON .- I rise to a point of order. 1 submit that the honourable member must withdraw that expression. It is out of order for a member of the House to say that he believes that if the Speaker had been in the chair he would not have permitted this letter to be laid on the table. That shows great dis- respect to you, Sir, and I think it is a flagrant insult to the Chair itself. I move that the honourable member's words be taken down. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I did not like to take any exception myself to the expression, but, as the Premier has called attention to it, I think it my duty to say that the expression, " that if the Speaker himself had been in the chair he would not have allowed that letter to be laid on the table," certainly reflects upon myself, and I think the honourable member will see that it is a reflection which should be withdrawn. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Sir, if the expression I have used is disrespectful to you, the tempo- rary occupant of the chair, I unhesitatingly withdraw it. However, I suppose one can, in one's own mind, still hold one's own opinion re- garding that or any other matter. Mr. SEDDON .- Sir, I ask you if it is proper for the honourable gentleman to make the last remark. Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER .- A withdrawal must be made unreservedly, without any ex- pression of opinion as to the views a member might hold. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - Sir, as I have no wish to gratify the Premier I unreservedly https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 withdraw the expression. I have been too long in the House not to know what the Premier means and what power he has. The honour- able gentleman would probably like to see me in conflict with the Chair, but he will not have that satisfaction. Now, with regard to the further purport of the letter which I am re- viewing, I should like to say that the person writing this letter speaks of the House "en- forcing a penalty for disregard of a Standing Order which has been more honoured in the breach than in the observance." I would like to ask, is that a proper expression-thus con- demning this House for not enforcing its laws, without any proof being given regarding the circumstances upon which the allegation is based. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is quite true. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Then, if it is quite true, all I can say is that I am prepared to support any member who brings forward a case to prove that the Standing Orders of the House are being disobeyed and slighted either by per- sons within the House or out of it. Sir, I have no wish to delay the proceedings of the House any further. I only wished to point out this specific instance in which the Premier has climbed down. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City). - Sir, I wish to say that, being a new member, I natu- rally take notice of what is said by the old members of the House -- particularly by the old members on the opposite side-and when the member for Bruce stated that the present diffi- culty has arisen entirely through breaches of privilege of the past being overlooked, it oc- curred to me that there was a certain amount of excuse for the offence in the present case. With regard to the question before us, there are one or two points which I wish to mention. When I spoke early in the debate I meant to compliment the members of the Committee, and to express the high respect we have for them-the member for the Bay of Plenty and others. I feel that the Committee have the respect of the entire House. An Hon. MEMBER. - Which Committee ? Mr. WITHEFORD -The Privileges Com- mittee, which has been dealing with this ques- tion. Now, we have been discussing this matter for two days, and no one, unless he is interested either sympathetically or financially with the Dunedin Evening Star, would have put Parlia- ment to the expense to which it has been put in connection with the matter. I therefore wish to ask the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), who is the great champion in this instance, and who is the man who has been the means of prolonging the discussion, if it is true, as has been rumoured, that he is one of the part-proprietors of the Dunedin Ereung Star? It has been pointed out, Sir, that no one would have exalted the representative of the Dunedin Erening Star to the position of a martyr, as the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) has done, or would have caused that paper and its representative and the doings of Parliament to be advertised and telegraphed all over the world if he did not possess some interest in the paper. Sir. the junior member for Wellington City 11.0. is a man whom I respect for his great ability. I always listen to him with pleasure, and it has been a grief to me that the papers have not reported him as he deserves : but when you consider that this House sits at an expense of some $30 an hour, I wish to know why the junior member for Wellington City dares to take upon himself the responsibility of incurring such an enormous expense upon the country in connection with this question of breach of privilege. An Hon. MEMBER. - To advertise his paper. Mr. WITHEFORD .- No, I do not believe that ; I do not believe he is influenced by per- sonal considerations. I believe, Sir, he acts as "the people's George," and that what he does he does honestly and straightforwardly. The honourable member said he would rather sur- render his seat than his principles. That was an excellent sentiment for any man, and with such principles he ought to succeed. It is said the representative of the Dunedin Frentano Star ought to be fined ; but I want to draw the attention of the House to the fact that it is not the representative of the Evening Star, of the Evening Star, that we are fining : we are fining the taxpayers of New Zealand - ne are punishing the people of this colony every hour we stay discussing this subject. And what we are doing for the paper is this : we are exalting the representative of the paper, we are putting him in the position of a martyr, and 