year. Regarding the question of increased ex- penditure, which was referred to by the mem- ber for Palmerston on the first item, he wished to say the expenditure was not so great as was supposed. The credits in 1891 amounted to £10,818, and last year to £21,329. It was easy to see how the difference had been brought about : the credits had increased on account of the work of the different departments having increased. Another matter the member for Palmerston had referred to was the book which it was alleged had been destroyed. Well, the honourable member was altogether misinformed in that matter. The books were not destroyed. He (Mr. Hall-Jones) had been so informed by the Government Printer. Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui) could not agree with the Minister on what he had said about the type-setting machines. Now that the mono- types had come in and had been tested, and had been proved to be serviceable machines, did the Minister still protest against their use ? So greatly was he impressed with the utility of the machine that he was ordering one himself. If monotypes were ordered for the Government Printing Office their cost would be saved in less than two years. At present about .£15,000 was paid annually for type-setting, and #6,000 or £8,000 of that amount would be saved by the use of the monotypes ; yet the Minister coolly said they were saving money, because they were putting off getting machines. He held it was clearly the duty of the Government to make a start. If they were frightened to get many machines, let them get only a few and test them. Practical men who understood the subject would agree with him that a large saving could be made to the colony. Mr. HALL - JONES said the position was this: If the Government had purchased lino- types last year for £700 apiece, and could get monotypes this year for £250 apiece, nothing had been lost by the delay; on the contrary, the colony had saved money. He had not yet met any one who had seen the monotypes at work. Of course, he wished to obtain all in- formation possible about them, and it was a question for consideration whether, if the necessary information came to hand, provision should be made on the supplementary estimates or not. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) moved, That the vote be reduced by £1, as an indication to the Minister in charge of the department that he had not dealt fairly in the case of the fore- woman of the girls' room. If a woman was placed in a responsible position she had a right to be properly paid for her work. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) did not wish to imitate the Minister and go back to 1890 for a comparison for the present printing vote ; he would only go back two years and draw atten- tion to the enormous increase in the gross vote. Two years ago the gross vote was $42,176, and the net £26,463. Last year the gross amount spent was £50,704. Now, he wanted some information as to whether an item like this book about the Premier's trip to the vote. He thought, at the very lowest estimate, the 2,500 copies of the book would cost £200, and he would like to know whether that was charged under the credits or whether it came directly under the printing vote. He would also like to know from the Minister whether, as Minister in charge of the Government Print- ing Office, he had authorised the printing of this book. He said it was an improper use of the power of Ministers to print accounts of their own private peregrinations at the Govern- ment expense. It had been published that the cost of that trip was something like £1,100. Well, there was an item of £1,100 on the Marine vote in connection with the trip, and something like £592 in another portion of the estimates, making, with this £200 for the book, nearly £1,900, and Goodness knew how much more which they knew nothing about. Mr. HALL-JONES said that any sales from this work would be amongst the credits. A large number of islands had been attached to New Zealand, and he quite expected the honourable member would have congratulated the Government for printing a work that would enable the people of the colony to get some information about these islands. The honour- able member said the work cost £200, and he thought that was a very cheap way of educating the people as to what these islands produced, their population, and any other in- formation about them. It was an educational work, and a work which was appreciated by those who had read it. Mr. PIRANI would like to ask the Minister whether this was charged under the printing vote. Mr. HALL-JONES said, Yes; under the general printing vote. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) was very glad the subject of this book had been referred to by the honourable member for Palmerston, because there was no doubt that, whether it was in- cluded in this vote or not, it would have to be paid for by the people of the colony. He wished to say he thought it a most useless, unneces- sary, and wasteful expenditure. Of what value was the book, and what information did it con- tain ? He noticed it contained a number of complimentary references to the Premier, and a large number of his pictures ; but, except as an advertising medium for the Premier, it was not of the very slightest value. He would like to quote one passage in regard to the Premier's visit, where he said,- "The King was the owner of a fine portrait of Her Majesty the Empress of India, and he was very delighted when promised by our Premier a large photograph of himself (Mr. Seddon) to act as a companion picture." That was the sort of stuff the taxpayers of this colony were called upon to pay for. Mr. SEDDON said the photograph had been so much appreciated that not one of them had been sent back, but on the contrary had been retained with pleasure, and caused an interest in the Islands. Mr. MASSEY asked, What was the use of 