Crown lands were reserved for such payment it would not be too great a price to pay for so noble a provision for our old people. I should like also to see the pension given to women of the age of sixty years. There are many des- perate cases at the present moment where women have been left widows : their husbands drew the pension, but their widows are not old enough to qualify under the present law, and are thrown on the charitable aid of the colony. I want to know what is the difference whether you pay by way of pension or by way of the chari- table aid funds ? I will tell you the difference, if there is one : it is, that it is cheaper to keep these old people by way of pension than out of the charitable aid fund, and you do not pau- perise them by the former method. Now, with regard to the financial position of the colony, I do not believe there is any cause for alarm ; because if you allow for the tremendous amount of expenditure which has gone on lately, and which is of a non-recurrent nature, you can confidently look forward for a very large sur- plus next year. An Hon. MEMBER .- How about the corona- tion ? Mr. HORNSBY. - We will wait till that item comes along; I do not think there will be a repetition of extravagance. But there is good and sufficient reason to call a halt in our ex- travagant practices, and I think if we are true to the principles we enunciate when we are in front of our constituents we shall see to it that a reduction is made in the cost of administering the affairs of the country. And, if we desire to have it thought that we truly represent the people, we shall try to put a stop to mere- tricious displays, to the wastefulness of a paste- board militarism and a shoddy aristocracy in this colony. Sir, during the debate we have heard http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero many references to the late lamented John Ballance, and to me some of those references were positively nauseating, for I can remember the time when he was alive when hard words hurt him, and when they reached his ears. That was the time when hard words were used, and shameless things were said ; and if we had believed only half of what we read in some newspapers concerning him when he was alive he was one of the greatest scoundrels that ever escaped a white-walled gaol. To-day they who then abused and villified him have canonised him ; he is a saint according to the same gentleman who dragged his name in the mud, and did not even spare the members of his family when he was Premier. It is always the way. I believe, myself-and I have said it on the public platform - that the day that sees the present Premier leave the Trea- sury benches, that day -- if he voluntarily leaves them-he also will be canonised, and referred to as "Saint Richard John Seddon." 'They will find out then what a great man he was, what a magnificent fellow he was, and they will tell us so unceasingly ; but the man who succeeds him, if he happens to be a Liberal, will be pelted with the same mud with which they pelted John Ballance, and with which they are pelting Mr. Hornsby it is time, so far as we are all concerned-and we are all concerned in this matter -that we should strive to put our house in order. I believe there are many savings that can be effected in the expenditure of this colony, and I want to ask members of this House, whether they belong to the Conservative side or the Liberal side, or whatever may be their politics, this straight-out question : Are you willing to assist honourable members in this House who believe that we are going too fast to help to put on the brake ? When the House divides on the question, as to whether these increases shall take place or not, what lobby are you going into? Are you going to support extravagance and keep up this extravagant expenditure, or are you going to help those who are desirous of putting on the check ? Then we shall see, and then the country will know, who are genuine Liberals and who are the men who want to wastefully expend the money of the taxpayers of this colony. Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) .- Sir, this de- bate has developed a somewhat remarkable situation, one that I have not seen in my eight years' experience in the House until now. Thirteen members have spoken in the debate. Only two of those thirteen are recognised mem- bers of the Opposition-they are leading mem- bers certainly ; the other eleven who have spoken are Ministerial members. Most of those-in fact, all-who have attempted to deal with the finances of the colony have criticized the Financial Statement and the Administra- tion unfavourably. Notwithstanding all this, not a single Minister has risen in his place to reply to the criticisms that have been made on the Financial Statement. Contrast this, Sir, with the position that obtained during the earlier years of the Liberal Government-in the days of Reeves, of Ballance, and of John Mckenzie, when they were associated with the very small number of leading members of the present Ministry remaining in office who under- stand finance. In those days we had a Minis- ter put up to follow each member who spoke on the Opposition side, and, Sir, if I do nothing else but succeed in compelling a Minister to rise in his place and answer the criticisms that have been made the time I shall occupy will not have been wasted. I hear the honourable member for Wellington Suburbs, Mr. Wil- ford, ironically laughing ; he has just come in, and is at present lying down in his seat. Sir, it is a misfortune to the country .that at the present time we have not got a numerically strong Opposition to expose weak points in policy or administration. It would be better for the country if it were so, because a strong Opposition compels the Ministry to defend themselves properly. A good policy and honest administration should stand the test of any honest criticism. Now, Sir, in consequence of the fact that the Opposition is weak, members of the Government side of the House have felt it incumbent upon them to, so far as in them lies, criticize the present financial position of the colony and the general proposals of the 