that the gentlemen on that Commission did their very best, and no doubt an opportunity will be given later on, when I shall go into the question, and hope to point out some of the objectionable features in the report that may be greatly improved. Sir, it has been stated by one member of the House who has already spoken that the Government, by appointing so many Commissions, on which were so many members of the House, gave room to infer that there was bribery and corruption on the part of the Government. I have the utmost respect for my fellow-members ; I would not for a moment insinuate or wish them to infer that I cast any slur on them : but I say that to set up so many Commissions, and place so many members of the House on those Commissions, during the recess gives the oppo- nents of the Government the opportunity, at any rate, of accusing them of bribery and cor- ruption. Sir, setting up so many Commissions alarms one, and we ask the question, has the Responsible Government of this country abro- gated its functions and delegated its powers to Commissions? It can only be looked on as a weakness on the part of any Government when the members of that Government are incom- petent to deal with great and important ques- tions, and when Commissions have to be set up for the purpose of dealing with those questions. Sir, it appears to me that this country at the present time is governed by Commissions in- stead of by a Responsible Government. I have a suggestion to make to the Government : that the editor of the Australasian Review of Reviews be communicated with, and asked to write an https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 article on "The Decline of Responsible Govern- ment in New Zealand, and the Substitution of Government by Commission"; or, better still, that the Government should employ the Rev. Joseph Berry, a cultured gentleman who is well known to the Premier of this colony, to write an article on the above subject, ac- companying which there shall be a photo. of the Ministry, and that a copy of this Review shall be circulated throughout the length and breadth of Australasia at a cost of £260 to this colony. Sir, early in the session the Premier, no doubt by invitation, attended a meeting at Pahiatua of what is known as the Producers' Union. On that occasion the honourable gentleman ad- dressed a public meeting, which was reported in the public Press. I was not present at the meeting, and therefore I only know what trans- pired from what was reported in the morning and evening papers published in this city. On that occasion the honourable gentleman in- dulged in strong language against what is known as the Farmers' Union. He characterized it as a Conservative organization, and as a resuscita- tion of the National Association. Later there was a meeting of members of this House repre- senting country electorates for the purpose of receiving a deputation from the organiza- tion I have just mentioned to explain the platform and objects of that organization. At the same time members of the House received an invitation to go to Palmerston North on the Jir. Ycredith farmers. Several members decided to accept the invitation. My honourable friend the member for Masterton attended the meeting of members of the House held in the Committee- room, and, I have no doubt honestly, in his way, pointed out to members that the meeting of farmers at Palmerston North was a meeting of a Conservative organization, and inimical to the interests of the present Government. I received a cordial invitation to go to Palmerston North, and I made up my mind that, if there were as many Conservatives amongst the farming community in Palmerston North as there were shingles on the house-tops of that borough, I should go and be present at the meeting. I attended the meeting. I was hos- pitably entertained, along with some nineteen or twenty other members of the House, and we gave the meeting some very good advice. We abused nobody, but endeavoured to assist them ; and if I might be permitted I will just read an extract from the few remarks I myself made to the meeting, so that honourable members will see I did not abuse the other side, and that I had something to say without abusing any- body. I recommended,- "(1.) Eliminate from your programme every vestige of political partisanship. We are a brotherhood with common aims and objects, for the furtherance of which we form ourselves into a union. (2.) Reduction in railway charges on the haulage of all farm-produce, including wool. (3.) The establishment of schools for dairying instruction to educate our young men and women in the latest and most improved methods of producing high-quality butter and cheese. (4.) To open up new markets outside the colony for the sale of our natural and manu- factured products. (5.) To urge on Britain the desirability of a preferential tariff favourable to the colonies, and thus enable New Zealand producers to capture a larger share of the British market for our products, which market is now largely exploited by European nations. (6.) To subsidise ships to convey to foreign markets our raw and manufactured products. (7.) That legislation favourable to the farming and producing community should be passed, and all legislation inimical to the same com- munity should be carefully watched." Sir, I have no doubt the members of this House will concur with me in the above sug- gestions I made to that important meeting of farmers. Since then meetings have been held throughout the length and breadth of the colony, and unions of farmers have been formed at the various centres of population both in the North Island and in the South Island. There can be no possible objection made to farmers organizing themselves to protect their own in- terests. The wharf - labourers organize, the tailoresses organize, the carpenters ard other trades organize, and surely there can be no possible objection to country settlers and pro- ducers organizing with a view to conserving their own interests and keeping an eve upon the legislation of this House. Sir, I notice that since the Palmerston North meeting the Pre- 