" (e.) In bonds, debentures, or other securities forming part of any loan of any Har- bour Board heretofore or hereafter constituted or incorporated under 'The Harbours Act, 1878,' or any other Act of the General Assembly of New Zealand, and whether or not such loan has been heretofore autho- rised or issued, or may be hereafter authorised or issued, in whole or in part: Provided always,- " (a.) That such bonds, debentures, or other securities form part of a loan issued under the authority of an Act of the General Assembly of New Zealand. " (b.) That the Board by which such bonds, debentures, or other securities are issued possesses statu- tory authority to rate its district, or allocate and levy contributions from local authorities within its district, for an amount sufficient to provide the annual interest payable in respect of the aggregate amount for which such bonds, debentures, or other securities shall at any time be issued, or for an amount sufficient to provide for payment of such interest after taking into account whatever sums of money may be available for such payment from the revenue of the Board for the previous year, until the loan is paid off ; or, in the absence of such statutory authority, that the Auditor-General has certi- fied in writing that in his opinion https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 such loan affords a proper investment for trust funds. "(c.) When any such certificate is granted, a copy thereof shall be pub- lished in the Government Gazette, and production of the Gazette pur- porting to contain the same shall be sufficient evidence that it has been granted. "(d.) No liability shall attach to the Auditor-General for granting or withholding any such certificate, and no claim of any holder of bonds, de- bentures, or other securities in which trust funds are by this Act authorised to be invested shall attach to or be paid out of the public revenues of New Zealand, or by the General Government thereof." The Committee divided on the question, "That this clause be read a second time." AYES, 13. McNab. Allen, E. G. Fraser, W. Hall Atkinson Hall-Jones Tellers. Bennet Barclay Hornsby Ell Mckenzie, R. Buddo. Flatman NOES, 21. Gilfedder Arnold Collins Colvin Guinness Carncross Fowlds Haselden Carroll Herries Ward. Napier Tellers. Rhodes Lawry Seddon Millar Massoy McGowan Smith, G. J. O'Meara. Mills Majority against, 8. Second reading negatived. Bill reported, and read a third time. The House adjourned at eight minutes past one o'clock a.m. (Saturday). LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Tuesday, 24th September, 1901. First Readings - Third Reading - Exportation of Arms Bill-Mortgages of Land Bill-Promissory Oaths Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READINGS. Charitable Gifts Bill, Trustee Bill. THIRD READING. Education Boards Election Bill. EXPORTATION OF ARMS BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- This Bill is one that is necessary for the purpose of the security of the Empire and its many depen- dencies, that New Zealand shall not in any shape or form be used as a depot for providing arms for other countries. The Imperial Go- vernment has expressed a desire that such a Bill should be passed, and therefore I think this Council will be quite pleased to fall in with the Home Government's views. It is a very simple Bill, and merely states that, - "The Governor may, by Proclamation, from time to time prohibit the exportation to any country or place therein named of all or any of the following articles, namely : Arms, ammuni- tion, military and naval stores, and any article which in the opinion of the Governor is capable of being converted into or made useful in in- creasing the quantity of arms, ammunition, or military or naval stores. "Such Proclamation may be made whenever in the opinion of the Governor it is expedient in order to prevent the articles specified there- in being used against His Majesty's subjects or forces, or against any forces engaged or which may be engaged in military or naval operations in co-operation with His Majesty's forces." I move the second reading of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- So as to pre- vent the possible exportation of something coming under the Schedule of this Bill, I would like to draw the attention of the Minister, so that he might bring the matter under the attention of the Defence Department, to two turret towers now rusting on the banks of the Waikato River, near Mercer. They have a 