DEFENCE REPORT. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) brought up the report on the defences of the colony, and moved, That it do lie on the table and be printed. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- Sir, before that is put I would like to ask the Minister a ques- tion. It has been reported in the papers-but we have not heard it in this House-that the Commandant of the Forces (Colonel Pole Penton) is to go to South Africa at the request of the Government to take charge of the Sixth Con- tingent. At the present time, I understand, a New-Zealander, who got an Imperial commis- sion several years ago, and who has served with credit with the Hyderabad Lancers - Major Andrews -- is in charge of that contingent, and it is said that he is to be superseded by the present Commandant of the Forces in New Zealand. What I want to ask the Premier is, whether it is correct that it is intended to supersede a colonial officer by an Imperial officer ; and, if so, whether that is done at the instance of the Government or the Defence Minister, or whether it is done at the request of the Imperial authorities ? Of course, if the latter is the case, I have nothing to say, but I think the House ought to know if that is being done by the Government or by the Defence Minister. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) .- I wish to ask the Minister another question, and that is with reference to a question I asked him last session -namely, whether the position of district ad- jutants should not be reserved for our returned https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 officers from South Africa. I understand that in more than one case an Imperial officer has been placed in the position of commander of a provincial district, especially in the South / http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero Island ; and, under the circumstances, seeing the number of officers who are returning from South Africa, some of the appointments being made are not at all in accordance with the answer I received last session. I trust the re- port is not correct. I recognise that instructors are absolutely necessary in the case of Artillery Volunteer corps. In regard to the position of provincial or district adjutant, surely officers who have seen service in South Africa are the most suitable men to appoint where the Volun- teer corps are principally rifles and mounted infantry. I trust the Premier will reply that we will keep those positions for New Zealand officers who have seen active service in South Africa. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) .- I hope we shall not have too much of this question of colonial versus Imperial officers. We must recognise that we form an integral part of a great Empire, and that the Imperial and the colonial officer are both one, and we must get the best officer possible. It may be, of course, for either political or sentimental reasons that the honourable member for Palmerston has raised this question. First of all, we are to have a commandant who has been a colonial officer. Then, because there has been a change in South Africa, we have a colonel in charge of the Sixth Contingent. It was considered necessary that we should have an officer of that rank to be in charge of that contingent. Owing to other officers being re- quested to take charge of a district in South Africa during the time the Sixth Contingent is there, Major Andrews took charge temporarily of the contingent. It is just a question of whether the officer in charge of a contingent in South Africa should be of a certain rank. My own opinion is that we want an officer of higher rank to have charge of six or seven hundred men. An Hon. MEMBER .- Colonel Penton is an artillery officer. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes, he may be; and, as to Major Andrews, my recollection of that arrangement is that he is at the present time an officer of the Imperial army, but that he is colonial-born. The next thing is, what are we to do? We are advised from time to time to send our colonial men Home in order that they may obtain an Imperial training. There is no doubt that is a proper thing to do, because you cannot get that training in the colony. At all events, the Government think, as Colonel Penton's time is up in October, and as there is this position in South Africa, and seeing he has had so much to do with the equipping and sending away of our contingents, and is an ex- perienced officer, if he is willing to take charge of the contingents for a few months-and if the Imperial authorities are willing-we should not bar the way. The present position is this : We have intimated to the War Office the position, and have asked for their approval. We have not had any reply yet. If the War Office says Yes, then, of course, he will go. The present officer is only there temporarily, and he has only had leave from the Imperial authori- ties for a short time. If I can get a colonel as against a major, or a major as against a captain, to take charge of the forces, I shall always take him. Then, the mem. ber for Kaiapoi asked a question with re- ference to the district adjutants. I told the honourable member last session that we in- tended to give these positions to those who were qualified in our own forces, and I intend to do that still. But I told the honourable member last session that we had, some months before, sent for four Imperial officers. That was done in accordance with the recommendations of the military experts. The officer referred to was then in Christchurch, and the next thing we heard was that he was in South Africa on duty. Some months elapsed before the communication reached him. That is an explanation of the delay. I may say that Colonel Robin is to take charge of the Otago District, and Colonel Davies of the Auckland District ; and in doing this I think I am keeping good faith with the House and with the country. I may say, in respect to another colonial officer now absent from the colony, that on his return -- if he comes back safe and well-he will also be appointed to the command of one of the districts. So that I am keeping good faith with the House. At the same time I do not think it is right to raise this question with the view of making political 