open lines; you last session authorised half a million, and we only spent $350,000. The orders went Home and to America, and the locomotives and rolling-stock did not come to charge last year, but were brought to book in the first quarter of this year. The expenditure in public works for last quarter was as follows :- s. d. Maintenance department - £ 28,204 14 6 New works Locomotive Department Rolling-stock 167,044 8 1 . . Workshops machinery 7,182 5 7 .. Gas plant 1 409 1 . . £202,840 11 1 You have, too, for wages mostly, an additional $28,000 for new works. You cannot get your railway engines and carriages in the work- shops in the colony, and have people in Great Britain and America making your locomotives and trucks, and then complain when the bills come to hand. I expected the amount would be high, but it will not be at the same rate for the next three quarters. Nothing of the kind. Now, I think I have removed every doubt as regards the expenditure, and the increased in- debtedness, and the increased salaries. I now come to what some of the members have said during the debate. I will give the first place to the member for Hawke's Bay. That honour- able gentleman accused me of bribery. Now, what happened ? I find this recorded : Mr. Fraser, speaking to his constituents, said,- " He then secured the co-operation of Captain Russell, and buttonholed Ministers. When the supplementary estimates were brought down, there was €3,500 provided." An Hon. MEMBER .-- Which Fraser ? Mr. SEDDON .- There is only one real Fraser in the House-the member for Napier. He said that when the supplementary estimates were brought down he got the assistance of Captain Russell and the two buttonholed me, and I, in a weak moment, was seduced from the path of rectitude and virtue and gave them $3.500 : I bribed Hawke's Bay and the honour- able member by giving them $3,500 for the Spit Road. Now, Sir, I say that honourable gentle- men who come to Ministers and insist on ex- penditure in their districts, and also help other honourable members to have money expended, ought not to turn round on the deluded but generous Colonial Treasurer and say, " Bribery, bribery !" When the honourable member for Hawke's Bay again comes to me for expendi- ture I shall stipulate that if I give him any- thing it will be on condition that he does not accuse me of bribery. That honourable gentleman said, further, that last year there was an increased expenditure on our railways of £97,000; and he further said-and I hope that his words will be taken to heart by every farmer in New Zealand : "There must be no further concessions on our railways." That is the policy of the Opposition as enun- ciated by the honourable member for Hawke's Bay. There is to be no further concessions to the farmers, producers, or any one else on our VOL. CXVIII .- 34. railways. He is not the only member on the Opposition side of the House who has said that there must be no further concessions on our railways. That part has been played before by them, and those honourable members have always argued that our railways should be administered by Commissioners, who would refuse to give concessions. Their friends the Commissioners bled the people, prevented invest- ment, and almost suffocated the producers of the country. The only desire of the Opposition and their friends is to save themselves. Fear- ing further taxation, they say, " Do not give any further concessions on the railways." To save themselves they would keep up abnormally high rates to the detriment of our farmers. But we object to this. After we have made our railways pay 3 per cent. on their cost, we have given anything above that principally to the producers of the country. Sir, the railways should not be turned into machines for bleeding the people. They are intended for the conveni- ence and the comfort of the inhabitants of the colony. They are further intended to promote settlement and our industries. This can only be done by having the lowest possible rates. Far be it from me to say one word that would detract from the memory of the late Sir Harry Atkinson; but I must refer to the remark of the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, to the effect that our borrowing as com- pared with that of the late Sir Harry Atkinson when he was Colonial Treasurer was enormous. Now, Sir, while Premier and Treasurer, that gentleman borrowed £8,154,618, or at the rate of $1,359,000 per annum, and the whole of this was non-revenue or interest-producing. The amount borrowed by us is, on the same basis, $297,000 per annum. The honourable gentle- man said that the Opposition were opposed to the co-operative works. I would ask him to challenge the Government on that head, and they will be prepared to meet them. The honourable gentleman also said, in most pa- thetic tones, " What would happen if the five thousand men employed under the co-opera- tive system were discharged ?" This is what would happen : Our roads and railways would be made under the contract system at a greater cost. The same number of men would also have to be employed. Men are not being employed on the co-operative works to till in time; and no work is undertaken unless it is of national importance, and has been de. manded and voted for by honourable members in this House. That being so, I say it is very unfair of the member for Hawke's Bay, and of those honourable members opposite, to adversely criticize what we are doing in this respect. The honourable member for Hawke's Bay concluded his speech with reference to something mythical, and said a party was coming down and taking possession of the Premier and carrying him away in blue flames. I think he also said something as to what would be a fitting epitaph for me. That was a grave subject to talk about, and outside the Budget, or finance, for under those conditions £ s. d. would not be a consideration, and it 