member for Bruce, jumped overboard and gave I should be accepted, and in doing this we are him a clear indication that he could not sup- placing the matter upon all-fours with every port his resolution ; and so did the honourable former case. However, Sir, some of our own member for Franklin. Mr. J. ALLEN .- And yet you say we made cover, as has been stated by some honourable member, the cost incurred in connection with it a party question. Sir J. G. WARD .- Well, the honourable come down and suggest that this should be member saw the folly and the consequences ; he saw what was going to occur, and he sud- done, what occurs ? Why, immediately some denly realised the fact that he was going to honourable member opposite and the honour- have a new leader in the honourable member able member for Riccarton try to make a for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), and he took mountain out of a molehill, and commence to fright, and was afraid to vote for the resolution. discuss not the question of privilege, but they Then the honourable member for Wellington make an attack on the head of the Government. City (Mr. Fisher), when he was very nearly being sent for, found himself in a hopeless minority of eighteen to forty-two, instead of The having forty-two to eighteen votes. honourable member for Wellington City paled House of Commons, the leader of the House, immediately, and we all noticed on this side of the House that he looked sad and dejected as soon as he was deserted by the two lieu- tenants of his new party. Very well ; in the first instance I came down to the House and suggested that the publisher and reporter of the Dunedin Evening Star should be brought before the bar of the House, but that was looked upon as an undesirable thing. Mr. J. ALLEN .- No. Sir J. G. WARD .- Not by the honourable member ; I have said so already. But, in con- sequence of the farcical ending of all previous efforts in the direction of bringing the reporter or publisher to the bar of the House, what did we do? The course which most commended in connection with his department, came for- itself to members of this House was to set up a ward to deal with it he was greeted with a Committee, and we did so. The Committee reported. and as soon as the report comes down honourable members opposite want the reporter and publisher of the paper brought before the House ; and so does the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher). Although we set up the Committee really on the suggestion of of the House. That was the way they hastened honourable members opposite, to prevent the Press people being brought to the bar of the land. But what has been imputed to the House, we were not able to please them in that head of the Government by the last speaker ? respect. Very well ; then the Government bring down a resolution on lines similar to that in publishing balloons concerning himself and adopted in this House on every previous oc- casion-except the case of Sir Julius Vogel, very many years ago-exactly on lines carried out in every former privilege case, and immediately is absolutely without foundation. honourable members opposite say that this is that the honourable member has done the Pre- not going far enough for them; and we find mier a gross injustice. Some months ago an members opposite, and also amongst our own party, who want to impose a fine. And the a rumour about a Governorship that appeared honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. in this journal, but there was not a tittle of Fisher) is the medium through which the effort truth in that statement. I am now referring is made, because they want to have a slap at to a statement made outside the House. the Government, and do not care how they able member say there is not a tittle of truth do it. An Hon. MEMBER .- Be charitable. in what I stated ? Sir J. G. WARD .- I am always charitable ; but, Sir, honourable members know perfectly of truth in the statement about the Fiji Governorship. well what has occurred. In consequence of a difficulty in connection with this comparatively say whether there is any truth in the honour- able member's statement or not, but I should infinitesimal matter the House declares its privileges have been infringed, and then de- be exceedingly sorry to accuse him of untruth- fulness. But I say an attempt has been made clares by resolution that the expression of regret VOL. CXVIII .- 28. party want to go further and inflict a fine, to this matter. Then, when the Government And yet we have this instance in the House of Commons on the 21st July last, where a breach of privilege was committed by the Daily Mail, and, after that was dealt with by the Mr. Balfour, declined to call the proprietor or the publisher of the paper before the bar of the House, and declined to go through the farce of inflicting a penalty upon them. An Hon. MEMBER .- What was the breach of privilege ? Sir J. G. WARD .- The breach of privilege is reported in the Daily Mail, and members will find it under the heading, "Challenge to Mr. Brodrick." I have got it here, to the extent of a column and a half, and any honourable mem- ber can see it ; and the difference there and here is that when Mr. Brodrick, who was the man against whom the breach of privilege had been committed by the publication of matters tremendous burst of cheering. That was the way honourable members in the House of Commons helped him when his leader had made up his mind not to impose a fine on the newspaper proprietor or reporter, and not to call the reporter or the publisher before the bar to uphold the dignity of Parliament in Eng- He said the reporter of the Dunedin Evening Star had been the mouthpiece of the Premier the policy of the Government. And he said that this was his price. I say that statement In saying attempt was made to connect the Premier with Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - Does the honour- Sir J. G. WARD .- I say there is not a tittle I am not in a position to 