in large or small quantities, there is not the | to the Natives. If it is right for the Government same gain to the colony in cutting it up as there would be in spending half the amount of money in securing the cultivation and settle- ment of the waste lands of the colony. In addition to that, if the Government would take in hand and make a vigorous attempt to open up the Crown and Native lands of the colony they would do something to obviate what every one admits to be an evil-namely, the dearness of land. The Crown and Native lands being locked up by the Government is tending to create that scarcity - that earth - hunger - which was referred to in the Address from His Excellency at the beginning of the session. It is all tending to accentuate this evil ; and if the Government would set to work and open up Crown lands they would provide food for those hungry people. The proposal I make of increas- ing the tax on land-values and remitting Customs duties is the only one that will, in a natural way, discourage the speculation in land values that has been going on for so long, and is going on at . When the Premier was the present time. asked about the opening-up of Crown lands in the North Island, I heard him say that he could not get surveyors. I think, in the Auck- land District we could provide him with some if he has not sufficient in the department. But this is not the trouble. I have it on satisfactory authority that in some parts of the colony sur- veyors are working two or three years ahead of any possible settlement ; while in other parts land is lying ready for settlement alongside good roads and close to railways, and no attempt is being made to open it up. Here I want to draw the attention of the Minister for Public Works to the land in the Ohura Valley. The rail- way will be running to Kawakawa in Septem- ber-that is, within five or six miles of the beginning of a large block of Crown land. Running right alongside of this block for twenty miles, on the other side of a river, is as good a road as any in the Auckland Province. Now, why is it that this Crown land has remained un- settled, unoccupied, and unopened for settlement so long, when we are sending our settlers into the back blocks, which calls for drafts year after year on the Treasury for making roads to those blocks? Is it because Auckland is the natural outlet for that land ; or what explanation can they give that land lying alongside a good road and close to a railway remains unsettled, whilst we are buying lands for settlement in other parts? I have in my possession in Auck. land a sample of cocksfoot taken off this land which measures 6 ft. 3 in., and I defy any part of the colony to produce a better sample. We have in the North Island, as most of you are aware, large quantities of Native land standing as a bar to settlement. I have no desire at all that any policy should be inaugurated that would deprive the Natives of this colony of the benefits they are entitled to in their lands. But the measure we passed last year simply locked up Native lands, so that the Natives get no advantage, and is a complete check to any possibility of settlement. There are two or three ways in which the Native-land policy could be easily settled, and in which justice could be done to compulsorily acquire private lands held by Europeans in cases where the land is cultivated and put to fairly good use, I maintain it is equally right for the Government to do so in cases where lands are lying idle blocking settlement. I want again to direct the attention of the Go- vernment to a large block of Native land within about twenty miles of Auckland, beginning at the Waikato Heads and running from there to Raglan, a distance of fifty miles by an average of eight or ten miles wide, and a good part of it fairly good land. This land at the present time is held by a loan company, with about three years of lease to run ; and I say the Government ought to take steps so that when that lease ex- pires the land will in some way or other be thrown open for settlement to the people of the colony, and others coming into the colony. I say the wisest policy that can be adopted in this country is the policy that will secure the opening-up and development of the waste lands rather than the buying of private lands for the purpose of closer settlement. There are in the North Island large tracts of magnificent land, and if they were opened up they would attract our young people, and also attract people from other lands. Population is one of the great requirements of this colony. I say we ought to follow a policy that will make our country attractive for people to come to. I ask, why do so few people come to this colony ? We see from the Census Report that only a small num- ber of people above the natural increase have been added to the population in the last five years. Why is this so? You would think, hearing some people talk, that the wages of workers are very much higher in this country than in other colonies. I would like to draw your attention to page 19 of the Federation Report, and you will read there the report on the condition of the working-classes; and I know that report does not express the whole opinion of some members of the Commission. Even if wages are only as high in Australia as they are in New Zealand, I say, with the advantages of climate that we have here- with equal wages in proportion to the cost of Jiving, the workers in Australia would flock to this colony. But by our insane policy of restrictive tariffs and restrictive legislation in many directions, we are trying to make this a very desirable country for people to live out of. I want to change our policy, and I make an appeal to members of this House to join with me in trying to secure a policy more in conformity with the principles of justice-a policy that will open up the waste lands of the colony for settlement, that will divide taxa- tion equitably, and will see that the revenue is equitably spent. I say I make an appeal to members of this House to do this in the name of justice, remembering that- He's true to God who's true to man. Where'er a wrong is done To the humblest or the weakest, 'Neath the all-beholding sun, That wrong is also done to us; And they are slaves most base Whose love of right is for themselves, And not for all the Race. 