Sir J. G. WARD said the honourable mem- ber for Bruce could state, by reading his Hansard proof, what the actual words were. The effect of what he said was this: He could prove that, in consequence of something the Premier had not done, a cable had been re- ceived from, he thought the honourable mem- ber said, the doctor at Albany, and he further said that the Premier had been advised that it would be dangerous to the lives of the men to The honourable send them by a cold route. member then went on to say that the responsi- bility of the death of the sick men was on the shoulders of the Premier. It was a terrible charge made against any man; and on what evidence had he made the charge? On the cable the Premier had read from Colonel Davies as to what the doctor had informed him before the steamer left Albany. The colonel said it would be unwise to send the men to the Bluff. The whole thing summed up meant, at the worst, the difference between the Bluff and Wel- lington provided, of course, that the Premier had had it in his power to change the destina- tion of the vessel. The fact was. however, that the Premier could not control the movements .of the steamer ; if he had been able to do so he might, as some members had suggested, have sent the vessel to Auckland. When the steamer left Capetown the instructions from Lord Kitchener were that it was to proceed to the Bluff ; but the transport officers, who were inde- pendent of the army and controlled the whole business, ordered that the vessel should proceed to Wellington vin Albany. At Albany it was found that the instructions had been altered again, and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 that the vessel was to make for the Bluff. Then, the master of the steamer, and the Admiralty as well, believing that the Bluff was unsafe, cabled Home on the matter, and two days were / http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero lost in doing so, and the Premier knew nothing of it. Then, because it was a question between the difference between the Bluff and Dunedin, and as the honourable member had heard some- thing outside that question, he made it the basis of a charge against a man occupying the responsible position held by the Premier, and further said the Premier had so acted for politi- cal purposes. He had been in the House for a good many years, and he had seen and taken part in a good many fights, but he had never seen or known anything like the present position be- fore. He regretted that the honourable mem- ber for Bruce had not seen fit to withdraw his charge, and express regret at having made it. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) said, Sir, what had been disclosed during the present discussion showed the suitability of Auckland as a port of call for steamers coming from the tropics, and would emphasize its suitableness as the port of call for the Fr'isco mail-steamers. He might state that, with Captain Walker, who was in command of the Auckland contin- gent, he visited the "Tagus," and, in reply to questions he asked, he ascertained that the ship was not overcrowded-that there were three or four hundred men less on board than were usually carried on that ship ; also, that every had no fault to find. It was only fair to the Government to say that. Whether the Health Department was entirely free of blame in their action after the men had landed, that was a different matter ; but no blame could be imputed to the Premier, as had been done. It was not fair to impute the sickness to the Government. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) felt that this could not be allowed to stop where it was, and. as members were in doubt as to what actually was said, he would move to report progress. with a view of obtaining from the Hansard reporters the remarks of the honourable mem- ber. The ACTING-CHAIRMAN pointed out that there was already a motion before the Com- mittee to report progress. Mr. SEDDON said, Probably the honourable member for Bruce would repeat the exact words. and he might on reflection see that he had gone further than he had intended. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) thought that the honourable member for Bruce might adopt th: suggestion of the Premier that he should mak: the same statement outside the House. Per- sonally, he thought it was a mistake for mem- bers to say inside the House what they were not prepared to say outside; but, unfortunately. that rule was not adopted by members, with the exception of himself. Anything he said in the House he was prepared to publish in às own paper and take the consequences. Hi thought it would be much better if matters ci this sort should be dealt with by some outside tribunal, otherwise they would only have per- sonal recrimination and waste of time. He did not for a moment approve of setting up a Committee to deal with this matter. even though it might be an impartial Committee. He did not think the House should deal with any charge against the member that did nt arise out of something in the House itself, and he thought it was wrong altogether to mait charges against any member on a matter thx was not a question of politics or a matter arising in the House. If members were willing to make charges of that sort they should i prepared to take the full consequences. Ht thought the offer of the Premier to the memiet for Bruce was perfectly fair and reasonable. because there were practically only two men- bers who were concerned, and that the honour- able member for Bruce could take his Hawsari proof and make the charge that was in it out- side the House. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) thought this matter had been laboured too much. He understood the member for Bruce had accused the Premier of declining to alter the course of the ship to . warmer voyage, and that by not interfering. but letting it go to Dunedin, he had thereby caused the death of those men. An Hon. MEMBER .- He said a great dedi more than that. Mr. BOLLARD .- Surely he did not mear more ? No common-sense member could most that the Premier had deliberately sent these men to their death. 