of the then leader of the House, the Postmaster- General, decided to set up a Committee to dis- cover, if possible, the means by which this evidence passed to the hands of the gentleman who caused its publication. That Committee sat, and considered, and reported to the House that, after having made investigation and ques- tioned all likely persons, and having received a denial of all knowledge of the circumstances from every one, they arrived at a certain indi- vidual - to wit, Albert Elias Cohen-who ac- knowledged that he was the medium through which it was published. It came into his possession, by what means he declined to state, and the Committee of inquiry reported these matters to the House. Now, what is more easy to understand than that a newspaper man will get hold of information and will publish it. It is his business. There is no romance about it ; there is no sentiment about it; but a news- paper man with the experience of Mr. Cohen knows that, if from any member of the House or by any other process he gets this informa- tion and publishes it, he commits a breach of privilege. And he also knows, judging from his long experience in the past, that generally nothing has come of breaches of privilege, and he took whatever risk there was and anticipated any penalty that might ensue in the publication of the information. Now, so far from hoping or anticipating that if called to the bar of the House he might reveal the identity of his accomplice, I consider that had he done so he would have been a contemptible skunk. And what was the price that he was prepared to pay for that special information ? He knew, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 Sir, that he ran the risk of having to pay any penalty this House chose to inflict : and there it is stripped at a glance. There is no question of personal feeling on my part ; there is no question of personal feeling or party feeling on the part of the most of those who wanted the Premier to do the right and dignified thing. They simply say this- An Hon. MEMBER .- What do you want ? Mr. HUTCHESON .- If the Hon. the Minis- ter of Mines will possess his soul in peace he will probably hear what my views are. I am not after " Blood ! blood ! " which yesterday the Premier declared in tragic tones we were howling for. I think the flaming red carpet on the floor must be getting on his nerves. I was unable to see anything à propos when he stopped short in his speech and in stentorian tones roared " Blood ! blood !" An Hon. MEMBER .-- Who said that ? Mr. HUTCHESON. - It was the Premier who said that. It seemed to me the glaring red of the drapery and carpet of this chamber was affecting him in the proverbial way - he said " Blood," I presume, because at present he sees everything red. Now, if I were a Press- man I would endeavour to get information for my paper by all fair means, but I would not ". let on " that I did not know that I was com- mitting any wrong and taking no chances. When the Premier submitted his resolution yesterday he assured the House that the reso- Cabinet. Mr. SEDDON .- Hear, hear. Mr. HUTCHESON. - Another instance of "scientific adjustment." But there is the danger of an adverse vote of this House, and that part of the matter was of more importance to the honourable gentleman than anything else. That is the paramount question. It was the honourable gentleman who first imported that personal aspect, and who subsequently im- ported the party aspect into the debate. Any Press representative who had done what Mr. Cohen has done would expect to run the risk of being fined or being otherwise dealt with, know- ing full well that he was committing a breach of privilege. Now, this particular Standing Order may be foolish and obsolete and useless -- I am not going to argue for a moment that aspect of the question - but the only personal feeling that I hold, and which I share in common with my brother members who have any sense of pro- portion at all, lies in the unsolicited affront contained in this presumptuous and cheeky letter. As to the other matter, I have an absolutely impersonal feeling upon it; but I do admit to have a personal feeling of affront to the intelligence of this House that we should be asked to accept this communication as an apology. Sir, I charge the Premier with being cognisant of the I say that he must terms of this letter. have perused it before it came here, because that would be in keeping with his ordinary practice. I am not prepared to say that the Premier actually drafted the letter, but I know that he is wary enough to make himself person- ally acquainted with its contents before it came to the House. I further venture to assert that this letter was inspired by the Premier with the view of letting-off the gentleman who has transgressed, and his paper also, as lightly as possible. I have not the least doubt of that. When my colleague (Mr. Fisher) put the in- exorable logic of facts before the House, such as would have enabled him to have carried his amendment by two to one, what did the Pre- mier do ? He held a caucus. He made this a strictly party question when members expressed their opposition to his resolution ; and the Pre- mier then said, What is the price of your com- promise ? He imagined at first that it was a question of blood that they were after; but there was not a single member who cared much as to the penalty at all. It was only a question of the means by which this House might express its sense of displeasure, first of all at a deliberate breach of the Standing Orders- perhaps not a serious crime in this particular case, but to which was added the further affront of this letter. What is the ultimate result ? One of his colleagues as the member for Palmerston predicted at the begin- ning of this debate-said an amendment would be moved by a member of that side to the Premier's own motion, which was so carefully considered by the Cabinet, and that amend- ment has been attempted to be moved by the Minister of Mines. The honourable gentle- 