and that is that the Government could not see their way to extend the arrangements in con- nection with the Royal visit so far as to enable the Maoris of the South Island to meet the Duke in their own homes. However, I know that the visit was all mapped out and arranged be- forehand, and the plan that had been laid down had to be adhered to. On the occasion of their Royal Highnesses' visit to the South Island Maoris came from the far south, from Muri- hiku, Ruapuke, Rakiura, and other places, and travelled as far north as Otago, and even Christchurch, in the hope to see his Royal Highness. However, even though they were, through force of circumstances, denied that honour, yet they are proud that they were able to make His Royal Highness a present of a greenstone ornament and other articles of value, as evidence of their loyalty and affec- tion to him. Sir, I do not propose to detain the House any longer. Debate adjourned. The House adjourned at half-past ten o'clock p.m. LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Tuesday, 10th September, 1901. Third Reading-Vaccination-Companies Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. THIRD READING. Ashburton County Council Empowering Bill. # VACCINATION. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS moved, That the return laid on the table of the Council on Wed. nesday, 4th September, being Paper No. 110. and referring to births registered and vaccina- tions recorded, et cetera, during the past five years, be printed. In moving the motion he merely wished to point out that a number of gentlemen in the Council opposed a motion on the question when he spoke on it in the Council a few weeks ago. The reason he had moved the motion was that he had found that in the House of Commons a similar return had been presented since the abolition of compul- sory vaccination in Britain. Why some honour- able members opposed that motion he really did not know, for it would probably have helped those who held views different from those he held on compulsory vaccination. His honour- able friend the Minister of Education objected to the word "conscientious." Recognising that " conscience " was not considered of much importance nowadays, he (Mr. Jennings) had that word eliminated from the motion to oblige 1 his honourable friend. But he found that, ac- cording to the return that was presented to the House of Commons last year-and the abolition of compulsory vaccination in Eng- Mr. Parata 1898 no less than 230,147 " conscientious " objections were received by the Registration Department at Home, and exemptions were granted to all those persons, so that it was recognised in the highest Parliament in the world that " conscientious " objection to com- pulsory vaccination was an objection that should be taken into consideration. In dealing with the return that had been presented to the Council he would like to draw the attention of honourable members to the figures for the past five years dealing with births and vaccination. In the year 1896 the number of births regis- tered was 18,605 ; the number of vaccinations re- corded was 11,917. For the following years- 1897, 1898, and 1899-there was almost a simi- larity of figures ; but he would not trouble the Council with them. In the year 1900 the number of births registered was 19,54%. and the number of vaccinations recorded had gone down to the low figures of 4,535. That was in consequence of the Public Health Act that had been passed last year, relieving people in this colony from having compulsory vaccination enforced on their children. Now. these figures spoke very strongly. As he had maintained for the past seven years, compul- sory vaccination was not at all necessary in a colony like this -- that the immunity we en- joyed from epidemic diseases, such as small- pox and kindred diseases. was so great that it was unnecessary to have a provision on our statute-books in any way favouring compulsion. If any case of small-pox did occur, the quaran. tine regulations were so perfect that it could be dealt with effectively. There was no doubt whatever of that fact, as he remembered what had been done in this colony on a case arising some thirty years ago; and that particular case was the only one of small-pox that had ever occurred in the colony. He was pleased to see, on looking over some of the newspapers published in the colony, that there were letters from medical gentlemen, as well as editorial comments, favouring the view he held -that compulsory vaccination should not be enforced in this colony. The other point of the return that he wished to emphasize was this : that in 1896 eighteen persons were fined for refu-ing to have their children vaccinated ; in 1807. 10; in 18 8, 10 ; and in 1899. 16-making a total of fifty-four persons who, for holding honest views -or perhaps it might be that personal pique might enter into these circumstances were brought before a Magistrate and fined. His contention was that, if so many thousands of people as the return showed had not had their children vaccinated, it was wrong that a few should be singled out. He hoped that the Go- vernment would see their way clear, in the Public Health Amendment Act now before Parliament, to render exemptions more east of attainment. In another place he was very pleased to see that a great number of mem- ber> opposed compulsory vaccination : and also spoke against giving full powers to Stipendiary Magistrates. As was very properly pointed out by some honourable members, a Stipendiary 