moved to repeal and set aside. He (Mr. Tanner) watched the conduct of their members, for, said, at the time that resolution was passed, whilst complaints were sometimes made that that it would remain on the Standing Orders of constituents were exacting in trifles, they ap- the House just so long as it suited the Premier peared to overlook larger matters of principle. and no longer. If the House met a little earlier He regretted that physical inability prevented him from pursuing the subject further. in the year, as it ought to do, and as the Pre- mier more than once had promised it should had a very interesting speech on this subject of do, it would be possible to get through their work within reasonable hours and within a rea- adjourning at an early hour, and also in regard to the date when 'Parliament should be called sonable time. But since the honourable gentle- together, from the honourable gentleman. man had been Premier he had run the meeting Circumstances always control the time at which of the House later and later every session, until the meeting of Parliament was to be called, on this occasion, although there was some and there were many things which necessitated excuse for it on account of the Royal visit, the fixing of the date of Parliament at a later they had over-passed the time during which period now than was the case before. There money might be legally spent. In 1893, his was a strong desire on the part of a majority first year, the House was called together on the 22nd June, a much later date than in of country members not to have the meeting former years, for in 1888 the House met on the of Parliament at an earlier period, and every. 10th May, and then there was a reasonable honourable member knew that the Government opportunity to get through the work of the must as far as possible study the convenience of all sections of the House. No Government session during the winter, and get away at a had a desire to postpone the time for the reasonable time. But ever since the honour- meeting of Parliament; and he could assure able gentleman had occupied the position the the honourable member there had been no dates had been the 22nd June, 23rd June, 20th desire on the part of the present Government June, 11th June-there was really a hope that to delay the convening of Parliament at all. the Premier had embarked on the path of re- Now, regarding this proposal of the honourable form then, but it was a forlorn hope; in 1897, member for Nelson City to limit the hour to 23rd September, which was in consequence of midnight, that was the question now before the second session held that year, and since then the 24th June, the 23rd June, and this the House. The last honourable member and, he was sure, those who preceded him were all year the 1st July. If the Premier could do anxious, provided we could carry on business in away with voting the estimates, he believed the a reasonable way, to get back to their homes with- honourable gentleman would suggest to the out unnecessary delay. Now, what did the pro- country the advisability of not calling Parlia- posal of the member for Nelson City mean ? ment together at all. As it was, he was driving If you fixed an arbitrary time for adjournment the meeting of Parliament to the last legal at midnight it would mean prolonging the day on which money could be spent, and the session very materially. There appeared to be honourable gentleman absolutely relied during an idea that the Government wanted to drive the session on the House going practically "as you please" for the first few weeks-to compress the work into the last few weeks, because no man would libel the House by saying that they ever did any work during the first month. The Premier relied on the fact that as the session drew late, and ran into October that rest- less feeling which possessed members to get away would pervade the House and induce a general feeling of hurry and indifference. Look at the divisions which took place during the last days of the session-thirty members in one and thirty-five in another, more than half the House being absent, and many of them having quitted Wellington entirely. It seemed to him that any man who was not pre- pared to adjust his business to the necessities of the State when a member of the House had no right to receive the pay of the colony. Strong and uncomplimentary expressions were used of men in industrial life who received pay for which they rendered no equivalent, but what were we to say of forty men leaving the House at a time when the bulk of the esti- mates still remained to be passed, when thirty Bills were to be slammed through in a single night, and when an important decision was to be arrived at regarding Fiji and many other matters? He thought it was time the public of New Zealand woke up to the matter, and Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) .- We the estimates through Committee at a very rapid rate, and to get them through without much discussion. So far as he was aware, the Government wanted to have the estimates dealt with in the ordinary way. Honourable mem- bers were naturally anxious to have a reasonable time to discuss the estimates. If the hour of adjournment were fixed for midnight, what would occur? Three or four men, if they so desired, could arrange among themselves at eleven o'clock not to allow any further business to be done. That had already been done this session in connection with the half-past ten adjournment. There was a clear understanding, so far as the financial debate was concerned, that honourable members on the Opposition side of the House had finished speaking, and that the Premier would have an opportunity of reply. But, so far, the Premier had not been able to reply, and that was almost unheard- of in the procedure of Parliament. Even assuming that there was no arrangement, would it not be the easiest thing in the world to carry on a debate till past twelve o'clock on any parti- It would be infinitely easier cular occasion ? upon the estimates for any three or four men, after eleven o'clock, to prevent anything further being done in Committee of Supply. Some honourable members were continually making 