honourable gentlemen who have spoken ad- versely of the financial position of the colony, but I am bound to credit them with sincerity of purpose. But, Sir, what else can we expect ? Only a short time ago the last speaker but one indulged in just such observations and criti- cisms as have been indulged in by the rank and I refer to the Hon. Mr. file of the House. Hall . Jones, Minister for Public Works. It must have been surprising to honourable mem- bers that the Minister for Public Works, of all Ministers on the Treasury benches, should be the Minister to so soundly rate honourable members on this side of the House for their Indeed, Sir, he not only adverse criticism. did that, but he indulged in extremely undig- nified criticism of honourable members, and many of his remarks were, I think, of an unwarrantable and unseemly character. And yet what Minister is there upon the Trea- sury benches who has furnished a more striking example for honourable members to follow in the very direction he now condemns? I will ask honourable members just for a moment to go back with me to the year 1895. In that year the present Minister for Public Works (the Hon. Mr. Hall-Jones) was a private member in the House. It was the year before he was raised to Cabinet rank, and that year, Sir, he delivered his last speech as a private member on the Financial Statement. 1 remember that speech very well indeed. While the honourable mem- ber was speaking just now, and castigating other members for freely criticizing the Finan- cial Statement, my mind instantly flew back to the year 1895, when from his place there on the floor of the House he stood and delivered the following statement. He said,- "Sir, I think the marked feature in this debate has been the outspoken criticism indulged in by Government supporters. I do not know that this is to be regretted, because I do not think those supporters of the Government who criticized, in many cases severely, the proposals contained in the Budget did so with the idea of turning the Government off those benches, but rather to keep them in the right path. They considered it to be their duty to their con- stituents and to the country to make the remarks they made, and I am glad to see the Government have taken those remarks in good part. It seems almost a waste of time to go into the finances, seeing they have been dealt with by some of the ablest financiers of the House. But it seems to me we have actually no surplus at all. If we take the actual depart- mental earnings for the year, and compare them with the actual departmental expenditure, I fail to see that we have a surplus at all. On the contrary, we find a deficiency of about £230,000." Now, I want honourable gentlemen to note that when the Hon. Mr. Hall.Jones was a private member fearless criticism, honest criticism, was to be commended. Before the honourable gentleman was in the Ministry the Government did not resent strong criticism, and the honourable gentleman had to congra- Mr. Collins severe criticism. I wish I could congratulate the honourable gentleman as he congratulated the Government in 1895. Sir, at that time the Government claimed to have a substantial sur- plus. The honourable gentleman denied the existence of a surplus. That is exactly what those honourable members have been doing during this debate, and which the honourable gentleman has condemned to-night. I myself agree with the honourable gentleman that we have a surplus, and I believe there is absolutely no fault to find with the consolidated revenue of the colony. I am not one of those pessimists who believe that we are rapidly drifting to dis- aster. I view the position with equanimity and with a considerable amount of pleasure. I be- lieve those honourable gentlemen have mis- taken the position ; but surely they can be credited with honesty in their criticism. And if they are mistaken, Sir, whose fault is it that this debate took the turn it did ? Whose fault was it that speaker after speaker followed in the same strain ? I undertake to say that if the Minister for Railways had delivered the speech he delivered yesterday in the early period of the debate half of those speeches com- plained of would never have been delivered. He would have been able to have placed the position before members in such a manner-as he did-that those speeches would not have been delivered in the manner they were. I. for one, say again that those honourable gentlemen have made a mistake. I believe there never was a time-in fact, I am sure of it-when the country was in a better financial position than it is now. If the indebtedness of the country is heavy, there never was a time when the public wealth was so great, or the private wealth was so great, or when the wages earned by the workers were so high. There never was a time when the standard of comfort was higher, when the prosperity of the country was more assured, than it is at the present time. If that is sc, what reason is there for enter- taining these pessimistic views? It seems to me there are no such parties as Liberal and Conservative. We are optimists and pessi- mists now, and I am pleased to say I am still able to retain my optimistic attitude. As I have said, it would be absurd at the present time to attempt to enter into any lengthy criti- cism of the Financial Statement. I do not intend to do so; and, indeed, in the short time in which I shall venture to ask the attention of the House, I shall simply refer to one or two matters, and the first item to which I shal refer is that of the Crown tenants' rebate of reut. The Financial Statement says,- " Last session the Rebate of Crown Tenants Act was passed. Its working has not been satisfactory or equitable in its incidence. Ar amendment of the Act is necessary.' Now, Sir, honourable members will remember that when that Crown Tenants' Rent Rebate Bill was before the House last session, I, in common with one or two other members of the House, roundly opposed that measure : and, Sir. we at that time were just as hotly condemned 