colony some service? I admit there is not much produce trade on the route, but it will be an "all-red " line, and will benefit the colonies which have our interests at heart, and not help the United States, which hedges round its trade with special duties and special mari- time laws which are distinctly adverse to us. Our trade is done with the eastern coast of the United States of America, and in that direction we have nothing to thank them for. Almost the whole of the products which come from these eastern States are reapers-and-binders, kerosene oil, and other articles connected with agricultural work, which have no import duty on them whatsoever. Hence they derive trade ad- vantages with this colony, and the way they pay us back is in the coin of preventing British trade and British ships trading between one port and another in that country. 'I think we should begin to alter this matter, and encourage the Government to promptly put a veto on the F'r'isco service, and get a good service via Suez. It would not be more than three days longer, and I believe it would be equally effec- tive, notwithstanding the fact that perhaps the business portion of the colony might not receive business letters within a day or two of the time they do at present. Every business house has the use of a certain cable code : one word is used for an address, and two or three words in the case of the articles sent for, and I believe a large proportion of the orders on the British market are sent by cable. The Fr'isco mail-service is pure sentiment in regard to letters coming to this colony two or three days sooner than by a fast service cid Suez. 1 may https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 say, shortly, that I am strongly adverse to the Fr'isco service, and I shall vote against it on every occasion I get an opportunity, in favour of a service by British steamships, and having http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero British interests at heart. Now, Sir, just a word in regard to public works. We have at the present time a very large indebtedness with regard to public works. We added to that in- debtedness very considerably last year. public works expenditure totalled $1,809,000, and a very considerable portion of that was added to the funded debt of the colony. We propose to spend $1,950,000 during the coming financial year, but I would point out that the Government is not altogether responsible for this extraordinary expenditure. Why, the whole colony demands this expenditure ; it is perfectly gluttonous for further public works expenditure. Take, for instance, the remarks of the president of the Wellington Chamber of Commerce only yesterday. He stated,- " He regretted the North Island Trunk Rail- way was still in an unfinished condition. In the present system of negleet of public works it was wasting time to bring forward the necessities of the colony." Why, bless my soul, the colony has increased the public works expenditure during the past year by one million, and the president of the Chamber of Commerce in this town states that the colony's public works are neglected ! What next, I wonder ? Every paper one takes Mr. Buddo have got a railway "-one particular railway through their district-and that the whole success of the colony is tied up in that par- ticular railway, and public works expenditure must take place in that particular province. Sir, I speak as a Canterbury member; and, speaking for Canterbury, I say the Canterbury people are prepared to take the whole of the workers on the Springfield-West Coast Rail- way and put them on the Waipara-Cheviot Railway, and take that particular railway to its objective and paying-point at the present time, to the Mackenzie Township at Cheviot- and would be satisfied with it when it got there, and allow the West Coast Railway to take a rest for a short time, or until we get other lines of more importance finished. All the cheaply made railways are now made, and the colony must be prepared to go slower, or the debt of the colony will be piled up faster than the growth of population warrants. It seems to me we have now come to this state of things : that one part of the colony is jealous of another part, and, rightly or wrongly, there must be public works expenditure, with the result that in the past year we have been landed in an ex- penditure on public works of #1,809,000, and it is said the colony will not be satisfied unless we continue to spend at the same rate in the future. I say, Sir, the Government are not responsible for that. Sixteen years ago the public-works expenditure was $1,475.386; in 1895-96 it was $412,330; in 1899 it was $993,223; and last year we increased that amount by a million-namely, to $1,809,000. Surely the pace is sufficient to satisfy the most exorbitant demand for public works the colony can possibly ask for. Mr. BOLLARD .- Was the money spent ? Mr. BUDDO .- All of it was. I am not able to say whether well spent, but I believe so. Now, with regard to defence, I wish to say that we need to put a little more local power in the hands of the officers of Volunteer corps. We ought to abolish all district adjutants, and give The the officers of the Volunteer corps a free hand. Let them be controlled by the department in Wellington. Let them use their own judgment in the way of taking up duties in regard to drill and field service, and give them the funds now paid through district departments. The present red-tape business in connection with the defences of the colony is very trying to our Volunteers, and should be put an end to. Then, the rifles recently imported should be distri- buted as early as possible. I am told that the oldest Volunteer corps in the North Canter- bury District have not received the new rifles vet, while in other portions of the South Island and in most parts of the North Island the Volunteers have had them a considerable time. The member for Hawke's Bay, Captain Russell, said the public works policy was a form of bribing the people, and the member for Riccar- ton, Mr. G. W. Russell, said the Government had departed from the cardinal principles enun- ciated by the late Mr. Ballance in his policy of self-reliance. Now, I contend that our colonial 