he thought he took the best course left open to him to preserve his good name. He entered upon the Supreme Court proceedings ; but the case was settled on Mr. Fitzherbert, solicitor for the Board, stating that Mr. Jellicoe, who appeared on behalf of the petitioner, had agreed that the letter sent by the secretary of the Wanganui Board would be termed a confiden- tial communication, and was never intended by the writer or the Board, by whose instruc- tions it was written, to be published. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- That was not brought into the question. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS said it was men- tioned by the Hon. Mr. Twomey. Blaramberg found that he would possibly lose his case be- fore the jury, and he therefore withdrew his action on the Board writing a letter, the terms of which were: The Board to furnish him a first-class certificate of service, together with a copy of the terms of settlement of the case under the seal of the Board ; he to pay £15 ex- penses. One of the impracticable points of the petitioner was this: There were a number of cigarette pictures on the walls of the school at Terrace End. He mentioned this for the in- formation of the Hon. Colonel Pitt, who might use it in connection with the Cigarette-smok- ing by Youths Prohibition Bill. The petitioner said he would not have the pictures in his school, and the consequence was that he had a row over this matter. However, the Chairman of the School Committee, who inquired into the matter, empowered Mr. Blaramberg to re- move all pictures he disapproved of. He (Mr. Jennings) said, all honour to petitioner for https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 taking the stand he did. He was sorry that the Minister would not permit a further inquiry by the Government. He was strongly of the opin- ion, after going through the printed pamphlet http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero containing a statement of the whole case, that the petitioner had a substantial grievance, that he had been injured to the extent of losing his money and his position, and that he should, in consequence, obtain some redress from the Government. He did not bring the trouble upon himself. When he had charge of the Terrace End School, with an attendance of three hundred pupils, the results obtained at the examinations were very high - considerably over the 60-per-cent. pass required by the Wa- nganui Board. He would ask the Minister to again consider whether he would allow the resolution to be amended. If not, he would probably stand alone in his support of the motion. He would ask the Minister to allow the resolution to be so amended that the last line would read, "be referred back to the Government for further consideration and inquiry." That meant striking out the words "back to the Committee." The resolution would then read, "That the report of the Public Petitions Committee on the petition of H. von Blaramberg, of Palmerston North, be referred back to the Government for further consideration and inquiry." He should be glad if the Minister of Education would inform him if he would accept it in its amended form. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- No. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS said, in that case he would move the motion standing in his name. The Council divided. AYES, 10. Feldwick Kelly, W. Taiaroa Gourley Tomoana Morris Smith, W. C. Williams. Harris Jennings NOES, 20. Baillie Louisson Scotland Barnicoat Smith, A. L. McLean Bolt Swanson Montgomery Jenkinson Ormond Twomey Johnston Pinkerton Walker, L. Jones Pitt Walker, W. C. Kelly, T. Rigg Majority against, 10. Motion negatived. # COMPANIES BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 25 .- " In every case where, after the coming into operation of this Act, a company is ordered to be wound up by the Court under the principal Act, the Official Assignee under 'The Bankruptcy Act, 1892,' of the district wherein the company's principal office is situ- ate shall, by force of this Act, and without the necessity of any appointment or order, be the sole and official liquidator of such company." The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY moved to insert, after the words "wound up," and before " by the Court," the words " or is already in course of being wound up." The Committee divided. AYES, 16. Barnicoat Smith, A. L. Jones Smith, W. C. Montgomery Bolt Feldwick Pinkerton Taiaroa Gourley Rigg Tomoana Scotland Twomey. Harris Jenkinson NOES, 13. Swanson Bowen Louisson Walker, L. Jennings McLean Walker, W. C. Ormond Johnston Williams. Kelly, T. Pitt Kelly, W. Majority for, 3. Amendment agreed to, and words inserted. Clause 18 .- Appointment of auditors. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY moved to omit the clause, with a view of inserting the following :- "The accounts of all companies shall be audited by the Audit Office, and the Audit Office shall have the same powers in respect to the moneys and accounts of the company, and of all persons dealing therewith and liable to account for the same, as it has in respect of the public moneys, and all persons dealing therewith, under the provisions of ' The Public Revenues Act, 1891.'" The Committee divided on the question, "That the clause be retained." 