the time occupied by the mail train to do the journey from Wellington to Napier, and the train now leaves Wellington at the convenient hour of 8.20 a.m. in place of 7.15 a.m. Fifty- seven minutes have been taken off the time occupied in doing the journey from Napier to Wellington, and the mail train now leaves Napier at 8.45 a.m. in place of 8.25 a.m., and arrives at Wellington at 7.53 p.m. in place of 8.30 p.m. The passenger - train service to Kingston (Lake Wakatipu) has been improved, forty-five minutes having been taken off the running- time of the through passenger train from Gore to Kingston, the train now arriving at the latter station at 5.30 p.m. in place of 6.15 p.m. ; whilst thirty minutes have been taken off the running-time of the return train from Kings- ton to Gore, the train now leaving the former station at 9 a.m. in place of 8.30 a.m. This enables the connecting steamer to leave Queens- town at 6.30 a.m. in place of 6 a.m. On the Westland Section the train service in connection with the Reefton, Westport, and Nelson coach services has been so improved and arranged that passengers can complete the through journey from Greymouth to West- port in one day in place of two days as for- merly, and from Greymouth to Nelson in two days in place of three days. In order to keep a more effectual check on the late running of trains, I decided early in the year to have a record kept of the arrival of the principal trains at the various termini in the colony. For this purpose the train ser- vices were divided into three groups-the first consisting of express and through passenger trains ; the second, suburban trains, made up of those trains running in connection with suburban city traffic ; the third, country trains, made up of the principal country or long-dis- tance trains. This record has been kept since the 23rd July, 1900, each four-weekly period being shown separately. The following table shows the average late arrival of the trains in each of the separate groups for each period :- Period ending Average for Train 15th Sept. 18th Ang. 10th Nov. 31st Mar. 13th Oct. 2nd Mar. Group. 2nd Feb. 8th Doc. 5th Jan. Passenger 1:36 1:58: 4-23 1:31 2-03: 0.82 1.70 1:97 1.16 0-85 Suburban 1-27 0.76 0-67 0-84 0-91 1:03 0-78: 1.15 0.75 0.90 Country 2:04 1:88, 1:42 1:43 1-5 : 2-79 1.70 2:34. 2:08 1:90 General average for all trains dealt with, 1.48. In all, records have been kept of 167 trains. The late running shown includes delays from all causes, including engine-failures, floods, &c., and gives a general average late arrival at destination of 1.48 minutes for the nine months during which records have been kept. Taking all circumstances into consideration, it must be admitted that the trains have kept excellent time. The work of equipping the rolling-stock with the Westinghouse brake is being proceeded with as rapidly as possible, and it is anticipated that vehicles so fitted will shortly be running on the mail trains to New Plymouth and Napier. Two hundred and three second-class cars have been fitted with cushions during the year. Foot-warmers have also been obtained and supplied to the express trains running in the South Island. The arrangements indicated have added con- siderably to the comfort of passengers, by whom they are much appreciated, and it is intended to extend them until all cars are similarly equipped. The Pintsch system of lighting our carriages continues to give satisfaction, and has been applied to sixty-three cars and vans during the year, making the total number of vehicles now equipped with gas 502. Nearly two million cubic feet of the gas was used for lighting cars during the year, and, notwithstanding the fact that gas-making is divided among five separate works in various parts of the colony, the cost of production of the gas was 64d. per 100 cubic feet less than for the previous year. On the 24th June, 1900, large reductions were made in ordinary and suburban passenger- fares, season ticket rates, and workers' weekly tickets on suburban lines; tourist excursion tickets were made issuable daily throughout the year ; concession of free carriage on return journey was granted to racehorses, hunters, polo- ponies, and to returned empty fish-packages ; while the freight on goods from centres to ports, and also for salt for dairy use, was re- duced. Particulars of other concessions made during the year will be found in Return No. 32. It is estimated that the value of the conces- sions enumerated was equivalent to a rebate of £75,000, based on the existing traffic and charges for the previous year. The result of these reductions, which were forecast in my last year's Statement, has been very satisfactory, and exceeded the most san- guine expectations; the increase in the passen- ger traffic-viz., 775,309 passengers and 19,586 Nine Months. season tickets-being a record one, the increased revenue from these sources being £29.957. Of the ordinary passengers, the increased number from officered stations on suburban lines was 324,565-Auckland, 72,771; Wellington, 70,866 ; Christchurch, 90,737 ; Dunedin, 72,040; Inver- cargill, 18,151. The increased number of season tickets is made up of 81 sectional annual tickets, 231 school tickets, 49 twenty-trip commutation tickets, 18,606 workers' 2s. weekly tickets (sub- urban lines), and 1,331 ordinary season tickets of other descriptions. The actual number of workers' weekly 2s. tickets issued from the 24th June, 1900, to the 31st March, 1901, was 29,258, but there was a decrease of 10,652 ordinary twelve-trip weekly tickets issued during the same period. There were also decreases of five reporters' season 