no generous treatment of this subject will be at all effective in our primary schools unless the syllabus is altered. I am perhaps unusual in my opinion on this subject, and I have stated it-excepting in regard to kindergarten work, I feel that no child will be materially benefited by manual or technical instruction until that child passes the age of thirteen years. At the same time, if manual and technical instruction can be imparted to the Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Standards in the public schools by lightening the present syllabus, perhaps some useful work would be done, if it were only as a rest to the brain of the little scholar. But if we come to consider that manual and technical instruc- tion, to be effective to the youth of the colony, must be wholly taught in our public schools up to the age of thirteen, then I say that it is hardly worth the money paid for it. The right thing to do in order to provide for this manual and technical instruction would be to arrange for continuation classes in our pri- mary schools first, and continuation classes in every centre where there are a hundred public- school pupils, and especially where there are lads who have left our public schools not old enough for work or a trade, and who would materially benefit by the continuation classes. I would not propose to hold these classes in the early hours of the day, but after 4 p.m., when the pupils could get a training in elementary science, perhaps a little practical work in wood and iron work, and also some little addition to their previous drawing studies ; and, in the case of the agricultural districts, we might add land surveying and elementary science in regard to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 agriculture, and a navigation class in seaport towns. In that direction I think valuable in- struction could be given ; but, unless some prac- tical effort is made in that direction in the http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero smaller districts, I feel that our manual and technical instruction must be wholly confined to the four large cities ; and there is no country district, not withstanding the enthusiasm of the parents, that can carry out this work unless special efforts are made in the direction I have indicated, by special advantages being given to those districts where there are only schools with about a hundred pupils. Then, there is a ques- tion that is perhaps more important, and that de- mands even more attention at the present time- that is, the question of the training of our girls. Under modern conditions of life, the mothers of the colony are quite unable, in view of the do- mestic services they have to attend to at home, to spare the time to enable them to attend to the education of their girls in respect to those domestic duties which are absolutely essential to the success of the girls in after-life. And it is imperative that some special training, espe- cially of a domestic or house-keeping nature, should be given to the girls, so that they may be trained for their duties in after-life. Satur- day afternoon classes should be encouraged, and lessons in cooking, laundry-work, dressmaking, and cutting out should be given ; and I feel that if those who have enthusiasm for the work would undertake it, we should be doing even greater service to the girls in those subjects Mr. Buddo than to the boys by manual and technical classes. Let me now deal for a moment with the financial position of the settlers in the colony. I have already spoken of the financial position of the Government of the colony, and I would like to say a few words with regard to our settlers and their financial position. We cannot hope to be able to continue the present rate of progress in the face of the considerable fall in the price of some of our exports, notably the low price for wool - I might say the abnormally low price for wool, for I have never seen it within 25 per cent. of the price at which it is selling to-day in the London market or in the colony; in fact, the coarser wools in the colony at the present time are absolutely unsaleable, and it almost becomes an obligation to the seller on the part of the buyer to take it from him at, say, 3d. per pound. Now, Sir, added to that is the continued low price of wheat. This is the third vear that it has realised only 2s. and 2s. 3d. per bushel. Kauri-gum is also at a lower level than formerly. In addition to the low prices has come this collapse in the dredging boom of the colony, which will naturally react considerably in the way of preventing so much work being done in the foundries and ironworks through- out the colony. Then, the export of frozen meat cannot increase at the present moment .- and perhaps rightly so too, by reason of the fact that we are settling so much new country. We cannot expect to be able to export so much when stocking of back-country blocks has to be done. Then, again, the price of frozen meat cannot be maintained at the high level of the past year or two, owing to the fact that the Argentine is clear of foot-and-mouth disease, and in the immediate future will be able to send live-stock to Great Britain to be slaughtered there and sold as fresh meat. Under those circumstances we may expect to have less income, and I feel that our settlers may have to do without many of the advantages of prosperity they have had during the last two years, and to some extent it is incumbent on the Government to continue, very considerably, public works that they have undertaken during the past year, in order to prevent labour difli- culties and the lessening of the volume of trade that bad times may bring. I do not know that it is necessary, however, for them to con- tinue these works at the same rate ; but it is necessary, in view of the likelihood of there being a restricted finance on the part of the settlers of the colony, that we should not in addition to that throw unemployed on them. In this respect I think the Government will do good work, notwithstanding the fact that in doing so they run the chance of increasing the public indebtedness of the colony. Then, Sir, just to deal for a moment with old-age pen- sions. I still regret that it is considered in- cumbent on the part of the department to treat the home of an old-age pensioner as part of the disqualification under which he cannot get a pension. It has often been said in this House by those opposed to and by those in favour of the old-age pension that the thrifty should be 