to France; and we also find that since the system was adopted in France great improve- ments have been made in other countries in connection with the working of the land-laws, and the cutting-up of the land and the parcel- ling it out amongst the people. Even in Russia the Government took by force one-half of the lands of the nobles and gave them to the serfs. Under the leasing system of tenure a man re- tains his capital to buy stock and plant. Imme- diately a man purchases the land he uses capi- tal that would be better employed working the land. Taking all things into consideration, it would, I repeat, be in the best interests of the State and its people if we do not part with the fee-simple of another inch of our public lands in this colony, because the State gets better results not only as regards revenue, but in many other ways. I might say, further, that I cannot understand why the revenues that we derive from the sale of our public lands should go into the ordinary coffers of the colony to swell the consolidated revenue. It seems to me that that is a wrong principle, because it is clearly a case of living on our capital. I think that money should be applied either to paying off our national debt or to the fund that is required for the purpose of resum- ing other lands. Reverting to the subject of the purchase or resumption of private lands for settlement purposes, it appears strange to me that our Government should be purchasing land in many parts of the colony practically in the wilderness, away from the railway-lines, while we have lying alongside the railways large areas of splendid land that could be pur- chased and made available for settlement pur- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 poses. Why not take up the land where the railways are, and where the people would have public conveniences to make their farms re- munerative at once through easy means of connection with markets and the rest of the colony ? Where is the wisdom, or the great advantages to be gained, by putting the people on the back blocks in a wilderness when all this land is lying idle in the neighbourhood of rail- ways, and where settlers would have the advan- tage of roads and other necessary conveniences ? As I said before, what we want in this colony, so far as the individual who takes up land is con- corned, is to give him security of tenure, and that security of tenure is to assure him that he will get the benefit of all the improvements he puts on that land, and all that he has ex- pended by way of labour. There is, let me tell honourable members, in law no such thing as absolute ownership of land recognised except in the Crown. You can no more claim the right of absolute ownership in land than you can claim the absolute right of ownership to air or water, or any other natural gift of the Creator to man- kind. Now, Sir, I would just like to make a few observations on the subject of Ministers' replies to questions. It does seem strange, Sir, that when we get replies from Ministers on matters affecting our electorates we find that those replies are often in toto the replies of some local I have been advocating for my district two officer. If members want the reply of a local tain it. It is in the power of any local officer, under the present system of Ministers' answers, to balk a necessary reform or improvement in a district. I do not think that is right. It is desirable, in the interests of efficient and progressive administration, that the Minis- ters should go throughout the colony ascer- taining some information as to what the re- quirements of the various districts are, and acquiring some local knowledge, so that then they would be able to exercise their own opinion and not be entirely or unreasonbly swayed by the opinion of a local officer. Why, Sir, we may pass liberal, practical, and progressive legislation, but we must also have infused into our administrative departments vigour, effi- ciency, and impartiality. We must have ofli- cials who will not balk reforms, and the only way we can get administrative reforms is by the Minister exercising his own opinion and judg- ment irrespective of the opinion expressed by an official. It seems to me that the sole desire of officials is to please the Ministers by their ability to economize and keep down expenses, no matter what the result may be. But one thing I have noticed is this : that when it comes to a question of increase in salaries these gentle- men in Wellington know how to look after themselves. In my district I could give the names of two individuals who deserve substan- tial increases in the remuneration for their work. I do not intend to mention their names in the House, but I know from my own professional ex- perience of these men that they are entitled :0 better salaries. But they have got paltry in- creases, while I notice that men nearer Wel- lington have obtained substantial increased pay. It is not only unfortunate for the Civil servants, but for the town, that we are so near the South Pole and so remote from Wellington. To some extent that is the reason why the town has not received justice in the past, and why the officials there do not receive due recognition. Ministers will hesitate to give an underpaid Government employé a rise of, say, $10 or ₺15, while they will increase substan ially the head officials' salaries. Then, if a member wants something very important for his district-it may amount perhaps to €100 - he sometimes is refused. But look at the estimates : what do you find there? Sums voted for purposes that are of little benefit to the country. I repeat that, as far as the different departments are concerned, it is necessary that Ministers should exercise more care and exhibit greater independence in carrying out their duties. They should not be ruled, and guided, and hypnotized by their officials. We do not want officialdom in this colony ; we do not want bureaucratic rule here. We want responsible men to administer the affairs of the colony in a businesslike manner, and to infuse vigour and vitality into the departments over which they exercise con- trol. Sir, the people of the colony have put Ministers in their positions for the purpose of exercising their own opinions, discretion, and judgment. Since 1 have been in the House 