avoided, because of following out the pro- regard to the question of losing population, visions of the Classification Acts which we should not be compared with old and over-popu- lated countries like India and China. It is have deliberately adopted, there are still some essential that we should have a larger popu- proposed increases that are outside the Classi- fication Acts, and as regards these I think they lation for the proper development of the country. I can only suppose that the honourable member should all be considered on their merits. There for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay) recognised that, may be instances in which injustice is being owing to our system of civilisation and our sys- done by the payment of salaries that are too low for the work of the officers. In any such tem of taxation, men with families are frequently cases the injustice should be remedied ; but very heavily handicapped ; but, Sir, we must there are also cases, I think, among the higher also recognise that, unless family life is main- salaries in which increases cannot be justified tained, the country is bound to retrograde ; under present circumstances, and at a time and that has been one of the most serious causes when the Treasurer himself recommends us to of retrogression in France. That is why that go slow. Sir, I think we should go slow in country has gone behind in its influence, and regard to all unnecessary expenditure, but at the has not been able to maintain the position it ought to have maintained in the history of na- same time I think we may take heart of grace, tions. I therefore think that anything that tends both as to the present and the future, inas- much as there are ample funds to provide for in that direction is distinctly detrimental to the all necessary expenditure ; and the facts and best interests of the country. In France it is now proposed that great concessions should be figures of the Budget are such as to cause us to feel assured that the financial position of extended to parents of families of over five, and the colony is as sound to-day as it has been at very considerable concessions for seven and eight. That is distinctly in the direction of any period of our history. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- Sir, we encouraging. But in this country, and many other countries, parents are made to feel that have listened to a very admirable speech from the burden of families is such that they are the honourable member who has just sat down, but the time-limit will not permit the traversing avoiding. There are no concessions offered in of speeches as a rule, and so it is impossible for this country, and therefore you unfortunately me to allude to it at any length. The honour- see avoidance of large families. It is, however, able gentleman concluded by quoting the state- a dreadful departure, and Nature will, in the ment that the Premier is desirous of seeing the future, inflict heavy retribution for practices country going slow. Whether he wishes to see now unfortunately prevailing. I am afraid if the country go slow or not, I think it must be the I went fully into the honourable gentleman's opinion of every honourable member that this remarks I should have to leave my own review debate is going exceedingly slow. The honour- of the Financial Statement out ; but he alluded to the fact that the people in the cities were able member rightly voiced the opinion of the not supported by public expenditure as the farmers, who are at the present time in a con- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 siderable state of uncertainty and alarm regard- people in the country were. He said the ing many of the laws of the country. Person- country people were pampered and bolstered ally, I feel that, now that they are combining, up in every direction, and, as an instance, he said that the Agricultural Department was there is a probability of those laws being so passed costing something like £80,000 or £90,000, that the interests of the farmers, at any rate, will not be so much imperilled. They will make whereas the Labour Department was only costing £7,000. But, Sir, a glance will show themselves felt, and they ought long ago to bave combined for that purpose. The honour- that, although the Agricultural Department able member also alluded to the fact, and, I is having that amount of money expended think, disapproved of items such as $300 for the upon it, the amount which is expended by Review of Kenews coming down on the esti- the protection of industries in the cities far mates. I shall refer to this again presently ; outweighs the money that may be expended but I say, so long as the country is unable to on the Agricultural Department for the develop- extend telephone communication to many of ment of farming in this country. There we the outlying districts-I say emphatically that know the total cost, but we who represent the agriculturists and the miners know not what items such as the honourable gentleman has referred to certainly ought not to appear upon amount is added to the cost of living through our expenditure. The honourable member for the system of protection which prevails in re- Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay), in his address last gard to many industries in this country. And, night, advanced a principle which, I think, is Sir, I think if those men living in towns are of new in the political economy of nations. He opinion that the agricultural life is so enticing, why do they not take it up. We never see any of approved of the principle of a steady decrease them drifting towards the country. The whole of population of countries and of nations, and he quoted in illustration of his contention that tendency of the population is steadily towards India, China, and other countries had suffered the towns, because there they have less work, dreadfully through over-population. The de- higher pay, and shorter hours. Now, I want to duction to be derived from his argument was, refer to the Statement itself, and I shall do so as I suppose, that this country would be the briefly as possible. We have there a reference to better if the population did not increase. prudence and economy in the public accounts, and I thoroughly indorse that principle; but Now, for my own part, I have never been able to realise but that a country such as ours, in do we have it in practice? We do not, I ven- 