will run out sooner or later, and if it runs out there would come a collapse that we would not like to see, at all events. Now I come to that part of the Budget which is headed " Help to Farmers and Producers : Cool-storage," and also to that part referring to "Trade with South Africa." Now, there is not the slightest doubt that the South African market has been a very great help to the producers of the colony. If it had not been for the demand that sprung up in that quarter for our pro- duce many of our farmers would have been in an awkward position at the present time. pare the two together, and you will see you are Although it would be of great advantage to getting the lion's share. get our produce to South Africa, I am not lion's share. The railways in the South are so sure if South Africa is the proper place for the erection of cool-stores. I am of opinion more than paying for themselves, so that that it would be far better to erect cool-stores does not come into the question. Now I will in London. If cool-stores were erected in deal with new roads. The following are the South Africa, as soon as that country be- figures :- comes stocked with cattle again they might be used there against the interest of the people of this colony. We know that in South Africa they grow far more cattle than they require for their own consumption, and these cool-stores might be a disadvantage rather than an advantage to this colony. My own impression is that if the Governments of the various colonies would get proper cool-storage erected in London, and place a thoroughly competent man or men in charge, so that they could regulate the output and see that it was sold at a price that would benefit the farmers who send meat Home, it would be of great advantage. At the present time their The fact that Otago does not get its fair share produce has to go, no matter what may be the of this is very strange to me. Then, the Premier state of the market, and at whatever price they in his closing remarks, says,- can get. The farmer is in a somewhat in- vidious position. When he has anything to is of paramount importance. What we have sell he has to go to the store and ask what done, are doing, and must do is to extend our price they will buy at, and he has got to take operations and increase the number of our whatever is offered. But if the farmer wants settlers ; and to those going on to the back to purchase stores he asks what they are selling blocks and the bush lands easy terms must be given by way of relieving the tenants from at, and he has got to take them at whatever price is asked. He has no say in the matter payment of rent for the first few years, and also whatever. If cool-stores were erected in London by way of insisting on improvement conditions or Glasgow, or some other large centre in the being complied with ; at the same time afford- United Kingdom, under the conditions I have ing relief from rent until the tenant is enabled stated, the farmer would get some share of the to get his head above water and to pay his way spoil. Now, Sir, I will give the honourable from the produce of the land itself." member for Auckland City a list of the moneys that have been spent as between the North recommendation I made to the Premier last and South Islands during the last year : - year when he introduced his Bill for the rebate of rents to Crown tenants. I think the member Roads- Miles. for Auckland City will agree with me in that. I Mileage made 949 .. then pointed out to him that he was taking Miles improved 912 . a wrong course, and that the thing was un- Mileage maintained 3,304 . . workable. I stated then that the proper course was to allow those back-block settlers to have Total mileage 5,165 .. .. their land rent-free until they were in a posi- tion to make something out of their holdings. Cost .. £310,660 . The Premier, however, at that time was deter- This amount of roadwork was apportioned as mined to go on with his Bill. He made all follows :- sorts of threats, by telling us that there were Miles. Cost. local Bills to be passed and other matters to £ be attended to at the time, to try to force the 1,883 Auckland 92,255 .. Bill through. He tried to make the rebate Hawke's Bay 317 31,336 .. universal, but members would not be bounced Taranaki 476 33,088 .. Cost. Wellington 1,252 72,039 .. Nelson .. 250 9,278 .. Marlborough 344 13,933 Westland 236 11,452 Canterbury 140 8,014 .. Otago 122 15,902 Southland 143 20,298 . . General .. 3,065 2 .. Total 5,165 £310,660 .. Mr. FOWLDS .- Look at railways, and com- Mr. BENNET .-- No, we are not getting the Miles. Cost. Auckland .. 365 37,026 Hawke's Bay 13,137 81 Taranaki .. 86 30,099 . Wellington 146 51,036 Nelson 47 3,248 Marlborough 59 6,839 Westland .. 20 6,461 Canterbury 2,201 5 Otago 31 13,141 Southland 108 14,715 Total £176,923 948 "The settlement of the people on the land Now, this is bringing the thing exactly to the 