appoint a Returning Officer to deal with the City of Auckland electorate alone, and let suburban electorates have their own Registrars. He also thought, as was pointed out by the honourable member for Palmerston, we should separate Returning Officers from Registrars of Electors. Sir J. G. WARD said that was the law now. Mr. LAWRY said, Then give effect to the law. Mr. HASELDEN (Patea) wished to draw at- tention to the vote " For payment of Registrars who do not hold other appointments in the Civil Service." At the Patea election the Post- master was also the Returning Officer, and he did not think that was right. If he had been returned by the vote of the Returning Officer- as the Premier had incorrectly stated - it might have been a very serious thing for that officer, because there was an impression abroad that the Returning Officer dared not give his casting- vote in favour of an Opposition candidate. the Hon. the Minister could see his way to appoint an outsider, independent of the Govern- ment service, he thought it would be a very great advantage. He should also like to know how the vote "Contingencies, £100," was ex- pended. Was that spent in moving co-opera- tive labourers about the district at election- time ? Sir J. G. WARD .- Certainly not. Mr. HASELDEN asked, What was that charged to ? Sir J. G. WARD said it would be found in the Labour estimates. Mr. HASELDEN said, At any rate, the Minister admitted that those labourers were shifted about the country at election times. Sir J. G. WARD said he did nothing of the kind ; he simply replied to the honourable member's question as to where the charges for co-operative labourers were to be found. Mr. HASELDEN also wished to point out that names could be placed on the roll up to tho date the writs were issued, and in this way five hundred names were put on the Patea roll the day before the writ was issued, when there was no opportunity to challenge them. If there had been that oppor- tunity, he was sure that three hundred out of the five hundred names would have been struck off the roll. He suggested that the rolls should close fourteen days before the writs were issued, to give an opportunity for challenging. There was also another point : Co-operative labourers complained that it was known exactly how they voted, or it could be known, because the votes were taken in a tent in the camp. They asked that the ballot- boxes should be carried away to Hunterville or Patca and their votes mixed with the other votes and then counted. The Premier twitted him the other night with having got in by one vote, and that he represented one man. He seemed to forget that when Mr. Heslop was supposed to be returned by one vote he (the Premier) called it a glorious victory, and sent out congratulatory telegrams by the score. Mr. Lawry been looking up the speech of the Hon. the Minister in charge of the estimates, when he addressed the people of Auckland City a few months ago, and the Minister, among other things, told them, "In the City of Auckland the total rejections had been 4,921." Did the Minister mean to say that none of those persons had a legal claim to be put on the roll ? In all probability some thousands of them had a legal right to be on the roll, and if they had been on the roll perhaps the election would have turned out differently. In consequence of what tock place at the last election, the people of Auck- land felt that the business in the office of the Registrar of Electors was not conducted on proper lines. The member for Parnell had stated that the Registrar in question had too much to do. That officer was the Registrar of Electors for Auckland City, for Eden, Manukau, and Parnell, and he was also Deputy Registrar of Old-age Pensions. He hoped the suggestion If of the honourable member would be given effect to-that the offices would be separated. and that there would be a separate Registrar of Electors for Auckland City, which was quite enough for one man to attend to. If an inquiry was not held the people would naturally come to the conclusion that there was something wrong in connection with the whole business. Sir J. G. WARD said what occurred in Auck- land was this : Perhaps a dozen people went round with rolls, and it not unfrequently occurred that in many instances they got the same person to make separate applications for enrolment. Of course, the Registrar in such a case would ac- cept one application and reject the others. That would account for many of the applica- tions being rejected. It was possible, of course, that some names may have been improperly struck off ; but there were no doubt many appli- cations for enrolment which should not have been entertained. With regard to the state- ment of the member for Patea, he (Sir J. G. Ward) would defy any member to show where a Government officer had been afraid to exer- cise the right he possessed as an elector. Mr. PIRANI .- I can give you one instance. Sir J. G. WARD. - Who is it? Mr. PIRANI .- I will give the name to the honourable gentleman afterwards. Sir J. G. WARD said he would be very glad to hear it. With respect to the statement made by the member for Patea, he would undertake to say that the Government would change the Returning Officer in that particular district. It was a very improper position that a Government officer should have a charge of that character made against him. It was certainly unjust to him, and the officer ought to be removed, and he (Sir. J. G. Ward) would be very glad to see the cause of that complaint removed. With regard to the statement of the member for Franklin, as to an independent Registrar of Electors being appointed for every district, he would say this- An Hon. MEMBER .- What will it cost ? Sir J. G. WARD said, You could not get four or five men to do the work of one man for the 