analyse the waters of that district. He would like to know if the Minister had been informed of the result of the analysis. The Minister might also tell the House whether the idea of appointing a Balnealogist had been aban- doned. Sir J. G. WARD said the idea had not been abandoned. Mr. J. ALLEN was glad to hear it. A first- class man should be appointed-one who knew the whole subject thoroughly. He believed it would pay the colony to get such a man, even if they paid him £1,200 or £1,500 a year, and he did not think they would get a capable man for less. There were immense possibilities in the district. He would also like to know what the expenditure of $600 at Tokaanu was for. He understood there were baths there, and he hoped the expenditure was justified; but he understood that the baths were used en- tirely by Maoris. Under the heading " Other charges " a sum of money was put down for accommodation-houses. He would like to know if these were private enterprises, and, if so, why public money should be spent on them. He also wished to know the reason for esta- blishing branch offices at Auckland, Christ- church, Dunedin, and Invercargill. Then, with regard to the subsidy for a steamer on the Wanganui River, was that subsidy for the one line of steamers-Mr. Hatrick's-or for both ? Sir J. G. WARD agreed with the honourable member that they ought to get a first-class man from outside to take charge of the thermal districts of the colony. The Government attempted to get one, but the remuneration https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 that they offered was looked upon as inade- quate. They offered £1,000, but it did not fetch the right man. They could only give what they thought was a fair amount. They would do what they could this recess, and next session, if in the same position, would ask the House what to do. Regarding the places of accom- modation mentioned by the honourable mem- ber, he might say that one was on County Council land, and had Government stables in connection. With regard to the others, he could not give detailed information, for the reason that this department had only just been taken over by the Tourist Department from the Lands Department. During the recess he proposed to send a responsible officer to visit these places, and see what could be done in the matter of arranging some general system in connection with that department. As to the branch offices in the four centres, they were absolutely necessary, for many people came to the colony who wanted information about the scenery, railways, and places to visit, and at present this information was only to be obtained from private firms, and the idea was to have these offices in the various parts of the colony to give information fully and freely to all who desired it. Regarding the subsidy to the Wanganui River steamers, he might briefly state that the position was this : Under the original contract the conditions were such that the con- tract had to be renewed The proprietors of the Settlers' Company suggested that fresh Mr. J. Allen tenders should be called for. That the Go- vernment could not do without acting dis- honourably. When the present contract ex- pired the same position would not again arise. As there appeared to be very strong competition between the two concerned, it was decided to give a similar subsidy to the other line of steamers to assist the new company in maintaining what they believed to be an essen- tial service. The item on the estimates in- cluded the subsidy to both companies, and, with the development going on in that river, he did not think it was an undue amount to give for the maintenance of both lines. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) wanted to know why there was an item of credit under the Pub- lic Revenues Act for Rotorua when there was no such thing on account of Hanmer Plains. There must be a certain amount of money taken at Hanmer, but yet there was no credit in their favour. Sir J. G. WARD said the doctor at Rotorua collected £400 or $500 in fees, and they were paid into the Public Account, so that his salary cost the colony very little indeed. Mr. FLATMAN asked if the medical officer was allowed to practise privately at Rotorua. Sir J. G. WARD said, No. Mr. FLATMAN called attention to the fact that he had been unable to procure a return passage for an impecunious visitor to Rotorua Springs. He thought that in such cases the passage should be paid from the baths as well as to them. He did not know why they should send people from the South to Rotorua, as he believed the waters at Hanmer were as bene- ficial in some cases as the waters at Rotorua. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) said, When the Hon. W. P. Reeves was in charge of the department two beds were established at Rotorua for friendly societies, but this had been found quite inadequate for the accommodation of even a few members of the societies who might be in need of treatment at the springs. He knew that some concessions were already granted in the way of cheapening the rates in regard to board and lodging, and in the remis- sion of bath-rates, where poverty was pleaded ; but he thought some little concession should be given to those in receipt of small incomes, such as small farmers, workmen, or old-age pensioners, so that they might be able to visit the springs at, say, a charge of $1 per week with railway charges remitted. This would enable many a poor sufferer to enjoy the benefit of our mineral hot springs, and perhaps effect a cure of such diseases as rheumatics, sciatica, nerve troubles, et cetera. He hoped the Minis- ter would be able to tell the House that further concessions in this direction were intended. Mr. PALMER (Ohinemuri) said the proposi- tion of the last speaker would mean a consider- able increase in expenditure, and he believed the House would readily vote for a larger sum to enable those poor people who were suffering to receive treatment at the baths at the colony's expense. With regard to the Te Aroha Springs, there were a number of the bath-houses there going to rack and ruin, and people were actually 