the inevitable. The new manager gathered a motley crowd around him and spoke to them somewhat in this manner : "Men and women, boys and girls, we have depression covering the colony like a mantle ; but you are thrifty-we know very well you are of saving habits, and are able to recover from the position in which you are placed. We must have no more borrowing ; let us go and fight the hard times. The financial institutions have placed a heavy weight on you, they are screwing you down, they are squeez- ing the very lifeblood out of you ; but if you will help me to reverse the screw, although it may be a tough fight, we shall prevail, and all will be well." Members who were then mem- bers of the House will remember what took place during the sessions of 1891, 1892, and those that followed. In 1891 nearly every one of the reform measures carried after desperate conflicts in this House were thrown out in the Legislative Council. The result was that no legislation of any importance was passed. The only policy measure of importance we were able to pass was that dealing with the question of taxation. We were able, because the Upper House had no control over finance, to abolish the property-tax and to introduce the land- and income tax. That got rid of the swag that had been laid on the back of the working- farmer. In 1892 we had land reform and elec- toral reform. The Land Act of 1892 remains on record as one of the best measures ever passed in this or any other country. It un- locked the land with a key that, notwithstand- ing all members may say about it, is, I maintain, a key of extreme value-the lease in perpetuity. Under that tenure homes have been established in every part of New Zealand, and especially in our bush districts ; and the peculiar virtue of this system of settlement is due to the fact that, where homes are established on the eter- nal lease, they are not afterwards uprooted. Then the bush, Sir, began to ring with the axe and slasher; men, women, and children fled from the cities, and escaped from the landlord, the rack-renter, and the private sweater. The only sweating to be found then amongst the . working-classes was the sweat of honest labour, in which the worker himself participated. But the battle continued to rage -- the war of labour went on. The money-lender was driven mad. It is said that " whom the gods wish to destroy they first drive mad." We could see what was happening in the country. These men were obtaining homes for themselves without the aid of capital. But after they had expended their little all - when their last particle of sweat had been giver. to enrich the soil-it was neces- sary that they should obtain money for build- ing-material, wire for fences, and so forth ; and when they went to the money-lender what happened ? They found " No Crown lease- holders need apply " written on the doors of the loan offices. They went from the private money-lender to the Government Trust Office and applied to the Public Trustee, and to the Commissioner of Insurance, and they had the same reply there. Only the freeholder could Mr. Hogg the Government Advances to Settlers Office had to be opened. If that office had not been opened and the Government had not come to the rescue of the leaseholder, the Land Act of 1892 would have been practically a failure. And now I want to do honour to whom it is due. Various parties have taken credit upon themselves for having brought about the era of cheap money in this country ; but I think the credit ought to be fairly awarded to the pri- vate money-lenders who at that time refused to have any dealings with the Government lease- holders. Of course, Sir, there were sufferers. The bank shareholders had to suffer, because huge dividends were no longer payable. Money- lenders had to suffer, because the rates of in- terest were cut down from 10 per cent. and 15 per cent. to something like a reasonable amount; and the private landlords in our towns and in our centres had to suffer, because they found that their houses and paddocks could no longer be let at exorbitant rents. They were Samsons deprived of their locks. Then, Sir, as interest fell the land - values rose. The screw was reversed and the country ceased to bleed. Following up this legisla- tion for the benefit of our workers, and of our small farmers, we had factory legislation, under which the conditions of labour were improved for the benefit of our young operatives. Buildings and premises had to be altered, and the hours of labour regulated in a way that has proved exceedingly beneficial to large numbers of our boys and girls. Uncle John became alarmed ; he began to call in his capital, and we found that the Australian banks, about that time, had to become reconstructed. Instead of becoming bankrupt, as business people would do, they took another method-they simply locked their doors, and shut out the bailiff. What did we do in New Zealand? We wrote off millions, and the millionaires and their tigers disappeared together. We reformed old Shylock. We stopped the reign of foreclosing and land-jobbing-of gambling with the estate that belonged to the people. We placed the people there, and gave them possession of their national property. That was partly the effect of our national reforms. But, Sir, the manager of the colony looked over his domains, and found there was still a large amount of land available. There were large estates here and there that had not been improved - where rabbits were thriving, but where the land was mortgaged and so embarrassed with debt that the owner could not cope with the nuisance. A great deal of that land was fit for cultivation. Milk and honey could be ex tracted from it, and butter and cheese could be produced on it. The manager of the colony said to the owner, "I will give you a fair price for the land." It was purchased, and in that way the army of producers in New Zealand has been greatly increased. Then, following these reforms, the old people were not forgotten. They were taken by the hand. They were not told to depend on charity, but given what they had a right to receive. They were 