them to keep up the average attendance, while they would have reduced the loss teachers are subject to when there is a sudden decrease in the attendance from causes beyond their con- trol. I am surprised that a Commission of practical men did not bring this before the Government and the House, one of the greatest difficulties in connection with the schools. hope, in accordance with the promise 7.30. of the Premier, that we shall have & further opportunity of dealing with the report of this Commission when the Bill comes before the House to enact the scale of salaries recom- mended by the Commission. At the same time it seems to me it will be a pity, if a per- fect scheme can be obtained by adding another half-crown to the capitation, that the Govern- ment should strain at a gnat and swallow a camel by agreeing to the report of the Commission to give $4 capitation, and allowing #4 2s. 6d. to go by the board. There have been of late several disturbing elements in the political arena out- side of this House, and one in particular seems to agitate the Premier very much. That is the formation of what is known as the Farmers' Union, and even the member for Masterton has taken a hand in denouncing that organization. Now, I do think the Premier and those of his faithful followers who expect in the near future to be members of the Seddon Ministry have very good reason to fear the formation and progress of that union. Not because I believe for one moment that the Farmers' Union will take the field in party politics against the pre- sent Government. My opinion of the policy the Farmers' Union will pursue-and I think you will find it a pretty reliable forecast-is https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 that you will find them strong supporters of the elective Executive, strong opponents of the present system of party government, and ardently desirous that the legislation and ad- http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero ministration of the affairs of this colony will be considered apart altogether from the politics of the particular people who are concerned. And if this Farmers' Union proceeds on these lines it will revolutionise politics, and prevent any man - no matter who may be Premier -from being the dictator of the country; and will also bring into the administration a purity and a regard for what is honest and right, and an obedience to the law by the Go- vernment of the day, that we have not got at present. When we see so many disputes be- tween the officer appointed by this House to control the finances of the colony and the ad- ministrative department on trifling matters which could have been settled in five minutes if we had a common-sense man at the head of the Treasury, we know there is a necessity for reform in the Treasury Department. In the very last dispute we have the Governor called in actually to settle what could have been finished by putting a small charge on "Un- authorised," and by printing fresh debentures issued in connection with the loan. Yet, sooner than do this, sooner than put a small charge on "Unauthorised " and print fresh debentures, the aid of the Governor, the Solicitor-General, and Goodness knows Mr. Pirani come, at the rate we are progressing, when every time a Minister has a dispute with a subordinate or a messenger he will send the messenger for the Governor to make an Order in Council to settle the dispute. The present system degrades the office of Governor without any compensating benefit. It seems to me I about time the Treasurer of the colony adminis- tered his department a little more in accord- ance with common-sense and the fitness of things than seems to be the case from the dis- putes that have been before the House session after session. The Financial Statement in many respects is most peculiar. We have, based probably on the science of comparative anatomy, a system of comparisons of revenue and expenditure between 1891 and last year. I do not know on what these comparisons are based, because I defy any member to find in the Public Accounts similar figures to those in some of the comparisons. Take, for in- stance, the comparisons of land revenue- £441,338. I cannot find any land revenue in the Public Accounts of that amount. Certainly the ordinary land revenue is $270,203-just about half what it is put in the Statement ; and if you add to that the revenue under the Land for Settlements Act-£72,781 - you get a total of £342,984-something like £100,000 less than what is given in the Financial Statement. It seems to me most extraordinary that we should have figures before us for comparison that are not based on actual official figures. And if you go right through the Statement you will find the same inaccuracies occur. There is one item in particular which is most amusing as coming from the mouth of the Colonial Treasurer. He says, referring to the Customs revenue, "Merchants have risen to the occasion, cleared kerosene, sugar, and tea, with the result that the Customs revenue this month is buoyant in the extreme, and contrasts very favourably with the same month of last year." I should like to know what duty the Colonial Trea- surer gets from kerosene by which he can make his revenue so buoyant as to contrast favourably with that of last year. I thought-and I have studied the Customs Duties Act of last year- that the Customs duty on kerosene had been abolished altogether, and I can find no record in last month's tables of duties showing that any duty has been collected on kerosene. So that, if the rest of the figures of the Premier and the rest of his statements are as reliable as his statement about kerosene, we cannot wonder he goes to a banquet of the Eighty Club for the purpose of replying to what has been said on the Financial Statement. And the ways of the Government in regard to promul- gating political matters to the world are most extraordinary. I have before me a series of cablegrams and telegrams which have emanated from members of the present Government, and those sent outside the colony have been paid for by the Government. I do not wish to weary the House with reading all this set of telegrams, which I know have come from mem- bers of the Government, but I will just read 