have this matter dealt with by the House, and for Bruce, there would have been no com- at once. Personally, he was prepared to stay until that hour the next night in order that that should be done. Mr. MASSEY said the honourable member had challenged him to quote what the honour- able member for Riccarton (Mr. Rolleston) had said with reference to the Premier and the Mahanga Bay disaster. Well, he would quote the remarks. Here they were :- " Sir, let me go further. I am not going into details, but I say that every morning, when one sees occurrences with which the Government is connected, one wonders whether there is not something bad at the back of it. Will any member in this House say, for instance, that the verdict in respect to the Mahanga Bay explosion was in accordance with the evidence ? I will say no more about it, but I say there is a general feeling that there is no hope at the present time of getting verdicts in any inquiry in accordance with the evidence." That was all. There was not another re- ference to it. Now, he came again to what was said by the Premier with reference to the then member for Riccarton, the Hon. Mr. Rolleston, on that occasion. He would not quote the letter of Mr. Mullooly, but he would take the Premier's own words, - "Shall I tell him there is a grave responsi- bility resting on him in connection with the Natives of this colony? Shall I tell him that among the widows and the orphans his name is execrated ? Is he not morally responsible for the Te Kooti massacre that occurred in Poverty Bay ? He was the Minister in charge, and he did https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 not keep a proper guard over the Natives who were imprisoned on the Chatham Islands. The guard was not sufficient ; the Maoris got away. They reached Gisborne and the massacre oc- curred. As a result, many Europeans and Natives were killed, and the cost to the colony was very great-to say nothing of the bloodshed that was occasioned. The man who is respon- sible for not having a proper guard over the Maoris is the member for Riccarton." That stood to this day against Mr. Rolleston, and the charge which was made by the mem- ber for Bruce against the Premier was nothing compared to the charge made by the Premier against the member for Riccarton. The mem- ber who last spoke ridiculed the idea of a Parlia- mentary Committee or a Commission of inquiry. He cared nothing; it made no difference to him. If the Premier was satisfied, he was quite satisfied, and willing to let the public judge. Sir J. G. WARD said it appeared to him, to judge from the last speaker, that because a charge was made against one honourable mem- ber that was justification for another member to make a charge to-night. He wanted to put this to the last speaker, who read from the second speech of the honourable member for Bruce. Mr. MASSEY .- That was in my proof. Sir J. G. WARD .- Yes, it was in the honour- able gentleman's proof, but it was the second speech of the member for Bruce. Now, if that was the only statement made by the member ment from this side of the House at all, because no charge was made in the second statement, in which the honourable member referred to a particular telegram. The honour- able member for Bruce in his first state- ment said some one had communicated by cable with the Minister for Defence, and said it would be dangerous for these men to come through a cold climate. Then, the honourable gentleman went on to say the Premier was re- sponsible for the death of six men. That was. the charge. If the honourable member had not made the latter statement there would. have been no comment from this side of the House, because the Premier could have ex- plained the circumstances and given all the de- tails in connection with it. If the honourable member for Bruce would hand over his Hansard proofs to the member for Franklin, and he could find no record there of any charge by im- plication and directly against the Right Hon. the Premier, the whole trouble would cease. But it was the attitude the honourable mem- ber for Bruce was taking up that was making: members on his side of the House so persistent. It was a terrible charge the honourable mem- ber had made, to make against any man for- political purposes. It was quite a different thing for the honourable member in the course of a debate to comment on the actions of an administrator of this colony or any other place which might have led to war. Why, how many honourable members were there who had not heard time and again the late Mr. Glad- stone blamed for the murder, as some people were good enough to say, of the British troops in South Africa many years ago. An Hon. MEMBER .- And Gordon of Khar- toum. Sir J. G. WARD said, Very well ; supposing Mr. Gladstone were blamed, would it not mean that at the time he had acted according to his judgment and in accordance with advice, and in what he believed to be the best interests of the nation? Historical records in after years went to show that a great mistake had been made on that occasion, and political oppo- nents converted that into a grave charge against him as an administrator. But it was a different thing to tell a member across the floor of the House that he was responsible for the death of these men for political purposes. It was because he had made the assertion that the Premier was responsible for the death of these six men for political purposes that the seriousness of the charge came in, and he was inclined to think that if some of the other members on the oppo- site side had been in the House at the time the charge was made they would have advised the honourable member to withdraw such a serious charge against any other member of the House, especially against a member occupying the high position of the Premier. Any member of the House should certainly withdraw such an accu- sation, in view of the facts that had come to light ; but the honourable member who had made it persisted in the charge. It was a . diabolical charge to make against any man. 