Charitable Gifts Bill. # COOK ISLANDS. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) presented a summary of the receipts and expenditure of the Cook Islands for the year ending 30th June, 1901, and moved, That it do lie on the table, and be printed. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) asked whether the return was for the year during which the embezzlement took place. Mr. SEDDON said it would include that period during which one or more officers in the group had helped themselves to the money belonging to the Cook Islands Government. At all events, what took place transpired before the 11th June, the date when the Cook Is- lands were made to form part of the Colony of New Zealand. He thought it should also be stated that Colonel Gudgeon, the Resident Agent, had done what very few would do- namely, he paid into the Cook Islands Public Account $500 himself. Mr. PIRANI said Colonel Gudgeon had gua- ranteed it, and could not help himself. Mr. SEDDON said that at the time the thing took place there was no such guarantee at all. Mr. PIRANI said that Colonel Gudgeon had said so. Mr. SEDDON said he did not care what the honourable member said. Colonel Gudgeon had not guaranteed any losses prior to the de- falcations being discovered. That gentleman was not a guarantor at all. It was a spon- taneous action on his part, and he need not have paid the money at all. . He (Mr. Seddon) thought it was only right that he should say this. Motion agreed to. LICENSING BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved for leave to introduce this Bill. Motion agreed to. On the question, That the Bill be read a first time, Mr. SEDDON said,-I may say I do not in- tend to introduce a Bill dealing with large debatable questions. This Bill is simply to remove technical difficulties in connection with the working of the Act, more particularly in connection with the removal of licenses from one part of a district to another. There is now an application for the removal of a license from one place to another over a distance of forty miles, which is quite contrary to what the Legis- lature intended. I also think the time has arrived in respect to the working of the Act to give discretionary power to Magistrates in certain cases, which would remove difficulties that exist in regard to the administration of the law, which are hampering the police. These are two points that ought to be dealt with. The question of "tied " houses is also a matter that should be attended to. And in re- spect to certain parts of the country, in regard to the tourist traffic, there ought to be some- thing done, as in the case of Hanmer and the out to the satisfaction of the colony. I just indicate this, because I am not going into an elaborate Licensing Amendment Bill, and I hope members on both sides will see that, in order to amend existing evils and introduce the necessary remedies, we should forego our opinions on large questions. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- There is one point that requires to be attended to, in regard to the matter of the quorum of the Licensing Bench. The number of members of the Committee was reduced under the last Bill, but the quorum was not reduced, and in large districts it is sometimes impossible to get a quorum to conduct the business. If the quorum were reduced it would be for the bene- fit of all the large districts, and I trust the Minister will have this matter attended to. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) .- I strongly indorse all that the honourable gentleman has just said. In the country districts the members of the Licensing Committee are invariably chosen over a very wide area. and, if one member of the Committee is unable to attend, every other member must attend or no meeting can occur. Only this month one member of the Hawke's Bay Licensing Com- mittee was away in England, and the meeting could not be held without my presence, and it was necessary for me to be absent three days from Parliament in order to attend the quar- terly meeting. I trust the Premier will take a note of this matter, and include a section deal- ing with it in his proposed amending Bill. Mr. HEKE (Northern Maori District). - I should like to ask if the Premier intends in this Bill to deal with the question of prohibition in the King-country. Mr. SEDDON .- I think that matter will have to be dealt with outside the House. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) .- Accounts have reached me in regard to the question brought forward by the member for the Bay of Plenty, and I trust something will be done to remedy the defect. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City). - Tb chief radical alterations required in our licens- ing laws will be covered by the amendments of which I have given notice ; but as the Premier has referred to the Bill as being of a technical character, I will urge upon the Government one important amendment of that nature. For years past -- five or six years at least - the Com- missioner of Police has stated that it is im- possible to enforce the provisions against trading out of hours so long as the customers' share in the offence goes unpunished. At present the publican is practically forced to break the law by customers who incur no risk in doing so. In England, customer and trade: are both liable in such cases, which is obviously just ; and all that is asked is that our law shall be brought into line with the English lav in that respect. Colonel Hume and Commissioner Tunbridge have both urged the change, time after time, and I hope the Premier will make the necessary provision for it in his Bill. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- I would like to 