cannot find employment in our towns, thereby encouraging them to take an interest in agri- culture, and in that way to be gradually ab- sorbed in rural pursuits. Of course, I recog- nise that these farms could only be established by the Government gradually-say. year by year. Only a State institution can carry on any con- tinuous experiments with regard to exotics, and the result of such experiments, if successful, would afford an object-lesson to the farmers, who would take advantage of it. Then, again, so far as experimental farms are concerned, not only would the land be considerably increased in value, but they would prove a great source of revenue to the Government. I should like also to see State nurseries established, so that the Government could supply trees freely to farmers and others for the purpose of planting. This bring me to a subject which I think is de- serving of greater attention, and that is forest conservation. There is no doubt that any person who goes through the country must view with great regret the scandalous way in which our forest lands are being denuded of their timber. Millions of feet of good timber are being destroyed yearly, and consequently thousands of pounds lost to this colony. think it is desirable that more strict supervision should be kept over our forests, and that some attention should be directed to planting. There is no doubt whatever that if we go on as we are doing, and allow our forests to be destroyed, we shall soon have to import timber for building, and fencing, and other purposes. Now, that is highly undesirable. We are like, to some extent, the prodigal son -- spending our sub- stance with no regard to the future. We have https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 to consider the rights of those who come after us. and therefore I say it is wrong for the colony, in the interests of the future generations, not to devote more attention to this subject of forest conservation. Now, Sir, I think a sub- ject of very great importance to this colony is that of the tourist traffic of this colony. I think that matter should receive more attention than it does at the present time. We have scenery in this colony that, taken as a whole, is un- equalled in any other part of the world ; but it is no use to expect people to come to this colony as tourists if they have to put up with hard- ships and privations in order to visit these places of scenic resort. We know that from Australia hundreds of people would come here yearly in order to breathe our invigorating atmosphere, and to get away from the din and bustle of city life and view our scenery, if we had We want better means of communication. better roads, tracks, and also better hut accom- modation. I have not the slightest doubt that, if these scenie beauties were on the Continent or in America, every inducement would be held out in order to attract visitors there, and so turn to profitable account these valuable scenic a->ts -the generous gifts of Nature. So far as the southern lakes are concerned-take, for instance, Lakes Te Anau and Manapouri -we want some means of communication from Otautau to tap that beautiful lake scenery. When a visitor arrives in New Zealand he finds that considerable time is occupied in getting to these places, and that he has to put up with hardships, and consequently he does not go there. Therefore I would advocate, as a step in the direction of encouraging the tourist traffic in the southern part of the Island, that communication should be established with Lake Manapouri and with Lake Te Anau from Otautau. Then, there is one thing I give the Government considerable credit for, and that is for passing the Act regulating abattoirs and slaughterhouses, and for securing the services of skilled Veterinary Inspectors. We have now placed the meat-supply of the colony on a very proper footing ; and we have secured to the people not only the removal of all cause for anxiety as to the quality of the meat- supply, but we have been able to assure the people of the Old Country that our exports of meat are of a first-rate quality, and are of a class that should command the highest price. I believe the Government inspection which has been established will do much to place our exports of meat to the Home-country in a good position so far as commanding a high price in the Home markets is concerned. Sir, when we compare the meat inspection laws of this colony with those of other colonies we find they are not so far advanced as those of New Zea- land. The Victorian laws, for instance, are very ineffective. They do not go far enough. They have not got that inspection of the local supply that they ought to have. One reason is that the butchers appear to possess some powerful influence which results in the re- tarding of legislation in that direction. Sir, I feel that it would be in the best interests of this colony to have a steam mail-service to Vancouver. By establishing a line of com- munication with Vancouver, and, conse- quently, with the great Dominion of Canada, with its five millions of people, we would open up a good field for our exports, more especially for our wool. I think that if ever there was a time when our products required more and better markets it is the present time. 'Our products have increased considerably, and the Government, it seems to me, are at their wits' end to find additional markets. Here, Sir, is an opening that I think should be availed of. Besides affording a further avenue for our surplus products, we would also be establishing a line of communication through British territory with the Old Country. It would be a link that would bring us closer to the Mother- land, and a link that could not be easily dis- I think our rail- turbed in the event of war. ways are of the greatest importance in pro- moting the interests of the colony. They should be pushed on ahead of population, and population will follow them. Our railway sys- tem is paying well, and, as we want population settled on the land, therefore our lines should be spread out more than they are. I do not ad- vocate indiscriminate borrowing for lavish ex- penditure in connection with the construction of railways : that would be but remotely repro- ductive; but what I do advocate is that we should go in for a policy which has for its object the 