General as acting well in regard to social and radical questions, and the honourable member stated that Mr. Reeves had secured to a Christ- church lad a position in a mercantile house in the Old Country. What we wanted was a Go- vernment and a representative who would have our lads and those of London introduced into industrial and mercantile positions in this colony. He thought the able men who formed the Government of this country should lay down a policy of industrial progress, and endea- vour to find avenues of labour for the lads and men of this country. He recognised the ser- vices to the colony which had been performed by the Agent-General, but he wanted also that the question of £ s. d. should be studied, and that our commercial interests should be closely attended to. He trusted that the salary of the Agent-General would be retained at £1,500 a year. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the question of the salary had been settled twelve months ago. The Agent-General had never asked for an in- crease at all ; it had come voluntarily from the Government, and was fully indorsed by mem- bers and the people of the country. Consider- ing the increase of business in connection with that office, he really did not think £1,500 was commensurate with the work done. He de- precated bringing on to the floor of the House the private business arrangements of the Agent- General, who was not there to reply to any- thing that might be said against him. He undertook to say that if ever Mr. Reeves thought fit to return to New Zealand he would be welcomed back by the people of the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 colony. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) said he had not intended to cast the slightest reflection upon Sir Dillon Bell. He was only speaking on the question of the granting of titles generally. Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui) considered that in one particular work alone the Agent-General had earned his salary, and that was in his reply to attacks which were from time to time made on the financial position of the colony, for which the members of the Opposition were not alto- gether guiltless. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) considered the colony had had no better Agent-General than Mr. Reeves, and he was sorry to hear members endeavouring to defame the charac- ter of an absent politician. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked for a list of the items coming under the head of " Contin- gencies, £331," expended last year. Sir J. G. WARD .- The " Contingencies" for the Agent-General's Department were :- 8. d. 4 8 Furniture, &c. 29 Legal expenses 4 6 6 . . Office cleaning 36 15 8 . . .. 88 Overtime 0 0 .. .. Petty cash 65 8 10 . . 20 Postages 7 6 Telegrams, &c. 13 10 8 Travelling .expenses 4 17 0 .. Mr. Withetord Typewriting 41 7 1 .. Sundries 26 16 5 . . 4 344 19 0 Recoveries : postage, &c. 13 10 £331 9 4 Vote £4,600 agreed to. Printing and Stationery Department, £23,175. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) wished to call the attention of the Minister to the startling increase of £5 given to the forewoman of the girls' room-an increase of from £115 to £120. It was enough to ruin the country ! There were considerable increases in salaries in dif- ferent departments; yet the forewoman of the girls' room had received the " prodeegious " in- crease of £5! How did the Minister arrive at the conclusion that the forewoman was entitled to only £5 increase ? Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said that on the first item he made reference to a little volume printed at the Government Printing Office. He did not want to go into details about it, but if the Minister did not remember what was said he would repeat it for his benefit. There was also the question of type-setting machines in the Government Printing Office. For himself, he could see that a saving of $8,000 a year could be made in this one department, by the use of the monotype. It was an extraordinary thing, if a saving to that extent could be made, that the Government did not take steps to make it. There was, no doubt, something in the sentimental idea which had been expressed by the Premier-that it was not desired to throw a number of men out of work. It had to be re- membered, however, that most of the men who were given work were casual workers, and their employment for a few months in the year really created a large amount of casual labour that was not beneficial to the colony. If machines were employed, these casual labourers would have to find an outlet in some other direction. and if they drifted out of the trade altogether it would be a benefit not only to the trade but to the taxpayer. Mr. HALL . JONES (Minister for Public Works) thought it would be admitted that it would have been unwise to have got liuo- types last year, because there were improved machines at work now that could be obtained at a third of the cost of the linotypes, and it was possible that in the future still greater improvements would be made in type-setting machines. For himself, he had not had an op- portunity of seeing the work of the monotypes. He had been informed that some of them were in the colony, and it was his intention to look into the matter and inquire into their worth. Of course, it had to be remembered that a machine would not do all the work that was required in the Printing Office. No doubt the introduction of machines was a question the colony would sooner or later have to face. but until they had found out what was the best machine it was wise to be careful in making changes. He thought the colony had gained 