Mr. SEDDON .- Then, I presume the honour- | submit to you, Sir, that if a member gives able gentleman was the leader of the candid triplets. The other two followed his example. Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) .- I also wish to make a personal explanation. The Premier has been good enough to say, in reference to my remarks on the Midland Railway and other subjects, that they were so like the remarks of some other honourable members that they showed that members had been, I think he said, colloguing together. I wish to assure the Premier that neither of the members he referred to, or any other member in the House or person out- side the House, knew anything about what I was going to say, or supplied me with any material. I can only express the hope that other matters the Premier has been speaking about for the last hour have been more cor- rect than his statement with reference to that point. Mr. SEDDON .- You three were all very candid and kind while I was away. Mr. GRAHAM .- I could not help your being away, and I expressed my regret for your ab- sence at the time. Mr. SEDDON. - Then, if your regret was sincere, a good many of the things you then said you could not have said. As the honour- able gentleman has said he had not consulted with any one, I must accept his denial. Mr. GRAHAM .- You believe me, I hope, and accept my assurance. Mr. SEDDON .- I believe you. I can only say that the remarks of the three gentlemen in respect to the increased debt and the Midland Railway were so much alike that I naturally https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 concluded there had been mutual inspiration. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .- The Right Hon. the Premier has been pleased to refer to me in his speech. I should like to tell him I do not withdraw one jot or tittle of the facts or figures in my speech. I further say I had no confer- ence with the honourable member for Riccar- ton or the honourable member for Nelson City in any shape or form. or with any officer or department of the public service. Nor was I furnished from the archives of the Premier's office with figures, as some other honourable members have been. I had to work out my own facts and figures and compile my own speech, and I am prepared to stand by that speech. Mr. SEDDON .- Then, Sir, I will only say this to the honourable gentleman, to show how misleading he was in respect to myself both in regard to his facts and his figures : The honour- able gentleman accused me of having last year cost the colony £2,410 -. An Hon. MEMBER .- Order ! Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable member must sit down when I rise to address the House. It is the duty of the Premier as leader of the House to respect the Chair, and the honour and dignity of this Parliament have been brought into disrepute by frequent at- tempts not to do so. I have called upon the Premier not to proceed and he has no right to do so. I hope in future he will obey the ruling of the Chair. Mr. SEDDON .- I will, with due respect, figures in his speech about my salary and ex- penses and says they are correct, I should have the opportunity of showing they were mislead- ing and incorrect. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- As the Premier knows, personal explanation must be confined to the particular point to be explained. No reference whatever can be made in personal explanation to figures used in the course of the debate. Mr. SEDDON .- Then, I may be permitted, in personal explanation, to say that the honour- able member stated that certain facts and figures given in his speech were correct. In those figures he said that I had drawn Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - I must certainly object to this being prolonged. I have already ruled that the honourable member mentioned no particular subject and no particular figures. Mr. SEDDON .- I will then say, generally, that I am positively aware that the figures given by the honourable gentleman are abso- lutely incorrect ; and I will also say that, with regard to the remarks upon the Midland Rail- way, he will see that I compared his remarks in Hansard with those of the member for Nelson and the member for Riccarton. Mr. ATKINSON .- I rise to a point of order. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable member must not proceed : this is debating the question. Motion agreed to, and the House went into Committee of Supply. # SUPPLY. CLASS I .- LEGISLATIVE DEPARTMENTS. Legislative Council, £1,870. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) said he understood that on the first item they could discuss the esti- mates generally. He wished to discuss the por- tion of the estimates dealing with the troopers sent to South Africa. He would have made these remarks in his speech on the Financial Statement, but the Right Hon the Premier was not present, and he wished him to hear, because what he wanted to say he desired to say to his face. He (Mr. Allen) had said that the Premier had utilised the troopers from South Africa and the patriotic movement for political purposes, and he intended to prove it abso- lutely. The Fourth and Fifth Contingents had lately returned from the South African cam- paign by the "Tagus." Those men had gone through the very hardest of the South African campaign. They had gone through Beira, and the wretched climatic influences had af- fected them, and affected them seriously, and the result had been that nearly every trooper had broken down in his constitution. They were on their road home. They came as far as Albany broken down in constitution com- pletely. When they got to Albany they were ill, nearly every one of them suffering from enteric-from typhoid, which he believed was the same thing. And at Albany the medical officer of the "Tagus " reported this sickness, and that report was sent to the Premier, as Defence Minister, to this effect : that owing to 