upon them they feel like people who have been burnt by fire. Honourable members may laugh at my form of expression, but I know what I mean, and I am entirely right. Sir, I say this: that if a man, whoever he may be, does not act in the right direction he will not long remain in a responsible position. Now, Sir, I will point out another grievance under which the Maori people are at present labour- ing. At the present time a certain description of land-purchase is going on throughout my district, and it has been continually worrying the Maori people year after year. I think I am correct in estimating the balance of land owned by Maoris in this Island at something between three and four million acres. Yet the purchase of these remaining lands is still persisted in and is continued by the Government, and the end must be utter disaster to the Maori race. Now, the position might be better if the lands were paid for at anything like the price equiva- lent to their value; but, as it is, the Govern- ment acquire those lands by purchase at 5s. or 6s. an acre, and then sell them for £2 or $3 an acre. They make a profit of three or four times the amount of their outlay out of the transaction. Mr. CARROLL. - How much have they sold ? Mr. KAIHAU. - Practically speaking, the land is all sold. Mr. CARROLL. - How much has the Go- vernment sold ? Mr. KAIHAU .- All I can say is this : that the lands that were purchased for the small sums per acre I have mentioned are worth from $2 to $3 an acre now. I should say that some of the best land in that district is now worth https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 from £3 to £5 an acre. Is that a proceeding upon which the Government have any cause to congratulate themselves? I consider that I am justified in looking upon the Government's procedure in that direction with a considerable amount of suspicion. I believe I am justified in taking up the position I do and remind- ing the Government that I have been their consistent supporter for four years, and during that four years I have continually urged upon them what I consider they ought to do for the . welfare of the Maori people. I consider I am justified in saying this : They are my own people ; I am speaking on their behalf, and the lands are ours. And I say to the Government, in all seriousness now, cease to act in that manner. I believed when I listened to the professions of the Government that they were serious in what they said. They told me that if a man was sunk right down in the mud it was in their power to raise him up out of it. Where, Sir, I ask, is there a single action of theirs which they can point to as giving effect to that profession. At the present moment my heart is filled with two emotions-caution and hope. I hope to see the Government do some of the things they have professed their willingness to do. But I have not as yet enumerated all the troubles under which we suffer, and I am going to give the House some more. I will illustrate what I mean in this way : Say there is within my district Mr. Kaihau a large block of land unsurveyed, and the owners of that land, the people resident in that district, are not willing to survey the land, simply because they have not the means to pay for the survey. The Minister for the Maoris comes in, 11.30. and upon his authority the surveyors enter the land and they survey these blocks irrespective of what the objections of the majority of the Maori owners may be. And no matter how the Maori owners may protest, or what arguments they may make use of in protest, absolutely no notice whatsoever is taken. And why, Sir? Because the Govern- ment are anxious to get their hands on the land ; they want to get the cost of the survey made a charge upon the land, so that they can get their hands on it as speedily as possible. Mr. CARROLL .- What block of land are you speaking of ? Mr. KAIHAU .- There are numbers of blocks of land in that position. I can mention a block now. The Rangitoto Tuhua Block was surveyed some time ago, and I received letter after letter and telegram after telegram from the owners asking me to communicate with the Native Minister on their behalf, and to re- monstrate with him, and to endeavour to have the survey put a stop to, as they did not wish it to proceed. And I did so communicate with both the Premier and Native Minister, and urged that the survey be put a stop to. I think, perhaps, the Native Minister will be satisfied that my reply is a sufficient answer to his question. What I say should be done is this : The surveyors should be taken away at once, and no one should have any right to enter upon any Natives' land except at the desire and with the consent of the owners. Now, passing from that subject, I will go to another matter that it seems to me will be a cause of further expense and trouble. Under the Act under which Councils can be consti- tuted there is to be a re-election of members of the Councils every three years. Sir, I ask mem- bers of this House to very very carefully take into consideration all these various evils in the Act which I have endeavoured to point out, and, if any amending measure comes down, that they will endeavour to the very best of their ability to amend the law in such a direction as will enable the Maoris to be put upon the same footing as Europeans. Now I shall devote a few remarks to the Royal visit that took place some time ago, when we were honoured with a visit from the late Queen's grandson. The Maoris, Sir, were exceedingly glad to be honoured by that visit. Sir, I do not believe we should make any remarks deprecating the amount of money that was spent over the visit, when their Royal Highnesses came here to honour both races in this country through that visit. But what I will say is this : that the way in which the arrangements were made with re- gard to affording opportunities for their Royal Highnesses to interview their Maori subjects in this country were not made or carried out as they should have been. And in making that remark I speak on behalf of the residents of the district known as Waikato, a thickly popu- 