to that amount has been taken from the people The competition that had taken place with the of the colony. That is equal to $7 10s. per subsidised boat had brought freights down to a head of our population, or £37 10s. on the head price at which no steamer company could exist ; of every breadwinner in the colony. I do not and while the other company had a Government subsidy to exist upon, the rival company had think any colony can stand taxation like that very long. To enable the colony to be kept nothing but the low rates of freights and fares. going for the past few years large sums of money Well, the result was that the Premier was ap- have had to be borrowed, necessitating the pay- proached, and he said at once-and I will give ment of heavy interest. I consider, Sir, it is him every credit for his honesty in doing so- " My promise has been given that tenders should time this enormous borrowing was put a stop to. What has been done with the money ? The be called for, but as I am unable, owing to the previous contract, to call for fresh tenders, I present Government has held office for ten years, and in that time have increased the will do the only thing that remains in my power public debt of the colony by twelve millions -I will give them, recognising the fact that they are a young company who have brought sterling; and, if the Premier is allowed to have his own way, he will borrow and borrow down fares and assisted the settlers, and done a until it will take the whole of the revenue to great deal in the interests of the Wanganui pay the interest. There is very little to show people, an equal subsidy to that of the other for what has been borrowed. Then, I de- company." Well, Sir, I say I consider the Pre- mier did the right thing; there could have been sire to say this: It is stated in the Budget that it will not be long before Auckland and no bribe, because there was no one to bribe. Wellington will be joined by a steel band, and The question has been raised about the election ; I wish to show the House how that particular but, Sir, this took place some months before Mr. Hutchison resigned his seat, and the election was work is being carried out. It is a matter in which I have taken a deep interest. Some not then thought of. And, that being so, I ask, eighteen years ago, now, Mr. Rochfort surveyed How could any bribery have been intended ? Are the railway-line, and in that time the line has the Government to be prevented from doing what only advanced twenty-three miles. In the last is just and right in every case because they eight years the engine has not advanced a are to be told afterwards it is bribery ? I say it was nothing of the kind, and if ever the Govern- single yard. They have been stuck at the ment did right they did so in this case. No Makohine Viaduct for years. A contract might doubt a mistake was made-I believe the Pre- have been let at one time to a practical con- tractor, but the Government would not give it mier himself will acknowledge that-in giving him. If they had allowed that man to do the an extension of the contract to one firm ; but, work it would have been finished in a compara- having given his promise, I say the Premier tively short period, but they desired to have only did what was right, and what was just, the work done by co-operative labour. Co- when he gave an equal subsidy under con- ditions that were all favourable to the people operative labourers were accordingly set to living away in what is known as the back work to clear the scrub and to excavate the foundations for the concrete piers, and I am blocks. I will ask the honourable member for Patea whether he will find a single man in sure if the member for Masterton, Mr. Hogg, Raetihi and Pipiriki and in the immediate had been on the scene he would have been district interested who will state that this was delighted with the way the work was carried on. He would not have been able to draw a piece of jobbery or a piece of political cor- pathetic pictures of machinery taking the bread ruption. There was a petition signed and sent to the Government by nearly every man, I be- from working-men. There was no machinery lieve, who lived in the Waimarino district, to hoist the clay out of the way. The work- begging the Government to grant this addi- men were throwing the spoil on to a bench, tional subsidy so as to enable the Settlers' two men threw it from that bench to a higher Company to go on. Sir, I have endeavoured one, and so on until it reached the top, and then it was carried away by two men with to explain as far as I could this matter; and wheelbarrows. The proper way would have I am not going to detain the House any further, been to procure a winch, a donkey-engine, and except to say that I resume my seat in the firm conviction that the Government have been a basket. doing excellent work, and, so far as I am con- cerned, I have increased confidence in their engine. capabilities for carrying on the business of this foundations were laid. Then, what has been colony. Mr. HASELDEN (Patea) .- Sir, I did not the effect of the work on the settlers' roads? intend to speak to-day, but I have been forced The Government were so eager to connect this into doing so by the present situation. At any steel band between Auckland and Wellington rate, I do not intend to weary the House by that it was decided to cart all the railway material beyond the viaduct ; the consequence going into an array of facts and figures, as so many honourable members who should be more is that the roads have been cut up so much that the mail-coach cannot run, and the mails able to discuss the finances of the country than have to be carried on pack-horses. The roads I am have already done so. However, I wish have been destroyed to such an extent that to say that one thing strikes me, and that is settlers actually cannot get stores to their that the revenue of the country has increased Mr. HALL-JONES. - They had a steam- Mr. HASELDEN .- Yes; after the concrete 