Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he understood it was not complete yet. "SHORTHAND REPORTERS ACT, 1900." Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Government, Whether they will take such steps as may be necessary to give effect to the Short- hand Reporters Act of last session ? He did not know why there had been such a delay in giving effect to the Act passed last year. Two Judges of the Supreme Court had given opinions in favour of bringing into operation the provi- sions of this Act. These Judges were Mr. Justice Williams and Mr. Justice Denniston. Regulations had been framed in accordance with the provisions of the Act, and examiners, he understood, had been appointed, and it only remained for the Government to say that the Act should be put into operation. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the only thing that remained to be done was to appoint ex- aminers to conduct the examination of candi- dates under the Act. # JUDGMENTS OF HIGH COURT OF RAROTONGA. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked the Government, Whether it is their intention to introduce legislation to provide for an appeal to the New Zealand Court of Appeal from judg- ments of the High Court of Rarotonga ? This matter occasioned some correspondence between His Excellency the Governor and Mr. Chamber- lain. Lord Ranfurly wrote on the 15th January, 1900, and Mr. Chamberlain replied on the 6th April saying it was desirable that a Court of Appeal should be esta' lished. Since then this colony had annex a the islands, and, if https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 this High Court of Rarotonga was a valid Court now, which he considered very doubtful, he thought it was very desirable there should be an appeal to the Appeal Court of New Zealand. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, now that the Islands were part of New Zealand, no doubt our Courts had jurisdiction there. The only question at the present time was whether we should appoint Colonel Gudgeon to be a Dis- trict Court Judge. # GOVERNMENT LOANS TO LOCAL BODIES ACT. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) asked the Govern- ment, If they will amend " The Government Loans to Local Bodies Act Amendment Act, 1899," so as to enable settlers to capitalise ex- isting loans, and extend the period of repay- ment to forty-one years ; also, to enable holders of sections whose lands are loaded on account of the expenditure on roads to take advantage of the Act referred to ? This was an important question to the settlers of the country. Under " The Government Loans to Local Bodies Act Amendment Act, 1899," the rate of interest on money borrowed for public works by settlers was reduced & per cent. for the ordinary term of twenty six years, and at the same time the settlers were allowed the option of spreading the loan over a longer period of years, the rate of interest being accordingly reduced. A good many intended to take advantage of the Act, but they found that, instead of the loans. being capitalised, and instead of their being called upon to pay only the reduced interest on. the balance of the loan, they would really be in a worse position, and have more money to pay, in cases where the loan had been in ex- istence for a considerable time, than if they took no advantage of the Act at all. He would illustrate his point : Assuming £100 had been borrowed for twenty-six years at the old rate of 5 per cent., the total amount that would have. to be paid would be £130. At the reduced rate. of 44 per cent. the amount would be £117. But supposing the loan had been in existence. for eighteen years when the Act came into. operation, and 5 per cent. had been paid, the amount paid by the settlers up to that time would be #90; and for the remaining twenty- three years, if they extended the loan for forty-one years at the reduced amount of re- payment-namely, 3} per cent. per annum- the further amount would come to £80 10s., or equal to a sum of £170 10s., as comparedt with the £130 they would have to pay under- the original agreement. On the other hand,. if the loan was capitalised, seeing that $90 had been paid, there would only be a balance of £40, and that, extended over the twenty-three years. at 3g per cent., would make £32 4s .; so that, instead of having to pay the larger amount of $170 10s., they would have a decided advantage. He thought this was only fair to the settlers, who had been led to believe that the Act would give them a considerable amount of relief, whereas, as a matter of fact, they had not been able, except in a few instances where the loans. were recently contracted, to take advantage of the Act at all. With regard to roads, settlers were now required to pay, under the lease in perpetuity, 4 per cent. on the surcharge made for roads. generally amounting to 58. per acre. This interest was added to the rent, and was a permanent charge for 999 years. These settlers had an obvious grievance, for, instead of being allowed the same opportunities as other settlers, who, under the provisions of " The Government Loans to Local Bodies Act, 1899," were allowed to repay the money they borrowed for roads and bridges by instalments extending over thirty- two years at 4 per cent., they were required to pay that rate of interest as an addition to their rental for all time. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) thought it was un- desirable to introduce legislation to enable the Government Loans to Local Bodies Act to be extended as suggested. There would be a gene- ral amending Act. The Government Loans to Local Bodies Act provided for the granting of money to local authorities for works of public utility, and the demands under the existing law were so numerous and the amount required so large that it would, in his opinion, be un- wise to further extend the borrowing facilities .. Knowing the payments already this year, he could say that, if the payments were extended in the way mentioned by the honourable gentle- man, it would probably lead to an increase of 