Now, the difficulty in connection with this commercial intelligence department in Lon- don would be that the trade would not give to the representative there what the prices really were ; and unless a man was actually in the trade, buying and selling, he had not got his finger on the pulse of commerce. New Zea- land should do what Victoria and several other colonies had done : they should establish a trade office in the busiest part of London. Victoria had samples of all her produce at a trade centre in Leadenhall Street, so that the commercial world could see what Victoria was able to do at any moment. It would be of no use to New Zealand if the commercial people had to go to the west end of the city for information, as it was entirely out of the range of com- merce. As to the Tourist Department, he did not think a better man could have been obtained to take charge of it than Mr. Donne. He was a keen sportsman, and took great interest in its natural and native interests. In conclusion, he would like to ask the Minister if the Trade Commissioner would be required to report re- garding the necessity for cool-storage in Lon- don as well as in South Africa. Sir J. G. WARD said the Commissioner's instructions were to report upon the possibility of the opening -up of markets wherever he went; and this applied to Great Britain. Re- garding the proposal to establish cool-stores in England, involving great issues, that was, of course, a very big question, and it would take him an hour to deal with the matter fully. Upon this matter the Trade Representative was instructed to confer with the Agent- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 General in London, who had already gone into this matter. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) understood the Minister to say that the maximum weight o corn-sacks to be carried on the railways was 200 lb. Did that mean the railways would refuse to carry sacks over 200 1b. ? Sir J. G. WARD said, No ; but the heavier sacks would be penalised in the ordinary way. Mr. MASSEY said, In the grain-growing districts of the colony each grower tried to make the sacks of a uniform weight, and he did it by quarter-bushels. Now, if the maxi- mum weight were fixed at 200 1b., that was 3 bushels and 20 1b., which was somewhat awkward for calculating. If it were fixed at 210 1b., that would be 3+ bushels, and would be much more convenient for all concerned. Sir J. G. WARD said the trouble was that the sacks of over 200 1b. in weight frequently burst, both in loading and discharging ; and, besides that, they were rather heavy for the average man to handle. However, he would be glad to confer with the honourable member with a view of arriving at a more convenient weight for calculation. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) said that, al- though they had been told that this depart- ment was not yet in working-order, and so ought not to be criticized, they had here a Superintendent at $500 and five clerks at $1,000. He thought this was a little too much. Jir. T. Mackenzie of this colony was known in every market of the world, and if the business-men in other parts of the world wanted our produce they would ask for quotations ; but the trouble was that our merchants would only give f.o.b. quo- tations, and this did not suit the buyers. Furthermore, they did not pack their goods in a manner suitable to those markets they were desirous of collaring, and unless they were prepared to meet these requirements it was useless to look for new markets. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) thought that a good deal of money was wasted because there was no system pursued in connection with advertising, and a return recently laid before the House showed that a great deal of economy could be effected without impairing efficiency. They had a real live department in the Depart- ment of Industries and Commerce and in the Tourist Department, and he thought one of the functions of this department should be to con- trol the Government advertising. This matter could then be dealt with on a businesslike basis. He believed a great deal of good work had been done by the Tourist Department, and more especially in connection with the Royal visit. He thought the Government were to be congratulated on attacking this question of tourist traffic in a businesslike way, and trusted the officers of the department would be allowed to continue the good work they had commenced. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) said that when in England he had frequently attended the Agent-General's Office, and there seemed to him to be one important element lacking in connection with the sale of the colony's pro- ducts, and that was any proper advertising of the products the colony had for sale. He used to wonder why nothing was heard of New Zealand products in England. Every paper that came from New Zealand had a column or a column and a half as to what the experts were doing in the Agent-General's Office re- specting New Zealand produce, but nothing of this appeared in the English papers. He would willingly see £1,000 put on the estimates for the purpose of advertising the colony's products in the English newspapers, and he believed it would be the best expenditure of money the colony could make. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) ex- pressed the opinion that the premises occupied by the department were very unsuitable. They were old and badly situated, and no amount of patching up could make them adequate for the purpose. It seemed to him absurd that offices of the Tourist Department should be stuck away in a back street. It was reasonable to suppose that this was only a temporary arrange- ment, but he would like some indication from the Minister as to what the intention of the Government was as to providing a permanent building. Sir J. G. WARD said he had already ex- plained that this was only a temporary office. and that as soon as the building was erected behind the Post Office, the land for which was 