this matter any further, as I have others to refer to ; it is sufficiently clear to any unbiassed mind that what I have stated is absolutely cor- rect. Now, there are one or two other state- ments the Postmaster-General made that I would like to deal with too. I cannot help being struck by the nautical turn of mind honourable Ministers have developed. Like his namesake, Sir Joseph, of " Pinafore " fame, if the honourable gentleman continues in his line of political navigation he may become some day a " ruler of the Queen's navee." I was rather pleased at the nautical terms, and the facility with which he worked off a lee-shore-under close-reefed topsail, I suppose. And he got the good ship "Finance," I suppose, into placid water immediately he got her off the lee-shore. He may have got her into open water, but if he was on a lee-shore under such conditions as he depicted I hardly think it likely that he would find placid water quite so quickly and con- veniently as he did this afternoon. The honourable gentleman accused those of pessi- mistic frame of mind, both on his own side of the House and in opposition, of having spoken disparagingly of the large salaries paid to heads of departments, and he gave us a com- parison of the salaries paid for various offices in New Zealand and other parts of the Aus- tralian Continent quite to the disadvantage of our colony. Well, I am one who has always held that the servant is worthy of his hire, and that therefore the first essential to the proper organization and administration either of a department or a business is having a thoroughly competent, well-paid, and efficient head to that https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 department ; so that in that respect I am not a cheeseparer. It is not in the matter of our large salaries that the leakage is ; but, Sir, we keep here too many cats that catch no mice. It is through distributing the departmental salaries over an unnecessarily large area that renders it necessary for us to starve the heads of departments and the responsible officers, so that on the first opportunity they get of obtain- ing employment in any other part of the world they immediately leave us. Another state- ment the honourable gentleman made was with regard to the question of the sinking funds. He said that all financial authorities condemned the practice of providing sinking funds, and he instanced the case of a merchant building a warehouse. He said that if the ware- house was calculated to cost £20,000, and the merchant had raised $5,000 to start with, it was not good business to provide a sinking fund for that $5,000 before having completed the raising of the whole $20,000. Sir J. G. WARD .- That is, if gradually built. Mr. HUTCHESON .- Yes, if gradually built. But, Sir, there is scarcely any analogy there at all, because there is finality to the building of the warehouse, whereas, if we are to believe the honourable gentleman, our scheme of public works on borrowed money must continue till the end of time. There is no stopping-place, he said, in fact, to the continuance of our scheme of public works by borrowed money. to do is to live in the day, borrow all the money we can, and hand the bill along to posterity. Sir J. G. WARD .- I did not say that. Mr. HUTCHESON .- No; I am saying that. I am inferring that there is no finality to pub- lic works, and we have been assured time and again that we cannot carry on public works out of revenue taken from the Consolidated Fund. The Premier told us last year the Consolidated Fund had already contributed too much, and he was going to discontinue it, and only through grave anxiety caused by the state of the Public Works Fund has he on this occasion continued what, according to his own statement, is not a proper proceeding, and transferred half a million from the Consolidated Fund to the Public Works Fund. So that if we take the premises of the Hon. the Minister we must continue-to be financially correct-to carry on the public works of the colony out of bor- rowed money. Well, I say that many of these public works alleged to be of a permanent reve- nue-producing nature are not so. Bridges have to be rebuilt-wooden structures especially-in fifty or sixty years' time, and the colony is having the use of these bridges in our time at the expense of posterity, and we are leaving posterity to foot the bill once more. It is not proper policy nor statesmanship to conduct our business in that way. But the whole policy of the present Government has been built and is maintained on the judicious doling-out of public moneys for local works. In this connection the Premier, on a former occasion, stigmatized this city as "cormorant Wellington." But, Sir, I have always found myself in this posi- tion : that I have never had to go up back- stairs to beg for the expenditure of public money in or about the City of Wellington. It is as proud a position as a member could occupy, and, so far as its applicability is concerned, the term was entirely a misnomer. Mr. SEDDON .- Wellington gets the money spent therein all the same. Mr. HUTCHESON. - But Wellington says this in effect : " We are absolutely and entirely independent of the Government, and if you choose to spend public money in public build- ings that is your affair. We do not ask for it ; you do it for a national purpose, and we are not at all indebted to you as a city." All that Wellington asks from the Government is to be left unmolested to work out her own destiny. Now, coming to the Budget, the whole Budget presents to me the air of "Who's afraid ? " Beginning with the first word and ending with the last paragraph, the whole Budget is simply an exposition of " Who's afraid ? " Or, to use another simile, it is as assuring as the invitation of the schoolboy, who, having jumped into ice- cold water to swim, begs his school-fellows to follow, declaring, with his teeth chattering, that the water "isn't co-o-ld a bit." That is the whole Budget from beginning to end. It is in turn truculent and boastful, and apologetic and nervous. Taken as a whole, it is the most undignified Statement which even the right 