in the price of coal per ton to the consumer, more coal has been produced in the colony than in any previous year. And the increased price has not been owing to the want of production, nor has it gone to the miners engaged in win- ning the coal. As I have said, more coal was produced last year than in any other year in the history of the colony. I may be met by the statement that there was a larger export last year, but I may say that that larger export does not account for the difference I have stated. I will give the House the exact figures. The output of coal for 1900 was 1,093,990 tons, or 118,756 tons more than was produced in 1899. The quantity of coal exported in 1900 was 114,358 tons, as compared with 89,480 for the previous year, showing an increase of 24,878 tons. In spite of the increased export, we find that there were 93,878 more tons for home con- sumption than during the preceding year. I think that is a sufficient argument to prove that the additional cost of the coal has not gone to the coal-miners. Debate interrupted. The House adjourned at half-past ten o'clock .p.m. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Tuesday, 3rd September, 1901. First Reading - Financial Statement. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half-past ten o'clock. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 PRAYERS. FIRST READING. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Wesleyan Church Reserve Vesting Bill (No. 2). FINANCIAL STATEMENT. INTERRUPTED DEBATE. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) .- Sir, when the House adjourned on Friday evening I had come pretty well to the conclusion of my remarks in regard to mining. I had pointed out that, notwithstanding the increased export of coal, there was 93,878 tons more for home consumption than there had been for the pre- ceding year; and I also drew attention to the fact that with this increased consumption there was an increase in prices to the public, and that it appeared to me that the miner proper derived no benefit therefrom, but that it must have gone into the hands of the mine-owners or the middlemen. Now, if 1s. per ton be added to the cost of the coal produced during the year 1900, it would mean an increase in the amount received by these people of over 50,000. Cer- tamly it did not go into the pockets of the miners. But before concluding my remarks under this head I would like to show the im- portance of mining generally-both coal- and gold-mining-with regard to the employment of labour, as exemplified by the following figures : In quartz-mining there were, on the 31st December, 1900, 4,267 men employed; and in the previous year 4,663. In allu- vial, hydraulic, and other mining, in 1889, 8,628; and in 1900, 9,235. In coal-mining, 1899, 2,153 ; 1900, 2,460: or a total of 15,962 persons engaged in this industry-showing an increase of 518 persons engaged in the industry for the year 1900 as compared with 1899. Now, if we assume-and it is fair to assume-that a number of these people have families, it is a very important matter in the interests of the colony that so many people are engaged in industries of this character. I would like before leaving the mining industry to refer for a minute to some remarks of my honourable friend the member for Auckland City (Mr. Witheford). He is deeply imbued with the immense wealth that is in the Coromandel Peninsula, and he has repeatedly requested the Minister of Mines to endeavour to unearth this immense wealth ; he said that if we did the colony would never require to go to the foreign money-market in order to obtain money to carry on public works and other works of a necessary and permanent character. Now, that honour- able gentleman has some experience in this matter, and he speaks with some knowledge. He has, I believe-and to his credit be it said- been the means. of introducing a considerable amount of capital for the development of that district, and I wish to say that I shall be very happy to give the honourable gentleman every facility that the law will allow, in order that he shall have an opportunity of helping to unearth this wealth; so that not only he himself may be benefited, but also the community and the colony generally. In regard to our mining laws generally, I am not going to take up the time of the House in dilating upon them, but I wish to say-and I think it is only fair and reason- able that we should have the credit-I wish to say this : that so far as I can learn the mining laws of New Zealand are the most favourable for both capitalists and miners of any mining laws in the world. So much so that we are having requests, not only from some of the old countries that may not be so immediately con- cerned in mining, but also from America and other mining countries, for copies of our mining laws and regulations connected with mining. And that, to my mind, is proof that, at any rate, our laws are as fair as time and circum- stances allow us to make them As time goes on, new conditions arise ; and it is for this House, on the recommendation of the Mines Committee, to endeavour to adapt itself to new conditions and pass laws suitable to the new conditions. That has been instanced during the last few years by the new conditions in re- gard to mining that have been introduced ; and, so far as the Government is concerned, it has always been anxious to endeavour to make laws suitable for all parties. While on this point I wish to say a word with regard to labour generally. It is a matter for congratula- tion that the country is progressive, and that the people in the country are employed; and I think that during the period the present - 