House." It seemed to him they were not in order in allowing any one, be he Minister or member, to move a motion while an honourable member was supposed to be speaking in the course of the debate. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the answer to that was this : he understood that leave was asked by the Minister to move the motion, and that the leave was given. Mr. MASSEY said, No; leave was not asked. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the circum- stances were these: Major Steward was pro- ceeding in the ordinary way to resume his speech, when he asked his indulgence to bring a matter before the House, and the honourable member at once gave way, although it was within the right of the honourable member to insist on going on with his speech without in- terruption. Mr. MASSEY said it was a matter which not merely interested the honourable gentleman, but all members of the House. He submitted they were not in order in allowing a motion to be moved at this stage at the request of a Minister. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER must rule that it was within the right of the honourable member for Waitaki; and that that honourable gentle- man gave way to allow this motion to be brought on. He brought the matter before the House because he was informed the printing of Hansard would be delayed unless this motion was moved to-night. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I do not see any very great objection to the motion before the House, but I would like to enter my strong ob- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 jection to the practice of a Minister laying on the table of the House important papers at half-past five in the evening, in the middle of a debate ; that practice has grown up this session, and I think it is a very bad one, because it is manifestly intended to balk the discussion of these papers. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) was quite sure the protest of the last speaker would have a great deal of weight with Ministers, par- ticularly when he told him this Statement was not laid on the table at half-past five in the evening, but at half-past two in the afternoon ; and he agreed with members that papers like this should be laid on the table as early as possible, and in this case that was done. He only wanted to say that the question had been raised about the introduction into Hansard of the Railways Statement, and it appeared to him to be a little extraordinary that there should be any opposition to it, inasmuch as upon more than one occasion previously the same course had been followed, and no : exception was taken to it; and it would therefore appear that some honourable mem- bers were anxious to stop a practice which hitherto they had not been adverse to. The : business to be transacted thereat. I could Railways Statement had previously been put into Hansard, and no exception was taken to ; to time I have brought under the honourable it ; and he should have thought that honour- 'gentleman's notice. Now, I want to point out able members who had professed to be very ; that when a member sends a request for railway Mr. Massey the table of the House would have been de- lighted to have the opportunity of sending the Statement to their constituents through Han- sard in order that they might know what was going on in connection with an important branch of the public service, a department in which every one in the country took a very deep interest ; and why an attempt should be made to prevent publicity being given to those im- portant departmental reports, and so prevent their constituents perusing them, he was unable to understand, unless it was that the report was so favourable that they wished to keep it out of Hansard. An Hon. MEMBER .- We do not object. Sir J. G. WARD said, Then, if that were so, why had the House lost twenty minutes in dis- cussing points of order with a view of keeping these reports out of Hansard. An Hon. MEMBER -- No ; we wanted them in proper form. Sir J. G. WARD said the custom of the House, he thought, ought to be that when the report of an important department such as this was presented to the House, it ought to be put into Hansard, so that people all over the colony interested in the working of a great State de- partment could have an insight into its work- ing, and they could then judge for themselves whether the department was going on satis- factorily or otherwise; but, evidently, the honourable members who wanted to keep it out did not desire the people to know what was going on. Motion agreed to. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) .- I beg to move a similar motion with regard to the Mines Statement. Motion agreed to. FINANCIAL STATEMENT. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) .- When I was interrupted at half-past five o'clock I was en- deavouring to impress upon the Minister for Railways the importance of granting every pos- sible facility to farmers and settlers for the safe storage of their produce at railway-stations and for the loading of their produce, and that he should also reduce as much as possible the rates upon agricultural produce between the place of loading and the port of shipment. There is also another thing which requires to be done. The honourable gentleman has ad- mitted that there is an insufficient amount of rolling-stock, and has told us that the de- partment is endeavouring to supply the defi- ciency. I would urge upon him the importance of pushing on that work as fast as it is pos- sible, because the want of sufficient rolling- stock is a very great inconvenience to pro- ducers. There is another matter, and that is that in some country districts the railway- station buildings are quite insufficient for the instance two or three cases which from time 