He assured honourable members that at the earliest possible moment the Statement which he had laid on the table would be in their hands. That Statement was only received from the Printing Office yesterday, and it had been laid on the table of the House to-day. He had given instructions that the plans were to be attached to the Railways Statement, and that copies of it were to be put in the hands of honourable members without any delay. He would reiterate the statement made by the Premier, that it was most unfair to charge the Government with withholding these returns purposely. They had done nothing of the kind. If there was anything in the contention of the honourable member for Hawke's Bay it was that these reports were delayed in order to prevent discussion by the Opposition of the Financial Statement. The honourable gentle- man ought to remember how many members on that side of the House have not yet spoken. There were nine members on the Opposition side of the House who had not spoken on the Statement ; and if members would only take the trouble to think the matter out, they would remember that the Railway revenue, the Postal revenue, the Lands revenue, and the Mines revenue were contained in the Financial Statement, and no honourable member could, within the hour allowed by the Standing Orders, discuss the whole details of these different departments and the Financial State- ment too. Opportunities would be afforded to members of dealing with those matters later on ; for instance, resolutions were to be brought down relating to the San Francisco mail- service. To say that this information was held back when the Government laid it on the / https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 table as soon as they had it was unfair. It was more to the Government's advantage to lay the reports on the table, as they were most favourable to the Government. All the talk about withholding the reports to prevent dis- cussion on the Statement was rubbish, when, as a matter of fact, any one who knew anything about the affairs of the colony knew that the whole finances of the colony - including each of the departments - could be intelligently dealt with on the Financial Statement. He had given the explanation why the Railways State- ment was not circulated. He hoped it would be in their pigeon-holes later to-day. If mem- bers wanted an incomplete Railways Statement without one of the plans they could get it, but he did not think it would be satisfactory to members. It was grossly unfair for the mem- ber for the Bay of Plenty and the member for Hawke's Bay to make statements that were contrary to fact-that important returns were purposely held back. It appeared to him that they tried to make people believe-or them- selves imagined - that they were the only honourable people in the world, and he, for one, took exception to such a statement. They should give the Government credit for doing their duty to the best of their ability, and not be ever anxious to cast suspicions upon every- thing. Motion agreed to. ADJOURNED DEBATE. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) .- Mr. Speaker, I have listened to the many speeches that have been delivered criticizing and analysing the Financial Statement that has been placed before us this session. We have in this House a considerable number of members who con- sider themselves financiers of the first water, but I have had very great difficulty in following many of them. For instance, we had the mem- ber for Nelson City, who brought out a surplus of his own; and then we had the honourable member for Ashley, who did likewise. Several other members adopted the same principle, and, so far as I am concerned, it has all ended in utter confusion, as their figures all differed. On that account I decided to make an attempt myself to analyse the Statement, and I shall this after- noon place a few figures that I have taken out of it before honourable members. These will in their turn, probably be criticized by those who succeed me in this debate. I have been rather disappointed in listening to the pessi- mistic prognostications of members not only on the opposite side of the House, but also of members on this side. They took my mind back to the year 1891, when the present Liberal Government came into power. What was prophesied by those who were opposed to us then in politics ? They said that by changing the incidence of taxation our re- venue would be so disturbed that in the course of twelve months the Opposition would be called back to arrange the finances of the colony. I am glad that so far they have not been called back to power, and I venture to express the opinion that so long as they retain their present political opinions they will remain in the cold shades of opposition. If a change does take place in the present form of govern- ment, I feel assured that honourable gentlemer on the opposite side will never be called upor to occupy positions on the Ministerial benches. They have endeavoured by all sorts of in- trigues to get there, but, fortunately, the people of the colony have become so well educated that they will not listen to the voice of the charmer-they will not allow themselves to be misled. I would like to compare the speeches of some of those honourable members with the statesmanlike speech delivered by the mem- ber for Auckland City (Mr Napier). He explained the financial position of the colony with that detail and effectiveness that the greatest pessimist in the House must, at all events, have felt that it made a good impres- sion upon him. In my opinion, that speech was one of the ablest delivered on the Financial Statement this year. We were told that the fact of the Government remaining in power and bringing down a Financial Statement such as this had made such an impression upon those who had previously prepared their speeches that they made fresh notes to be used in this debate instead of their old notes. There is no doubt that a gloom was cast over the colony for a week or two, the cause of which I do not know. Per- 