there can be no stop to gambling, and it will continue for all time to come. Now, Sir, look at it from a practical point of view. About £100,000 goes out of this colony every year to Australia, and it is perfectly certain that out of that £100,000 not 10 per cent. comes back, and consequently the rest of the money is lost to the colony. It was said that the Common- wealth Government are contemplating laws to prevent these sweeps. But even this cannot stop it, for in a very short time the cable will be laid to New Caledonia, and they can go down to New Caledonia and have the consultations there. We should take the most sensible view . of the matter, and endeavour to do the best we can for the colony. Every man of ordinary sense must admit that the totalisator has been a great improvement on the "bookie," because with the totalisator, as my honourable friends Mr. Louisson and Mr. McLean pointed out, the thing is worked fair and square, and there is nothing wrong about it. Then, the Government receive £12,000 a year out of it, but they lose about 25 per cent. through the "tote " bettors. Allusion has been made to the Federal Government bringing in a Bill to attempt to stop it in Tasmania, but if you read the Tasmanian files you will see that they are all up in arms about it. It will mean a loss of fully £50,000 a year to Tasmania, and a good deal of that money comes from New Zealand. The postal revenue has increased to a marvellous degree in consequence of these consultations, and our postal revenue would also increase. I am not one of those who uphold or go in for gambling at all in the ordi- nary sense, but I do say that if we are to have gambling in the country-and it will live for all time-we should have it conducted in the best interests of the people. But, as far as this particular Bill is concerned, I trust the Council will allow it to go into Committee, and if there are objectionable clauses, let them there be struck out : and, if it is necessary, this money clause which has been mentioned by the Hon. Colonel Pitt can be struck out, and no doubt when the Bill goes to another place it can be reinserted if deemed necessary. I am willing to accept any reasonable amendment, and I only ask the Council to allow it to go into Committee. The Council divided on the question, "That the Bill be now read the second time." AYES, 13. Smith, A. L. Baillie Pitt Barnicoat Reeves Swanson Gourley Rigg Taiaroa Shrimski Jennings Tomoana. McLean NOES, 17. Arkwright Jones Morris Bolt Kelly, T. Scotland Kelly, W. Bowen Walker, L. Harris Walker, W. C. Kenny Jenkinson Louisson Williams. Johnston Montgomery Majority against, 4. Motion for second reading negatived. Hon. Mr. Reeves The Hon. Mr. BOLT .- When this Bill came on for the second reading it was thought advisable to send it without debate to the Statutes Revision Committee. I took no ex- ception to that, thinking it was the proper course to adopt. The Bill, as honourable gentlemen will see, is of a highly technical character, and I trust the Council will give me credit for sincerity when I say that it is of such a technical character that had it not been before the Council on a former occasion I should not have had the assurance to intro- duce such a measure. It was introduced, as honourable members will remember, by the Hon. Mr. MacGregor, and on that occasion I believe the Bill was considered by the Council as being a useful and highly desirable measure. It deals with several, I might say, pitfalls of the English law, because in several of the sec- tions dealt with the English language under the present law does not bear out the meaning which it is popularly understood to mean. Clause 2 is a case in point, and is to this effect :- "Any acknowledgment in writing by & creditor, or by any person authorised by him in writing in that behalf, of the receipt of & part of his debt in satisfaction of the whole debt shall operate as a discharge of the debt, any rule of law notwithstanding." It was certainly a new thing to a great number of members to be told that if a man is owing £10 to another, and the creditor agrees to accept £8 in full satisfaction of the claim. and gives a receipt to that effect, the creditor can still sue for the remaining £2. It is pro- posed by this clause to do away with that, and if the creditor gives a receipt in full satisfaction it shall hold good, notwithstanding any pro- vision in the English law to the contrary. Then, in clause 3- " A judgment against one or more of several persons jointly liable shall not operate as a bar or defence to an action or other proceeding against those of such persons against whom judgment has not been recovered, except to the extent to which the judgment has been satis- fied, any rule of law notwithstanding." It would appear, if two or three are jointly liable for a debt, and one is sued and judgment recorded, if the creditor fails to recover against that one there could be no further procedure against the others. It is held that should not be. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- That is not. what the clause says. The Hon. Mr. BOLT .- The clause is quite clear : if three persons, say, are jointly liable for a debt, and one has been proceeded against and fails to comply with the order of the Court, or is unable to comply, no action can lie against the other two. Then, with regard to clause 4. that has been struck out by the Statutes Revision Committee, for what reason I really canno: conjecture. It refers to revocation of an accept- ance of a contract made at a distance. For instance, if a man in Auckland wished to sell sugar to a man in Wellington at a certain 