travelling into musty precedent, which most honourable members say they desire to see swept away. Surely the whole question is, What is the penalty to be inflicted upon Mr. Cohen ? The whole question is, Shall we punish Mr. Cohen, or the publisher of his paper, and shall the penalty be by way of fine or by way of con- demnation by resolution. Surely every honour- able member has made up his mind as to what he believes to be the proper form of punishment for an offence such as this. Every one admits that the Standing Order is clear and explicit, and every one admits that something has got to be done on account of the breach of that Standing Order. We have a resolution moved by the Premier, and we have . the amendment moved by the honourable mem- ber for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher). Members are therefore in this position: If they do not desire to support the amendment of Mr. Fisher, the "No " lobby is open to them ; if they desire to support the amendment, the " Aye " lobby is open to them. What is the use of going into old precedents, and quoting some bygone, though historical, dicta in this case? Let us waste no further time and get to business. Some honourable members have spoken about the position a Court could take up in a case of this description. Suppose a man has been found guilty of contempt of Court. If it is his first offence, we extend to him the benefit and the mercy of the First Offenders Probation Act. Surely if ever there was an instance of a man having offended for the first time it is this very case; and, if we have got to punish Mr. Cohen, or the publishers of the paper, it should be done in the same way as a Judge would punish https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 any man who has been guilty of a first offence. What penalty should be inflicted for a first offence inside or outside of the House ? So far as I am concerned, I am going to do my best to uphold the Standing Orders. If there were no Standing Order my position would be different, but while the Standing Order protects the dig- nity and honour of this House I shall support it. I am not going to support a harsh or heavy penalty for this offence, for which Mr. Cohen has expressed regret; and I hope honourable members will take my view and get to & division, instead of wasting the money of the country in a long and fruitless debate. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- Sir, the Tory pre- cedent which the Premier quoted just now would have been a splendid precedent to suit his own case but for one fact, and that fact is that the Select Committee authorised the publication. Mr. SEDDON .- No. Mr. PIRANI .- Yes ; here is the actual case. It says that the publication " had not been un- authorised by the Committee." Now, I regret very much that the breach of privilege com- mitted by the paper has been mixed up with the reporting of the witness to the House for refusing to give evidence, because I maintain they are two distinct offences, and they ought not to be confused in the way the Premier has so skillfully mixed them up to-day. A great Mr. Wilford bers about information leaking out from a caucus. Well, there has been a caucus to-day, and information has leaked out from that caucus about the Premier, who actually told us that this ought not to be made a party question, rallying up his forces at the caucus, and taking very good care that it was made a party question amongst his own supporters. And, if I were to repeat some of the arguments that the Premier used to persuade his followers to vote for his motion, it would be seen that it is not the desire of the Opposition to get at the person who has given the information that is troubling the House, but the desire of the Premier to prevent the person who has given this informa- tion from being got at, that has induced the alteration of the resolution. Why, the whole of the Premier's argument at that caucus went in that direction. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is pure speculation. Mr. PIRANI .- It is an absolute fact. What is under discussion now, I think, is not the question of the publication of the evidence at all, but the question of the refusal of the wit- ness to give the information asked for by the Committee. If that witness had come down to the House with a full expression of regret, even though there had been a breach of the Standing Orders, I do not think one member of the House would have objected to the attitude that has been taken. But if you call this letter an ex- pression of regret at the action that has been taken in publishing the evidence, I do not. Why, the letter is a worse offence than the witness committed before. If any member of the House-and I have been in that position myself-who had been reported to the House and was asked as to the position he would take up in regard to the offence he was charged with, had, instead of merely stating his regret and expressing his opinion on his own action in regard to that regret, launched out into a long explanation as to what the House ought to do in regard to their Standing Orders about similar offences in the future, the Speaker would have been the very first person to have checked that member for travelling outside his own personal explanation. Now, as to this letter : in the first place, there is no complete expression of regret in it. In the second place. the witness has gone outside the privilege that is given to persons in his position by attempting to dictate to the House what action they should take in amending their own Standing Orders. Now, it has been said that there is an expression of regret in this letter. I am going to read the only expression of regret, and I ask honouranie members if they believe this is the attitude they should take under the circumstances : - "I regret that my bona fide endeavour, through the medium of my paper, to assist in the prosecution of a searching inquiry into a matter of the greatest concern to the mining industry of Otago has led me to commit 3 breach of privilege." Now, that is how regret is expressed. 4.30. An Hon. MEMBER .- There is another paragraph. 