the calls, they would come on Cook and Gray for a refund of the brokerage. That was not done in this case ; but Mr. Kneebone has not repudiated his liability. "Are you aware that certain shareholders have stated in sworn evidence that only 1s. per share has been called up in this (Tucker Flat) and other companies ?- I have heard that ; but it is hearsay. I do not know it for a fact. I think the commission was earned on these shares before the money was paid on them. " You think that if you agree with a man to take shares and he pays nothing you have earned the commission ?- The position would be this : A broker would probably have as much trouble in selling shares to him as to the man who paid his application-money. It would be a matter for the directors, when the statement was brought before them to be passed. " Did the directors pass the accounts for brokerage in the Tucker Flat Company ?- Yes. "They knew that commission was claimed on the shares on which nothing had been paid ? -Yes; there was a statement handed in to them. The directors who passed the accounts for brokerage were Messrs. Somerville and Leijon. Mr. Cook was a director at the time, but he was not present. When brokers put in their statement of the shares sold they are in the habit of handing in at the same time forms of application for the shares signed by the applicant. Mr. Kneebone signed an appli- cation for 250 shares, but he did not pay the money. In his case 1s. per share was payable on application and 1s. on allotment. The directors did not pay brokerage before allot- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 ment, or before the application - money was paid. It was the fact that no money was paid in respect to these shares; that being so, brokerage must have been paid on these shares without the application - money having been paid. One shilling per share ought to have accompanied the application, the assumption being that the broker was selling to a respon- sible person. I am not aware of any similar cases to this one. Mr. Gray, who sent in an application-form without his application- money, afterwards paid application-money on 50) shares. He paid on the 19th May. Mr. Gray's application was dated the 15th Feb- ruary, and the date of the company's registra- tion was the 9th March. Mr. Kneebone has not paid his application-money, but there is legal power to make him pay. The signature to the application-form proves the contract. " Is it the usual practice to receive applica- tion-forms without the application-money, and to pay brokerage on shares so applied for ?- It is very often done --- in Dunedin, at any rate. "By Mr. Cook: The amount of commission on the sale of Kneebone's shares-this applica- tion came from Auckland-was £6 5s., and his was the only case in which application-money had not been paid. " Is it not customary in Dunedin, to your knowledge, for many people to pay application- and allotment-money in one sum ?- Decidedly it is. and pay application- and allotment-money in one sum ?- Yes ; it is customary. " We have heard a great deal about the com- panies being "Cook and Gray's companies" : Now, who were the directors of the company under consideration - the Tucker Flat Com- pany ?- Messrs. Somerville, Leijon, and your- self. " I was never in attendance but once ?- That is so. " For which I received -or, rather, the office received-the sum of twenty guineas ?- Yes. " Do you remember whether any arrange- ment was made with my co-directors that I was to give attention to outside matters on the Coast ? - Yes. " They knew I would not be at the meetings ? -Yes, you drew attention to that. " Do you remember that while I was on the Coast I was asked to superintend and arrange for the boring in connection with the company ? -Yes, I do. " And that I did so ?- Yes; that is shown in the books. " Therefore I did not take the twenty guineas for nothing ? - Decidedly not. " I probably did more work and gave more time to the company's business than the other directors in their attendances ?- (?). " In reference to your acting as secretary to this company, were you under the instructions of the directors ?- Undoubtedly. "Did you ever take instructions from Cook and Gray, directly or indirectly ?- I could not do so, because they had no power to give instructions. " Had Mr. Somerville, a director of this com- pany, any connection with Cook and Gray ?- None whatever. "Has his conduct towards Cook and Gray been such as would indicate that he had any kindly feeling for them, or otherwise ? - I should say otherwise. " It has been mostly antagonistic ?- Yes. "He has been Mr. Easton's lieutenant in the whole of this agitation? - I have been given to understand that. " Mr. Leijon-what is he ?- A man of in- dependent means, I understand - a former dredge-owner, very largely interested in mining in Otago. "Has he any connection with Cook and Gray in any way whatever ?- None whatever, to my knowledge. " Is he interested in any other companies that are being carried on in Cook and Gray's office ?- Yes. " Which ? -- I think he was a director of several ; he is a director of the Charlton Creek Company, at any rate. " You swear that you have never been in- fluenced, directly or indirectly, by Cook and Gray in reference to your duties as secretary to this company ?- I can swear to that most emphatically. " With reference to the position you held in Cook and Gray's office, you were there on a yearly salary ?- That is so. 