men's suffering and illness was caused through the "Tagus" going the southern route. Then, he wanted the words he had read taken down. Then the honourable gentleman went further, and said he was responsible for the sacrifice of these six men, and that this was done to please the people of Invercargill. In the one case it was " sacrifice," and in the other he said " re- sponsible," for six men. were dead. He (the Premier) moved, That these words be taken down. Not one of those who died went to In- vercargill. Mr. J. ALLEN .- The words, that the Premier objects to are not the words that I have just read. Mr. PIRANI rose to a point of order. He did not know what the proper procedure was in such cases, but he desired to point out that there had been a stranger in the House taking notes of the proceedings. He had never seen such a breach of the rules of the House with the encouragement of Ministers. The Premier had had, he supposed, a Private Secretary be- hind the Chair taking notes of the proceedings, which notes were now in his (the Premier's) hands. As he had already said, he did not concern himself with the subject at issue, but he did think when they had a rule, which had always been upheld by the Speaker, that no- body but official reporters should be allowed to report the proceedings, it was not right that the Premier should have notes of the pro- ceedings taken by a person who was not an official of the House. He asked that the proper course be taken in regard to the per- son taking the notes, and in regard to the notes https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 themselves. Mr. SEDDON .- I may say that the words I quoted were written by the Minister for Public Works. / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero Mr. PIRANI .- No. Mr. SEDDON said they were. The honour- able gentleman had better come and see them for himself. It had been customary since he had been in the House for Ministers' Private Secretaries to sit behind the Chair. Mr. PIRANI did not object to them being there, but he objected to them taking notes of the proceedings. Mr. SEDDON said, If he wanted his Secretary to take notes of the proceedings he thought he had a right to get him to do so. He was not in the House at all. The ACTING-CHAIRMAN .- I am not aware that any notes are being taken behind the Chair. Mr. MASSEY .- Look behind you, Sir. The ACTING-CHAIRMAN said he had not noticed the person referred to; but, if it was one of the Minister's Private Secretaries, he would say that Private Secretaries had always been allowed to sit in that part of the House- namely, behind the Chair. The Premier had stated that the notes he had used were in the handwriting of the Minister for Public Works. Mr. FISHER .- Is a person sitting behind the Chair in the House ? The ACTING-CHAIRMAN .- In one sense he Mr. Seddon mentary ruling is that whenever their presence is observed, strangers may be ordered to with- draw from the galleries or any part of the Chamber. Mr. SEDDON said the matter before the House was a serious one. It was as to whether the words of the honourable gentleman, and which were taken exception to, were to be allowed to go on record. Mr. PIRANI. - Why do you not take the Hansard report of the speech ? Mr. SEDDON said that was what he had asked should be done. What he desired to be taken down was the part in which the honourable member charged him with being responsible for the sacrifice of life. Would the honourable member give the report of his speech to the Chair? If he did so it would save trouble, because they were entitled to it as a whole. He wanted to give the honourable member a chance of withdrawing the objection- able words. Mr. J. ALLEN asked which remarks the honourable gentleman referred to. Mr. SEDDON asked if the honourable mem- ber would read that portion of the speech that referred to his (Mr. Seddon's) being responsible for the sacrifice of life. Mr. J. ALLEN said, Certainly, anything the honourable member wanted. His Hansard proof read :- He was going to " Mr. J. ALLEN .- say this, however. The Premier had to take the responsibility of refusing to accept the medical advice which recommended that these men, being broken down in constitution, should not come by the cold southern route, but should come by a warmer one, and he had taken that responsibility ; and he (Mr. Allen) asked the House and the country what that responsibility was? Since the shipment left Albany five or six of those men were dead. Who had the responsi- bility ? The honourable member wanted to know what the political capital was ? He (Mr. Allen) would tell him. The political capital was to please the people of Invercargill. The Premier was afraid to offend the people of Invercargill. even though to please them he had to sacrifice the lives of men serving their country." Those were the words he offered to withdraw, and substitute therefor some other words, which he had no doubt had been recorded, but which he would not quote exactly again. Mr. SEDDON .- You referred to six men. Mr. J. ALLEN said he had read all that. He did not know whether all the words he had spoken were to be taken down. Sir J. G. WARD .- Please read about sacri- ficing the men. Mr. J. ALLEN said he would repeat the words : - "The Premier was afraid to offend the people of Invercargill, even though to please them he had to sacrifice the lives of men serving their country." Mr. SEDDON said he would like the honour- able member to quote the words. He alleged the Premier had been told the men were broken 