were purely technical, and did not alter the in- tention of the measure as it had passed through the House. He moved, That the amendments be agreed to. Motion agreed to. SCHOOL ATTENDANCE BILL (No. 2). IN COMMITTEE. Clause 3 .- " For the purposes of this Act, ' public schools' shall include any day-school attendance at which is considered sufficient comphance with section four of this Act, and the provisions of Part I. shall apply to any Maori or half-caste children attending public schools. "' Attendance ' shall mean a period of at least two hours' instruction at a public school within the school district in which the child resides, unless exempted under section four hereof. ""Parent ' includes guardian, and the house- holder in whose family a child resides." Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) moved the inser- tion of the following further definition : - "' Public conveyance ' includes any coach or ferry, or other means of public conveyance by which a child may obtain free transit for the purpose of attending school." Words added, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 4 .- " Subject to the provisions of the principal Act, every child between the age of seven years and the age of fifteen years is hereby required to attend some public school : " Provided that the parent of any child de- siring exemption may apply for and receive a certificate from the School Committee of the district, under the hand of the Chairman or Secretary thereof, or from the head-teacher of any public school, in which such child re- sides exempting such child from attendance http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero in whole or in part at school, upon satisfying the School Committee of the existence of any one of the following grounds, namely :- "(1.) That the residence of the parent or guardian of the child is more than four miles from the nearest public school, the distance being estimated by the nearest road, and that the child cannot conveniently reach school by railway without travelling more than four miles, computing the dis- tance between such residence and such railway and such railway and the school, inclusive : " (2.) That the child is under efficient and regular instruction elsewhere : "(3.) That the child is unable to attend school by reason of sickness, danger of in- fection, temporary or permanent in- firmity, or other unavoidable cause : "(4.) That the road between the child's resi- dence and the school is not suf- ficiently passable : "(5.) That ore of the Inspectors or the head- master of any public school has, by writing under his hand, certified that the child has reached a standard of education prescribed by any regula- standard of exemption : "And every such certificate of exemption shall state the ground of exemption, shall be on a form to be supplied by the Education De- partment, and shall be in force for a period of one year, or for a shorter period, as may be named in such certificate ; and during the period named in such certificate the holder thereof shall be freed from the operation of the provisions of this Act in respect of the child named therein : "Provided always that any parent dissatis- fied with the decision of a Committee or head- teacher in refusing to grant an exemption certificate may appeal to the Education Board against such decision, and the Board may over- rule or confirm such decision." Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) moved the excision of the word "fifteen," with a view to sub- stituting the word " fourteen " in lieu thereof. Amendment agreed to. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) moved, before the words "School Committee," the insertion of the words "Chairman or Secretary of the," and the excision of the words "under the hard of the Chairman or Secretary thereof." Amendment agreed to. Mr. MASSEY moved, after the word " satis- fying," the insertion of the words " the Chair- man or." Words added. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) moved, in sub- section (1), the excision of the word " four." Word struck out. Mr. PIRANI moved, the insertion in lieu thereof of the word " three." Word inserted. Mr. PIRANI moved to insert, after the words "public school," the words " if the child is ten years of age or over, and two miles if the child is under ten years of age." The Committee divided. AYES, 29. Fowlds McNab Allen, E. G. Arnold Pirani Guinness Rhodes Hall-Jones Atkinson Russell, G. W. Barclay Hardy Haselden Tanner Bennet Thomson, J. W. Heke Carneross Hutcheson Ward. Carroll Laurenson Collins Tellers. Buddo Colvin McGowan Mckenzie, R. Hornsby. Ell NOES, 11. Bollard Willis. Massey Tellers. McGuire Fisher Meredith Herries Monk Thompson, R. Lang Parata Majority for, 18. Words inserted, and clause agreed to. Clause 5 .- " If any child required by this Act to attend a public school does not attend such school, the Truant Inspector, or, in the event of there being no such officer, the School Com- mittee. of the district in which such child re- sides shall give the parent of such child notice 