cations for a steam-service to South Africa, the advertisements appearing, he thought, in the Australian as well as in the New Zealand papers; but, as none of the offers were con- sidered satisfactory, they could not recommend any of them to the House for acceptance. The difficulty in connection with this matter was that there was no return cargo from South Africa. If there were, it would be unnecessary to offer anything in the shape of subsidies to steamers to go there at all. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) said it appeared from the estimates that the amount expended in connection with this department last year was only £304. If that was the total amount expended, it seemed to him that the department had been very tardy- Sir J. G. WARD .- The department was really not created then. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL said, When a depart- ment on almost identically the same lines was set up in 1895, after it had issued one or two circulars the department dropped out of exist- ence. Now, he thought the importance of such a department to the producers of the colony could not be overestimated ; but, so far as this present department was concerned, compara- tively nothing had been done. No doubt the appointment of Mr. Gow as travelling repre- sentative was a suitable one, but it was only a few weeks ago that he had left our shores. It seemed to him that he should have imme- diately been despatched from New Zealand with samples and information, so that the commodities of the colony could have been brought under the notice of the people of South Africa and of the other countries it was intended to reach. Almost any big in- dustrial association could in a few hours have supplied the Government with all the samples required. Victoria, in 1894 or 1895, despatched a number of Commissioners to tour Africa and the East, and the information they gained had had the effect of so increasing and improving their export trade in butter and other produce that New Zealand was left completely in the rear. With regard to the appointment of Mr. Donne, he was not sure that it was a desirable one, as head of the Commerce and Industries Department. He did not think a better man could have been obtained for the management of the Tourist Branch, but, as his experience had been chiefly gained as a Government rail- way officer, he could hardly be said to be the best man obtainable for the establishment of trade, industry, and commerce. The Govern- ment ought to have been able to get a first- class commercial man who had been personally identified with the industries of New Zealand. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) said. As to the remark of the honourable member for Riccarton, that Victoria had left New Zealand hopelessly behind in regard to the export of dairy produce, he might say he had seen a report from Weddel and Co. in last night's Post that Australia had been left behind in this respect, and that the quality of the New Zealand butter had been improving year by year. Sir J. G. Ward referring to the quality. Mr. BUDDO said he thought more informa- tion should be available to the settlers with regard to the London market. Now, if a sys- tem of regular telegrams, say, once a week,. could be published, that our settlers could have confidence in, as to the markets for grain, frozen meat, and dairy produce, such informa- tion would be of great assistance to them. The large order of 20,000 tons which had been mentioned, there was not the slightest doubt, had misled the settlers, for, in his opinion, it had been executed before it was announced ; so that the information had been of no value at all. Then, some days since news came from London that an order had been placed in Mel- bourne for 5,000 tons of oats. He had no doubt in this case the order had already been filled. These announcements acted to the detriment of farmers, who held their oats, buoyed up with the belief that there was a large order to be filled, and then subsequently were compelled to sell at a considerable loss. This had happened last year. Oats were worth 1s. 6d. a bushel - no very extraordinary price. Then, the news came of the very large order to be filled, and oats were held back for some months and were then sold for 1s. 3d., put in store by specu- lators, and within two months they were worth 2s. per bushel. If the Agent-General would send telegrams giving the average price for grain, frozen meat, and butter, and any other information in regard to European markets, it would give confidence and be of real service. Another question he would like answered was, When was the department going to advertise in the Gazette the weight of cornsacks to be carried on the New Zealand railways next grain season ? Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) suggested that the Minister should lay on the table of the House and circulate through the colony a copy of the instructions given to the Trade Representative, so that everybody would know what was in- tended. He would also like to know how much grain had been purchased on behalf of the Imperial Government. He thought the House ought to know what purchases had been made by the New Zealand Government on behalf of the Imperial Government, and the price which had been paid by the Imperial Government. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) would like to have the amount stated that had been bought by the Spanish Government, or the Barcelona mer- chants, at the instigation of the Imperial autho- rities. He very much questioned whether, in the matter of a trade representative, the Govern- ment had selected the best man. It seemed to him that they selected people not because of special ability, but as a reward for some political service to the party in power. Some years since he had referred to Mr. Holmes, whose appoint- ment he then considered would prove a waste of money. The result, he thought, justified his statement. The Minister was a gentleman with a knowledge of commerce, and must know that the merchants in this colony were intimately ac- quainted with the conditions of markets and 