fourth; this makes the penny in the pound on capital value a very heavy tax.' I have not altered my opinion, and still consider that the mortgage-tax is too high, and that some relief should be given, provided the finances of the colony permit. Whilst desiring to keep good faith with Parliament, to do so this ses- sion would be imprudent, unless the loss of revenue occasioned thereby is recouped." The Premier says he regrets he cannot keep his promise of last year to reduce the mortgage- tax. I agree with the member for Wairarapa that " the mortgage-tax is a punishment to the small settler." There is not the slightest doubt that the borrower has to pay the tax, and that the mortgage-tax keeps up the rate of interest ; and I would ask, is the Government in such straitened circumstances that they cannot keep their pledges? They must have had trouble to make both ends meet when they have to break a promise that involved only a matter of £25,000. Now I will pass on to the Native legislation. I think it will be generally ad- mitted that the Native legislation of the Pre- mier during the time he has been Minister of that department has been a total failure. And what is the reason ? Simply because he would not listen to the recommendations of the Native Affairs Committee. That was a Committee set up by himself, and consisted largely of members representing portions of the colony in which there were many Natives, and who had a good knowledge of Native affairs. The Premier had his own way in the House as far as the pro- emptive right was concerned. Though he had the Native Affairs Committee opposed to him, the Premier carried his wishes in this House by the aid of the "lobby brigade." The Pre- mier claimed that his Native land legislation ' would do away with the evils of the past, but instead of doing away with the evils of the past it has increased the injustice to the Natives and kept their lands locked up. If the old system had been maintained, I venture to say that the greater portion of the colony would have been settled, and the Natives would have been in a far better position than at the present time. The Premier has so often spoken about the dreadful way the Natives have been treated in the past -- previous to 1894-and how they have been robbed of their land and left landless by the land-shark and the pakeha- Maori, and the Premier's strong supporters have borne him out in this opinion, although I must say most of the support he got came from members with very little knowledge of Native affairs. But I maintain this : that if the treat- ment was bad before 1894, when the Native Minister acquired the pre- emptive right, it has been ten times worse since. the old time it was a case of give and take. Sometimes the Natives got the best of the bargain-in fact, they frequently did so-and sometimes the Europeans; now the Govern- ment always get the best of the bargain. In the past there was competition ; now there is none. In the past sufficient land was retained for the Natives ; before any one could buy land Mr. Lang Government buy the last acre, qualifying the Natives for the old-age pensions. They also buy children's interests-minors' rights have been bought since the Government had the sole right of purchase. It is very easy to show that the Natives have been worse treated by the Govern- ment ; and to prove it I do not intend solely to give my own views, but will read several extracts from the speeches of members whose words will be received with respect, more par- ticularly as most of them represent the Native race, or are staunch followers of the Government. First, there was a speech by Sir Robert Stout in 1894, who said, speaking of the pre-emptive right :- "Apparently the Government is offering something like 12s. 6d. an acre for land worth £3 an acre. The land was assessed at $3 an acre, and there was a person in the district who would have given that price for it ; and I say it is entirely unfair for the Government to say to the Natives, ' You must give us this land at 12s. 6d., although an outside purchaser would give £3 for it."" Then, the present Native Minister, Mr. Car- roll, brought down a report of the Commission to inquire into the best way of dealing with the Native difficulty. This report has been so often mentioned in the House that it is only my in- tention to read one or two clauses. Speaking on the pre-emptive right, he says :- " Such a proceeding on the part of the Legis- lature would, in my opinion, intensify the mis- trust the Native population too long have had in colonial Governments. Such a pro- ceeding would be regarded by the present gene- ration of Maoris as simply confiscation. Evidence adduced before the Commission proved conclusively that where the Government inter- posed with its pre-emptive right, as was the case in the King-country, the Natives could not obtain a fair price for their land. The Govern- ment offered 3s. an acre ; at the same time pri- vate purchasers were in constant communica- tion with the owners, and willing to pay them €1 an acre." Then, there is a speech by Mr. Kaihau on the Native Lands Administration Act (Hansard, Volume 110, page 759) :- "The only real benefit that I see in this Bill is this : that in it provision is made to put a stop to Crown purchases of Native land." Then, at page 760,- " Why should a Maori's property be tied up so that he cannot utilise it to his advantage, when it is his own and belongs to him," et cetera. Then the same speaker, on the Financial In Statement (Hansard, Volume 103, page 166) says,- " In former times each individual hapu was the happy possessor of large areas of country. but when this House began to make laws for Native lands, those lands began to slip away bit by bit from the hands of the original Native owners. That must satisfy honourable mem- bers that it is as I say : the lands of the Maori 