honourable gentlemen who claim to represent labour, but who do not represent labour - bound to consider their particular duty. Sir, the present opinion in this colony with regard to labour Bills is that they have gone so far that their effect at the present moment is most injurious and dangerous to the prosperity of the colony. I say that is the universal opinion. There is scarcely an industry in the colony at the present time that has not been threatened. You cannot take up a newspaper without seeing columns of judgments of the Conciliation and Arbitration Courts dealing with the different industries, and dictating to them as to the class of labour they shall employ, as to the wages they shall pay, and as to the number of young persons they shall teach their trades. Sir, the people are getting sick to death of this legislation, and the result is that a great revulsion of feeling is taking place. I have satis- faction in thinking that we have seen pretty well the end of this legislation. Sir, the working lately of the Conciliation Boards and Arbitration Courts has a very peculiar feature. You can hardly peruse one of those judgments without finding that the Court is dealing especially with matters which the House of Representatives particularly refused to legislate for. For the House rejected the Eight Hours Bill and the Master and Apprentice Bill. These Bills were before the other branch of the Legislature, which would not pass them. Now, what do we find the Conciliation Boards and Arbitration Courts doing under the urgency of the trades- unions ? They are giving judgments dealing with the hours that are to be worked, notwith- standing the fact that Parliament by throwing out the Bills I have referred to practically said that they were not to be interfered with. They are further interfering in a most cruel way with the employment of the lads of the country as apprentices. No more brutal selfishness was ever seen than this action of the trades-unions in urging upon the Conciliation Boards to ex- clude young people from learning the trades. I say, Sir, that no greater selfishness was ever known than this. It is a great mis- fortune that these Courts should be permitted to give judgments which are most cruel and hurtful to the young people of this country. In connection with this subject-and it is one of great interest to us all-I would ask whether this is not the most inopportune time to so interfere with our industries that people will be thrown out of employment ? I have noticed in reports of recent utterances of the highest Minister in the land that he pooh- poohed the necessity for caution, everything being most prosperous. I venture to say, Sir, that those who give expression to opinions like that are misleading the people, by causing them to believe that such is the case when it is not. I am no alarmist, nor am I one who has any dread as to the future of the colony. I have, however, sense enough to know that the condi- tion "of the colony at the present time is ex- tremely critical, and that we shall within the Hon. Mr. Ormond times for the workers. It will be just as well for me to put on record a few facts as to the present condition of affairs. During the last two or three years there has been a great loss to the colony in connection with its chief export- wool. The year before last the shrinkage was $1,800,000. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- Loss on what ? The Hon. Mr. ORMOND .- The honourable gentleman will probably not follow me if I explain. Last year the loss was $2,000,000, and in this year it will be at least as much as that. These are stupendous figures, and it is a matter for wonder that the loss is not being more felt than it is. The fact that the first shortage of .£1,800,000 has not been felt more acutely can only be accounted for by the fact that the times which preceded it were prosperous through our having had high values for all our products. It is only now that we are beginning to have this shrinkage of $2,000,000 brought to account. That it is beginning to be felt. all those who have any knowledge of what is going on are well aware. Sir, I might instance the case of the difficulty of finding employment for our returned troopers. What class of men are they? They are the very pick of our popula- tion-men who in ordinary times had plenty of employment, who were always sought for. They were the handy men of the colony. Now they have returned to us only to find things very different from what they were. A great many of them are unemployed, and some newspapers think it necessary to insert free advertisements to enable them to obtain em- ployment. You will see letters from them complaining that the Government has brought them back here only to find that there is no employment for them, whereas in South Africa there was lucrative employment open for them. These facts cannot be contradicted. They are men of the best class we can have, and, un- fortunately, they are the first to feel what is the beginning of the hard times that are coming in this colony. I say, Sir, it is, to my mind, most unthoughtful of the Government to intro- duce Bills of this kind, such as the Factories Bill in the other Chamber, which can only still further tend to interfere with the in- dustries and throw more men out of employ- ment. That men are suffering, and that in- dustries are diminishing, nobody can deny. The Hon. Mr. Bolt contradicted this ; but in every town I have been in -- and during the last two months I have visited a good many-I have learnt particularly from those who are in- terested in the small industries that our legisla- tion has hampered them, and that what is threatened is ten times worse than what they have already got. They complained mostly of this : that they are perfectly unsafe under the uncertainty of the decisions of the Concilia- tion Boards and Arbitration Courts. To put it shortly, they do not know when their industries will be destroyed. What is the condition of our iron-foundries to-day? Does my honour- able friend not know that they are in a great 