some satisfaction which I am unable to feel at " fusty-musty precedents," and that he placed great reliance on them in the evening, although the present time. At any rate, I thoroughly in the afternoon he flouted them. Now, the agree with his argument when he says that Postmaster-General told us just now that he to adopt the motion was simply to insult the House; but that the amendment that was did not approve of the wholesale publication of this evidence; and that, I think, was the proposed was not as complete as one would desire. I may say that, while I could not whole reference in his speech to the fact support the motion, I think the amendment that a gross breach of the privileges of this House had been committed. " I do not approve was very much nearer the mark than that in- of the publication of this evidence ": Those sulting motion of the Premier's which we were were the words the honourable member applied asked to adopt. Now, the Premier even carried in the last words of his speech to the breach of his tactics so far this afternoon as to resort to burlesque and mimicry. He first of all put privilege we are discussing here this evening. I would undertake to say that no honourable into the mouth of the honourable member for member, and no person listening to the Pre- Bruce words he never used, and then he adopted mier's speech this evening. could, unless he had a singularly sneering and mincing tone in sup- a notion of what the subject was that was before posed imitation of the member for Bruce. The the House, have possibly discovered it from the tone was not the tone of a gentleman, and speech itself. I did consider that the Premier therefore it is not the tone which was employed had exhausted every contemptible appeal this by the honourable member for Bruce ; nor were afternoon that it was possible for a man to the words which he ascribed to the honourable make with reference to the subject-matter of member for Bruce used by him. He did that, this debate, but by the time I had listened to and also, as the honourable member for Wel- him for another half-hour this evening I was lington City (Mr. Fisher) pointed out, indulged aware I had been mistaken. He had already in a similar burlesque upon the forms of this this afternoon successfully endeavoured to make House, and the absurdity of this House en- this a party question. The party Whips had deavouring to assert its dignity by calling been busy from a very early hour. We had a person to the bar of the House and asking that person to answer for what he had seen the cards pricked and reported to the right honourable gentleman from time to done. And that is the gentleman who is the time, and we knew, by the general expres- custodian of the dignity of this House. And sion of those concerned, that the result was then another argument which he used, which not altogether satisfactory. Since then there surely I am entitled to term as contemptible, has been a caucus, about which we know was that, assuming instead of the motion he something already, and about which we shall has moved he had moved some other motion, , know more presently. He has used all the the Opposition would have equally declared it devices in his power to impress upon those of was wrong. These were the arguments resorted his followers who are anxious to give a vote on to this afternoon ; but I come to the one we this question according to its merits that it is have had this evening, centred on the doings nothing but a party question. He has talked and character of Mr. Cook-namely, that it about a " slap in the face " that the Opposition was Mr. Cook in the first place who published is endeavouring to give him; and he even this report or communicated it to the reporter, detects in the fact that three of the Opposition and that, in the second place, Mr. Cook has went into the lobby with him, on the only approached certain members of the Opposition division we have had hitherto, some sinister - namely, certain southern members -- design by which the faithful are to be misled. I do not know whether he detects something sinister also in the new leader of the Opposition, Premier named, but I must ask him not to in- the junior member for Wellington City. terrupt. Mr. FISHER. - And not a bad leader either. Mr. ATKINSON .- I am glad to say the City told the House I had never said so. of Wellington is going solid for once on this particular question. When it comes to a order ? question of the privileges of this House the City of Wellington will present an absolutely rising to a point of order. united front; and I am glad that it is so. But let me say, with regard to my vote, that I was in some uncertainty as to my vote in support of repeated the statement that I denied in the House, and which denial was accepted by the my junior colleague's amendment, and I know other honourable members apparently were in House and the honourable member for Bruce- a similar difficulty. The speech with which I namely, that I said Mr. Cook gave this to find myself in closest agreement is the speech the newspapers. of the honourable member for Waitaki, and it denied it, and the honourable member is re- was quite clear-and, indeed, he expressly peating it again. stated-that he could not support either the motion or the amendment. I do not know how he voted: or possibly he was in the con- Wellington City just now made the statement that I said it, and I say I want the words taken fidence of the Premier with regard to the pro- ceedings at that caucus, and so he may have down. VOL. CXVIII .- 26. Mr. SEDDON .- I never said so. Mr. ATKINSON .- I do not want to have the Mr. SEDDON .- I rise to a point of order. I Mr. ATKINSON. - What is the point of Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The Premier is Mr. ATKINSON .- He is making a speech. Mr. SEDDON. - The honourable member bas I never said that, and I An Hon. MEMBER. -- You insinuated it. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable member for 