this is certainly not the time to do it ; but I de- sire to place this question in its right light. The Commissioners were asked to find out what the several constructed lines of railway had cost. Secondly, they were asked to find out what the said lines ought to have cost. We were then enjoined to ascertain what the selling value of these lines, subject to certain specific con- ditions, would be. These conditions were very stringent ones. Having ascertained such sell- ing values, we were asked to allocate the same between the debenture-holders, the company, and the Government. All this we did do. We were not asked to say what the debenture- holders or the company were entitled to. We were not asked to say what these lines were worth to the colony. Nothing of the kind. We expressed no opinion thereon, and very properly so. We simply performed our duty as Royal Commissioners. But we were asked and expected to do this : to provide full information for Parliament to deal finally with this matter, and that I believe we have done. But, Sir, to let it go forth to the public that the Commissioners have expressed an opinion that the company and the debenture- holders have been very fairly treated I say is not a fair thing to be put in the Financial Statement. As a matter of fact, the Com- missioners said nothing of the kind. I speak for myself, and I think the honourable member for Nelson City (Mr. Graham) the other day spoke for himself, and I know that I can speak for both Mr. McKerrow and Mr. Hudson, that such a statement as that published does not represent our individual opinions. I trust I shall have another opportunity of speaking on this subject, and will then do so with no uncertain sound. I object to the inference that the Commissioners reported that the Government is equitably justified in using the lines constructed by the Midland Railway Com- pany without paying a reasonable sum therefor. What the Government ought to pay is a matter, I say, for the consideration of Parlia- ment. My reason for referring to the matter at all just now is that I have seen it alleged in the public prints that, in the opinion of the Commissioners, the debenture-holders were en- titled to nothing. I told the House just now what the scope of the Royal Commission was. But there was also a supplementary Commis- sion issued ; and why was that done? It was only issued at the eleventh hour, just before counsel for the Crown was about to address the Commissioners upon the subject. It then dawned on the Government that the answers that must inevitably be given to the interroga- tories in that Commission were such as did not quite suit their views. And so a supplementary Commission was issued, which enjoined us to answer certain specific questions, hedged round by conditions in such a manner that the answer could only be " Nil. nil, nil." Why set up a Commission for that? If the answers given by the supplementary Commission were all the Government wanted, why appoint Com- missioners at all? It was not necessary, and Mr. W. Fraser much time and money thrown away. An Hon. MEMBER .- How do you know ? Mr. W. FRASER .- If the honourable mem- ber wants to know I will tell him. Counsel for the Crown said that before addressing the Commissioners he would write out what he intended to say, and would submit this for the consideration and approval of the Cabinet, and it was only after Mr. Bell's views had been sub- mitted to the Cabinet that the supplementary Commission was issued. Sir J. G. WARD .- That was not wrong. Mr. W. FRASER .- Oh, no ; but the answers to the supplementary Commission misled the public generally, because it was telegraphed to the southern papers, at any rate, that the re- port of the Commission was that the debenture- holders and the shareholders were to get nothing. Sir, I have spoken more than once in this House on the subject of the remis- sion of the mortgage-tax. Now, I hold that it is a most unjustifiable tax. Other mem- bers besides myself have urged that people in this colony are prevented thereby from lending their money in small sums at 3 low rate of interest, and that the Government are thus enabled to compete unfairly with them. In reply, it has been alleged that this state of things was in favour of the man who wanted to borrow at a low rate of interest. Nothing of the kind. There is no reason why the Advances to Settlers Office should not lend simultaneously with private lenders ; but that department is not entitled to be protected from competition to the extent of } per cent. There are plenty of people who are quite willing to lend money at 4} per cent. if they can get it. But the fact is that people lending at 44 per cent. only get 4 per cent. That is a fact. I know also that on that account money is being sent away from here to Australia. The in- surance companies are doing that now. Tens of thousands of pounds are being sent con- stantly away to Australia, because, according to instructions from headquarters, they must get 4ª per cent. net. Well, you cannot lend at 4} per cent. and get 4 per cent. net here. In Australia you can get 4} per cent. net, because they have no mortgage-tax, but here you must lend at 5 per cent. in order to get 4} per cent. net. I say the retention of this tax unfairly favours the Ad- vances to Settlers Department, and gives it an advantage over the private lenders. To illus- trate the unfairness of it let me refer to the pro- posal in the Budget to start a State coal-mine. Let us assume that the Government start such a mine, and then proceeded to declare. " We want to get customers for our coal ; we will therefore levy a tax of half a crown a ton on the coal from every other mine, and if that is done, why, people will have to buy our ccal. because we can undersell our competitors by half a crown a ton." Of course. such a proposal would be scouted in this House ; and vet the House is prepared to allow the Government to do a precisely similar thing in charging this inequitable and iniquitous tax of } per cent. in regard to mortgages. I do hope members 