statements which looked as if all the common- sense in the country was outside the walls of Parliament. That derogated from the position which honourable members occupied, and was not complimentary to either themselves or their constituents. They had been ten weeks in ses- sion, and this proposal was made to facilitate the course of business by not limiting the hour of rising. He thought if there was no limit most members would apply themselves more vigorously to business ; but if, on the other hand, the hour were limited it would lead to protracted discussions and a more lengthened session of Parliament. He did not think in the House of Commons there was a mandatory rule to stop at midnight. The Ministry were desir- ous of doing what they could to preserve the health and consult the convenience of members, and he believed it to be desirable to get home as early as possible. He felt sure it would be a mistake to make it an inexorable rule to rise at twelve o'clock ; it would be better to leave it to the judgment of members, and if progress was not being made it would be a fair thing to extend the hour of sitting. The suggestion to stop at midnight would not be of much service. The early sittings they had had given them an op- portunity of seeing what could be done ; but, owing to the number of Committees, it had proved very inconvenient. He thought the pro- posal made by the Premier to fix the hour of meeting at half-past two o'clock and without the limitation of midnight would be the best course to adopt. There had been times when the House had sat all night, but those times were generally occasioned by the uncalled-for and lengthy attacks of the Opposition. They usually brought it on themselves, and then, as usual, blamed the Government. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City) said it was difficult to make out from the two previous speakers what was before the House, but he supposed it was the same subject they had been engaged on all afternoon-namely, the hour of adjournment. There were one or two clauses in the Factories Act that the House ought to apply to its hours of closing. Clause 18 of the Act set out what he considered would be suit- able hours for the House to adopt. It should not sit, in the words of the Act, for " more than forty-five hours in any one week, or for more than eight hours in any one day, or for more than four hours continuously without an interval of one hour for dinner." The follow- ing clause might also be enacted, that overtime should not exceed a certain number of hours, and would be paid for at extra rates. For him- self, he might say he sat on a Committee that day from half-past ten o'clock until half- past one; then he was back at half-past two, remaining till half-past five; so that he was rapidly approaching the time when his over- time should commence. It was clear to. him that the morning sitting was interfering seriously with the conduct of the Committee- work. But, however that might be, he thought it was desirable that there should be some reasonable hour of adjournment at night, and he would therefore support the Sir J. G. Ward amendment moved by the member for Nelson City. The Speaker should leave the chair at midnight, except when there were special subjects or by resolution of the House. They would then get through their business at s reasonable hour and when they had their about them. Another result, he senses thought, would be that there would be fewer troubles in the House - fewer scenes that simply wasted time and did no good to any one. Mr. J. W. THOMSON (Clutha) 8.0. thought that what was wanted was to increase the quorum. The House consisted of seventy-four members, and the quorum was only twenty. In other words, the work of the House would be carried on, and very often was carried on, by only twenty members. The quorum of the local bodies was one-half the number of mem- bers when the number was even, and a majority when the number was odd. He did not see why that provision should not be applied to Parlia- ment. The quorum should be one-half the number of members-that was, thirty-seven. Very often there were only twenty members present, and this was particularly the case to wards the close of the session. With a House of seventy-four members twenty was too small a quorum. If what he suggested were done they would not sit the very long hours they did at present, because you could not find thirty- seven members who would be able and willing to stand the strain. Those honourable members that did the work of the country towards the close of the session were men who had come to work, and they were to be found at the post of duty almost at all times ; but it was not fair to throw the burden of late hours upon a small number of willing members. He would again repeat that he believed the real remedy for the present state of things was to increase the quorum from twenty to one-half their number -that was, thirty-seven. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said, In proposing the motion the Premier informed the House that there was trouble ahead in regard to the estimates. Mr. SEDDON .- And the Committees. Mr. PIRANI did not believe that the Pre- mier cared a button about the Committees. He desired to know why that honourable gentle- man wanted to anticipate trouble over the esti- mates. Surely he had trouble enough already without anticipating more. Why did he not wait till they got trouble on the estimates be- fore he took action to rescind the very good rule that had been in force with regard to morn- ing sittings? He thought honourable mem- bers would agree with him that on every day the House had sat in the morning good busi- ness was done when the Government wished it to be done. But that business had probably been done too rapidly for the Government. On one day when they had a morning sitting they put through six or seven Bills. An Hon. MEMBER. - Twenty were put through in one night last session. Mr. PIRANI said that was in the daytime for it was done about five o'clock in the morn- 