the Premier has quoted. Now the Premier has changed front over this question. Why? I know not. Political exigency perhaps. Sir, I do not think political exigency ought to in- fluence the Premier or any other member when he is dealing with our own privileges. I do not say even that the privilege is one we ought to have ; I do not care whether the Standing Order is amended or not-and, Sir, with regard to the motion which the Premier intends to move by- and. by, of what value is it? It is perfectly useless. He has amended the Standing Orders by what he has done to-day, and in the most effective way made them not worth the paper they are written on. Some of us have been led to know that by previous experience; now we know it by still wider experience ; and the Pre- mier has abrogated the functions he has held, and I say has acted unworthily as the leader of the House and the defender of its privileges. Sir, I take the House back to a few years ago, and I recollect an instance which the Right Hon. the Premier cannot, and has not, I am sure, forgotten. This question which is before us now is not a single question of breach of privilege. It divides itself into two, if not into three, questions. There is the publication of this report against our Standing Orders. No- body denies that is a breach of privilege ; the House has affirmed it is a breach of privilege. Let me deal with that, first of all. It may be right-I do not think it is-but it may be right for the House to pass lightly over that breach of privilege, and, as upon previous occasions, to say, " We will accept the apology of the person who has committed this breach of privilege and go no further." The House might do that; I do not think it would be right to do it. I think we have done it in the past too often ; and the fact that we have so done it has permitted others to come forward and commit other breaches of privilege, believ- ing perhaps, that they will be treated as others have been treated in the past. That is one case only. There is another and, to my mind, a more serious case, for which there is a pre- cedent, and upon which the House acted in the past. I refer to the fact that when a certain gentleman was brought before the Privileges Committee to give evidence he refused to answer a question. An instance occurred be- fore in the history of this Parliament. And, Sir, what happened then ? The gentleman who refused to give evidence was called before the bar of the House, and the result was that he was fined £500. Mr. HORNSBY. - A different case alto- gether. Mr. J. ALLEN .- An honourable gentleman says it was a different case. I admit it was different in degree, but there is not one particle of difference in principle, and I know that the Premier in his inmost heart must feel that to refuse to answer a question put by a member of a Committee of this House-to deliberately refuse - I know that he must think that is a wrong thing for the House to allow to pass without any punishment whatever. I know Mr. J. Allen the responsibility of acting on a previous occa- sion, and got the House to order a fine of $500; and yet, Sir, in this instance this is to be lightly passed over as a thing of no moment whatever. To my mind, the principle of the thing in both instances is exactly the same. I admit there is a difference of degree ; I admit there are extenuating circumstances ; I admit that Mr. Cohen, who is particularly interested here, might be forced by journalistic etiquette to refuse to answer. But, then, if he does so refuse, he knows the consequences, and he takes the consequences -takes the consequences deliberately. And if the consequences are to be nothing, if the consequences are to be laudation and commendation from the Right Hon. the Premier, I say that nobody need ever answer questions before a Committee of the House again. If the House is going to put up with that, the House is abrogating its func- tions, and putting itself on a footing, to my mind, that is a disgrace ; and I do not think for a moment the House will as lightly as the Pre- mier thinks pass over a matter of this kind. Mr. SEDDON. - Move an amend- 11.30. ment. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I shall not move an amend- ment. You are not going to catch me like that. The Premier must take the responsibility of moving in such matters. I simply wish to put my opinion before the House and the country. I say again there is now no compulsion for any witness who comes before any Committee of this House to answer any question. Noue whatever. This is a precedent for every man to refuse to answer any question before any Committee of this House; and it is a bad precedent, one that has not existed in this House before, one that is quite contrary to the feeling of the House, and the responsibility for it rests with the Right Hon. the Pre- mier. Sir, the Premier has urged extenuating circumstances. There may be extenuating cir- cumstances. It may have been in the interests of the people to publish all this evidence. Sır, I say without any fear, and believing what I say to be right, that this evidence was puh- lished, it may be true, in the interests of the public, but more in the interests of the paper that published it. And, Sir, if that be true. and I do not think it can be denied. I do not think the Premier ought to pass over in the light way in which he is passing this over what is obviously a breach of our privileges, aud which the Premier knows to be a breach of our privileges-privileges which he must know ought to be respected. It may be the Standing Orders need amendment. That is another question. It is & question for us to consider presently. It is not the question now. The Standing Orders are there, and they have been broken by an outsider, by one who is not a member of the House. It does not matter whether it was in the interests of the people or not that the evidence should be publisb. d. The breach is there, whether it was in the interests of the people or not. The breach. I say, has been committed, and it is a great 