that he could not understand how an honour- able member could come here and say the Government were responsible for some deaths which the honourable member referred to, but of which he personally had previously heard nothing. An Hon. MEMBER. - Have you not heard of them ? Sir J. G. WARD said he had heard of some of the deaths, but not from such a cause as al- leged to-night. But if there had been anything connected with the deaths of any of the men in the direction indicated by the honourable gentleman, he ventured to say that the Press would have directed the attention of the public to it long ago, and they would have found a universal demand throughout the colony for a public investigation outside the House into this matter. But it remained for the honourable member, in consequence of strictures made by the Premier earlier in the evening, to take advantage of this opportunity and make these serious charges across the floor of the House. Mr. J. ALLEN .- That is not so. Sir J. G. WARD said the honourable mem- ber ought to have given the Premier notice of his intention to make one of the gravest and blackest charges that could emanate from the mind of any man that he intended to make the charge. What more serious charge could be made than to accuse any member of the House of being guilty of the death of four or five men for political purposes ? He said that to assert that this contingent had been sent to the southern port for political purposes was ab- solutely contrary to fact. The honourable https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 member might just as well say that the re- turned troopers who went to Wellington, Dunedin, and Auckland in every instance were sent there for political purposes. They http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero had been sent to those ports chiefly because the citizens had been anxious to extend a welcome to them. However, he rose for the purpose of expressing his very, very deep regret at hearing a charge of that kind made by any honourable member against another member of the House. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said that, in a matter of this kind, probably members would not think it was unjustifiable for him to take the course he now proposed in answering the honourable member. He now challenged the honourable member to tell the House and the country how many of the men who went to Invercargill had died. He told the honourable member, so far as he had been able to ascertain, not one. In reference to the question of the "Tagus" going to the Bluff, he fortunately had in his room a communication from the Agent- General, and he would read it :- # " Westminster Chambers, 13, Victoria Street, London, S.W., 12th July, 1901. "SIR, -In reference to the copies of letters and telegrams which I have the honour to transmit herewith, I beg to state that on Thursday morning, the 4th instant, I received your cable message requesting me to use my Sir J. G. Ward induced the Admiralty to refuse the mounted infantry returning by the transport 'Tagus' to be landed at the Bluff Harbour. I at once sent a message to the Admiralty asking for an interview with the Director-General of Trans- ports, and an interview was granted me that morning. I represented to him fully your wishes in the matter, and the different reasons which induced the Government to urge that the original intention of landing the men at Bluff Harbour should be adhered to. In reply, he informed me that the Hydrographer of the Admiralty had advised that Bluff Harbour was an inconvenient and dangerous place for a vessel of the length and tonnage of the ' Tagus.' I combated this view, and assured him that large trading-steamers made regular use of the harbour. He then stated that the ' Tagus' had left Albany bound for New Zea- land, and could not be communicated with. The interview then ended. "I informed you of this by telegram, and in reply received your message stating that the ' Tagus' could be communicated with at Dog Island, in Foveaux Strait. I thereupon sent by hand to the Director-General of Transports the effect of your message ; but my messenger was told, in reply, that the objection based on the score of the inadequacy of the harbour must still prevent the Admiralty meeting your wishes. "On the same day, therefore, I again went to see the Director-General of Transports. 1 had in the meantime secured the names and tonnage of the largest steamers sent to the Bluff by the New Zealand Shipping Company. the Shaw, Savill, and Albion Company, and the Tyser Company respectively, and these detaiis I laid before the Director-General of Transports. After another lengthy discussion with him. he suggested that I should see the Junior Lord of the Admiralty. "This accordingly I did, and went into the whole matter again as from the beginning. The Junior Lord stated very emphatically that the Admiralty had taken expert evidence on the question, that their expert advisers were against sending the steamer to Bluff Harbour, and that. as the owners also protested against doing so, the Admiralty did not see their way to go against the advice. He reminded me that ships of war did not use the harbour, and said, finally, that it would not be proper for the department to send a steamship owned by private persons into a harbour into which they would not send their own ships." That was, as the Admiralty would not send the "Ophir " into the Bluff, they would not send the "Tagus" :- " I then suggested that the information about Bluff Harbour on which the expert advisers of the Admiralty had relied dated probably from some time back, and that recent improvements in the harbour removed all the objections. I urged that the opinion of the mercantile com- panies who make use of Bluff Harbour and whose headquarters are in London should be taken on the point. It was finally decided that 