they are keeping, I cannot congratulate them | main road to Taranaki and Napier. It is upon the great amount of business they have | got through, considering the number of weeks we have been in session. There are a few other matters I wish to mention. One is that the honourable member for Invercargill com- plains that the replies to questions asked by members in this House are from the depart- ments, and not from the Ministers. Now, I take quite the opposite view. I only wish we could get the replies of the departments and not of the Ministers, for the replies of the Ministers frequently have no reference to the questions asked, more particularly as far as the Premier is concerned. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Time is up. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) .- Sir, I must begin by congratulating the honourable member for Wai- kato upon the excellent speech he has delivered, far and away the best speech, I think, I have heard him deliver in this House-a speech of which any man in this House might be justly proud. There is much in it with which I en- tirely agree, and we all here lament the fact that he is on the wrong side of the House. At the same time there was much with which I disagree. It is needless for me to mention points on which we agree ; but, as I have said, they are many. Whether it had been my in- tention to speak on this debate or not, I would, in any case, have been compelled to do so by certain remarks of the honourable member for Bruce. affecting my own district. That honourable member accused the Government of bribery in one particular glaring instance - that of providing the full cost of the Otaki Bridge. Now, when I have finished my remarks on this subject I think even the member for Bruce will admit that if there was any district that was entitled to be provided with the entire cost of any work that district was certainly the Otaki district, and that work was certainly the Otaki Bridge. The Government have set up a policy-a very wise policy-that districts that require help from the Government should first help themselves. That is a policy such as the honourable member for Bruce, according to his remarks, approves of. But there are cases, and that of the Otaki Bridge is certainly pre-emi- nently one, where the settlers have a right to ask the Government for the full cost. Now, these are the reasons why it was, beyond doubt, justi- fiable in the case of the Otaki Bridge : First and foremost, the district was one which had never received anything, although it had been settled for upwards of fifty years. It had never received any help from the Government. Up to a very few years ago the road that was used for the purposes of the West Coast was the beach, and if there had been no beach the colony would have had to provide a main West Coast road when settlement first began. The settlers for over fifty years had put up with the inconvenience of having to use that natural highway as the highway to Taranaki on the one side and to Napier on the other ; and during all those years, instead of paying £1 for £1, they had probably contributed in loss and in- convenience not £1 for £1, but £20 for £1. pass on to the remarks of the member for The second reason is that the bridge is on the therefore a national road ; and, that being so, the colony as a whole should pay for the cost, and not the district, which really derives far short of the whole benefit from it. The third reason-and a very cogent reason-is that the whole of the Crown lands on the coast had been given to the Manawatu Railway Company. If they had remained in the hands of the Crown they would on their disposal have earned the "thirds " which so materially assist local bodies to make roads and bridges. Instead of that, how- ever, the lands are in the hands of the company, and that company, when cutting up their lands, showed roads on their plans, but omitted to make them. Therefore the settlers who had improved properties in the district had them- selves to bear the main burden of making roads to open up the Manawatu Company's lands. The fourth reason-also a cogent reason-is that the road, of which the bridge forms part, for long distances runs through Native lands, and therefore full rates cannot be collected. Native lands are not liable to pay more than half the general rates, and are not liable to special rates at all, and we all know the difficulties in collect- ing Native rates even when due. Under these circumstances it would have been most unfair- indeed, impossible-to ask the district to raise a special loan for this bridge. Therefore there are these four reasons, each one of which would be sufficient in itself to justify the Government in erecting the Otaki Bridge. The member for Bruce comes from a specially favoured locality. In Otago and Canterbury they had their land- grants-334 per cent., I believe, on agricultural lands and 25 per cent. on pastoral lands-out of all lands sold by the Crown, which provided them with roads and bridges. The local bodies in those parts of the colony had no trouble at all. Now, I ask, What is to be the natural outcome of the remarks of the honourable member for Bruce? His remarks on the Otaki Bridge prove conclusively that we should go back, if the Opposition were in power, to that unfortunate state of things when no money whatever was supplied to provide the urgently 'needed roads and bridges for the country settlers of the colony. Take the instance of the Otaki district itself. Up to the time of this Government coming into office practically no money grants had ever been provided for the Otaki district by the Government. A good story was told at the opening of this same Otaki Bridge by the Chairman of the Horowhenua County Council, himself a staunch Oppositionist. He said that when a Conservative Government was in power the member for the district, on returning to his constituents year after year, and on being asked what he had obtained for his district, was forced to reply that he had got nothing. But one year he returned with his face wreathed in smiles, the reason being, as it after- wards transpired, that he had got a new pair of blankets for the Foxton Gaol ! That is the position we shall come back to if the Opposi- tion again get into power-the pair-of-blankets system. Now, leaving the Otaki Bridge, I will 