last election you will see that in some of the electorates in the South Island there are more women than men on the roll. There were more women than men voted, and I say such a state of things as that should not exist in this colony. The cause of that is that there is no land for the young men in that par- ticular locality to go on, and they have to go elsewhere in order to get land, and it has been found absolutely necessary in order to prevent such a state of things as that to burst up large estates. I can speak for my own dis- trict-in fact, in regard to the whole of the west coast of the North Island: there are no large estates on that coast. There are thousands of acres of good land waiting for people to go upon. Take the case of the estate purchased the other day near Hawera: Why, it was reproductive, and there are thousands of acres within a short distance of it which are unproductive, and people could be put upon such land at the very outside at £5 an acre. Some honourable members have stated, both in this House and outside, that the pro- sperity of this colony is owing in a very great measure to the land-for-settlements policy. In my opinion, that is absolutely wrong. The prosperity of the colony is owing to the settle- ment of our land-to the thrift, industry, per- severance, and hard work of our industrious settlers. That is the cause of our prosperity. There is no doubt that the cause of the pro- sperity of any country must be the settlers on the land. I am not quite certain what is the cost per head of putting people on the land under the land-for-settlements system, but I saw the other day a statement that the cost was about £1,000 per head, and if that is so it is a costly luxury. The Land Purchase Board should be very cautious indeed, because I think that in a great many cases land agents badger the Government to buy the estates of their friends or clients for the purpose of getting their commission out of them. The honourable member for Palmerston said we were on the top of a land boom, and that prices will fall during the next twelve months. I do not believe anything of the sort. I am perfectly certain that we have not reached the top by a good deal yet ; but I admit that at the present time money has hardened. When money drops again you will see land going up higher than ever. I think we should first open up our un- occupied lands before buying occupied land for settlements in the North Island. In connec- tion with land there is another thing that has always struck me as being very unfair. City members seem to forget, when they say that these sums of money have been given to help farmers, that an unfair state of things is the exemption. A man with an income of $300 is exempted, and there is £50 insurance exemp- tion, making £350; yet all that is granted to farmers is a £500 exemption. I venture to say that the man who can make £100 a year out of land worth $500 has to be pretty lively. So that in the exemption in that case the town gets the advantage every time. There is another matter in connection with our land- for - settlements policy that the Govern- ment ought to take into consideration. In cutting up lands for settlement they forget that they are creating a great deal of extra traffic, which throws an extra burden upon the local bodies in the matter of roads. The people have to keep up these roads, and the Government ought to provide them with assist- ance to meet this case. Now, Sir, I would like to say a few words with reference to the Advances to Settlers Department. I was sur- prised when I heard the Minister in charge of this department say that where they have a gilt-edged security-say, a property worth £2,000-with a loan of $500 upon it, and if the mortgagor bought another property that was not a gilt-edged security on which he wanted a mortgage of £250, the mortgagor was recom- mended to surrender his first mortgage and get a fresh mortgage over the lot. If this is the system pursued, all I can say is that I am surprised. It is as ancient as Adam, and no man in his senses would dream of doing such a thing nowadays. It does not matter how much property the mortgagor owns, for, so long as he has got anything, he must pay up his mort- gage. There is no necessity for a man to surrender a mortgage at all ; to do so would simply mean putting so many more pounds in the hands of the lawyers, and fleecing the unfortunate settler. It is all done by a simple clause in the mortgage. Complaints are made from time to time by people who pay their fee to this department for valuations that, where the security is not considered good enough for the full amount of the application, a smaller amount is offered by the department, and if declined the department gives instruc- tions that the owners are to be rated at that value. Although the department has taken a fee to ascertain the value, the unfortunate farmer is rated on a value that he ought not to be rated on, and one that the department would not have known anything about but for the application and valuation. The report of the Lands and Survey Department contains a lot of pictures, maps, and other very useful informa- tion. I am pleased to see the late Sir John Mckenzie's picture in it, but why we should have a young gentleman in khaki in it I do not know. What has he to do with the report of the Lands Department? We are getting so fond of the military that we cannot get any- thing unless there is a hero in khaki in it. I do not know what Lieutenant Collins has to do with the Lands Report, but here we have his photograph. Mr. SEDDON .- He was in the Lands De- partment, and got badly wounded at the war. Mr. SYMES .- Oh, is that it? Now, in con- nection with the farmers' rebate that we are supposed to have had from the Railway Depart- ment, there was something like $70,000 or £80,000 of reductions. I notice amongst the articles on which a reduction was made we have, in addition to free carriage of lime, butter, These are what eggs, and empty fish-cases. they call the products of the farm. There is also the abolition of the extra charge of 1d. 