shall be pleased to give the Committee all in- formation, but do not care to its being pub- lished." Then, at the request of the Chairman, Mr. Mills withdrew while the question was being discussed. " [ Mr. Mills was at this stage requested to retire while the Committee discussed the matter. The Committee agreed not to press questions of this nature, which concerned the private affairs of the company.] " I remember well the discussion that took place on that occasion, and the outcome of it. Afterwards, when Mr. Mills returned, he was informed of the decision the Committee had arrived at ; he was also informed that the Com- mittee would not press any question that had been asked. He subsequently went on with his evidence ; other points arose, and Mr. Mills freely gave us the evidence which he had pre- viously been asked to give. If the Committee of Privileges had taken a course similar to that taken by the Committee I have just referred to, this present trouble would have probably been avoided. Mr. Mills practically declined to give the evidence to the Committee un- less they agreed not to use it. But, of course, the House would have said that unless they were able to make use of it, the informa- tion would have been of very little value. If this Committee had adopted that course, and had reported to the House that Mr. Albert Cohen, who was the reporter of the Dunedin Evening Star, had declined to give evidence to the Committee, and that the Committee, think- ing that he was justified from his position in taking up that attitude, had simply recorded the fact in their report, then, I say, that the Privileges Committee would have done all that the House and all that the country or any person else would have considered it their duty to do, and this question could have been decided by the House. I believe the House would have taken no action, and would have considered he was right in the action he took. As I say, the House on the refusal question would have done nothing. They might have called the reporter of the Dunedin Evening Star, along with the publisher of the Dunedin Evening Star, to the bar of the House in order to give evidence on the other question, how- ever. But I do not think the question of the refusal to give evidence would have been gone into at all. Therefore I think the honourable member was not happy in the direction he gave to the Committee to report this question to the House. The precedents which we have followed in regard to our action in this matter has given rise to considerable discussion, and I was one of those who, when it was decided to adopt the procedure we did adopt, defended the action of the setting up of the Committee. I want, however, to point out to the leader of the House that he has been completely mistaken in one of the instances he quoted to the House, and no doubt he was misled by the remarkably erroneous article that appeared in the New Zealand Times of yesterday. The honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) re- ferred to it, but he did not point out in what direction the error lay. It is a remarkable thing that almost every statement contained in that article is entirely opposite to what took place in the House of Commons in England. For instance, I will read the latter part of the article which refers to it :- " But later, when the question of sending a summons to the printers came up, Mr. Dis- raeli vigorously protested against bringing to the bar of the House honest and innocent people who were exercising a function that was beneficial to the public, and he moved that it was inexpedient to proceed further in the matter, and that the order previously made should be now discharged. This was carried by 231 to 166, and the matter was heard of no more." Now, that was not Mr. Disraeli's motion. It was not the motion here stated. That was an amendment on Mr. Disraeli's motion which was not carried, but which was lost by the figures that are referred to there as having carried it- 231 to 166. It was an amendment moved by Sir William Harcourt. There had been a mo- tion moved by a Mr. Lewis, and after he had moved his motion the leader of the House then moved the amendment which I shall read to the Committee. On that amendment another amendment was moved by Sir William Har- court. The amendment to the motion by Mr. Disraeli was carried, and the amendment of Sir William Harcourt on that first amendment was lost. And then the motion as amended was put and carried on the voices. Mr. HORNSBY .- That is as clear as mud ! Mr. McNAB .- If the Opposition would kindly leave me to explain this point, I would be obliged. I want to ask Mr. Atkinson, Who is delivering this speech : is it himself or is it the member for Mataura ? But the motion as carried was not the motion as referred to by the Premier, which he imagined was carried through reading this article. The motion which was finally carried was as follows :-- " Main question, as amended, put and agreed to. " Ordered that, It being stated in the Times and Daily News newspapers of the 9th instant, referred to in the order of the House of the 13th instant, that a letter professing to be written by M. Victor Hersan, Honduras Minister in Paris, and addresssd to the Right Hon. Robert Lowe, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Loans, was read and made part of the proceedings be- fore the Select Committee on Foreign Loans on the 8th instant, that it be referred to the said Committee to report to the House whether such letter was produced and read before the said Committee, and under what circumstances, and whether any copy of the said letter was com- municated by or on behalf of the said Com- mittee to the said newspapers, or either of them." That was the position the House took up; and after it took that position it had to deal with a question on the Order Paper, and move that it be discharged. The reason they came to carry that motion was that the Times and 