do not propose, Sir, to deal in any detail with figures ; and the only figures with which I shall trouble the House at all I have put in a small table, to illustrate the nature and posi- tion of the industries upon which the prosperity of the colony is based at the present time. The fallacy, it seems to me, that runs through the speeches in support of the Budget in this de- bate is the fallacy of the omnipotence of the Legislature and the omnipotence of the Govern- ment, as though everything that has happened in the colony during the last ten years, and the various increases which the Treasurer has been able to point to from 1891 to 1901 can be directly attributed to the legislation or the administration for which the Government is responsible. Well, Sir, "it takes a great deal to kill a man," as a doctor of the old school used to say when he got a patient on the operating-table, and the students were turning sick because he was unnecessarily prolonging some experiment. It takes a great deal to kill a man, and it takes a deal more to kill a fertile and thriving colony; and it does not follow that any prosperity we have enjoyed was due to the Government, or that the Government has been a pure Government because the country enjoys prosperity. I will undertake to say that our progress commercially during the last ten years is not to be compared with the progress made by the City of New York ; and I do not think the right honourable gentleman's worst enemy would say that he has yet succeeded in establishing a system of government in this colony which is as corrupt as the Tammany system in the City of New York. There has been a great deal of commercial prosperity https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 during these ten years in New York, notwith- standing that there is a great deal of corrup- tion there ; and yet you urge it upon us as a good argument for believing that the Govern- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero ment is neither corrupt nor incompetent in its administration, and that its legislation has done the country no harm, because we have enjoyed during the last ten years considerable commercial prosperity and progress, though, as I have said, it is less than that enjoyed by the much more corruptly governed City of New York. Now, our commercial progress during the last ten years, and the industries to which that progress is due, are sufficiently indicated by the statistics of the exports of articles pro- duced or manufactured in the colony. The totals are as follows :- # Total Exports : Colonial Produce and Manu- facture. 1890 9,428,761 .. .. 1900 .. 13,055,249 . . Increase 3,626,488=38 per cent. . . I have here a table showing in detail our chief exports for the same two years. It includes every article, totalling over $200,000, upon which there has been an increase in the inter- val :- Mr. Atkinson Comparative Table of Chief Exports, 1890-1900. 1890. 1900. Increase. Wool .. 4,150,599 4,749,196 598,597 Frozen meat 1,087,617 2,123,881 1,036,264 Gold 688,242 751,360 1,439,602 Butter and cheese 207,687 762,044 969,731 622,293 Kauri-gum 378,563 243,730 Oats 231,397 320,873 552,270 .. Tallow 206,002 162,471 368,473 156,601 Sheepskins 122,790 279,391 7,092,484 11,104,837 4,012,353 The increase is just over four millions, or 56 per cent. This increase is greater than the increase of the total exports by #385,865; in other words, the balance of our exports have de- creased by that amount. The articles in the table, which constituted 76 per cent. of our exports in 1890, amount in 1900 to 82 per cent. Now, I ask honourable gentlemen to con- sider the items, and I ask in how many cases. or in what single case, can the Government justly claim any responsibility for an increase in the exports of those articles ? It is the run- holder-the "social pest " whom, by legislation and rhetoric, the Government have so con- stantly assailed-who is responsible for the greatest of them. The natural resources, the scientific invention, and the industry of our people have been the chief factors in bringing about an increase in our exports, and not Go- vernment control. Take the vagaries of oats and wheat during those ten years. Here are the exports for four of the years :- 1900. 1899. 1898. 1890\. 231,397 87.924 286,102 Oats 552,270 .. Wheat 672,247 2,463 338,476 351,494 .. Oats and wheat, which totalled over $900,000 in 1890, had fallen in 1898, after seven years of the present Administration, to £90,000. In the last two years there has been a great revival. especially in oats. Is there any friend or op- ponent of the Government, looking at those particular items, who can frankly say that the Government is either entitled to praise or blame for the increase or the decrease ? Has the Go- vernment put on more Inspectors in regard to the production of those articles? Have they given the industry concerned the benefit of the Conciliation Board ? Or has their annexation of the Cook Islands given the farmers such a splendid market ? Of course, in all those cases the answer is " No." The reason for the recent increase is the market we have had in South Africa for our produce. It is, of course, the world's market which regulates the prices that we get, and not any local ring-fence. Honour- able members certainly will not maintain the absurdity of Government omnipotence or (io- vernment responsibility with regard to the par- ticular articles I have mentioned ; and I think it must be admitted, if we look through the other articles mentioned in my table, that the same reasoning applies. Sir, I am sorry the honourable member for the Wellington Sub- urbs has gone out, because his curious theory 