Committee that these things should not be taken notice of. I asked the Chairman-I did not mean to throw any slight on the Chairman, and I apologize to him if he thinks I did-and, as he would not do it, I thought it my duty, in self-defence and in the defence of the members of the Committee, to bring it under the notice of the House. I am quite prepared to have the matter referred to the Committee; in fact, I want it to be referred to the Committee, though I think the leader of the House might have gone further and declared it to be a breach of privilege, as was done in the case of the previous publication. I do not want to set up another Committee, as I am quite satisfied with the one already set up. But, Sir, what I want to find out is : Are we going to have a repetition of this? and that is one reason why I got up and called the attention of the House to it. I hold at the present time some of the evidence that has been taken, and which has been handed to me for correction by the Clerk in the proper course, as I took a prominent part in the examination of witnesses. Supposing I find in the issue of the Evening Star of the 28th further publications, suspicion will be cast on me and on other members of that Committee, and I think some step should be taken, in the interests of the Committee and in fairness to the Committee, to see that no further publica- tion of this evidence takes place. I am aware that the Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Jackson Palmer, has said that he has inter- viewed the representative of the paper in ques- tion. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 An Hon. MEMBER .- Why should you not be blamed the same as any other member of the Committee ? Mr. HERRIES .- I have been blamed in common with other members of the Committee, http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero and have been examined before the Committee of Privileges, and I suppose until the actual culprit is found out I shall still be under a sort of ban of suspicion along with my fellow- members of the Committee; and the witnesses also who were present to give evidence are under a ban. We are in a sort of way pariahs, and are shunned on account of having been supposed to have divulged this evidence. I am not saying anything against the paper-in fact, I think their agent showed great enterprise in getting the information ; but I would ask for consideration for the members of the Mines Committee, who while this is going on are still under the suspicion of having gone against the rules and orders of this House ; and I hope that some means will be taken of preventing any further publication of this evidence, because I believe, if the Clerk is asked by the Privileges Committee, it will be found that more of this typewritten copy has disappeared. I trust that steps will be taken to prevent any further evidence being published, in the interest of the Mines Committee, who are under a ban of suspicion. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) .- I think the whole matter has now been satisfactorily discussed, and we all want to help Sir Joseph ment to speak on the financial debate ; there fore the whole thing might now be referred to the Committee, and we can get on with the business of the House. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- I think the senior member for Auckland City takes the right view of the position - that the proper course is to support the acting - leader of the House, and that is the course I intend to take. Motion agreed to, ## FINANCIAL STATEMENT. INTERRUPTED DEBATE. Mr. HANAN .- There are one or two other matters I should like to briefly touch on before closing my remarks. The first is that of adul- teration. In this colony we have on the statute- book an Adulteration Prevention Act, which, to my mind, is practically a dead-letter. We have constituted a Public Health Department, which should administer that Act and enforce its pro- visions, but so far very little has been done. It is very seldom indeed that we find any Court in the colony dealing with an offence under this Act. This is not a state of things which should be allowed to continue by a live Health Depart- ment. What is wanted is the appointment of analysts to go through the colony and procure from Inspectors samples submitted to them for analysis. As it is, this Act is practically a dead- letter, because analysts have not been appointed to perform these functions. Not only is adultera- tion resorted to in regard to articles of food, such as flour, pepper, sugar, infants' foods, et cetera, but it is also practised in regard to spirituous liquors. We have provided in the Licensing Act for the appointment of Inspectors to procure samples of liquor sold, but even in that respect we find very little, if anything, is being done. Once Inspectors were appointed and a little valuable work was done, but now practically the whole thing is neglected. In the interests of the people it is desirable that there should be taken greater precaution against the prac- tices of those who adulterate and vend food- stuffs. We are practically in the hands of the unscrupulous adulterator, as we know not the composition of the food of which we partake. The Health Department ought to see that the administration of this Act is carried out strictly. I hope the Minister of Public Health will take a note of this matter, and see his way to en- force the Act. What is the use of passing Public Health Acts unless we are going to carry them into effect. Money spent in safeguarding or securing the health of the people is well spent. It is an important matter to the people, and I think they would not grudge a fair sum being devoted to this praiseworthy object. Sir, it is very gratifying to know that the Go- vernment and the Education Boards of the colony are infusing great vigour into the ex- tension of technical education in this colony. I am firmly convinced that the workmen in this or any other country cannot take that place which they ought to occupy in the industrial world until they are skilled to work with their brains as well as with their hands. If we are 