increased in volume as compared with what it was even five years ago, and there had been a corresponding increase of work for Ministers and their staff. As they knew, this work had to be done. The old system of red tape would not do; members would not wait for months for replies from the departments, and new and up-to date methods' had to be employed in order to cope with the increase of work. He did not think any exception should be taken as to what had been paid to these secretaries, and, instead of the number being large, he thought that some members of the Ministry ought to have an increased number. Mr. LANG (Waikato) was quite agreeable to the Premier having more secretaries, and thought he should have half a dozen more, and then it might be possible to get a reply from the Premier under six months. Latterly he had sent a letter to the Premier respecting a constituent of his, but he had received no reply. Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) said the Com- mittee had no desire to stick this item up ; they only wished to know what the cost of the secretaries was to the country ; the salaries were divided on the estimates, and it was im- possible to allocate them. Mr. SEDDON said each Secretary's salary was shown in the department to which he was attached, and the honourable gentleman would get the information as the different classes were reached. Mr. GRAHAM asked whether all the secre- taries were down on the estimates in this way ? https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 Mr. SEDDON said, Not all ; one or two were temporary. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) wished to say, in regard to the Premier's method of answering correspondence, that he had had a great deal of correspondence with him from the time he had been Minister for Public Works, and had always found him prompt and courteous in his replies. In regard to the item under discussion, he wished to ask what travelling-allowance and expenses were allowed to each secretary ? Sir J. G. WARD said they were allowed 10s. a day, or at the most 15s. If honourable mem- bers wished to go into the general question of travelling-allowances he thought it ought to be done generally, and the criticism ought to apply to every man receiving money in the public service. He did not think it was right to single out one set of men. He would state, for the information of the honourable member for Nelson, that eleven Private Secretaries were shown on the consolidated estimates, one on the public works estimates, and one was tem- porary, making thirteen in all. If the honour- able member would only look through the various pages of the estimates he would find this was so. He did not think any member of the House supposed that $25 was the only salary these officers received. He would tell honourable members how they could get over the private secretary difficulty-namely, instead of sending Ministers twenty and thirty letters daily, they should restrain themselves to a few Mr. Seddon answer their own letters, and dispense with secretaries. But with the present enormous calls made upon Ministers it was impossible for flesh and blood to do the work without assistance. He was quite satisfied there was no Private Secretary who was not earning fully his salary. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said they were not attacking Private Secretaries, but simply asking for information. So far as the Private Secre- taries were concerned members were strongly of opinion that they earned every penny they received ; but what members said was, that Ministers compelled their secretaries to do work which they should not be called upon to do. There was, however, other work which the House ought to know something about, and that was the work done in what was jocularly known as the "Pastemaster-General's Depart- ment," where it is said three men are ex- clusively engaged in cutting-out and pasting into the "black-book " extracts from members' speeches to their constituents. He would like to know if that work was done by Ministers' Private Secretaries, or was it a fact that other men were employed for the purpose ; and, if so, where were their salaries provided for ? Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said this was rather an interesting question for Ministers to answer, and he did not think they would answer it. The point he raised in reference to Private Secretaries was that, while last year there were only nine this year there were thirteen. Mr. SEDDON .- We had them before, but they were not on the estimates. Mr. PIRANI said it was an extraordinary thing that the Premier admitted that these men were working at all times, and were under- paid ; whilst if a private employer kept one of his hands working overtime the Government by their legislation said he must pay him over- time. He did not object to the salaries, and if an opportunity were given by the Premier a larger sum would he voted. A great deal of work was put upon the Private Secretaries that ought not to be put upon them. If Ministers wanted private work to be done by their Secre- taries, they should pay them for the extra work out of their own pockets. Vote, Ministers' Secretaries, £800, agreed to. Mr. COLLINS moved to report progress. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) would want, later on, some information about the very large increase in the vote for messengers. Sir J. G. WARD would furnish this infor- mation at once. Last session, when this vote was before the House, members urged an in- crease of 1s. a day to the pay of the messengers and night watchmen. That accounted for the greater portion of the increase. It was done at the instigation of the House itself. The Committee divided on the question, "That progress be reported." AYES, 25. Arnold Bollard Fowlds Buddo Hardy Atkinson Bennet Ell Haselden 