them, whom they are now so fond of patron- ising occasionally, they referred to them as "groundlings"- no, I make a mistake-they " tickled the eaws of the gwoundlings." They could not pronounce the letter "r " ; they were so affected that they had to speak like John Chinaman. But, Sir, beneath all this apparent wealth, beneath these tigers and fine houses and glorious functions, what abject poverty lurked ! Was not the land mortgaged ? Did not the people slave for their financial masters ? Were they not called upon to pay rates of in- terest over which they had no control, because they were virtually body and soul in the hands of their creditors and their bankers ? Who can tell the secrets of the sweating-room, or picture the scenes that took place in the offices of creditors and bankers periodically-between these men and the agents of the men to whom the money was owing? Were not they sinking deeper and deeper in the quicksands? Did not they have to face an ordeal worse than anything that was faced by Macbeth at the banquet ? And what was the position of the banks them- selves-not merely the bank whose affairs I am very sorry to say have been referred to so often in this House, but the banks in .general? Some of them for years had been paying large dividends earned partly by reckless lending to insolvent speculators. And now the day of reckoning was impending. Then, with regard to another portion of our family: take the workers. For strong men work was exceed- ingly hard and uncertain. It was too spasmodic. There were certain seasons when work was a bit brisk, but there were other long periods when there was no work obtainable. A period https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 when men could find work came along like the measles, or some infectious disease, in the trail of every loan, and then left the colony to languish for months or years before it would return again. There was no steady employment for workmen, and with regard to those who did get work, how were they protected ? Take the case of the sturdy workmen to be found in my own district and in many parts of the North Island, the bushfellers. They had to work hard and sweat long to make a living ; yet how frequently they were swindled out of their wages ! and there was no provision to assist them. There were no such things as labour Bills to enable them to secure the money owing by the contractor or the principal for whom they were employed. Then we had plenty of accidents. We had our hospitals made 4.0. brisk with poor fellows with broken limbs brought in from the bush. And what compensation did they get? Some of them are still cripples : they are maimed for life; and yet no effort is made to repair their losses or alleviate their sufferings. When men were found on the roads out of employment, how were they treated ? What was said of them ? What about the contumely and insult bestowed on the labouring-classes of the country at that time. For why? Simply because men were out of employment and unable to get any employment, because they were wearing the clothes off their backs and could not get new ones, because the pangs of hunger compelled them to make their position known. What were they called ? They were termed " sun- downers " and " swaggers," decried and voted a nuisance even within the precincts of this House. In the public Press now and again there were paragraphs stating that one of these nuisances had visited a station or a farmhouse and asked for food, and would not chop a little wood so as to get a meal, and the verdict was " Served them right." They were sent to a whare hardly fit for a dog to sleep in, or into a shed to sleep, if they possibly could, among the ticks. Gates were locked against them, and on the gates placards were put, and in the papers advertisements appeared saying that no swag- gers could be found in food and lodging any longer. And when they dared to ask for em- ployment were they not warned off and told to go to the member whom they had elected, or to the Government which they had put intc office? There was only one alternative and resource for men out of employment then. They had either to resort to crime or face starvation; until the local authorities, in view of the state of things that menaced society, had to go perforce to their rescue, and employ the police as relief officers, with authority to issue ration - tickets. We found among these unemployed strong men, good fencers, men acquainted with every descrip- tion of farm and station work, men willing to go into the bush and carve out homes for themselves-for they cast hungry eyes at the land. But when they asked for the land what was the reply of the State ? They could only be given the freehold ; and they must have money before they could acquire it. There was no lease in perpetuity. It was absolutely impos- sible for the average working-man to secure a piece of land from the Crown. If he went to the private owners he was no better off. Most of the private owners had their land so heavily mortgaged that they were unable to sell it at anything like a reasonable value. The workers looked over fences and gates despairingly. I dare say in some cases they felt like a fish out of water, and wondered if. they had not better terminate their existence. Now we come to the old people. What was done with them ? They were left to freeze on that miserable thing called "charity." They were told to go into the alms- houses and old-men's homes, where husband and wife remained separated for the rest of their lives. They were forced to dispose of their heirlooms and wedding-gifts, and wear out their old rags : that is the way the old people were treated. New Zealand underwent a change of manage- ment. But after that change took place, sub- sequent to the election of 1890, it took years before the torrent of suffering could be stemmed. The clouds that had been dark, and producing all the depression, became darker still. Why? Be- cause a fearful struggle was going on, a struggle worse in its intensity than that which is now going on in South Africa. It was a war between need and greed. The demons of misrule gnashed their teeth despairingly, for they knew their game was up. But they were determined to 