names of successful applicants on a poster litho. as the ballot proceeded, and thereupon another officer (Mr. Redman), who had never before assisted at the ballot - box, took Mr. Munro's place. Throughout the whole of the procedure Mr. McCardle never dropped a single ball into the ballot-box, nor did he ever put his hand into the ballot-box to take one out. In fact, from where he sat he could not reach to the ballot - box or the boxes containing the numbered balls. The only occasion on which he handled a ballot-ball was after I had read the successful number aloud, and handed it to him to verify my reading, or on one or two occasions when he first read the number aloud, and I verified his reading. The statement, therefore, that Mr. McCardle had personally worked the ballot - box, had drawn the balls, et cetera, is absolutely with- out the very slightest foundation; and I may here add that the whole of the people present in the hall had a clear and uninter- rupted view of everything that was going on in connection with the balloting on the platform Now, as to the wonderful success of the McCardle family at the ballot : There were five members of the family, and four of these secured five sections. I append & list giving number of applications for each of the sections and number of the McCardle family applica- tions, and after examination of that list the absurdity of the charge or insinuations made as to the questionable dealings must be apparent to every unbiassed mind :- "Section 4, Block VII., drawn for Mr. McCardle, sen., had to fall to one of the family, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 as there were only three applications lodged, and these three members of the McCardle family. "Section 1, Block I., was allotted to A. D. http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero McCardle simply because he was the only appli- cant for the section. " Section 3, Block VII., fell to the lot of Miss McCardle. There were five applicants, and of these no less than three were McCardles. The law of probability was entirely in their favour, and there is no cause for amazement that the result of the ballot should be what it is. "Section 4, Block X. : There were twenty-four applicants, and of these one-sixth (four) were members of the McCardle family. "Section 2, Block X. : There were twenty-six applicants, and of these nearly one-fifth (five) were members of the McCardle family. These last two sections fell to the lot of W. W. Mc- Cardle, jun. " You will see, therefore, that the five cases of suspicious balloting may be summarised thus : Three out of the five cases had to turn out successful for the MeCardle family, and, if they had not, then there would have been good grounds for suspecting ' foul-play,' and two out of the five cases are the ordinary occur- rences of every-day balloting. I am very sorry to hear that this matter has been dished up again -- not sorry for my own account, for we offi- cials are accustomed to getting hammered and knocked about, and in nine cases out of ten we Mr. O' Meara that the McCardle family are dragged into this trouble and annoyance, knowing that they are absolutely innocent of the charges which have been made against them." That letter, Sir, is signed by Mr. Mueller, Commissioner of Crown Lands, Auckland. As far as the ballot for this land is concerned, and also the reputation of the MeCardle family, there should not be the slightest suspicion. I have read this letter to have it inserted in Hansard to contradict statements that have already been put there by some honourable members. Now, Sir, it is a remarkable fact that some honourable members who denounced the Government in connection with what they termed " the £40 steal " accepted it, neverthe- less. Those honourable members who protested very loudly reminded me of the action of Judas Iscariot. They received their £40, which was not pressed upon them at all, and before receiving it they had to sign a voucher in the Treasury. After having it in their possession for three or four days, they found that cer- tain Conservative and other papers were com- menting upon what they termed "the $40 steal "; they rushed back to the Treasury and threw their forty pieces of silver-or gold- on the floor. They wanted then to pose as purists ; but if the papers had not denounced the matter those honourable gentlemen would have put the money into their pockets and have said nothing about it. What did the honour- able member for Waitemata do? After signing the voucher for it he took the money to his constituents, and actually tried to bribe local bodies in his district with it. But they said, "If this offends your conscience, keep it ; we will not have anything to do with it." So the £40 was in that case returned to the chief misappropriator. It must be remembered that those who have made such a terrible fuss about this £40 business knew perfectly well when they were signing the voucher what they were sign- ing for ; and, as I have already said, were it not for the newspapers denouncing them, and de- nouncing the action of the Government in pass- ing the £40 as they have done, they would have put it in their pockets, and we would never have heard a word about it. As far as I am con- cerned, I raise no objection to it. As I was not in the House when it came on, nor did I vote for it, I took it. I consider that members of this House, when one thinks of the many calls that are made upon them, are paid too little. $300 per annum is, in my opinion, little enough for any member to draw. We have Wellington members, and, of course, they can attend to their business and attend to the wants of their constituents at the same time ; but those of us who come from a distance, and have to spend the whole of our time here, and are put to considerable expense attending the session of Parliament- I say it fearlessly, and would say the same thing on the platform in addressing my constituents-I say $300 is quite little enough for a member of Parliament to receive. Were he to keep it all it would be all right, but the amount that has to be given in donations 