much. Charitable aid, except for instances of affliction, would not be necessary, and they would not require very much expenditure on old-age pensions. They were not rich, but they were industrious people, with indivi- i dualism and self - reliance. They were living about twenty-eight miles from Auckland, and the nature of Mr. Fraser's avocation necessi- tated his travelling a great deal. He therefore asked the Minister for a railway-pass. Mr. MEREDITH .- On what grounds ? Mr. MONK said he asked for the concession on the ground that, as the parents of eighteen children without a fault, Mr. and Mrs. Fraser were model and special citizens. No com- plaints about the falling-off in birth-rate there. If all the families of New Zealand had a record like that they would not require policemen, gaols, and lunatic asylums, and a great deal of wasteful expense would be avoided. The gentle- man and his family were determined to obtain their livelihood if industry could do it, and, in view of the desire of the Government for an in- crease in the population of the country, he asked for a free railway-pass for himself and his lady as a return for distinguished public services. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Rail- 4.30. ways) said he was very glad that the honourable member thought the Railway De- partment was able to meet exceptional cases of this kind. He might tell him that only a few weeks ago a gentleman waited on him and wanted a large increase in salary because of extraordinary increases in his family. The case was a most deserving one. In that case the applicant's mother-in-law was the mother https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 of twenty-eight children, and there had been five sets of twins running. He was not at pre- sent able to meet that request, and the honour- able member would see that, when he could not grant a request under those circumstances, he could hardly agree to the one just put forward. He could assure the honourable member that he should be very glad in a case of the kind mentioned to give assistance, but he could not agree with the way suggested. Once such a request was granted applications would become universal throughout the colony. Mr. MONK .- How many families of twenty- eight are there in New Zealand ? Sir J. G. WARD said there were plenty of families of twelve and fourteen ; and, if they were to give rewards to fathers and mothers of eighteen or twenty-eight, there was no reason also why such rewards should not be given to the parents of five or six. If the House thought proper to put a vote on the estimates for the free carriage of these people, no one would be more glad than he to see it put into effect. POST-OFFICE AT DEVONPORT. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) asked the Postmaster- General, If he will place a sum on the public- works estimates for the purpose of erecting a post-office and telephone exchange in the Borough of Devonport, Auckland District ? This was a very important suburb of Auckland, there being something like six thousand people there now. It was two miles distant from the Chief Post-office, Auckland, and he might tell the Minister that in that borough not one shilling of public money had been spent on buildings since it was established. He thought the Minister should make inquiries as to whether the time had not now arrived when a post-office and telephone exchange should be erected. There was no difficulty about the site, for he believed that the Borough Council would be willing to give a portion of a reserve which was in a suitable position. In that connection, he might say that it was, some time ago, the intention of the Borough Council to themselves build on that reserve, but owing to the state of the money-market the question was postponed. Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) said, When he was last in Auckland this matter was brought under his notice, and then the Council told him that they contemplated build- ing a town hall, and they told him that they would inform him as to whether suitable accom- modation could also be found in the building for the post-office. He had had no word from them since then, except that in conversation with a representative from there the other day he was told that they had abandoned the town-hall proposal. As a matter of procedure in the colony, recreation reserves could not be used for building purposes. He had intimated that to the Mayor of Devonport the other day, and told him that he could not favourably entertain any such proposals. In the mean- time, the existing state of affairs would con- tinue until they knew whether there was any necessity for acquiring a site for a post-office there. So far there had been no general pres- sure brought to bear on the department. # HUTT RAILWAY-LINE. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether it is true, as reported, that the total cost of straightening and duplicating the Hutt Railway - line would be less than £100,000 ; and whether it is also true, as re- ported, that the value of the land reclaimed, after allowing for the road, would exceed the above amount ; and, if the above reports are correct, on what grounds does the delay in pro- ceeding with this most urgently needed work become justifiable? This question had been before the Minister for Railways several times this session - the much - vexed question of straightening and duplicating the railway-line and the question of the improvement of the Hutt Road. It was quite impossible to improve the road materially till the Government did some- thing towards straightening the railway-line. It was believed that plans had been made pro- viding for the duplication and straightening of the line, and no doubt these would show the extent of the land to be reclaimed. It was also alleged that the land that would be reclaimed would exceed in value the cost of straightening and doubling the line ; and, if this were so, there was no reason why the Government should not go on with the work. If the reclaimed land would yield in the way of rents a revenue equivalent to the interest at current rates on 