An Hon. MEMBER .- The Railways Depart- for the purpose of clearing away the grain lying ment is hide-bound. at roadside stations. When grain had accumu- partment with mismanagement, but with the lated in quantities a night train was put on, neglect of farmers' interests and risk from and the whole of the produce was removed ex- broken weather. And, Sir, I consider that the peditiously, and the traffic went on more satis- Minister for Railways should manage that factorily ; but, as far as I am aware, there was department only. Notwithstanding his great not a single night train on the North Canter- ability in the administration of the Post and bury line during the whole of last grain season. Telegraph Department, I think that his ability I contend, Sir, the circumstances would have warranted the running of night trains; and if would be of more service to the country as it had drawn men from Springfield railway- Minister for Railways, leaving the Postmaster- Generalship to other hands. Now I shall deal works, and overtime to the permanent railway for a few minutes with the Midland Railway. staff, the farmers had a right to expect that the Railway Department would assist them Some years ago I had occasion to bring up to get their grain taken to store, and out in this House to the notice of the then Minister of Lands, the late lamented Sir John McKenzie, of risk in the paddocks. . At the present time, Sir, our settlers are growing grain under very adverse circumstances. If it were not for the South African war, and to some extent for the Chinese war -for Germany has been a large purchaser of our produce, to be forwarded to China-oats would be selling at under 1s. a bushel, and wheat would in all pro- bability not exceed 2s. or 2s. 3d. per bushel ; and practically a losing game is now being carried on by our settlers in Canterbury and Otago. Notwithstanding that producers in other parts of the world are able to compete with New Zealand on much more favourable terms, we have put up with accommodation on our railways during the past season which is not creditable to the railway management. We wish to give the tourists every privilege, but at the same time it must be borne in mind that a large portion of the income of the colony is derived from exports which are raised by the farmers of the colony, and in the grain season their neces- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 sities should be considered. Now let me com- pare the rates of freight by sea from the Argen- tine and the shipping rates from New Zealand. Grain from 9s. to 15s. per ton, according to the http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero market rate, Monte Video to London. Here from New Zealand it was 30s. That is the average rate, there have been other quota- tions, but I do not wish to state the extreme rates ruling. There is an advantage here of more than 50 per cent. in favour of South American farmers. I admit the Government has no control over the shipping interests, but they have control over the railways, and as far as possible the settlers of the colony demand cheapness of freight when, as at the present time, the prices of their products are so low. Now, I want to point out that nothing but a Minister can move the Railway Department. We find every department in the State can be moved except the Railway Department ; but do what you will we cannot get more speed on branch lines. We are hardly content to have a twelve mile per hour pace on our railways out of Christchurch, but we cannot get a fourteen mile pace put on, and so the settlers have to get out of their beds at an unearthly hour in the morning in order to reach Christchurch by morning train. Well, we put up with that, but we surely have a right to expect that the traffic of the colony should be carried on regardless of overtime, and with the advantage of night trains. Mr. BUDDO .-- I am not charging the de- the fact that land had been selected by the Midland Railway Company for sale outside the B1 map, that the Government surveyors sur- veyed it, and that it was then put on the market. The result was settlers purchased it, and, after giving security for the purchase- money, they mortgaged their own private pro- perty as collateral security. This is where the trouble occurred. The Midland Railway Com- pany, fully alive to the weakness of their position with regard to lands not sold from the B1 map, sold these mortgages to a third per- son, the result being that these settlers could not get a title from the Midland Railway Com- pany, and were still liable to the mortgagee who bought up the mortgages of the Midland Railway Company. This matter still remains in abeyance ; they have still to pay interest, and they are no nearer getting a title to this land. The lands are of considerable area in Ashley and Selwyn Counties. They are occupied largely by small settlers, who are deserving of con- sideration in the direction I have indicated when the Government have met the Midland Railway debenture-holders in some way, as I hope they will in the immediate future. I hope they will assess the amount of money that is due, as I think they are deserving of something, notwithstanding that the debentures were pur- chased at an abnormally low rate -somewhere about $60 per £100 debenture. I feel satisfied there is some claim, and when they settle that claim I hope they will take into consideration the question of granting a title upon reasonable terms to those settlers who have not received a title, notwithstanding the fact that they have paid for the land in all good faith : and, prin- cipally relying on the fact that the land had been surveyed by Government surveyors, they believed they were buying a genuinely market- able article with a title attached to it. 1 am sorry to inflict upon this House any remarks upon the education question, considering the amount of information we have had with regard to the Teachers' Salaries Commission from the member for Wallace, but I would not, perhaps, be doing justice to the district I represent if I did not make a few remarks in this direction. It is true that the annual expenditure on the education system has advanced very consider- ably-perhaps out of proportion to the num- ber of children that have to be educated ; 