with this question according to our present Standing Orders. Mr. PIRANI .- Will you make the printing a matter of urgency ? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes ; I hope to get it com- plete and in the hands of honourable mem- bers as soon as possible. Motion agreed to. # FINANCIAL STATEMENT. ADJOURNED DEBATE. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) .- I ask, Sir, before the debate proceeds, to be allowed to make a personal explanation. Last evening the honour- able member for Waihemo-who, I am sorry to see, is not in his place to hear what I have to say-made some reference to the speech that I delivered on Friday last, when I contrasted the condition of the colony ten or eleven years ago with its present condition. He stated that on that occasion I said that the women were re- duced either to starvation or the street. After- wards he altered the word " women," and said it was girls, and he also mentioned that he had taken a note of my remarks. I challenged his statement, and was allowed to make a personal explanation. I said he placed a misconstruc- tion on the remarks I made, and that I never denied the fact that women had a fair choice of employment. I went on to say that no doubt what I said on that occasion appeared in Han- sard ; and he retorted to that, " You have al- tered your proof." Now, Sir, I have obtained the proof of that portion of my speech this morning, and am willing to show it to the honourable member for Waihemo or any other member of the House. I am not in the habit of allowing my tongue to run away with my head, and I am always prepared to accept the responsibility of any utterances I make in this House. There is no alteration in http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero the portion of the proof he refers to, with the exception of the insertion of the word "the" before "atmosphere." What I did state on that occasion was this: I stated that the employ- ment of girls at that time was very limited. Mr. Mackenzie asked, " How did you survive ? " I replied, "I did not happen to be a girl. Possibly if I had I might have developed into a nurse. and then there would have been trouble with the honourable gentleman who has just spoken. But, Sir, the girls at that time were left to go into the warehouses to sweep the floors, to pick up pins, and to live on the atmosphere, and when old enough they had to choose between the broom and the scrubbing- brush, and the streets in many cases." That is an entirely different version from that given by the honourable member for Waihemo. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) .- As personal explanations are the order of the day, I should like to make one-to say two or three words in reference to a misrepresentation of myself made by the honourable member for Egmont. In commencing his speech last evening he referred to some remarks I had made, practically ac- cusing me of inconsistency, in that I had been pointing out that it was not expedient that Mr. Seddon to interfere with the agriculturist while I had voted for the second reading of the Eight Hours Bill. It is true I voted for the second reading of that Bill, but in speaking on it I was careful to point out that I did so because it was intended in Committee to make it quite clear that the Bill did not apply to agriculturists, and that if that provision were omitted I should vote against the third reading. Mr. SYMES .- I hardly think that is a per- sonal explanation. I said the honourable gentle- man voted for the second reading of the Bill. and he said he did so. Major STEWARD. - But the honourable gentleman accused me of doing so to catch an extra vote or two for my Elective Executive Bill, whereas the honourable member in charge of the Eight Hours Bill had already expressed himself in favour of the principle of the elective Executive; and, as a matter of fact, the debate on the Elective Executive Bill took place before the debate on the Eight Hours Bill. Mr. LANG (Waikato) .- In common with the honourable member who has preceded me, I recognise that at this period of the debate there is not much new to be said about the position of the affairs of the colony. But this debate gives members an opportunity of bringing before the Government matters of importance affecting the colony and the interests of their own elec- torates, and on these grounds I claim the indul- gence of the House. In the first place, I should like to condole with the Premier on account of the severe criticisms he has received at the hands of members who at one time were his most faithful supporters, although I am quite aware that the Premier does not much object to severe speeches so long as the members go into the lobby and vote in the right direction when his Bills come down. I think it is a matter for congratulation that we have no Opposition in the House at present. But, though we have no Opposition, there are several parties. One party is composed of those who have practically given their very souls to the Government, and vote and speak for them in the way they are directed. Then, there are the members who speak very strongly against the Government, but come up to the scratch when the division-bells ring. and go into the lobby and vote with the Go- vernment. Then, there is another party. mostly represented by members on this side of the House, who are quite willing and ready to support the Government whenever they think their measures are right, but will op- pose them when they believe them to be wrong. There are many reasons why there should be no Opposition at the present time. Perhaps the principal reason is that the Go- vernment, for the most part, are carrying out the suggestions that members of this side of the House have been advocating for years. Take as an instance the labour legislation-and here let me refer the Right Hon. the Premier to the Government Whip's speech last night, in which he said that we want a rest from labour legislation. Was it not members on this side of the House that brought that under 