public opinion throughout the colony is called to this important question, to say some words about it. The general opinion throughout New Zealand seems to be that industrialism is in danger-we all know from what quarter. The working-man in New Zealand seems to be mad drunk with vanity, and almost bereft of his senses. He does not look beyond the day. Every concession that has been made to him has been the stepping-stone to another unrea. sonable demand. He never asks himself, Can my employer afford this? It is no use for the employer to go before the Conciliation Board and say, "I cannot afford to pay higher wages ;" the working-man says, "This is what we want, and we will take nothing less." The narrow- mindedness of these men, their shortsighted selfishness is marvellous. We heard the other day of a man who was told by a fellmonger that he could not afford to pay any higher wages, and what was the man's answer ? " If you give the farmer less for his skins, you will be able to give me more." That is a fine specimen of the noble-minded working-man and of the working of the abominable unionism. When I say this I do not include all working-men. I know there are large-hearted working-men, but they are not those who join in these outcries, and allow themselves to be talked over by hireling agitators. They keep themselves aloof from caucuses and meetings of working-men, though, of course, by so doing they are looked upon as traitors to the good cause. I have often thought it would be a good thing for the colony if it became necessary for all the manufacturers who have large industrial establishments to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 agree to close down for a time. This would bring the working-men to their senses if any- thing would. What would they say if they were obliged to walk about the streets in idleness with their hands in their pockets, and nothing else in their pockets but their hands ? I think that would make them think a little. They would find out then that it was not through cruelty on the part of the employer, but from bitter necessity, he has been com- pelled to do this. I believe the employers of labour in New Zealand are as large-hearted and generous-minded men as any to be found in the world. But they cannot do impossibilities ; they must leave a margin of profit. What man in his senses would embark his capital unless he did ? As it is, men are closing down their works, clearing out, and leaving the colony ; they cannot go on ; they must get out of the colony to save a little from the wreck. It almost makes me regret that industries were ever started in this colony. I little thought when I used to rejoice at hearing of a new in- dustry being started that it was to be turned into a curse instead of a blessing ; that before long the brave man with his skill and capital put into the undertaking would be confronted by this terrible difficulty and danger. Where is it to end? I am convinced it would be a good thing for the colony if the working- men were to pack up their traps and leave New Zealand in a body. It would be a Hon. Mr. Scotland them. Their place would be easily filled by Chinamen and Japanese, and the very men we are trying to exclude from the colony by £100 penalties we should then be only too glad to welcome to our shores. The white settlers could carry on the agricultural pursuits of the colony, and there is plenty of room in our towns as well, and let the workman take his labour and skill to some other country. But, where will he find himself better off ? I believe he knows where he is well off. If he went to America he would not better his condition ; he would find that\_where he could scrape through here with half a day's work for a whole day's pay he would have to give a full day's work there. In the States they do not do the union stroke. They would have to work, and they would very soon find it out. I do hope we are now coming, if not come, to an end of this terrible state of things, and that there will be a stand made-I wish it could be made this afternoon-against this absurd Jack Cade legis- lation. We have had enough of it, and it threatens to ruin the colony. I shall raise my voice against the third reading of the Bill. although I have very little hope that it will have any effect. The Hon. Mr. BOLT .- It is very peculiar to hear these desponding statements in reference to a Bill of this sort. We are told that our industries are going to the dogs ; that people are getting scared, and everything is going in a way which will be prejudicial to the best interests of the colony. We are told that this is a most drastic measure, and is going to pre- vent people attending to business and getting a living. What are the facts of the case ? The fact is that this Bill is, to all intents and pur- poses, a consolidation measure. So far as new matter is concerned especially-and, indeed, on the whole Bill-we took a large amount of evi- dence, and it is now before the Council as a practical expression of the wishes and desires of the people who came before the Committee to represent the various trades. So far as I know there is not a clause in the Bill that is against them in that respect. The warehouses and the banks protested against being included in the Bill, and they were accordingly taken out. Nearly the whole of the clauses which are new were put in their present form on the sugges- tion of the several people who gave evidence before the Committee. Clause 2, which is said to be the worst, was put in at the suggestion of several public bodies of employers and many of the witnesses who came before us, and there is nothing in the Bill now but what may be viewed as generally an expression of the wishes of those witnesses. In the face of that, why this jeremiad about labour legislation, and it- effects on the colony ? What has been the result of the labour legislation on our industries during the last eight or nine years ? We have been told that it has driven capital out of the country ; but when this legislation was first commenced, eight or nine years ago. we were told the same thing. As a matter of fact. We have no evidence that anything of the sort has 