America, and particularly nothing to fear from the Argentine. This opinion emanated from the honourable the mediocre member for Auck- land City (Mr. Napier), who declared that we have nothing to fear from these countries, and then in his next phrase he stated that wool was no longer the chief item in the exports of this colony. And he quoted authorities. Why, the honourable gentleman himself is brimful of authorities-and late, recent, and authentic authorities-and of these the highest and most reliable authority is himself. So much so that he instanced a telegram, which said his speech amazed Parliament, and was the talk of the lobbies. If this does not secure him the senior position in Auckland City, it certainly should do so. Mr. NAPIER .- I have got it now. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Well, we did not realise it. But, at the same time, I urge the honourable gentleman to be more careful in his authorities. Now, if he will look up the statis- ties with regard to our exports he will find in the S.ati-t es for the year 1900 that our exports of wool amounted to $4,347,000 and the export of mutton was considerably over two millions. You have therefore six millions and a half out of eleven millions and a half of exports coming from the sheep alone. Over four millions of that-more than one-third of that-comes from the wool. And vet the honourable gentleman rises up in this House and tells us that wool is not a premier export from this colony. When he reads these high authorities, and he ought to read them, he will see how far he has been from stating what is correct. Why, from the sheep alone at the present time there is a greater amount of export value than our total export value of all produce from this colony was when my honourable friend Sir Joseph Ward and I entered this House in 1887, and Sir Henry Atkinson took office ; and yet we are told that it does not occupy the premier position. We might here glance at our position as a meat- and mutton. produc- ing country ; and to me it is amazing that wool is so low, because the flocks of the world have been decreasing enormously. In 1895 the flocks of the world numbered 583,000,000, and five years later the flocks of the world had decreased by 93,000,000. They were then 490,000,000. And yet we see, in the face of that, that wool goes steadily down ; and, so far as the value of mutton is concerned, it takes it all its time to maintain its own. Of course, wool is bound to rise again. Coming to the question of what this country may be afraid of in the matter of competition-and this is a point which has a great bearing upon land I will not allude to competition from Russia, because I dealt with that the other night, but I will refer to the competi- tion of North and South America. There has been an abnormal development in Canada-at any rate, so far as dairy produce is concerned -and that country is a rival we may well consider. Then, with regard to the United States of America, that country has increased in population at a rate perhaps never witnessed Mr. T. Mackenzie before in the history of the world. Although its population is increasing enormously, yet the surplus exports of that country have correspond- ingly increased, and never before have they had such a surplus for export. I think, therefore, that we may look for great competition from Canada and from the United States. Why, there are individual firms in the United States of America that kill and export more meat than the total exports from this colony comes to in one year. Individual firms kill over twelve million pounds' worth of meat. An Hon. MEMBER .-- Pork. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Oh, no; I was allud- ing to Swift and Co., which company kill no less than two million sheep a year, and cattle in proportion. There are also other large firms- Armour Brothers, and others. When you con- sider the present competition, and the fact that the population of America is not absorbing the consumption of the stuff as it was at one time expected, you can understand what competi- tion may be expected from North America. Then, let us go to the Argentine, that country which of all countries we must feel most anxious about. All this shows the necessity of making the most of our position and re- sources. We are, as it were, fighting giants. It is not an equal fight. We may be likened to a well-knit small man fighting great powerful men ; but so long as we reserve our energies, practise economy, and extend to our people every facility to successfully enable them to develop their agricultural and mineral wealth and their manufacturing wealth-so long as we do that we need not fear the issue. But let us understand distinctly what we have got to face. We cannot trifle with ourselves or our resources. Fifty years ago the entire flocks in the Argentine Republic numbered sixteen millions, and thirty years afterwards they had increased by sixty millions. Within a very short period they reached eighty-six mil- lions. The whole of the flocks of all Australasia did not number more ; and Gibson, one of the best authorities, asserts they will double in twenty-five years from 1886, and it bids fair to seeing that done. Then, whilst that was the actual increase in numbers, owing to the im- portation of the best stud flocks-on which within recent years they spent $600,000-they have vastly improved the breed of their sheep, and they have increased the staple value of their wool, and its weight by 1lb. per sheep. The staple of the wool has been improved in fineness, and there has also been an increase in the weight of wool per sheep. The quality of the meat has also improved, so that they at times get ad. per pound more than Australian meat brings, and authorities assert that soon they will equal New Zealand in quality. This I do not believe, if we do our duty. That is something important to think about. Then, let us take the area of that vast country. In it there are 73 1,000,000 acres of land, 19 per cent. of which is covered with magnificent forest which will some day come into cultivation. Eighty per cent of that country is fit for agri- cultural and pastoral pursuits, so that, practi- 