months in Christchurch, where a large firm two or three years ago went into a manu- facturing business and erected large buildings, went in for most expensive machinery, and established what they thought would be a very flourishing industry ; and in consequence, as I understand, of the uncertainties of the labour conditions within the last, two months they have closed up the business, and intend for the future to do all their business with im- ported articles and imported goods. I think that is a very unfortunate thing to occur. An Hon. MEMBER .- Bootm ikers ? The Hon. Mr. LOUIS ON. - No, not boot- makers ; a furniture-manufacturer, if you want to know-one of those industries that ought to be supported, and that ought to be flourish- ing in our midst, because we have got as mag- nificent a supply of timber as is to be found in any part of the world, and we have got all the facilities for carrying on that business if we were allowed to do so without too much inter- ference. On the present occasion they have disposed of their stock and plant, and they pro- pose for the future to carry on their business through imported goods. With regard to the boot-factories, I believe that several are closing in consequence of the difficulties of the labour legislation. I was rather amused-or, rather, I should have been amused had it not been so serious-at some of the reasons given for bringing this Bill forward. The Hon. Mr. Rigg said something to this effect: that his only reason for wanting this Bill passed was that he wanted to see what effect it would have, and if it had not a good effect -well, it could be altered afterwards. Those were not exactly his words, but what he said was something to that effect. That was some- thing like a youngster wanting to put a match to half a pound of gunpowder just to see what effect it would have, and thinking that it could be put right afterwards. He also expressed the most remarkable opinions with regard to the parties interested who were opposing this Bill. The bank officials, who were almost unanimous in their objection to this measure, he described as a very poor lot. To hear the comments on their petitions one could only come to the con- clusion that they were a lot of imbeciles-that they had no idea of what they wanted, had no intelligence at all, and simply had to be legis lated for as a lot of children who did not know what they wanted. I think that was a terrible insult to level at a most intelligent class of people. I have already said that if we want to pick a class of workers who should have, and who probably have, as much intelligence as any class of workers in the colony, we should cer- tainly pick out the bank clerks. It is neces- sary, in the prosecution of their duties, that they should be specially intelligent, and I believe they are; and to say that these men absolutely unanimously do not know what they want, and therefore are to be given what they do not want, is an absurd posi- tion to take up. While attempting to legislate Hon. Mr. Louisson I say they are not friends of labour - they are enemies of labour Friends of labour endeavour to find out wha is beneficial for the labourers, to find out what are their wishes on the sub- ject, and then, as far as is consistent, to legis- la e in that direction. Friends of labour do not say, in the most autocratic manner : "We do not ask your opinion as to what you want ; we know what you want ; you do not know, and we do not want your opinion ; and we are going to legislate directly in opposition to your opinion, and you will have to be satisfied with it." I say, honourable gentlemen who take up that position have no right to pose as the friends of labour, and I think, if they gave the workers full credit for a little more intelligence as to knowing their own requirements, they might then pose as the friends of labour with some justice, but at the present time I think they are simply the enemies of labour. Now, Sir, look at the evidence that was taken in connection with this Bill. I have gone through it, and I am astounded to find that the evidence all goes in one direction. There is not a single particle of evidence in favour of the Bill, except from an official of the Labour Department. Nearly all the evidence is in the opposite direction, showing that the relations between the various parties are of the most amicable description, that things are working smoothly ; that there are no wrongs to be redressed, and very few complaints to be made. Yet, in spite of this, the whole of that evidence is to be cast aside because one indi- vidual of the department thinks differently. His opinion is to be taken in contradiction to the whole mass of evidence, which fills up I do not know how many pages. It seems to me, Sir, that that is carrying legislation too far. I do not intend to take up the time of the Council over this matter, however, because I think we have all pretty well made up our minds as to the necessity or otherwise of this Bill. My opinion is that, had it been brought out of Committee in a workable state, much debate would not have been necessary; but I say, Sir, without fear of contradiction, that it has come out of Committee in a most unworkable condition, and in a state which half the members of this honourable House do not understand. I think there are a great number of honourable gentlemen in the Council at present who cannot say absolutely whether the banks have been legislated for or not under the Bill. I confess at once I am not prepared to say whether the banks are in it or not, and I do not think any one else can say. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND .- I really would ask the leader of the Government in this Council whether he thinks this Bill is in a creditable state for the Council to pass. It appears to me to be utterly discreditable to us if we pass a Bill which is contradictory in all its terms. There is hardly a clause that is not a completely con- tradictory one. We had an instance yesterday, where an honourable gentleman called atten- tion to another Bill that we sent up to another 