the constitutions of these men being broken down it would be disastrous to send them by the colder route to Invercargill, and the Defence Minister was asked to authorise that the ship should come by the warmer route. That au- thority for them to come by the warmer route was refused, and they were told they must come to Invercargill, that being the landing-place, and they must go, therefore, by the cold southern route. He was not going to make any direct charges ; it was too serious a matter. He was going to say this, however : The Premier had to take the responsibility of refusing to accept the medical advice, which recommended that these men, being broken down in constitution, should not come by the cold southern route, but should come by a warmer one, and he had taken that responsibility ; and he (Mr. Allen) asked the House and the country what that responsibility was. The honourable member wanted to know what the political capital was? He (Mr. Allen) would tell him. The political capital was to please the people of Invercargill. He accused the Hon. the Premier of not acceding to the advice given to him by the responsible officer of the ship, who told him it was a dangerous thing to send these men by the cold south- ern route. He (Mr. Allen) was certain of this from knowledge that had been placed in his hands, and not from one source alone : that these men had been injured in constitution by going from Albany to Invercargill to a much greater extent than if they had gone by a warmer route, and the responsibility was the Premier's. He said this was a serious matter for the Premier to face, and he would have to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 answer to the House and the colony for de- clining to accept the advice forwarded from the doctor. It was an easy matter for him to have said, after he had received the doctor's advice, that the ship should come by the warmer route. Now, he appealed to the member for Inver- cargill if it were not true that, if the people of Invercargill had known that the bringing of that ship to Invercargill would have sacrificed the constitutions of these men-whether they would not have willingly foregone the honour of receiving these men for the first time at Invercargill. Now, these men were brought to the Port of Dunedin by the cold route, tran- shipped from there to another boat and sent back again to Invercargill, and landed at Inver- cargill on a cold day, and spent a considerable time on the wharf on a cold, wretched, miser- able day ; and everybody who knew anything about enteric knew that it was coldness that invariably brought on an attack of enteric again. Sir J. G. WARD said it was not much, if any, colder in Invercargill than in Dunedin. Mr. J. ALLEN said he did not care ; it would have been just as bad to bring them to Dunedin, and they ought to have come by the warmer route. He would say no more on the matter at present. He was in possession of important evidence to prove what he said to be correct - that the recommendation of the doctor to bring them by the warmer route was forwarded to the Premier, and his was the responsibility. Mr. J. Allen Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the honour- able gentleman who had just sat down had gone from bad to worse. He understood when he rose that he was going to prove that he had been using the returned troopers for political purposes, but before he sat down he had accused And him of something much more serious. how heartless a man must be in making that statement on such a shallow pretence! He was one of the most dangerous men who could sit in a Parliament. An honourable gentleman should hesitate before casting such a stigma on a fellow - member; and when it came from a gentleman who, it was reported, allowed his mine to remain dangerous to the men month after month and week after week -- Mr. J. ALLEN .- I have not killed any of them yet. Mr. SEDDON said, Had it not been for the compulsion of the law there was no saying what might not have .happened ; it was evidently no fault of the honourable gentleman's. Suppose the honourable gentleman had been guilty of running the great risk the Coal Commissioners said in their report he did, and suppose a catastrophe had happened, he (Mr. Seddon) would not have said of him what the honour- able gentleman had said of him (Mr. Seddon). The honourable gentleman had simply gone on the evidence of a short telegram sent by Colonel Davis on the advice of the doctor of the "Tagus." He had not that tele- gram with him. There was a custom in the House, and if the honourable gentleman in- tended to make this charge he should have intimated it to him, and he would then have been prepared with the telegram to read to the House and the country. When the communi- cations on the subject were read, the country. and, he hoped, the honourable member, would clear him of the serious charge. But he treated with scorn the honourable gentleman's charges. He had changed his ground. He could not quote from Hansard, but he could say what he had read in Hansard. The honourable gentleman did not say a word about tie "Tagus" in his speech when he accused him, in respect to the boys at the front. cf being actuated by political motives. He said he had used the troopers on every public plit- form in the colony for political purposes. He had entirely changed his ground now from what he had said in the debate. It was reported against the honourable gentleman that he had said on the platform that he had used the contingents for political purposes, but the honourable gentleman had now changed his tactics by making charges in reference to the "Tagus." Communications had been sent to General Kitchener and to the Transport Office. and it could be shown that those charges were absolutely unfounded. The question was as to whether the vessel should go to Wellington or to the Bluff. A communication he had in his possession would show that the owners of : he vessel had been at work in the matter. Thes alleged that it would be unsafe to send a single- screw steamer to the Bluff. Further represet- tations were made, with the result that the 