all the tribulation, all the heart-burning, and the Premier for trying not only to degrade the all the rancour of party feeling we have seen House, but to degrade me ; but I will not be lately, is attributable entirely to the bungling of dragged down with him or the Government. the Premier. Mr. MCLACHLAN (Ashburton) .- Sir, when that the proposal now is to insert after the I look at the Premier I regret to think that word "and," in the 6th line, these words : the people's idol should hold such an un- " upon payment of the sum of £15." I do not dignitied position as he holds in the House want to speak at any length on the question, to-day-a position he has brought on himself I want to see it settled ; but I would ask the by a piece of bungling greater than I have ever Premier whether he is satisfied with the amend- heard of in any Parliament before. His whole ment moved by his colleague? It is proposed speech was laboured, futile, apologetic, and an to impose a fine of £15-on whom ? No one is insult to the House. That was my own opinion mentioned. without conversing with any other honourable member. I have never read the Evening Star Standing Orders. in my life, and I do not care a button whether it was to the advantage of the people of Otago or not that the evidence should be published ; tion any one. nor do I care whether Mr. Cohen stole the papers, or whether he obtained them by some may pass it over in that slipshod way if he other means-it is sufficient to say they were pleases, but I contend that as the motion now obtained by him; and he knew they were stands it means nothing. illegally obtained and illegally made use of, and for what he has done he ought to be punished. the Court. I have no desire to persecute any one, but I am positive on this point: that I will not be the Court ? There are two or three of them. dragged in the dust by the Premier. There is The Premier himself says there are three offences - firstly, the offence of committing a a quotation I might give from Burns-it is breach of the privileges of the House, as the addressed to a young man,- House itself has decided ; secondly, the offence Where you feel your honour grip, of refusing to give evidence before a Committee ; Let that aye be your border. and thirdly, the offence of communicating the The Premier led us yesterday to understand evidence to the Evening Star by somebody that this resolution was the outcome of the unknown. We do not know who it was. Now, wisdom of a Cabinet meeting. They had con- I ask the House to consider whether we are sidered it in every phase, and, in the interests of doing what is in accordance with our dignity in the country and of Parliament, they were of passing a resolution such as this? I am afraid opinion that the culprit should be allowed to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 I cannot move an amendment myself : Can I, go. and that no further action should be taken. Sir ? At the time the honourable gentleman made that statement to the House I held a different able member cannot ; he has already spoken. view from him. The culprit, I say, has pleaded guilty, and why not inflict a fine, however an amendment I would have suggested, in the small, on him, and bring him to the bar of the first instance, this : that, having carried the House? I heard the speech the honourable motion down to "accepts," we should add gentleman gave. Well, there was nothing in these words: "the letter forwarded by the the first part of it, and the rest of it was merely representative of that paper; but, before com- padding. Then, at one o'clock, I was invited ing to any conclusion, will hear the said repre- to go to the caucus, and I went, but did not sentative and the publisher of the paper at the stay there long. I saw very plainly that my bar of the House." Now, that is undoubtedly views were not going to obtain. Afterwards, I was told what it was intended to do at the meeting, and the opinion was expressed that the bar of the House, we could come to the Mr. Cohen should be brought to the bar of the conclusion as to what punishment we should House, and a fine inflicted on him. What inflict. Sir, I do not even suggest this course, was the result ? Members on this side of the however, because, although I know it is the House told me afterwards that they were right course, the power of the Premier is so almost prompted to follow my example, and great that it would not be carried. And I walk out of the caucus room. But they did admit there is some reason why this reporter not do it. The Premier's influence prevailed should not be summoned to the bar of the over them, and they agreed to this loose, lame, House. He has admitted both offences, and and impotent motion which has been moved he has said, I presume, in his letter all And who is to be by the Hon. Mr. Hall-Jones. he has to say upon the matter, and one fined ? Not the culprit who has committed a may take that as what would happen if breach of the privileges of the House. It may Mr. Cohen was summoned to the bar; and be the printer's devil who will be fined. Sir, I therefore one may dispense with calling Mr. would have liked to see the culprit brought to Cohen or the publisher to the bar and follow the bar of the House and fined, and imprisoned another course. This course I do suggest, and till the fine was paid. That is the course that hope that some one will move it. I sugges should have been taken, and I find fault with Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- Sir, I understand Mr. SEDDON .- The party who infringes the Mr. J. ALLEN .- It does not say so. Mr. SEDDON .- You do not require to men- Mr. J. ALLEN .-- The honourable gentleman An Hon. MEMBER .- There are parties before Mr. J. ALLEN .- Who are the parties before Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- No, the honour- Mr. J. ALLEN .- If I had been able to move the proper course to pursue. Then, 3.30. having heard what he had to say at 