throughout the colony he heard such evidence as convinced him that a change of front was necessary in that direction. I am sorry that a member of the Commission has attempted in this House to discuss the report of that Com- mission before the evidence taken in regard to it is brought before this House. I allude par- ticularly to the member for Wallace, Mr. Gil- fedder, who knows more about education than all the rest of the colony put together. An Hon. MEMBER .- He has made a study of it. Mr. PIRANI .- I am just going to show a little the honourable member does not know about it. He told us it was not a right thing to pay women teachers the same as men for the same work, and the reason he gave was that, after the Fourth Standard, women are not so capable of teaching the higher standards as men. But he gave no reason why women who are capable of teaching up to the Fourth Stan- dard should not be paid equal wages to men for equal work. And the idea that, because women are not so able to teach the higher standards, therefore they should get lower pay for the lower standards than men get for the same work is ridiculous nonsense. There are no men teachers in the colony so capable of teaching the infants in the different schools as the women teachers are. If women are more qualified to teach the lower standards than the men-although perhaps they are less qualified to teach the higher standards, which I do not entirely admit-why should we not act fairly, and give women who teach the lower standards the same rate of pay as the men ? The scale adopted by the Commission does not allow for house-allowance, which has been paid in the past in many education districts. A suggestion is made that the house-allowance should be foisted on the building fund, instead of being paid out of the general fund. In some school districts teachers have hitherto been paid for instructing pupil-teachers. Why, actually the Commission, without definitely recommending a system of instruction of pupil-teachers, al- though they do suggest instruction schools in the four large centres- which I main- tain would not meet the requirements of the country districts at all-instead, I say, of pro- posing anything in place of the old system, they expect the old system to go on-the teachers spending hours after their school-work is done in instructing the pupil-teachers, without get- ting any pay for it at all. In some districts the teachers also get what I think is a very good thing-a bonus according to the grade of their certificate : that is, a payment because they have taken the trouble to continue their studies, and to perfect themselves in the higher branches of education. And if there is any- thing that a teacher who has to instruct the young right up to the Seventh Standard ought to get extra payment for it is when he has shown the ability and diligence to raise the standard of his profession by getting a higher certificate. The teachers on the Commission Wallace, who was one, held a D3 certificate. Mr. HORNSBY .- He was well qualified for the position. Mr. PIRANI .- Of course; he is very well qualified. From the vast experience he gained at Wrey's Bush School, with an average attend- ance of forty-seven, he is certainly an authority on educational matters. Mr. SEDDON .- Personal reflections are not permitted. Mr. PIRANI .- According to these teachers, no teacher should get a greater salary on account of his holding a higher certificate, and it was practically lowering the status of the teaching profession by saying that the D certificate was the highest that teachers need attain. It was another great defect not to recommend higher salaries for the first male assistants. I main- tain that those holding such positions in the large schools ought to be paid nearly as much as the headmasters. In many cases they have to take full control in the absence of the head- masters; they ought not therefore to be paid so much less than the headmasters. As to the proposed allowance to the Boards of a capita- tion of 11s. 3d., I say, Sir, it is impossible for the Boards' finances to be carried on safely under such a small allowance, and if the Government expects that the Educa- tion Boards will be able to carry on with such a capitation as that I am sure they will find out their mistake. In the scale there is no allowance made for sick-pay to teachers, or for payment of relieving teachers. Do they expect that the teachers are going to put in five days a week all the year round ? They will find that the average sick-leave is at least a fortnight for every teacher in the service of the different Boards. Provision will therefore have to be made by the Boards for teachers to take the place of those on sick-leave. Are they ex- pected to do this out of the 11s. 3d. ; and, if not, how in the name of Goodness can provision be made to meet such cases under the suggested scale? One of the greatest evils in connection with our education system has been the system of payment to teachers. By that I mean the paying of teachers on the average attendance, instead of on the number of children who at- tend the schools. A teacher has to instruct every child attending his school whether he attends on one or five days of the week. It is harder for a teacher to instruct a pupil who attends irregularly than one who attends regularly. Notwithstanding this, the Commis- sion have actually not taken into consideration what is one of the worst evils of the present system. It has been urged that it is unfair to teachers that their salaries should be reduced when the attendance is falling, owing, say, to the prevalence of an epidemic of sickness or the supineness of parents. Teachers' salaries are constantly being reduced owing to the causes I have mentioned. If the Commission had re- commended that teachers should be paid on the basis of 50 per cent. on the average attend- ance and 50 per cent. on the effective roll- number they would have given an incentive to 