by the publication, before the Committees have concluded their labours, opportunities have been afforded of obtaining the consensus of opinion of the people directly concerned in the passage of both measures. "For the above reason I would suggest that the meetings of Select Committees be thrown open to the Press, except in the cases of secret Committees, when members are deliberating, or at such times as it is deemed inadvisable by the Committee concerned for their proceedings to be reported. This is the rule in vogue for vory many years in the Mother of Parliaments. A reference to the London papers will show that the Imperial Parliament allows the evi- dence and proceedings of its Grand Committees to be made day by day, and I hope an outcome of the present proceedings will be that the New Zealand Legislature will recognise the reason- ableness of falling into line with the English rule. What transpires before our Select Com- mittees is frequently of great public import. At the present time members of the Press gallery are placed in a difficulty by having to accept information in a manner not alto- gether to their liking, and which technically constitutes a breach of the privileges of your honourable House. I venture, therefore, to suggest that the present restriction be amended by the Standing Order in question being re- pealed to the extent of admitting the Press to the proceedings of Committees, or, if the Com- mittee should decide that reporters be excluded, the Chairman or some other person be autho- rised to supply to the Press an official report of what transpires. "That a technical breach of privilege was committed by a premature publication of the evidence I frankly recognised before the Privi- leges Committee, and that admission is repeated to your House. The rule, however, is almost daily disregarded, and the question naturally suggests itself whether the better course to pur- sue under the circumstances would not be to adapt our practice to that of the Imperial Par- liament rather than to enforce a penalty for disregard of a Standing Order which has been more honoured in the breach than in the observance, and previous offences concerning which have never before incurred the dis- pleasure of your honourable House. In regard to the published evidence, it has been admitted that the report was impartial and accurate. One witness, Mr. Holsted, was accused of cer- tain irregularities by Mr. Easton, and immediate publication of his answer to these charges was deemed by my editor an act of common justice to that witness. This evidence, it should be borne in mind, was published by my paper before the House had been asked to consider whether its privileges had been invaded. There was absolutely no subsequent publication of evi- dence. " As to my attitude before the Privileges Committee, I contend that there was no con- tumely nor disrespect to that body. Though practically on my trial - the House having already affirmed that the Dunedin Star had Mr. Hutcheson \- from declining to answer questions which I might have done on the plea that it was un- British to ask a witness to give evidence which might tend to criminate himself. On the con- trary, I made a frank and honest declaration as to the publication of the evidence, and ac- cepted personal responsibility of an act per- formed in what I believe to be the public interests. It was only when pressed to state the source of my information that I declined to answer the question, holding that as a matter of honour, and following one of the first tenets of my profession that the source of information given me in good faith must be kept absolutely sacred. I should like members to carefully peruse my evidence on this point, so as to satisfy themselves as to any absence of intent to set at defiance an order of your honour- able House. "I regret that my bona fide endeavour. through the medium of my paper, to assist in the prosecution of a searching inquiry into a matter of the greatest concern to the mining industry of Otago has led me to commit & breach of privilege." He regrets the exigencies of this business bas led him to commit a breach of privilege : but has he expressed regret for that breach of privilege ? Not a single word as yet :- "I regret that my bona fide endeavour, through the medium of my paper, to assist in the prosecution of a searching inquiry into a matter of the greatest concern to the mining industry of Otago has led me to commit a breach of privilege, and I trust that the ex- planation given will be accepted by your honour- able House. Reiterating that it has not been my wish to set Parliament at defiance. -- Believe " A. E. COHEN." me, &c., Only one thing more is wanted-aud 3.0 I say it honestly and in good faith-and that is to accept the suggestion of my friend the member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson and pass a resolution conveying a vote of thanks to Mr. Cohen, and then perhaps spontaneous the House will rise to its feet and sing. .. For he's a jolly good fellow." Now let us lo at the thing, stripped of all its gear. It is a very commonplace business after all ; there need have been no fuss about it at all. I bare no feeling as to the act itself, because it is commonplace and easily understood. But it is in respect to what has happened since vester. day morning that the difficulty of understand. ing comes in, and the influences at work. The Chairman of the Goldfields and Mines Com- mittee reported to the House some day's ago that a breach of privilege had been com- mitted in the publication of certain evidence. which was reported in a certain newspaper in the colony verbatim. Now, the House of that information declared that a breach of privilege had been committed. It was clearly proved to the satisfaction of the House that a breach of privilege had been committed in the publication of that evidence, and the Hon- affirmed that by resolution. It also, at the original suggestion, I believe, of the honouratie 