ing Bill was necessary to rectify the bad effects of that supplementary Order Paper. Bills that were carefully digested and assimilated by the Labour Bills Committee last year had again been brought back containing all that the Com- mittee had cut out as bad. He said it was not consistent with the dignity or the intelligence of a member of a Committee to be treated so cavalierly as that ; and, so far as he himself was concerned, it would not cause him any regret if Committees were not gone on with, for the work of Committees was now settled by sup- plementary Order Papers. The Premier had said that if the amendment of the honourable member for Nelson City were carried the neces- sary corollary to it would be the closure. In his opinion, that was what the right honour- able gentleman wanted. He desired to muzzle honourable members. He would like to clap the muzzle over the mouths of every inde- pendent member of the House. If he could he would set up one of his unreasoning fol- lowers to move that, say, the honourable mem- ber for Palmerston be not now heard. Mr. PIRANI .- He did that last session. Mr. HUTCHESON said there was no ques- tion about that. If the House decided that midnight should be the hour of adjournment, he did not believe for one moment that honour- able members would play with their duties, as had been suggested by the Premier. They would not for any lengthened period, nor would they frequently attempt to, sacrifice the interests of their constituents and the country generally in order merely to tantalize the right honour- able gentleman. The Premier had often accused members of moving frivolous objections in order to stonewall a Bill. He would advise honour- able members to carry their minds back to cer- tain occasions last session when the Premier was most vehement in this assertion, and to ask themselves if there were any grounds for his action. His colleague Mr. Atkinson had pointed out several material defects in the Pub- lic Contracts Act of last year. Notwithstanding that, the Premier, rather than seem to give way by accepting what was an honest and a necessary amendment suggested by a member on this side of the House, put in all sorts of redundant words rather than accept the suggested amendment, which was concise and scientific. On many other such occasions honourable members were belaboured and castigated ad nauseam, and termed wilful obstructors of Government busi- ness. The honourable gentleman had invoked the very highest machinery of State in order to adjust omissions that had occurred through his perversity in not allowing proper amendments to be accepted. Mr. SEDDON. - You ought both to be in the Legislative Council. That is the revising Chamber. Mr. HUTCHESON said that, unfortunately, the Legislative Council was no longer a revis- ing Chamber. It was now an initiative Cham- ber ; and, although it was not representative of the popular will, it was found submitting to the House for their kindly approval important labour measures like the Shops and Offices Bill. Mr. Hutcheson That was rather an unfortunate reference of the right honourable gentleman, and he (Mr. Hutcheson) had only been led to anticipato what he had intended to lay stress upon later on. It was unconstitutional that measures such as the one just mentioned should be intro- duced in a Chamber of nominees who, with the exception of a very small minority, were there at the pleasure of the right honourable gentleman. It was simply a recording-machine, if he might be allowed to say so. However, he would say no further upon that question than that it was in the highest degree unconstitutional that measures specially dealing with social questions should be introduced in a Chamber which was supposed to be a cool and deliberate revising Chamber. Now, as to the amendment of the honourable member for Nelson City, if the sup- porters of the Government were free to express their wish as he had heard them express it outside the Chamber, this amendment would certainly be carried. Honourable members would remember that there was a gentleman in that House at one time who earned the sobriquet of "Twelve-o'clock Brown." He called him Brown, as he did not wish to give that gentleman's real name to the House. That gentleman declared that when a motion for adjourning the House was moved at twelve o'clock he would support it on every occa- sion, irrespective of party ties ; but the very first time, and on every subsequent occasion when the Premier desired it, he voted against the adjournment of the House. Now, if he could inspire members on his side of the House with his views they would walk out in a body at twelve o'clock if the Pre- mier refused to adjourn, and leave the whole onus of the legislation on the Premier and his friends. The brake would then be taken off the machine, and the right honourable gentle- man would go down the hill to ruin with a vengeance. The Opposition, few in numbers and influence in that House, had been the means of saving the honourable gentleman from himself scores of times, and had they been actuated by a desire to see him go to his ruin, they need only have left him alone to accomplish it. As to the right honourable gentleman's followers, if anything was shown to be defective in the legislation passed by that House, they satisfied themselves and their con- stituents, he was sorry to say, by saying. " You returned me to follow a certain leader of a certain party. It was his will that this should be done, and why should I question it? The Premier proposed it ; blame him, and not me." He regretted to say that in many instances that explanation had been held as satisfactory. He believed that every member in the House at some moment or another had agreed that there should be a cessation of these mind and body exhausting continuous sittings, which often lead to heated and perhaps acrimonious debate, a thing that exhausted both body and mind simultaneously. If they wished to see that. and neglected this opportunity to say that i! should cease, then, of course, the responsibility would rest with them ; they could no longer 