think will commend itself to all those con- versant with business matters, is that the very foundation of a public company should be that you have not only men of credit, men of commercial experience, and men of honour, but that you must have something more than that. You must have from them some proof that they themselves have a belief in the industry they are recommending by their names to the public. Sir, we have not up to the present got a limitation of what that amount should be. For myself, if I could have carried it, I should have proposed something that would be quite convincing to small in- vestors. Mr. Brown, Mr. Jones, or Mr. Smith would then be able to say, " Mr. So-and-so has put his money into it, and we may go into it with full confidence that these gentlemen are not only supporting the company by their names, but that they are supporting it by their money." What has been the case in the past ? Companies have been formed in the last two or three years by men who have not taken a share in them. As the Act stood, there was no protection for an investor. There was no need for a director to have any in- terest in a company which he assisted to float. Seven men could join together, and all they had to do was to sign their names, without any condition whatever to take any shares, great or small, or pay a large amount of money, or even a pound or two. That, Sir, is a position which honourable members will agree must be altered. Then, Sir, the applica- tion-money of these dredging companies for a long time has been 1s. How does that work out ? A man floats a company, gets some vendors' shares, and applies for some sub- scribing shares. He pays 1s. each, and takes, say, 1,000 shares, and pays £50, and gets a few of his friends to do so also. The market is worked, and the shares go to a shilling or two premium. That is the case with several com- panies, and then these people begin to sell their subscribing shares at 2s. or 3s. premium, which means two or three hundred per cent. profit at once ; and they not only get back all their application-money, but an enormous profit. They have no further interest thereafter in the whole concern ; and I say that is wrong. Then, Sir, there have been cases very lately of directors who have had, shall I say, the audacity to tako and sue people for calls, when they themselves were owing a large amount of money, and by clause 15A this is to be put a stop to. The directors must pay their calls before the day fixed for the shareholders to pay, so that when a shareholder comes to pay his call on the day due-some people are extremely prompt in doing so, and others will not pay at all -he should be able to see and know that by the law the whole of the directors must have paid all their calls by that time. Well, Sir, what has been the habit in some cases ? -and this is another flaw. It has been the practice for directors to cancel the shares of a defaulting shareholder when they themselves have been owing money. Then, there is another very important provision in this Bill, and that Hon. Mr. A. Lee Smith is with regard to audits. There has been an outcry over the country that the Government have in this Bill provided that in cases where an auditor has not been properly appointed by the company a Government auditor shall step in and see that everything is correct. I believe that is a very necessary safeguard. I know a company in Dunedin which has been going on for years absolutely insolvent, and the auditor has passed the accounts, although he has known that thousands of pounds' worth of assets did not exist, and ought to have been wiped off nine or ten years before. Now, that would be impossible if you have a Government audit ; and this is a state of things to remedy. Now, Sir, let me come to a few clauses which I have given contingent notice of motion of. In clause 3A I have provided that- " In the case of every company formed after the passing of this Act, the articles of associa- tion shall contain a provision that each director of the company shall hold a specified number of shares " I have already spoken upon that aspect of the matter ; and then,- "Every person who signs the memorandum of association of a company shall apply in writ- ing on or before signing the memorandum for not less than the number of shares specified in the articles of association as the director's qualification, and shall thereupon pay on each such share the like amount as is payable on application on the shares intended to be offered to the public." That is for this object: that these people who get up a company shall put in as much money as the directors put in, so that they shall give just the same guarantee of good faith to the public as the directors themselves that everything is bona fide. Then, Sir, some di- rectors have been receiving fees and other re- muneration from these companies when they themselves have been in debt to the company in respect to calls-that is to say, there has been no set-off made, but the directors have drawn their fees, whilst at the same time owing the company for debts on unpaid calls. And here, Sir, is another wrong : some directors have passed transfers for shares whilst calls on them were owing by the vendors. Now, how does that work ? A man may have a thousand shares with a good deal of liability, and an in- nocent man goes and buys the shares thinking the calls are paid up. He may live at some dis- tance, and send the transfer to the office, and if the directors put the transfer through, the buyer may be let in for the call. That is how many people have been taken in, and will con- tinue to be so unless we afford legal protection. Now, Sir, as to the matter of companies' stdie- ments : Of course, I am quite aware that in large companies with wide ramifications. such as manufacturing companies and commercial companies, we cannot have a true and par- ticular statement of accounts at very short notice. A year's work, I suppose, is required in a great many instances to enable the staň of the office and the directors to correctly gang- what the position of that company is ; but with 