ings, all that comes out of profits, and not out of capital. So, in the same way, I con- sider that the amounts expended on railway- stations, new buildings of all descriptions, and rolling-stock of every description should come out of revenue, and if that were the case I think there would be disclosed a different state of things in connection with our railways. Members of the House understand the position, but the country does not understand the posi- tion ; and when it is stated that the railways give a return of £3 9s. 3d. per cent. the country at once concludes that the railways are giving a big return, losing sight of the fact that this is brought about by the expenditure of borrowed money, which does not place a true complexion to the question. In January last a Commission was set up for the purpose of inquiring into the question of Midland Railway Company's claims. That Commission sat for between five and six months, and it appears from the accounts sent in by the company to the Commission that the expenditure incurred in the construction of the railway was £1,108,628. That sum the Com- mission reduced to £674,784, and the Commis- sion recommended the allocation of £126,788 to the debenture-holders ; to the company, nil ; and to the Crown, £66,045. A second Commission was issued on the 1st June, and under the provisions of the second Commission the recom- mendation is : the bondholders, nil ; the com- pany, nil; and the Government scooped the pool. Sir, it is utterly impossible for any sane man to read the report and evidence without arriving at this conclusion : that the bondholders have an interest in that railway; and it is wrong for us as a Parliament to withhold from those people that which they are entitled to. I admit the case has been before the Courts, and the bondholders have no legal claim, but in equity they have a claim, and we are under a moral obligation to give effect to that claim. Sir, the Government of this colony must be clean- handed over this Midland Railway business ; no sharp practices will be tolerated by the people of the colony; and, in case of de- fault by the Government, I am convinced that the people of the colony will insist upon the Government dealing fairly with the bondholders. Otherwise the people will say, " Gentlemen, get you gone, and give place to more honest men." Sir, I know nothing about the bondholders, or about the Midland Railway Company, but I know the figures and the facts connected with the case from 1885 to date. I have, therefore, some knowledge of what I am speaking about, and, though the report of the Commission, under the instruc- tion of the Government of the 1st June, states that the bondholders are not entitled to any- thing, I think, as I have already pointed out, that it is impossible to arrive at any other conclusion than that they have a claim in equity for a portion of the money spent on the Midland Railway. Sir, I was amazed at one remark of the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds), who as a rule is very astute and careful, but on this occasion Mr. Meredith vernment upon the Budget Statement as it did not propose any increase of taxation. He further complimented the Government upon the fact that the revenue of this colony was equal to the expenditure, and that the dark forebodings of people would vanish into thin air when the Statement was generally read and understood. Sir, the honourable member is labouring under an illusion. What is the position ? The Premier stated some time ago, to a deputation that waited upon him, that it was necessary to have increased taxation by giving another turn to the screw on the lands of the colony. That statement went forth to the public, who were alarmed at it. The Pre- mier, being a very astute and resourceful man, and finding that he had touched a sore point, immediately altered his position and reached the same destination by another road. Instead of honestly declaring to the House and to the country that he could not carry on without increased taxation, he has accomplished his object, but in another way. The Government taxation department recently, when review- ing the taxation of the colony, have increased the capital value by £8,300,000, and the unimproved value by £6,375,000. Sir, the Pre- mier states that this increased valuation, being taxable, will give him about £10,000 a year. Of course, that is a paltry sum. " Money is no object," and we have been pouring it out like water, and the sum of £10,000 is of very little moment ; but this £6,375,000 of unimproved value will include in it not only the ordinary tax, but also the graduated tax, and taking it at the lowest figure-that is, 1d. in the pound- it will produce in taxation the sum of £26,562. Now, there is the turn of the screw. There it is, as plain as possible, accomplished by the Premier in his own way. Sir, I would like to say a word on the question of defence. It would be impossible to find in any other part of the world eight hundred thousand people more loyal to the Throne and Constitution of Great Britain than the people of New Zealand. We have demonstrated that to the satisfaction of the Empire-and, indeed, the world-by send- ing three thousand five hundred of our best manhood to South Africa to defend the old flag. The expense connected with sending contin- gents to the Commonwealth and to the Federal Parliament I consider was wasteful and ex- travagant, as there was no necessity what- ever for such displays of loyalty on behalf of the people of New Zealand-as the less was included in the greater. In the Financial Statement of 1891-92 the expenditure under the head of " Defence" reached $77,296. The expenditure under the Financial Statement just submitted to this House reaches the sum of £213,252, or £135,954 in excess of this item during the years 1891-92. In 1891-92 the num- ber of officers and men connected with the Per- manent Forces of the colony reached 244, and in the estimates now there is provision made for a standing army of 490. Sir, the vote for last year under this head was £287,484. If we de- duct from that the cost of sending our contin 