this was the room where members should do | the Premier had come round to the opinion of their reading and writing. There were two other rooms, it was true; but smoking was allowed in both of them. He also thought that this room might be made a refer- ence-room for political works, English Han- sards, and so on. He might say he had discussed the matter with the Librarian, who said he could make other arrangements if mem- bers insisted upon having that room. He asked honourable members to recollect the previous state of affairs. In the old library the Librarian had no room at all, but he had a room now, and there was no separate place for storage, which there was now, but the staff managed to get on all right. He had been looking into the whole question, and he wondered how long members were going to stand by and allow this room to be used simply as a lumber-room when it was most convenient to the House and to the lobbies. He had not thought it necessary to mention that Committee-room G and other rooms should also be used by members after one o'clock, because he thought the necessary arrangements could be made without that. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) was very glad to see that the Premier had come round to the same opinion as the Library Committee. This was another case of scientific adjustment. The Premier's first opinion, as given before the Library Committee, was to have the room devoted to a ladies' tea-room. Mr. SEDDON .-. No; a reception-room-not a tea-room. Mr. HERRIES said he had to accept the honourable gentleman's statement, but certainly his ears must have deceived him, as he was present on the Library Committee, and cer- tainly understood the right honourable gentle- man to say so. The Premier then wished to make the room in question a reception-room for members receiving their constituents; but the Library Committee refused to agree with him, and passed the resolution as brought down to the House. He might explain that the Committee, in passing that resolution, did not mean to exclude the postal boxes from the room-at least at present. All they wanted in passing the resolution was to show that the Committee wanted the library kept for mem- bers : and they considered the introduction of \- strangers during the sitting of the House a grave mistake, and it was an inconvenience to members. He was glad to find out that the Premier had recognised that the Committee were right, and gave as his reason that if his original idea was persisted in there would be a conflict between the two Houses. He (3Ir. Herries) ventured to assert that the Premier had found out that there would be a conflict in this House. Mr. SEDDON .- I could, had I so wished, have carried a resolution taking the room for & members' reception-room ; do not trouble about that. Mr. HERRIES said it was possible that the Premier would carry it, but with only a small majority. He did not, however, want to labour that point, because he was only too glad that the Library Committee. With regard to the staff room being turned into a writing-room, the library staff were the best judges of what room they required. The Librarian was quite willing to make other arrangements in order to meet the convenience of members. The Premier was entirely wrong in his argument when he stated that the present Librarian had greater accommodation in the new library than he had in the old library, and that he could therefore do with less. Was it not the fact that the absence of conveniences in the old library was the cause of the enormous cost of the catalogue and the general state of inconvenience and chaos that existed in the old library ? The absence of convenience was a reason for the general chaos in the old library. If they re- duced the conveniences for the staff, they must expect chaos like that which formerly existed. He trusted the Postmaster-General would make other arrangements with respect to the postal boxes in the library. With respect to making the room in question a general reference-room, he might say that he had suggested that to the Librarian, because it was an inconvenience for members to have to go to the stack-room for copies of English Hansards and other works of reference. He did not think any member of the Library Committee would oppose that pro- posal for an instant. All they opposed was the introducing of strangers into the lower rooms of the library. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) did not think the House should agree to the amendment, but should refer the report hack to the Committee with the suggestions that the Premier had made, and let the Committee bring down a fur- ther report if they thought it necessary. He thought the room was being wasted by being used by the staff. Provision should be made for books of reference in these rooms. To pass the resolution as amended -as proposed by the Pre- mier-would mean taking the control of the library out of the hands of the Library Commit- tee. He thought it would be a pity to do that, and it would result in a more lax control of the library. The Committee had taken the whole control into their own hands, and they had adopted regulations which would be published shortly, and which, he believed, would put the library on a satisfactory footing. He thought that the right course would be to send the re- port back to the Committee with the Premier's suggestions, and he felt quite certain that the Committee would accept the suggestions. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Rail- 3.30. ways) said the member who had last spoken was apparently not aware of the fact that the Library Committee had by resolution originally resolved that the particular room referred to should be used as a staff and lumber room. Mr. HERRIES. - No; but that may have been done by the Recess Committee. Sir J. G. WARD said, Well, the Recess Com- mittee had done so. And it was a staff room still, and it was also used as a workroom. He thought there could be no harm in agreeing to 