given pensions. The Government said, "Inas- much as in your younger days you have been good colonists, and seeing you have been twenty- five years in the colony; as you are now beyond work, and as you have helped to build up the country and make it prosperous, and as we have money to spare and a good revenue flowing in, we feel bound to give you the money you re- quire to place you, if not in a position of extreme comfort, at any rate, beyond the reach of public or private charity. We will give you an old-age pension." The gruff banker became very civil and obliging. Our schools have also been multiplied, and we have no longer any Native difficulty to face. I have heard honourable members quoting figures against the Government, pointing out that our debt has been growing by leaps and bounds. But, have they considered the fact that the colony has been expanding in a way that was never known in any other young country ? Do they reflect for a moment that many of our exports have been almost doubled within a comparatively few years? What has happened with regard to our land? In 1888 we had under cultivation 7.309,680 acres, and in 1899 we had 12,515,802 Then, look how the values have risen ! acres. In 1898 the value of the unimproved land was $75,497,379 ; in 1899 the value was €84,401,244. The improvements rose from $35,640,335 in 1580 to $54,190,103 in 1899. What do those figures mean ? That within the short period of eleven years the area of land under cultivation has increased by 5,206,213 acres ; and that since 1888 the value of our land has increased by twenty-seven millions and a half, of which eighteen millions and a half repre- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 sent improvements. I ask, Is such a har- vest as that to be expected without the expenditure of money and labour ? Then, to show the way in which the country has been affected by placing settlers upon the land, I may mention that in 1891 the flocks in New Zealand under five hundred numbered 8,272; in 1899, eight years afterwards, the number was 12,719. The flocks of from five hundred to one thousand numbered, in 1891, 1.601 : and in 1899, 2,656; whereas the flocks ot twenty thousand sheep and over during the same period diminished from 169 to 138, show- 1 ing that while the small farmers became more numerous, some of our big sheep-farmers disap- peared altogether. Then, Sir, with regard to the question of lending and borrowing : The first meeting of the Advances to Settlers Board for the purpose of issuing loans only took place in February, 1895-about six years ago. Up to the 31st March of last year there had been 7,448 advances made, representing a total amount of £2.179,440; and of those advances 60 per cent. were required to pay off existing mortgages at interest over 5 per cent. Now, the meaning of this can be realised when I mention that, from a return now upon the table, in the year 1899- 1900 there were 11,814 mortgages registered, the amount of capital advanced being $7,454,000. Of that amount $2,200,000 was advanced at 5 per cent., 216,000 at 7 per cent., and $158,000 at 8 per cent. VOL. CXVIII .- 5. Mr. HERRIES .- That return is rather out of date. What about the year 1900-1901 ? Mr. HOGG .- We have not the returns for that year yet. I merely mention this to show you the immense advantage the Advances to Settlers Office has been to the colony. With regard to the railways, I think it is due to the Minister for Railways to point out how our railways have been improved, how the revenue has been increased, and the amount of work that has been done. In 1888 the lines opened represented 1,777 miles, and the receipts came. to €997,615, or a little under a million. In 1895 the mileage was 1,993, and the receipts came to. £1,150,851. In 1901 the mileage was 2,212, and the receipts €1,727,236. In seven years, between 1888 and 1895, we find that our railways were increased by 214 miles, and the revenue showed an increase of €153,236. In six years, or one year less, between 1895 and 1901, we find an addition of 219 miles, and an increased revenue of £576,385. Let me also call atten- tion to this: that the earnings of the New Zealand railways are higher in proportion to their cost than they are in any other of the Australasian Colonies, with the exception of New South Wales, which earn about the same amount, and Western Australia, where railways are comparatively in their infancy. In 1895 the men employed on the railways numbered 4,957, and that number has grown since the Government took the railways over to 7,793- an increase in six years of 2,836. Concessions were made last year on produce and railway- fares amounting to €165,000. If we look at our Post-Office Savings-Banks you will find that there is the same flourishing state of affairs. On the 31st December, 1890, there were 97.208 depositors, who had to their credit £2,441,876; and on the 31st December, 1900, there were 197,408 depositors, who had to their credit $5,809,552, or considerably over double the amount. Then, take. our banks of issue. The amount deposited in 1888 was $11,155,779, and in 1899 $14,591,223, or an increase in the deposits in the ordinary banks of €3,435,444. I want to know where the signs of depression are, or the indications that the colony is going back, or that the people are becoming im poverished. The private savings-banks in 1888 had deposits to the amount of $642,993, and in 1899 €807,907, an increase of €164,933. I might travel over the whole of our imports, and exports of wool, butter, cheese, Customs revenue, excise, coal, gold. and everything else, and you must admit that the increases are something wonderful. If the people of New Zealand will only contemplate the position they will see that although we have borrowed money and expended it we have had a splendid The Government have been unable to return. make bricks without straw. They have been unable to build up the country without utilising labour and borrowing capital where necessary. But with the capital borrowed and the labour utilised, look at the wonderful change that has been brought about ! Look at the increased value of property in the colony ! Look at the effect it has had on the labour-market ! Are 