might encourage thrift and also sentiment on the part of the old-age pensioner, if we were to put a limit to the price put on a dwelling in which an old-age pensioner lives. That limit will be taken off the value of the property when the person applies for a pension. $100 or $150 would be ample, and if a pensioner resides in a house valued at $300 he would then not be debarred altogether from receiving a pension. That would be a small concession. It may be that there are a few cases of imposition in the colony, and doubtless there are ; but in this respect the department might do good by insist- ing on the evidence being taken on oath, and in subsequent years, if the persioner were to sign a short declaration stating that during the previous year his income had been so much, that is all that need be required for a renewal of the pension, instead of these old people appearing before the Court annually. These are a few matters which will cause less friction in the department, and do away with the feeling of unfairness in regard to keeping some of our most deserving old people from receiving that necessary State pension which I think they have a right to expect. I come now to a matter which is of very considerable im- portance to the farming community-the ques- tion of how best the Government of the colony can assist our producers. The paragraph in the Colonial Treasurer's Budget, on page xx., I think, practically contains the gist of the whole matter. He states that,- " The erection of cool-stores in the Mother- country alone would be of little advantage. If, however, the producers and the freezing com- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 panies, in conjunction with the Government, could divert the principal trade to the colony's store and regulate the output in Great Bri- tain the results would be beneficial. The cold- http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero stores should, in any case, be close to the point of discharge." Then he goes on to deal with other matters ; but this is sufficient for my purpose. The in- dividual, I am sorry to say, has been perhaps the greatest enemy to progress in the direction of making a combination in the Old Country with regard to the exports from the colony. I feel, while it is a laudable anxiety on the part of the individual to establish a well- known brand of his own, and command the highest price that can be given, still it has this result : that it frequently gluts the market with frozen meat and other perishable produce. In the face of very limited visible supplies, this naturally forces down the market, and the result is that frequently a small " corner " is formed, perhaps not requiring a larger outlay than $200,000, and within a month these particular perishable products have advanced 33 per cent. in value. If a combination of business houses-I speak, of course, of export houses-freezing companies, and the Govern- ment were made, and one centre formed in London or any other largely populated place in the Old Country for controlling the imports of perishable products from this country, it would have the very best effect on the market, and better result to the small farmers of the colony. The system of private individuals forcing their produce on an unwilling market can have only one effect, and that is a slump in prices and a nibble to speculators. The trade at present with South Africa has great potentialities before it; but we must bear in mind that the white population of South Africa does not exceed that in the North Island of this colony, and how can we expect any very great trade with such a small population? It would be wise on our part to keep a sharp eye on the likelihood of that colony becoming a good market, and, with that end in view, I am in favour of Mr. Gow being sent to make inquiries ; but at the same time we cannot expect any large results in that direction. But it ought to be our duty to try and conserve our place in the London market for the purpose of marketing our produce in the best possible manner. At the present time we are helping our settlers considerably, not only in regard to land settlement, but also we have lowered the freights on our railways in regard to produce. We have also advanced to settlers almost two millions and a half-in fact, we have, in all probability, exceeded that amount by this time -- and in that direction we are keeping in view an easy money- market for our settlers, and are doing a con- siderable amount of good, especially in view of the present tight condition of the money-market. I had intended to deal for a few moments with the question of federation ; but that has not yet come before the House, and I will leave it to another occasion. There is a matter which I have very much at heart at present, and one in which I think the Government could assist our producers in this colony-the question of join- ing our mail-services with our produce ships trading to the Old Country or any other British colonies; and, in this direction, it may be mentioned that I am strongly against the San Francisco mail-service. The amount given to that service ranges from $17,000 to $30,000 per annum, according to the amount of the mails sent, a specially high rate per pound being charged for carrying mail matter on Spreckels and Co.'s steamships-four times as much as Postal Union rates. This is practically 4.30. a large subsidy, and would be of great assistance to any line of steamers that would carry our produce and mails via Australia or South Africa to London. Mr. FOWLDS .- They would take ten days longer to get to London. Mr. BUDDO .- My honourable friend repre- sents Auckland, which, I believe, has very large sympathies with the Fr'isco service. I am speaking more particularly of other portions of the colony which have large in- terests in regard to our export trade. 1 per- sonally advocate a strong Australian and New Zealand subsidy for the service to connect with England vid Suez; and I think that if the Government put on fast steamers to run to South Africa, there is no reason why they should not connect at Albany with the fast steamers from Sydney or Melbourne, and thus provide for 