were to plant our forests with hardwood trees, we should be able to produce our own timber for bridges, wharves, and for all purposes where hardwood is required. The present Govern- ment are making some efforts in this direction, but they are only fecble. We have a chief nurseryman and a few assistant nurserymen. We have nurseries at Rotorua, Eweburn, and Tapanui. In Mr. Matthews's report for 1890 we are told that at Tapanui there are eight @undred acres of land reserved, and there is only one man in charge. The report states that there are nearly four million and a quarter tree-plants in seed- beds in the different parts of the colony, and out of that number we find that there are only 170,000 eucalypts-I think, only five varieties. Looking through the list of the trees grown there, we fail to find the names of the most valuable timber-trees of Australia and Tas- mania ; and I might state that the English names of the trees are given, as well as the botanical names. We do not find any iron- bark, tallow-wood, black-butt, grey-gum, red- gum, white-mahogany, red-mahogany, grey- box, brush-box, woolly - butt, spotted-gum, turpentine, jarrah, karri, tuart, wandoo, stringy-bark, peppermint, blackwood, brown- pine, cypress-pine, red-bean, rosewood, white- beach, silky oak, black-bean, tulip-wood, coach- wood, sandalwood-sandalwood, I might say, is worth $8 a ton, and it would grow in the northern parts of this colony-Huon pine, or red-cedar. All these trees, or nearly all, have been successfully acclimatised in South Africa, America, India, and other places, and I have no doubt that they could be acclimatised here. Sir, at the present time our forests are con- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 ducted under the charge of the Land Boards. The Land Boards have full charge and disposal of the forest lands under an Order in Council dated, I think, last January. The object of these bodies is to induce settlement, and not to conserve our forests. What has occurred in many of the countries of the Old World, and even in some of the States of Australia where timber is plentiful. through this indiscriminate destruction of the forests ? Why, Australia has to depend upon imported timber for her re- quirements, and we know in the Old Country that has been so for a long time. And even in Australia they have to expend very large sums of money in afforesting the denuded portions of their forest land. It may be interesting to hansardise a summary of the clauses of the Forests Bill that has been recommended by the Victorian Royal Commissioners on State Forests. Their report recommends,- "1. Independent control of the forest re- serves, and the withdrawal of the administra- tion from the Lands Department. "2. The dedication in perpetuity of ' reserved forests,' which term will include all permanent reserves for the growth of timber, or for cli- matic reasons, or for both purposes. "3. The dedication for an indefinite period of ' timber reserves,' being, as a rule, small areas useful for mining timber, fencing mate- rial, and fuel, and for the reduction in area, or Parliament only. " 4. The control of ' protected forests,' which term will include all unreserved mountain tim- ber lands occupied for grazing or other purposes by persons having no claim to the fee-simple thereof. "5. The reasonable protection of all timber, scrub, or brushwood growing along the banks or at the source of rivers and streams; along the shores of lakes, lagoons, and other bodies of fresh water ; on sea-coasts, or along the shores of bays, estuaries, and other inlets of the sea ; on drift-sands, or sandhills and ridges, or on the public roads. "6. The protection from wanton injury or damage of all exotics or indigenous trees planted on public or private lands, on public or muni- cipal reserves, or on streets, roads, or lanes. "7. The demarcation on the ground of all ' reserves forests ' which have not hitherto been surveyed within a fixed period. "8. Protection of the reserves and Crown lands from the misuse or careless use of fire. "9. The encouragement of tree-planting in bare, treeless districts. "10. The encouragement of persons who pro- tect and maintain on their freehold lands, or on lands in course of alienation from the Crown, a fixed proportion of indigenous trees useful for timber and shade purposes." I was going to read also a paragraph from this able report in reference to the duty of the State; but, as it would take longer than the two minutes still at my disposal, I shall not do so. Mr. MILLS (Commissioner of Cus- 2.30. toms) .- Sir, I have been wondering for some time why our Opposition friends have been so quiet, and I have been wondering why they have been trying to find fault with Minis- ters for not speaking. It was apparent to me that there was not much need for us to rise from our seats until we had something to con- tradict, and I should not have done so now, as I was under the impression that a member of the Opposition - the member for Franklin, Mr. Massey-would take the floor at half-past two; but he has not put in an appearance. It seems to me, Sir, somewhat marvellous that we should have this constant-almost petrified- silence on the part of those who are supposed to represent His Majesty's Opposition. I tell the Opposition fearlessly that they are neglect- ing their duty in not criticizing the Statement brought down before the House, for it is their special duty to do so. There is only one excuse they can claim, and that is that numerically they represent only about one-sixth of the House. I am very sorry for them that it is so, but, as it is the will of the people, I make due allowance on that account. But, though small in numbers, the duty of criticizing de- volves upon them, and their constituents will expect that duty to be performed. Sir, I hope yet to see them come forward like men and redeem themselves, their reputation, and their position before this debate closes. 