We do not say that there would have been the returned to do their duty and to criticize every measure that was placed before them. Why, same number of departments that we have now. We consider you have been increasing depart- Sir, the speech made by the Minister for Pub- lic Works was in its general expression a sort of ments unnecessarily, and we consider that the tirade that should be avoided by a Minister- province of a careful Government-a Govern- ment that is administering for a borrowing a tirade upon certain members who had dared to people, that are piling up their public debt -- is express themselves in a manner which he did not to use with scrupulous care, with prudence and approve. fidelity, the money they have received through revenue and borrowing They are not moneys but it was upon something more than figures. to be wasted ; and to say that we want to stint the Civil Service, and that we want to scant There was something which should be beneath the dignity of a gentleman occupying a seat in their remuneration, was pure nonsense. We a Cabinet. And let me tell honourable gentle- want good public servants, and we want them men, as regards the speech made by the honour- to be amply paid. But there can be no danger of any lack of numbers in the Civil Service. No able member for Napier the other evening, that one knows better than the Postmaster-General it impressed my mind in this manner: that that the portals of the Civil Service are crowded the characteristic of a modern Liberal, if a Go- with applicants, and the difficulty is to find vernment supporter, should be somewhat as follows : He should not be allowed to think. them places. And why are they so crowding Because the remuneration is al- the service ? If he begins to think upon any previous state- ments he has made he may feel it his duty to ready better than that obtained in the ordinary alter them, and that will lead him into trouble. walks of life. Why do not the honourable In party politics he should never be a free man members answer these questions? We want the Civil Service to be well paid ; but we to think, nor be at liberty to alter his opinion, nor should he ever admit that he has suffered want good men, and only just a sufficient errors of judgment. He should also feel that if number to perform the duties of the country, he alters his opinion he must not acknowledge because we want all the surplus money, being a young country, so to speak, in making a it. If he finds he is wrong he must stick to it, and prefer to be a living sham rather than an new home, and to be spent, as it ought upright man. Further than that, he should to be spent, without waste or frivolity. Now, prefer to be a mute tool rather than a free another matter that strikes me as having been particularly unfair is the censure that has agent ; and if his party want his help in speech he must be content to say anything that they been inflicted upon certain honourable mem- wish, though it may be contrary to his belief. bers whom they are pleased to term traitors to I wish honourable gentlemen to think of it- their own party. I object to that term. Every to think to what degradation politics have come honourable member should try to speak what he believes to be true. I consider that any when a member must think more of his party and of self than of his country, and must hand party is wrong in its principles that denies over his conscience and his brains to the order- freedom of thought and criticism whenever they feel called upon to do so, and no one ings of the Premier, whoever he may be. Is should be maligned because his criticism is this party government? Is this what party adverse. What I claim is that we sitting on government has come to in New Zealand ? If so, I shall expect some member of the Ministry this side of the House up till a certain time -or possibly the honourable member for Napier occupied an official position as an Opposition ; -as a sequel to this opinion, to come down but we renounced that position, believing that with a little Bill, and the preamble will be it was in the interests of the country that we something like this : " Whereas the represen- desire to serve that every member should be at tatives of the great Liberal party of New Zea- liberty to speak as his conscience dictated, and land, when in Parliament assembled, have at that he should unrestrainedly criticize all times to vote for and promote measures in matters relating to the public welfare. But, which they have no personal belief, and have when we abrogated our position as a party, do to support that which they believe to be con- not think we abandoned our allegiance to what trary to natural laws and in violation of the is right. We do not abandon our allegiance to great Christian principle ' Do unto others as ve principles. We believe still that, although men would that they should do unto you': Be it call themselves Liberal, modern Liberalism may therefore enacted that instead of a living per- be the reverse of what it was when we first en- son being placed in the ignominious position of tered the political school. But we believe that, going into the lobby against his convictions, and although dictionaries may alter and though the to relieve such person of qualms of conscience meaning of words may change, righteousness and pangs of remorse, members of the Govern- never changes and truth is eternal. And we have ment party shall be represented by a section of flung the responsibility of criticizing the state- their profile, to commence at the eyebrows, ments that are made by the Government upon including the nose, down to the lower portion of their supporters, because the country considered the upper lip. As the upper part, or intellect, it was not necessary to have an effective official is excluded, it follows as a matter of course Opposition-that the electors having returned in that no mouth for expression is required. overwhelming numbers the men in whom they The profile shall be a little tattooed, so that it have confidence as representing certain political Mr. HALL-JONES .- Only as to figures. Mr. MONK .- Quite right, upon their figures ; 