ticular teachers who may be related to { to it, that I have heard of cases where there them. It would save them also from much embarrassment at times when the question of the promotion of those who may be so related to them came before the Education Board ; and it would render the position of the Inspectors under the Boards such as to make their work with the Board much more harmonious in many cases. I am quite sure it will be within the knowledge of honourable members that very often, if the reports of Inspectors happen to be unfavourable to a particular teacher, there is frequently a charge that they have some feeling against some member of a Board, or, at all events, their action is viewed unfavourably by some members. Or if they report too favour- ably upon a teacher they are regarded possibly as endeavouring to curry favour with particular members of the Board. Now, I venture to say that, although this proposition which I am submitting to the Council for considera- tion might deprive the colony of the services of some very excellent members of Education Boards, still I think that will not be a price too great to pay if we could relieve the members of Education Boards of the imputation which is at times made against them, and of the embar- rassing positions they sometimes find them- selves in, and it would render more harmonious the working of Education Boards with their In- spectors. I say I do not think it would be too high a price to pay for that. I would not like to see it the other way, that no person who was related to a member of an Education Board should be eligible as a teacher. I think that would be wrong. I think it would be disquali- fying too many people. I venture to think that this is a matter worthy the consideration of the Hon. the Minister and of the Council; and when this Bill gets into Committee 1 propose to give honourable members an opportunity of voting on the subject. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. - I quite understand that Casar's wife should always be above suspicion, but we may drive that principle a little too far. I believe that if the machinery for electing Boards is sufficiently improved and gives an opportunity for votes to be cast freely and independently a great deal that may have occurred in the past will disappear. I have heard of cases certainly where charges of that kind have been levelled at Boards-that they have drifted into the hands of families and cliques, and all that sort of thing ; but I would point out that that is under a different con- stitution, and that when Boards are elected in a different way, and an independent vote is cast by each individual Committeeman, especially protected, as I propose to make it protected, by absolute secrecy, Boards will be elected which will be free from this suspicion, and there will be no need for the charges that have been made in the past. I do not, however, for a moment admit that this has been a general state of things, or that there have been many such shortcomings on the part of Boards. I think the Boards, on the whole, have been free from all this sort of thing. Still I admit, as the honourable member has made reference was a little too much of family influence exer- cised in respect of Boards, Inspectors, school- masters, and School Committees. I contend, however, that the more independent the elec- tion is, and the greater the protection we can give to electors to know that their votes will not be scrutinised by any of those people who may "pay out " some of their unoffending relations who may be in the service of the Board, the more certainly we will find that, with such Boards elected on better and more independent lines, the better the service will be altogether. Of course, any amendment the honourable gentleman wishes to propose I shall be per- fectly prepared to consider ; but I would point out that these restrictive regulations very often cut both ways. I for one, for instance, never did agree to much that now applies to members of Parliament in this colony, providing that they shall be debarred from certain public employment simply because they are members of Parliament. I always thought it one of the most unworthy things ever done by any Parliament that the members of the Parliament of New Zealand should have declared by their own voices that they were not to be trusted. I therefore trust that the Education Boards, properly elected and protected by the fact that they are inde- pendent and uninfluenced, representing the free voice of the people, may be relied upon not to perpetrate any amount of nepotism, or to continue any abuses that possibly may have existed. I beg to move the second reading of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- In the event of the declaration not being made, will that nullify the election ? The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .-- He could not act unless the declaration were made. That is part of the condition of appointment. Bill read the second time. The Council adjourned at ten minutes past three o'clock p.m. # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Friday, 20th September, 1901. First Reading-Third Reading - Cook Islands - Li- censing Bill-Library Accommodation-Safe Ac- commodation for Publie Documents -- Railway for Kaikorai Valley -- Ligathouse. Cape Brett - Safe Accommodation for Public Documents -- Widen- ing of Narrow Streets - Teachers' Salaries -- Patrick J. Owen -- Dunediu Hospital Trustees- Native Affairs Committee's Recommendations -- Landless Maoris in Waikato-Tewi Kingi and others -Foreign Companies trading in New Zea- land- - Maori Hostelry at the Bluff-Emily Maria Fulloon --- Native Affairs Committee's Recom- mendations --- Coroners' Inquests-Pahiatua Dis- trict Court-Money-lenders Bill-Trustees Bill. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Cook and other Islands Government Bill. 