production and excellence of our goods, we must have technical education for our industrial classes. If we want to have experienced work- men and foremen in our great industrial esta- blishments, we must give them that knowledge which is being given in other parts of the world. We must have institutions in this .colony of a technical character on a level with similar institutions in Germany and in other countries. I was pleased to hear the able re- marks of the honourable member for Wallace, in speaking on the subject of education. It was undoubtedly. Sir-and I say it without flattering him, a very able effort -and one that did credit to his observation and to the superior intelli- gence that he possesses, and which he con- spicuously displayed in connection with his membership of the Royal Commission ap- pointed in connection with the salaries of teachers. This is, no doubt, a very difficult subject. It is one that will take members of this House a considerable time to obtain in- formation upon ; and I have no doubt if they choose to peruse the remarks of the honourable member for Wallace they will get a very lucid exposition of that very difficult subject. In my opinion, the teachers of this colony have not received that attention and consideration which they should have received. We all recognise the splendid work they are doing in dispensing the blessings of that great system of educa- tion enjoyed in this colony. It is desirable, if we are to make the best of that system, to have the best teachers in our schools ; and I believe that the report of the Commission will do a great deal of good in the direction of putting the teaching profession and the subject of education generally on a better footing, so that a greater standard of efficiency will be obtain- able, and the children of the colony will benefit thereby. I very much regret that the amend- ment moved by the honourable member for Lyttelton, authorising the Government to issue State notes, was not carried. I am a strong advocate of the Government issuing bank-notes. I can see no distinction between the State is- suing penny posta ze-stamps or postal notes and issuing bank-notes. I feel certain, Sir, that when public opinion is fully educated on this sul.ject, it will be received well by this House. I regret that the House has not placed on the statute-book this year such a democratic measure as the referendum ; because if we had passed that measure, which has such a liberal tendency and which will be in accordance with democratic principles, wo should be able to refer such great matters as colonial prohibition, loan - borrowing, defence, and such national questions to the people for their decision. At the present time at our elections we do not obtain a clear, distinct, and definite expression of public opinion on many subjects, because there are so many issues involved. If, Sir, we believe in the theory of government for the people, by the people, in the interests of the people,-that the sentiment and will of the people are the great governing powers of the land,-we ought to have that theory put Mr. Hanan tunity of putting it into operation by means of a referendum. I might also express my great satisfaction with the splendid work that has been done, and is being done, by Mr. Jolliffe in connection with the consolidation of the statutes. No doubt our statute-book has been and is now really a wilderness, and it is neces- sary that a great number of the repealed statutes should be removed from it, and that there should be a comprehensive consolida- tion of the law effected. It is in the interests of the whole people, of laymen, and even of . the legal profession, that there should be more simplicity and consolidation in regard to the compilation of our laws. There are many legal reforms which I think should be carried out. I should like to see litigation rendered cheaper ; and with that object in view I think it would be desirable. and money well spent, if a Commis- sion were set up of Judges, laymen, and others having a good knowledge of the subject, to as- certain whether we could not take further steps in the direction indicated. To cheapen liti- gation and improve legal procedure will be a step in the right direction. I say the work that would be accomplished by such a Commission would be most satisfactory, and would achieve higher results than anything we have yet at- tained. Sir, In my remarks I have touched on a number of subjects which I think are deserving of attention, and which form part of the pro- gressive policy which I believe the Government is desirous of carrying out. We hear a great deal in the House about what the Government has done, and we hear a great deal about the past policy of the Government; but what we want to hear, especially what the new members of the House wish to hear, is the policy the Government intend to pursue in the future. We hear a great deal about cheap money, and we know that has been a factor in promoting the progress of the colouy. As far as the land- settlement policy is concerned, I hope it will bo carried on in the future witn a considerable amount of vigour. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Time is up. Mr. HANAN .- Then I have only to thank honourable members for the patient hearing they have given me; and I hope that our de- liberations will lead to some good practical re- sults, and that the measures we may pass this session will tend to promote the social, intel- lectual, and commercial well - being of the people, and to enhance the political interests and general prosperity of the colony. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier). - Sir, one naturally has some diffidence in approaching a question of such grave importance as is the one at present before the House and the country. There is the diffidence inherent in human nature. There is a diffidence in following the masterly dissertations we have heard within the last few days-a diffidenco after listening to what I might call the philo- sophical disquisitions on the finances of this colony. Some of those philosophical disquisi- tions have been calm, intelligent, and conside- rate ; others have been studied, theatrical, and 