prosperity to this country, and in which we may throng our wharves with a swelling stream of exports and imports. You will also make the city a hive of prosperity and happiness, and do spent in defence. I may state, however, that more for it by such a policy than by all that the Arbitration Courts can contrive. Then, when you have settled people on the soil, the first care should be to give them the opportunity by roads to be prosperous. You cannot have any citizen in the country, any member of the com- monwealth, unsuccessful but what it is a loss to the State. And here I take exception to the statement made by the Minister of Mines the other day, when, in response to my ejacula- tion that the cost of the gold we mine is twice that of its value per ounce, he replied that it was no loss to the country, and that if a man paid £100 a week and received only $30 in return the State was not the poorer. The money, he said, would be used in buying goods and other necessary articles. Never was anything more fallacious uttered by the lips of man. If there is any truth in that, then the more bankrupts you have in the country the better. The principle of good government is, if you possibly can, to take care that no man's labour is unprofitably requited, and that he is receiving benefit out of it. No man is fit to administer the affairs of New Zealand unless he bears this fact in mind : that our necessities are such that it is wrong of him to unnecessarily spend a single pound in fetes, shows, photo- graphs, journals, or the running of steamers at a great cost. For instance, there is £1,150 for one trip of the "Tutanekai." That money would have been much better spent on roads than in enabling the Premier to poke his nose, so to speak, into business that has brought us into considerable obloquy. It would have been much better to have spent that money on necessary improvements, which the country cannot do without. The farmers are now struggling with impassable roads. Do those honourable gentlemen think they will be con- tent to join in paying high rates of taxation, and also interest upon our public loans, that suffer partial waste by Ministerial pets and co-operative works that are not realising more than 75 per cent. of the market value of the money they are costing ? Now, with regard to the purchase of improved estates, I have no objection to the purchase of improved estates under proper conditions-which do not exist now when land is boomed and Government have large quantities of Crown lands in their pos- The Minister of Lands has a single session. block now in the course of preparation for oc- cupation. It has only cost a few shillings per acre, and there will be the cost of roading and survey, and it will do more for the common- wealth than all the speculations they have made in the purchase of the improved estates. The 'first day's work the settler does on such land will not only enrich himself, but will add to the country's wealth. Do members know that in the purchase of these improved estates the rich, in land-tax, have escaped contribu- tion to revenue to the extent of £250,000, and that the immunity of the Advances to Settlers mortgagees from taxation is £12,500 a year loss to revenue. Then, I am against the very large amount that is proposed to be I am not against putting ourselves in the best state of preparedness against an enemy. I am one of those who believe that the time will come when the British race will perhaps have to pass through a severer struggle in the defence of their liberty and in the maintenance of their prestige than ever they have before. And when I note the bitterness and envy shown to us by other nations, and the world - wide militancy now prevailing, it makes me feel in- expressibly grave. God of the nations give to our chiefs wisdom ! Never again may our guns be outranged, or our momentous arrangements striated with confusion ; but I hope that, when- ever the time comes that we shall have to defend ourselves, we shall be in a state of suffi- cient preparedness, and will take our fair share in the defence of the Empire. But not by that grandiosing that is proposed. Bring our children up as far as possible while in the public schools so that they may be the most useful material to form into Volunteer corps, who will at their own instance be the nucleus of our defence, while the non-enthusiastic will be well advanced for Militia purposes. What should be done is to encourage Volunteering and rifle clubs, and make the population of New Zealand, so far as we possibly can, to be good marksmen by cheap ammunition, cheap rifles, and prizes. That has been proved beyond doubt to be the essence of the defence of a country of such irregular topography as the people of New Zealand will be called upon to defend, should it ever be their misfortune to have to do so. Then, again, a remark has been made about "our boys." Well, I think something more could have been said about our boys, for while I am not one of those who think that without exception there have been no failures-there have been-still, I feel proud of the achievements of our boys, and I feel sometimes as if there was a purpose of Provi- dence in that movement, because these con- tingents, composed of contributions from the colonies, have had the effect of swerving some of the great currents in the Empire's life. Why, the contributions of colonial youth have, so to speak, as with the privileged license allowed to grandchildren, romped through the punctilious etiquette and reserve which is a tradition of the British Cabinet. They have been surprised at the doings of our colonial boys. Even the English critics have confessed that they can fight as well as their fathers, and they have actually hustled the professional knowledge and traditions of the Horse Guards. They have been surprised at their aptitude and relish for fighting. Their free life and habits have fitted them best to fight the Boers with their own tactics, and the consequence is that the colonial being of the Empire has been fairly aureated with lavish expressions of ap- preciation from the Mother-country and en- comiums from her military chiefs. But who dared to think that they would do less than 