Imperial authorities had agreed that the vessel should go to the Bluff. On the arrival of the " Tagus " at Albany orders were received that she should go to the Bluff ; but what was done ? The vessel stopped over three days at Albany while cables were being sent to the Imperial authorities with the view of getting the Trans- port Department to change the vessel's des- tination. He himself was also cabled to from Albany on the subject. The Transport Office again said that the vessel must go to the Bluff ; but, on further representations being made to the Admiralty, it was decided that the boat should not go to the Bluff, for the reason that she was a single-screw steamer, and that, so far as they could learn from the chart, it would be scarcely safe for her to go there. He (the Pre- mier) was prepared to be judged by any nautical man in the colony as to whether the change in the route had anything to do with the matter. The doubt at issue after the "Tagus " arrived at Albany was Bluff or Port Chalmers. The climatic difference between Albany and the Bluff, or Albany to Dunedin, or Albany to Wellington routes was so slight that it could not possibly have had any effect on the health of the people upon the steamer. It was really a question as to whether there were any great climatic difference between the Albany- Dunedin and the Albany-Wellington routes ; and he maintained there was not. He hoped the honourable member now would withdraw bis remarks. If he did not know that what had been said was correct he showed gross ignorance, which was unpardonable. As to the sending of the men to Invercargill, he could inform the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 honourable gentleman that every man tran- shipped from the "Tagus " to the " Tutanekai " in order to be taken to Invercargill had the sanc- tion of the medical officers and the officer com- manding to his going. If the medical officer that the honourable gentleman had alluded to had de- cided at Port Chalmers that it would be unwise to take any man, or even the men as a whole, he (the Premier) would have been the last person in the world to have ordered them to 9.30. go ; but every man who went to Inver- cargill went there with the approval and sanction of the medical officers. Then, there were no lives on his shoulders, because no one died between Albany and Port Chalmers. An Hon. MEMBER .- Yes. Mr. SEDDON said the boat had entered the Dunedin Harbour, or Port Chalmers, before the man died, and he was so seriously ill some time previously that his death was not unex- pected. If the information the honourable gentleman had was on a par in its incorrectness he was not surprised, and he could not sympa- thize with him in the position he now found himself. Could an honourable member who said such things about a fellow-member be pure himself ? Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) said that the statement made by the honourable member for Bruce was one of the most out- rageous things he had ever heard said in Parlia- ment. He wanted to know whether the mem- ber for Invercargill was going to sit in his place and allow the aspersion of the honourable mem- ber on the people of Invercargill to go unchal- lenged. He said that these men were sent to Invercargill for political motives, and he under- stood the honourable member to say that the member for Invercargill had informed him that if the people of Invercargill had known the position- Mr. J. ALLEN said he did not say that. He said, " if they had known." Sir J. G. WARD said the honourable member might just as well say that, if the people on board the "Tagus" had known that there would be any deaths on board the "Tagus," they would have sent the men ashore at Albany and had medical attendance there. The honour- able member talked about the cold in Inver- cargill as against that in Dunedin. There was absolutely nothing in this, as the difference between the two places was hardly percep- tible, and certainly not sufficient to make the difference between life and death. He was not going into the question of whether the "Tagus" could or could not go into the Bluff Harbour- every one knew that it could-but he wanted to deal with the charge that had been made against the Premier. That was not a charge that ought to be allowed to pass by with the mere utterance of the mem- ber of the House who made it for the purpose of getting at an opponent. The onus of that charge lay upon the honourable member to prove ; but the point that he wished to come back to was that the honourable gentleman tried to make out that these men were sent to Inver- cargill for political purposes. The honourable member represented a place very close to the City of Dunedin, and was it not within his re- collection that the citizens of Dunedin requested that one of the returning contingents should make Port Chalmers the first port of call. Did the honourable member not recollect that Auckland residents asked that the same should be granted them; and that every portion of the colony was anxious to see the men who were coming back from South Africa come back to their portion of the country, so that they might give them a warm welcome ? And one place which had not until the arrival of the "Tagus " had an opportunity of seeing returned contingents was the southern town of Invercargill, which represesented a great pro- vincial district, where the people had helped with men, and money to send away our men ; and the people there requested, as they had every right to do, that the Government should allow them an opportunity of welcoming a In consequence of the return contingent. refusal of the Admiralty to allow the steamer to go to the Bluff, and so enable the men to land there, the original programme could not be carried out ; and but for the fact that the citizens of Invercargill had expended a great deal of money and made extensive preparations to give the men a right good welcome-which they had done-the men would, after the dog- matic refusal of the Admiralty, not have been sent there at all. But, as the Premier had said, no man was sent back to the Bluff who had not 