lowed those soldiers to go back to Invercargill, because the honourable gentleman required no strengthening of his reputation or influence or power down there. If he wanted to please the people, and to please the greatest number, he would have allowed them to disembark at Dun- edin, as he had many telegrams requesting him to do, and he would have never run the risks of seriously offending the people of that large and important city. It appeared to him that this charge was of a very serious character, and, so far as he could gather, it had been laid on purely hearsay evidence. He must say it seemed to him a mere act of desperation on the part of a political opponent and of a party driven to despair. It was the basest and lowest thing a political opponent could do. He, along with the honourable member for Invercargill, re- gretted that any member of the House should have descended to such depths. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) was afraid they were drifting in the direction that had been mentioned by the honourable member for Franklin. The matter was very simple, and did not require a legal mind for its solution. They had practically a plaintiff and defendant. The plaintiff had figuratively charged the de- fendant with being guilty of manslaughter, with having caused the death of six persons. An Hon. MEMBER .- And for political pur- poses. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER said he would leave that aspect of it on one side, as he desired to avoid all ill-feeling. But that was the way the matter had come before them, and would go before the country. Surely if they could trust the people to elect a Parliament they could https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 trust them to judge between the honourable member for Bruce and the Premier. They had heard what the plaintiff had to say ; but they did not need to hear the Right Hon. the Premier, for they had heard the defendant's case from the honourable member for Ma- taura, who had proved to an absolute demon- stration that the honourable member for Bruce - to speak generously-was under a mis- take. Following Court practice, the honour- able member for Bruce might now be heard in rebuttal, and could deny or qualify the statements made by the honourable member for Mataura, if he was capable of so doing ; and, if he could not, the action might be dis- posed of by a verdict for the defendant. To his mind the honourable member for Bruce had been misinformed, and had misrepresented the Right Hon. the Premier. The matter might conclude-he could not say in a satisfactory manner, but in a far better manner than it would if they continued the debate. He took it that, without disrespect to the honourable member for Bruce, they must accept the evi- dence, if he might so term it, of the honourable member for Mataura. He could, himself, speak with absolute knowledge of one unfortunate young man who had died. He would not men- tion the name, but would give it to any member who desired to know it. This young man had been very ill all the way from the Cape ; he was Mr. Barclay New Zealand. As soon as he reached the first port he was taken to the hospital, and every care bestowed upon him. And what was the action of the right honourable gentleman who was now charged with manslaughter? What was the action of the man who did everything for political capital? This man who had no heart and no humanity, what was the first thing he did? Within half an hour of the steamer being communicated with that young man's father and mother were acquainted with his dangerous condition ; special arrangements were made for them to leave Napier the next morning, the steamer was kept for them to be taken down, and they arrived in time to see their son before he died. That was what was done by one who was said to lack humanity-by one who is now charged with manslaughter. He (Mr. Fraser) would leave honourable members and the country to judge between the party who made this charge. not supported by a tittle of evidence, and the one who was accused. He might say, further. that, to his own knowledge, within the precincts of the House, the father and mother had come to see the Right Hon. the Premier to thank him for the kindness their son had received in South Africa, on the way back, and when in Dunedin. He need say nothing more. He hoped the honourable member for Bruce would take the suggestion thrown out and withdraw his charge. He might safely say that he had been misinformed, after the statement that had been made and the evidence produced by Mr. McNab. If he would not do so he (Mr. Fraser) would say that the statement of the honourable member for Bruce did admirable credit to his imagination, but left his veracity derelict. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said a con- siderable amount of heat had been introduced into this debate, and it seemed to him that, in agreeing with the view of the last speaker. it was a matter between that honourable gentleman and the member for Bruce and the Premier. The member for Bruce had asked for an in- quiry, and, no doubt, if he got the inquiry, and the result went against him, he would with- draw every word of his charge. He believed. however, that the honourable gentleman was prepared to bring forward evidence to substan. tiate his statement. If that was so, why should he not have the opportunity ? No man among them, of course, could speak from his own knowledge. All their knowledge must be bear- say. The honourable gentleman was not on the "Tagus." Mr. HANAN asked, Would the honourable member for Bruce make the statement out- side ? Mr. HERRIES .- I think so. Mr. SEDDON .- I challenge the member for Bruce to do so. Mr. HERRIES asked, What about those honourable gentlemen who talked about the wickedness of charging the Premier with man- slaughter in connection with this matter? When, several sessions ago, the Premier charged 