Sir J. G. WARD said Mr. Mansfield got an additional sum by fees in connection with the Vaccination Department. Mr. HUTCHESON said, As far as he knew, Mr. Mansfield was a highly qualified officer, and it had occurred to him that £225 was not sufficient salary for him, but there was no item on the estimates to show where the additional salary came in. Sir J. G. WARD said Mr. Mansfield received fees in connection with the Vaccination Depart- ment in addition to his salary of £225. Those fees varied in amount each year, and there- fore it was not possible to state any amount on the estimates. Vote, £23,270, agreed to. Agent-General's Department, £4,600. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) wished the Minister to give the House some information with regard to the position of the Agent-General. They had been given to understand he was first appointed for a term of three years, and that since then he had been appointed from year to year. If so, it was not a particularly satis- factory position either for the Agent-General or for the colony. He noticed, however, by that evening's Post that the English correspondent of the paper stated that in all probability the Hon. Mr. Cadman would be appointed to the position of Agent-General. He would like the Government to say whether it was intended to make any change in regard to this particular matter. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said there was no intention to make any change. The arrange- ment with the Agent- General was that six months' notice should be given in case a change were desired; and the Government, so far as the Agent-General was concerned, had not heard that he was dissatisfied with his position. The Government, on the other hand, were quite satisfied with the Agent-General. Of course, he (Mr. Seddon) could not be held responsible for what appeared in the paper. Mr. MONK (Waitimata) called attention to the great increase in the salary of the Agent- General. There was also this to be considered : that the number of cables he had sent out to the colony containing war news had cost a con- siderable sum, and many of the messages con- tained suggestions or insinuations that were distinctly against the interests of the British. One of the cablegrams stated that the enemy had only 25,000 men in the field, when there was at least three times that number. The conduct of the Agent-General, indeed, had gone far to incite hostility against the British Go- vernment. His cablegrams were constantly suggesting disparaging conditions between the Boers and the British as against the latter, and, under all the circumstances, he (Mr. Monk) considered £1,250 was quite sufficient for his salary. On every occasion the Agent-General had flaunted his views before the Empire. He announced himself a member of an association naving for its object the undermining of the British Constitution ; he had even named one of his children "Fabia," as an indication of his concurrence in its objects. Mr. SEDDON stated that the attack of the member for Waitemata was quite unwarranted. He did not wish to detract from the merit of those who had previously held the office of Agent-General, but he would say that the colony was worthily and well represented at the present time. In respect to the number of Boers in the field, what Mr. Reeves said at the time had since been borne out by facts. There might have been a doubt in respect to a ques- tion of the kind, but the official notification that came to hand some time afterwards proved that what he had said was correct. Since then, however, other information had come to light that led one to believe the Boers were much more numerous than was at first supposed. As to his salary, it had to be remembered that there were heavy calls on the Agent-General- calls that former Agents-General were not called upon to meet. Members had only to remember the great number of people who were now in the habit of calling at the office of the Agent-General in London, and if the position was to be properly maintained the salary was certainly not too much. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) wished to enter a protest against the attack made on the Agent-General by the member for Waitemata. From personal experience he could say that the Agent-General was kindness itself ; and so far as representing the colony was concerned, he had represented it in a manner in no way inferior to any previous Agent-General. He did not think, so far as the Agent-General's salary was con- cerned, that it was one penny too much. He was not speaking now of the Hon. Mr. Reeves, but of the Agent-General for New Zealand. He did hope that in discussing this matter the honourable member for Waitemata would not bring in the personal element, because he could assure the honourable gentleman that the pre- sent Agent-General was thoroughly posted up in matters concerning the colony, and was doing good work for the colony in London, and was in every way a very good representative. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) regretted very much that the honourable member for Waite- mata had given expression to the views he had. He believed the Agent-General was worthily re- presenting New Zealand. With regard to his views on social and radical questions, he (Mr. Ell) was glad the Agent-General had the courage of his convictions, and that, although in a very high position, he was prepared to throw in his lot with the workers in the Old Country. As for his care of colonists, he (Mr. Ell) had had occasion, a short time ago, to give a letter of introduction to a young lad in poor circum- stances, who went home to study electrical engineering; and the Agent-General had gone to a great deal of trouble on his behalf, and had written to him (Mr. Ell) saying he was glad to have been in a position to help the lad into a good position in the Old Country. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) said, What he ob- jected to was that the Government had pro- claimed that increases of salaries had only been given under necessity, whereas in this instance he said there was no necessity. He thought the 