They are paid for the work they do, and pocket their fees. The Official Liquidator, being an officer of the Government, his remuneration, it is provided, "shall be a first charge on the assets of the company, and, in the case of the Official Assignee, shall be paid into the Public Account and form part of the Consolidated Fund." It does not go into his pocket, but into the Consolidated Fund. Then, in the second clauses referred to-31A and 32-we come to a Deputy Liquidator, who is paid not by salary, but by fee, and therefore in his case it is necessary the Court shall say that the Governor shall direct how much of this money shall go to him for the work he does as a fee. That is the difference. There is no conflict. It is absolutely solving a problem that has to be solved in every case where Deputy Liquidators or Assignees come in. The honourable gentleman will probably agree with me that that is always done where a Deputy Assignee comes in. Sir, I beg to move the third reading of the Bill. Bill read the third time. The Council adjourned at a quarter past four o'clock p.m. # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Friday, 13th September, 1901. First Readings - Privilege- Financial Statement- Supply. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READINGS. Borough of Mataura Loan Validation Bill, Companies Bill. PRIVILEGE. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) moved, "That a breach of the privileges of this House has been committed by the publication in the Manawatu Standard, of date 22nd October, 1900, of a leading article reflecting upon the conduct of the members of this House." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved as an amend- ment, "That the House regrets the uncalled- for attack made upon the honour of this House and the members thereof, as contained in the article complained of ; but, seeing the great length of time that has elapsed since the article was published, and inasmuch as reference thereto was made to a portion of the said article by a member of the House at an earlier period of the session, and no action having been taken thereon, the House does not see its way to pass the motion proposed, and resolves that the reference thereto in Hansard and the Journals of the House other than the original motion and this resolution be omitted." Amendment agreed to. Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker ADJOURNED DEBATE. Mr. HEKE (Northern Maori) .- Sir, I desire to apply my remarks to a few of the statements made by the honourable member for Marsden last evening. It appears to me that the honour- able member has not been able to grasp the true position by which members of the Maori race obtain pensions under the Old-age Pensions Act. He said there were a large number of Maoris who were receiving pensions and who were at the same time large landed proprietors. Sir, I consider such a statement as that, coming from a member of this House, only goes to show that honourable member's ignorance of the provisions of the Old-age Pensions Act. All claims to a pension are fully safeguarded by the rules and regulations under that Act. Full inquiry is made as to whether the Native pos- sesses landed property or otherwise. And in the Act of last year there were still more strin- gent regulations made for the purpose of safe- guarding the granting of pensions to Natives. Apart from all this, I would ask the honourable gentleman, Have not the members of the Maori race the same right as the Europeans of the colony to receive pensions? Of course they have. Now, the honourable gentleman con- tended that Maoris received pensions although they were the owners of property. Mr. R. THOMPSON. -- Under tribal cus- toms. Mr. HEKE .-- Under our laws there are no Native owners of tribal property. I say our regulations now are quite clear enough to find out how much land a Native possesses. or whether he possesses any property at all which would bar him from receiving a pension. Then. the honourable gentleman contended that the Maoris should not be granted pensions because they were not ratepayers, and because they con- tributed nothing in the way of taxation to the State. There he is absolutely wrong. Sir, from the very earliest stages of colonisation in this country, all land sold by Natives to Europeans or to the Crown have paid their full share of taxation to the colony- more than what is paid by Europeans on transactions of the same kind. When a Maori conveys land to a European. Elo out of every €100 on the capitalised value of the land is demanded and paid by way of taxation. whereas a European on conveying land to a European pays only 15s. in every $100. It was only last year that the Maori Land Administra- tion Act was passed, when the Premier and the Native Minister considered that the time had arrived when this heavy duty paid on land transactions should be removed, and that the same duty as paid by Europeans in connection with land transactions should apply to the dis. posal of land by Maoris, thus giving effect to what I have urged for years. When discussing that question of taxation, I simply state that members of this House who were not acquainted with the peculiarities of the Native land laws cannot realise the heavy taxation the Maoris have paid to the State. As an instance of my contention I would point out that there are Native land-sales by Maoris to the Crown, and 