increase the wages, and where it is fair, the have very good grounds for saying that the Pre- Arbitration Court will do so, and will gradually mier has come under the Disqualification Act in displace a very large number of employés with drawing that amount, and that any man in the labour-saving machinery. Personally, I think colony who wishes to disqualify the Premier that in very many of the trades-such as from sitting in Parliament has only to bring engineering and the higher class of trades-it an action under the Disqualification Act for re- is a pity to limit to too great an extent the ceiving moneys outside the amounts which are number of apprentices. Not that I think allowed and he would have a very successful there is any outlet in the colony for our youth. result to his suit. I think it is an unfortunate part of the adminis- cheaply at that price. tration of this colony that so many men are imported who are supposed to be experts in the different branches of industry. But, apart from do not want to get rid of the Premier at the that, it would be impossible for a colony of this present time. We are very pleased to see him size, with the number of youths we have here, stew in his own juice for a little bit longer, to give an outlet inside the colony for all the because we feel sure that, if he only has a few growing population; and I can quite under- year- more lease of office, the colony will be stand that a large number of young people, satisfied to abolish not the Premier, but party when they get the opportunity, should prefer government, and do away with the system of to seek occupation abroad and advancement in party government under which such things can their profession elsewhere than in the colony, be done. Now, I say there has been no vote on rather than remain in the colony, where they the estimates under which the Premier could draw that £77 10s. There certainly was on the have not anything like the same opportunities as they would have in other parts of the world. estimates of last year a vote of, I think, £1,000 And I say, therefore, that while we for expenses in connection with the Cook 8.0. have this feeling, while we are able to Islands ; and when the Minister in charge of produce youngsters smart enough to go out into the estimates-Sir Joseph Ward. . was asked the world and earn their living in the face of what the money was for, he told the House the competition that can be brought against it was for expenses to be incurred in connection with the administration of these islands. Now, them abroad, we ought not to do anything to the Premier's trip to these islands took place in prevent the primary training of these young fellows in the occupations that we have in the the previous May, and I would like to know colony. But if this system of limiting the em- how that money can be legally drawn out of ployment of young fellows is going to be carried a vote which was not passed until some six to an extreme, so that it will prevent many from months after ? getting any training in these trades and pro- fessions, the result will be very disastrous indeed General pay it ? to the young fellows. One matter in connection with the administration of the colony, I think, General is more partial to the Premier than we know, and that if we had all the items of public calls for adverse criticism, and that is the very large amount of travelling-expenses that is expenditure, including travelling expenses, in de- drawn by the Ministers of the Crown. One tail laid before the House we would probably find Minister, not the Premier, seems to draw travel- that to be the case, because I cannot think it ling-expenses for nearly every day in the year possible that any Minister can incur legitimately outside the session of Parliament. Now, the travelling on public business the amount that has been placed at the debit of Ministers in the Civil List Act, which deals with travelling- Public Accounts. I think, also, it is an improper expenses, says, -- " Members of the Executive Government of thing that any Minister of the Crown should be drawing such money from votes in a haphazard the colony travelling within the colony on the public service shall be entitled to an allowance way like that. If we are not paying enough - not exceeding thirty shillings per day ; but no if the salary voted for the Premier last year of such allowance shall be made to any Minister £1,600 is not sufficient to meet expenses of that during the period such Minister is attending a sort-he should tell the House to vote him « hat session of the General Assembly." is a fair salary. I think it is a highly improper Therefore, as there are less than eight months thing that expenses like this should be continu- in the year outside the sitting of the General As- ally coming before the House, in contravention, sembly, the Minister, who draws something like if not of the letter, at any rate of the intention $2.0) travelling-allowance, must be travelling al- of Parliament. In regard to the expenses of most every day of the year outside the sittings of the Government, it would be a good thing if we Parliament, and not only travelling, but travel- could get laid before Parliament full details of ling upon the public business, and I do not think all the items of expenditure Now, under the that the necessities of the colony demand that Cook Islands vote, there is a sum of $582 for any single Minister should be travelling eight expenses which must have been expenses in- months out of the year on public business in the curred during the famous trip of the "Tutane- colony. But, beyond that, I notice by a return kai " with the Premier and all his friends on laid on the table that the Premier has drawn board. I should like to know how much of that $77 10s. as travelling allowance and expenses on item, £582, went to Ministers' Secretaries, and a trip to the South Sea Islands. Now, I do not how much went in other items. I think the Mr. SEDDON .- You could get rid of me very Mr. PIRANI. - Perhaps ; unfortunately, we An Hon. MEMBER .- Why did the Auditor- Mr. PIRANI .- It strikes me the Auditor- 