Bill of 1899 was first submitted to them, and at the present moment this Bill is thoroughly understood and appreciated by the Maoris throughout the Island. It has been before them in all parts of the Island. They have dis- cussed the matter amongst themselves, and they have given their suggestions with regard to it, and all their desires have been discussed and settled by the Native Affairs Committee, before whom this Bill went; and in order to convince the House, Sir, that what I am stating is correct, I wish to draw the attention of honourable members to this fact: that it is within their knowledge that there has not been a single petition or word of remonstrance of any kind whatever against this Bill received here during this year. This desire on the part of the Maori people throughout the country is not of to-day-it is not a new departure-it is a matter that has occupied their attention during many years past. The Maori lands are called upon to suffer disabilities of many kinds, and the Maori people therefore are in support of this Bill, because they can see that in this Bill pro- vision will be made whereby they will be able to lease their lands to their satisfaction. And I would point out that this is not a benefit that will be solely enjoyed by the Maori people. Both races will equally share in that benefit ; and I have no doubt the colony at large must derive a direct benefit from such a measure as this." Even after this Act was placed on the statute- book, and during the recess when we adminis- tered the Act so far as we could by parcelling this the colony out into several districts and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 carrying out its provisions, the honourable member was in favour of its policy and its principles. The only difference was this : that a certain area in the North Island he desired should be comprised in one district, whereas those who owned the larger area of the land within the proposed boundary wished that it should be cut up into two districts, so as to give them the control over their own lands, instead of allowing them, as they would be if one district was carried, to be outvoted by the particular section of the people represented by the honourable gentleman. A section, though large in numbers, were more or less landless. Sir, this Act found favour in his mind until that position was arrived at. Then what hap- pened ? This boundary dispute had to be re- ferred to the people-in fact, a referendum was instigated, and the result was that two districts were determined on instead of one. Immediately that occurred the honourable member declared the Act was bad, that it was not what they wanted, and that it came into operation as the result of Government design. Honourable gentlemen, if they will just read the speech I have referred to, de- livered on this very measure towards the close of last session, and compare the same with the remarks uttered last night by the honourable member, cannot place much con- fidence in the consistency of the honourable gentleman as a representative man, and cer- Mr. Carrol ments which his position demands. I shall now leave him at this stage to reconcile him- self to the inconsistency of his position. Another charge he made against the Government was that the Government, instead of ceasing its purchasing operations in the Waikato or in the district he represents, have continued them. I have to inform the honourable gentleman that. that statement is not correct. The Government has kept faith with the Maori people in that respect. The Government declared that it would not enter into any further Native-land purchases, but that it would confine its opera- tions to the completing of purchases already under negotiation. That only has been done. and nothing more. Every contract that was entered into between the Government and the Natives for the purchase of land in the Wai- kato district has been closed up, and there are no purchases going on at all at the present moment. Then, the honourable gentleman told the House-and I agree with him to a certain extent-that the purchases by the Govern- ment have not been at the best prices obtain- able for Native lands. That is so. And he says that lands sold to the Government for 6s. an acre could have been sold to private individuals for a larger sum -- Hon. MEMBERS .- Hear, hear. Mr. CARROLL .- I hear " Hear, hears " from all sides. I do not dispute the fact in some cases; but, in the result of these transactions. does the Native come more favourably out of his dealings with private individuals than be does with the Government ? Take all the pur- chases by private individuals : we will say they have given larger prices for Native land than the Government. Why? Because in every case they pick out the eyes of the land. They do not buy wholesale like the Government. The Maori looks upon the Government as a body to vic- timise, and they frequently have the best of the bargain. They say, " We can pass off on to the Government any character of land." But they cannot do that with the private individual. who is more or less prepared with some lever at work, and a definite quarry in view. Though the private individual offers a good price, he gets far more than value in the quality of the land that he secures. He has the best of it in all directions. Will the honour- able gentleman point out to me one single Native or set of Natives who are in well-to-do circumstances to-day in consequence of their alienation of land to private individuals ? He Private individuals have no such cannot. obligations as those cast upon the State. They have no national concerns to trouble them : they do not care whether the Maoris are pauperised or not. It is not for them to con- sider that ; but the State, on the other hand, has to provide for all, and especially has it to guard the welfare of the Natives. They appeal to the State when they are in dificulties. They look to the State to help them when they neui that help, and why should not the State have some little benefit ? The State buys for the public, and the public is made up of both races. 