no formal appointment was made. You ap- prove an appointment as a Judge of the Supreme Court. You notify the Judge to act as President of the Court. The term is looked up, and it is found that the full term of the President's appointment, which it limited to three years, had expired in the interim. Then, there is practically no appointment at all, and no President of the Arbitration Court ; and, whilst the judgments and awards of the person acting in that capacity have been given in good faith and have not been questioned, at the same time it is right for us to rectify, at the earliest possible moment, the error that has been committed. As soon as that error was made known to me I said, "Nothing but a validation Act will put the matter right, and the sooner that is done the better, because it is no use allowing the matter to drift until awards are questioned and you have litigation and trouble." The wisest course is to admit a fault has been made and face it and go through with the remedy, and that is my position this afternoon. I am going through with it, and this question which has been raised is outside the matter altogether. When we come to deal with the question of fees or allowances, I shall deal with it in a manner that will give satisfaction to the House. I think there is one of two things to do-we either have to pay an extra allowance during the time he is sitting, whether the Supreme Court is in vacation or not, or else put a clause in the Act and say there shall be paid to the President of the Arbitration Court a sum per annum in addition to salary-whatever you think is a https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 fair remuneration for the extra service he has to perform in that position. Now, I do not altogether believe in paying fees. I altered the law on purpose ; but at the same time I have http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero to pay, and I have full power to pay, the extra amount to this Judge of the Supreme Court, although acting as President of the Arbitration Court, and if I do that neither the Auditor- General or anybody else can question it. As to the oversight, when my attention was drawn to it by the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson) I looked it up for myself. It seemed to me that the regulation had been drafted and passed without the alteration in the Act having been noticed ; but I cannot rectify it until I get my Conciliation and Arbitration Bill before the House. When that Bill comes before the House I do not think there will be any reason to complain as to the action of the Premier. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City). - I wish to say a word in personal explanation. It was hardly fair of the Premier to accuse me of ignorance of the law, or perversity, in view of the statement he has finally wound up with. He actually proved my contention, that he has no authority to pay fees to the President of the Arbitration Court. Now, I say that I was perfectly right in my contention, and the Premier admitted that there was no power to provide fees, but that there was power to prescribe travelling-allowance. Now, will the Mr. Seddon dent of the Arbitration Court is travelling on Arbitration Court business he shall be for the time being construed to be in the discharge of the duties of a Supreme Court Judge, and be put on the same footing exactly?" I did not misre- present the right honourable gentleman. and I was very gratified at the very straightforward manner in which he said, " A mistake has been made and I am the man to shoulder it." Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable gentleman is now going beyond a personal ex- planation. Mr. SEDDON. - I never questioned the honourable member ; and, to show the honour- able member that what I said was not put forward simply in accordance with this debate. I will read to him an extract-the answer I have here to his question as it stands on the Order Paper, -- " There appears to be an oversight, both by this office and the Crown Law Office, in not noticing that by the Act of 1900 the power was given to fix fees for the members of the Board other than the President, but there is nothing to prevent payment of whatever travel- ling-allowance may be fixed." Mr. J. ALLEN .- Travelling-allowance. Mr. SEDDON .- It is a daily allowance, pay- able when absent from home travelling, and the honourable gentleman makes a mistake if he thinks otherwise. The regulation reads, "Ministers and Judges of the Supreme Court shall receive a travelling-allowance at the rate of two guineas a day." It is something to compensate them when away from home. because otherwise they are living in hotels, and it costs them more than when living at home. The point I complained about was the comparison drawn by the honourable member for Wellington City, who said, " Why not put them in the same position as Judges of the Supreme Court and not allow them to be at the will of Ministers in the matter of fixing their allowances or fees?" Both terms were mentioned. The honourable member said the payments ought to be fixed by Act of Parlia- ment and not be at the will of Ministers. Now, I suppose the honourable member will confess he was ignorant of the fact that it was Ministers who fixed the allowances of Supreme Court Judges by regulation. Mr. HUTCHESON. I had that before me at the moment, and knew it. Mr. SEDDON. - The honourable member had not seen the regulations of 1873 until a few moments ago, and he never heard of these regulations in his life before. Bill read a second and a third time. OLD-AGE PENSIONS. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I have received a communication from the Controller and Auditor-General as follows :- " Audit Office, 18th September, 1901. "The Hon. the Speaker of the House of Representatives. "THE Controller and Auditor-General has the honour most respectfully to submit to the 