like lines ? Surely we can do so, if Ontario, | trouble with his boys, or a factory with the with a much larger population, can. There was never so much reckless expenditure or so many increases in salaries as under the present Government. If this country were a com- mercial concern, run by business-men, what would they say of the Budget that has been presented to us? They would suspend the managers-who are the Government-and insist on economy and retrenchment. Sir, I do not pretend to understand the figures in the Budget, nor do I think any member under- stands them. I think it is surely possible to set out the position more clearly-to put down the expenditure on one side and the receipts on the other. Then, I am sure we should find that there was not a penny on the credit side, but a deficiency of nearly a million and a half, instead of the imaginary surplus. But the figures are so hashed up that I do not think a single member can make head or tail of them. We have heard a lot about the prosperity of the country, but what does this so-called prosperity really mean? It is nothing but expenditure on public works and salaries out of loan money. Is our population increasing ? No ; it is decreasing. Is there any immigration ? No; not a soul is coming into the country. I know a man who, during a residence of twenty-seven years in the colony, made some thousands of pounds, although he started almost as a working-man. He had lent his money out on mortgage, but is now calling it in on account of the mortgage- tax, and intends leaving the country. I say, Sir, that capital is leaving the colony, and what is not being withdrawn is lying idle in the banks. It was suggested to the Premier that he should borrow in the colony. What was his reply? Why, that the landed proprietors who owned the money would not lend it for the pur- pose of confiscating their own land. That was the word he used, "confiscating," and that is the correct word to use-not "acquisition " of ostates. The country must be in a bad way when people will not lend money, but let it lie in the banks. There can be no feeling of security. An Hon. MEMBER .- That yarn was played out years ago. Mr. HASELDEN .- It is a fact for all that. Would any honourable member care to invest £5,000 to start any new industry ? My opinion is that not one of them would do so. What has the Arbitration Court done ? Instead of bringing about an era of industrial peace as it was supposed to, we have had nothing but in- dustrial war ever since it started. The honour- able member for Wanganui says he will vote against it, though he is such a strong Govern- ment supporter. We should repeal the present Factories Acts, the Workers' Compensation for Accidents Act, the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, and the Public Revenues Act, and start afresh. You are ruining the country as fast as ! you can, and class is being set against class. The Premier said that the employers and the employés had better shake hands ; he now sees the hornet's nest he has stirred up. There is not a hairdresser in this town who is not having . been raised by the Premier, when he said we Mr. Haselden hands ; and farmers will not employ married men on account of the Workers' Compensation Act. Sir, I am glad to see the other side waking up at last to a sense of their responsi- bility. Stronger and more adverse criticism of the Government has been heard from that side of the House than from this, and if those honourable members are half as brave as their speeches imply, if they have the courage of their convictions, we shall have them on this side of the House before the end of the session. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) .- Sir, I do not know whether the honourable gentleman who has just sat down intends to stay here or not. He says, When all the misfortunes which he has mentioned have overtaken New Zealand what shall we have to do? He further says, "We, who are the backbone of the country, will have to 'pay the piper.' " My own opinion is that if the honourable gentleman sees others leaving the country he will not be long in "skedaddling." Neither he nor the class ho represents would stop here were it not for the fact that they are better off than they would be elsewhere. That is just the reason. The honourable gentleman put me in mind of some one who is on the lee side of a stone wall 10 ft. high, and cannot see over to the other side. The honourable member sees only one side of politics, and he speaks in the interests of one party, and that party is the landowner and the money-lender. The honourable gentle- man speaks in the interests of these people en- tirely. I say, Are we, as a Christian country, going to neglect the workers and the tillers of the soil? He says, let the employer and the worker come forward and shake hands. Some employers will not shake hands with the workers unless they can get them to work for nothing. But, Sir, let every man par- ticipate in the benefits of the country in which he lives. Is it reasonable to suppose we could progress as we are doing if our laws were in such a bad condition as the honourable gentleman says they are? He himself says he cannot make head or tail of the figures in the Budget, and he did not believe any member of the House could ; yet he approves of the speeches from members on our side of the House, which have taken the Government to task for borrow- ing and squandering money. If what the honourable gentleman says is true, those speeches are not worth anything more than the speech he himself has just delivered. He must have better logic than that before he will convince the country that we are going to the dogs at the rate he says we are. I am a farmer too, and I am one of the conscientious seven- teen - at least, I hope I am. At any rate, all I am making in New Zealand I am making out of the land ; and so long as I represent a dis- trict in this House I shall take care that all classes of the community are treated fairly, and I maintain that we cannot afford to throw away and repeal all our labour laws, as suggested by the last speaker. We need not go faster than is necessary, and the warning note has already 