vasion of the upper rooms by smokers, it was a violation of the arrangements that had been made, and the responsibility for this rested on those who were in charge. Their duty was to stop the offenders and in doing that they would be supported by the House. With reference to the question of the Committee-rooms, it would be found on examination that some of the clerks had taken possession of some of these rooms, and made themselves comfortable there, when they ought to be given up to the use of members for the reception of their visitors. He had no hesitation in saying if the Speaker, the Chairmen of the Library and House Commit- tees, and himself were empowered to deal with this matter there would soon be plenty of rooms for members. He was quite prepared to assist members in maintaining their just rights and in having the necessary conveniences. After spending all the money they had in improving the building, it seemed they had less con- veniences than before, and the rooms were not so comfortable. All that was wanted now was to make a change, put people in their proper place and let members have their just rights. Touching the question of printing, he would ask the honourable member for Riccarton not to urge him to reply at this stage, as the ques- tion could be better dealt with when they came to discuss the Printing Office estimates. Then, as to contingencies, they had cut down this vote until it was so small that it was scarcely necessary to have a Contingencies list, but he would be prepared to give the fullest informa- tion. The #926 was for clerical assistance in marking, indexing, and shifting the books, and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 the reason that only $250 was now asked for was that they had got again into a normal con- dition. The duties of the custodian ought not to be divided. The present arrangement was / http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero temporary, but that would be altered when the new custodian took charge. He did not believe in divided authority, and he would do his best to give the conveniences to which, he thought, members were entitled. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said, notwith- standing the fact that they had now a new building costing $30,000, they had absolutely less convenience than they had had in the old building : but, making due allowance for the in- convenience of the new building, that did not do away with the complaint which had origi- nated the discussion - namely, the want of regularity in the management of the building. He wished the Premier had sole charge of and authority in the matter for forty-eight hours, for he was sure he would within that time effect such a change as was wanted. He hoped the discussion would not end in nothing, and he looked to the Premier to see that the bad management was brought to an end. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) pointed out that the local members suffered from lack of accommodation more than others, as for every constituent outside members required to see they had to see a hundred. In regard to the Library officials, he thought they had a ! good deal to do, and occasionally had to deal entrance of strangers, that were not generally known. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) said it appeared to him that the Library staff were zealous in their duties, and always anxious to consult the convenience of members. So far as the con- veniences of members were concerned he hoped the common-sense views of the Premier would prevail, and that members would have the use of rooms intended for them. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) said he de- sired to draw the attention of the Premier to the item, " Second assistant in Library, £105." Mr. SEDDON said an increase would be provided for this officer on the supplementary estimates. Vote, £13,952, agreed to. CLASS II .- COLONIAL SECRETARY'S DEPART- MENT. Vote, Clerk of Executive Council, £50, agreed to. Colonial Secretary's Office, £1,640. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) moved, That the item, " Under-Secretary, $500," be reduced by £25, the amount of the present increase. He gave his reasons for taking this course on a previous vote, and would not now detain the House. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) said this was not a high salary for an officer occupy- ing the position of chief executive officer. By comparison with the salary attached to the position in other colonies it was a very low salary. This officer had twenty - nine years' service, and had very important and respon- sible duties. Mr. MILLAR said there were many officers beneath this gentleman who had likewise long service and heavy duties, and he would like to know how many of these men could show an increase. He wanted to know on what prin- ciple the increases were granted ? Sir J. G. WARD said, regarding the latter point, he thought the whole of the services in the colony should be classified, but they had not been able to arrange this up to the pre- sent. What was done now was to judge, as far as possible, by the exigencies of the various offices, and that was the only way that could be adopted in unclassified departments. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) said that the chief officers of the departments seemed to get rises from year to year, but the officers under them very seldom got rises. Was that because the rises were recommended by the heads of the departments ? Sir J. G. WARD .- No. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said that last year the Minister said, in regard to a question about another officer, that the Government could not recommend a certain increase because the head of the department had not recomended it. In his Financial Statement the Colonial Treasurer said : - "Coming to the demands upon the conscli- dated revenue, the several services of the colony have necessarily increased, and the strictest 