Zealand in 1890 was confined to a very few ignominious pursuits. I said nothing of the kind. I stated that the occupations at that time were extremely limited, and were much more limited than they are now. I would remind the honourable gentleman that women at all times in New Zealand have had a variety of occupations. That has never been denied. They have been able to pursue honest pursuits, such as hospital nurses and occupations of that kind. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- I have written down the words the honourable gentleman used, and this is exactly what he said: that the men could not find any occupation, and that the girls in the colony were reduced either to starvation or the streets. I wrote it down at the time. The honourable gentleman, of course, is now ashamed, as he might be, of the language he used. Mr. HOGG .- My speech by this time is re- ported in Hansard, and it is an emphatic con- tradiction of what the honourable gentleman states. Mr. T. MACKENZIE. - The honourable gentleman has struck it out of Hansard. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) .- We have just heard a very fiery and eloquent speech from the honourable member for Waihemo; but before I proceed to deal with it I should just like to make one remark about the previous speaker. The previous speaker, the member for Waitaki, was filled with alarm at the labour legislation. He waxed very wroth over the labour legisla- tion and the effect it would have on the farmers, and yet, strange to say, he supported and voted for the Eight Hours Bill, no doubt thinking at the same time that in doing so he was securing another vote for the elective Execu- tive. The honourable member for Waihemo has denounced other honourable members for speaking on subjects which they did not under- stand. Well, Sir, I thought he might have ap- plied that to himself in respect to the dairy industry, because he absolutely knows nothing about it. He talks about the price of land, and says that no one can farm land at the prices they were paying. Well, perhaps they could not at Waihemo, but if the honourable member will only come up to Taranaki we will show him how they can farm there and make it pay. The honourable gentleman also told us a great deal about the Argentine. Why, I remember hearing about the Argentine when I was in pinafores. We were going to be smothered then by the Argentine. We could never successfully carry on the frozen meat, wool, or any other industry in this colony as against the competition of the Argentine. Well, Sir, we are still living ; the Argentine also. As for the dairying industry, the honourable gentleman said it was simply being carried on at the expense of the children -that the children were being worn out. Why, Sir, if he will only come up to Taranaki ho will see a different state of things there. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- We have had it from the teachers that the children fall asleep at their lessons. Mr. SYMES .- We will deal with that pre- Mr. Hogg sently. It is a marvellous thing that in our schools in Taranaki we get the highest per- centage of passes that are obtained in New Zealand. That does not look much like falling asleep. The honourable member also waxed eloquent over the telephonic communication with country districts. Well, it is a very simple thing. The local bodies hold the matter in their own hands. Surely in Waihemo, which is an old electorate, what can be done in a new country back-block district ought to be done there without much trouble. In the back block settlements we get a telephone by the local bodies or the settlers guaranteeing 5 per cent. on the cost of erection and equipment, and I think it is a very good system ; so that if the people desire to have the Government tele- phonic communication it can be easily and readily obtained with the centres of population. Now, Sir, one is somewhat diffident in speaking on the Financial Statement after hearing all the 4.7 guns of finance fired off in this House. We have had the big financiers, both on the Opposition and the Government side of the House, and also those who I am not sure which side they are on. They are neither on the rail nor do they belong to the " left wing," the Go- vernment will not have them, and I am per- fectly certain that the Opposition do not want them. I really do not know where they are ; but, at any rate, they all imagine that they are heaven-born financiers. They have given us figures ad nauseam, no two of them agreeing, and each one of them is quite correct according to his own showing-in fact, his figures are the only correct ones that have been quoted in the House. Now, it is not my intention to quote figures after the maze of figures we have had to listen to. The figures that these honourable gentlemen quoted I do not think they under- stood themselves. Take, for instance, that table which the honourable member who has just sat down quoted. I am perfectly certain he did not understand what he was reading. and I am quite certain there is not one mem- ber in this House who knew what he was read- ing either. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- It will all come out in Hansard. Mr. SYMES .- I expect so; but it will be no use. It is a very good thing, because I do not suppose any one will ever take the trouble to read it. As to the fourth party in this House, their figures are made up in a similar manner to the table quoted by the honourable member. The balance of their speeches were made up of abuse of the Government, and in trying to show that the country is going headlong down to the depths below-that the Government have borrowed and squandered millions of money. Yet, strange to say, these gentle- men, one and all, voted most consistently for every shilling of that money, knowing that some of it was going to be spent in their dis- trict. The present financial proposals are prac- tically the same as those which have been in force for some years past-they are simply a continuance ; and yet those heaven-born financiers saw nothing wrong in our finance 