names on the roll. That theory would not account for two names being struck off when only one was entitled to go, and there- fore left the whole of the surplus of 702 names unexplained. There must therefore be some other explanation. The Minister had said that the Government " invited prosecution," but that was not exactly the tone of the honourable gentleman when the estimates were before the House last session. And seeing that there was at least #5,000 of libel on Mr. King in the Auckland papers if the wholesale charges made were false, it was surely for him to have insti- tuted proceedings. The Government might properly have said to him, " Sue and clear your character or go." He (Mr. Atkinson) urged that the only investigation that would be satis- factory would be a public investigation, to which the Press would be admitted, and where anybody might be represented by counsel. He did not know what the investigation was that the Minister invited. Sir J. G. WARD said the Government could not make a charge against the officer. Mr. ATKINSON said, No ; but they could have made a public investigation and invited people to come along to give evidence. It would have been possible to have appointed, say, the Auckland Stipendiary Magistrate. Such a com. mission would not have been expensive, and the procedure would have been simple. Mr. King might be innocent of the charges made against him, but the Government had not taken the course to clear him if he was innocent. Would the Minister say what was the nature of the in- quiry held when Mr. King was examined and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 his papers investigated ? Mr. King might have proved ex parte, as the Premier's speech sug- gested, that many claims were properly rejected, but that proved nothing. That he had rejected a thousand properly did not show that he had not rejected another thousand improperly. He would like to ask the Minister whether either Messrs. Watson, Challis, or Mrs. Reeves, whose cases were mentioned by the honourable mem- ber for Franklin last year, and were in Hansard, were asked to go face to face with Mr. King to substantiate the specific charges that had been made. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) said he was not in the House last year when this matter was discussed, but, from what he had heard that afternoon, there seemed to be good grounds for an inquiry. The matter, however, was two years old ; and if the member for Eden still thought that an inquiry should be held, why did he not move to have the vote reduced, and so bring the matter to an issue, instead of wasting the time of the Committee in this way. What Mr. Fisher said of the Returning Officer in Wellington might be said of most of the Returning Officers of the colony. Taken as a whole, he thought they enjoyed the confidence of the clectors throughout the various districts. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said that last year an item was reduced by £1, with a specific in- struction to the Minister to do a certain thing. Mr. G. J. SMITH asked if the Minister did it. Mr. PIRANI said, Certainly not. The only way to deal with a matter of this sort, where the Minister would not do anything, was to year by year record their protest against it, and place it in Hansard. He desired to draw the attention of the Minister to another matter. The law provided that one person should not hold the two positions of Returning Officer and Registration Officer. He would like to know why Palmerston North had been allowed to be an exception to that law. He thought it was necessary the two offices should be separated, and that the official who had carried out the duties should be formally appointed. He would ask the Minister to make a note of it, so that the appointment of a Registration Officer would be made before the rush of the work set it next year. Sir J. G. WARD said he did not propose to discuss the Auckland matter further than to say, with regard to the two cases mentioned by Mr. Atkinson, that he was informed they were inquired into, and the Registrar of Electors gave a sufficient answer in both cases. Mr. ATKINSON .- Were the objectors pre- sent ? Sir J. G. WARD said, No. It was absurd to suppose that, in the case of every charge made against a member of the public service, the Government were going to accept the charge made by an outsider in order to inquire into it. He might with equal force have asked that the Registrar of Electors and Returning Officer in his district should have been dismissed because many names were not on the roll that could have been on, and names were off the roll that should not have been off. What would members think of him if he asked that this officer should be dismissed because he was politically opposed to him? The electors of Awarua would be ashamed of their representa- tive if he did such a thing. As head of the department he had to be just. They had gone into this matter which had been referred to, and there was found to be nothing to justify the charges ; yet they were asked to proceed against that man without any charge at all being made against him. An Hon. MEMBER .- There are lots of charges. Sir J. G. WARD .- If the honourable member for Eden wanted the House to believe all his charges, why did he not spend a ten-pound note in prosecuting Mr. King? He would be very glad to look into the matter referred to by the member for Palmerston. It was not in- tended that anything contrary to the Act should be allowed to continue. Mr. LAWRY (Parnell) said he believed the very grave mistakes which he admitted had been made in Auckland were largely attribu- table to the fact that the Registrar of Electors for Auckland had twice as much work imposed on him as any man should have. This officer had to deal with the old-age pensions work as well. He thought the Hon. the Minister should lay it down as a principle that it was quite enough for one Registrar to register the electors of one electorate ; and he took it that the whole solution of the difficulty, so far as 