it to the hope." All the promises of help to the farmers are in the air. Now, let us take two or three of them. For example, there is the matter of cool-storage at the Cape. The cool-stores will be put up at the Cape- "when the Commissioner has reported." The mortgage-tax was to have been taken off last year. That is still to be taken off ; but when ? The rebate of rent for four years to the man who goes out into the back-blocks: that is to be done-when ? And echo answers, " When." Now, let us go a little into detail with 9.30. regard to the proposal for cool-storage at the Cape. I say, the Government are not in earnest in this matter. If they were, they know perfectly well that where they ought to instal cool-storage is in London, and in the manufacturing cities of Great Britain. They know very well what is going on there. No one knows better than the present Ministry what is going on in London in connection with rings and combines to keep down the price of produce in the London markets to the people who ship that produce from this colony. Enough has been said by the member for Waihemo to prove to us what is going on in the Old Country at the present time. And yet not a hand has been lifted by the Government to protect the producer in this colony against the roguery perpetrated on the London market. Cool-storage at the Cape must of necessity be a fleeting thing, for once peace is established in that unhappy country, and improved methods of farming are entered upon, what will be the Those stores will good of the cool-stores ? simply enable the South African farmer to enter into competition with us on the London market, for we shall store his products for him, and they will be duly shipped to the outside markets. Now, as to the mortgage-tax-and I know honourable members opposite will not say, "Hear, hear," now-if that tax had been taken off, and a little more had been put on the pro- gressive land-tax, that would have been " sound finance," and that would have been helping the farmers in this country. Mr. MASSEY .- There is a better way of doing it. Mr. HORNSBY .- Yes, I know that ; but, you see, the increase of the graduated land-tax means that it will prevent the increase of large landed estates. That result has not so far been brought about ; but another turn of the screw might induce cutting-up, and then we should not want the mortgage-tax. What is it but a punishment of the small settlers ? The Premier says that the large estates are growing. He quoted from a return to show that large estates are still increasing in this colony, and yet in spite of that fact-when the remedy lies close to his hand - he has turned away from it. We still have the mortgage tax and we have not got an increase in the graduated land-tax. Now, as to the question of the encouragement of land- settlement in the back blocks and the taking- up of the waste lands of the Crown: In the Budget Statement we have a promise which I have said is in the air, but there is nothing Mr. Hornsby campaign of 1899, among other things that I did was to issue a manifesto to the electors, and in that manifesto occur these passages :- " With regard to the settlement of the rough lands of the colony : That all those desirous of going upon rough bush lands shall not be called upon for survey-fee or any rent for the first five years, provided always that all necessary im- provements are carried out, and that the first five years' rent is capitalised and its payment spread over a period of twenty-one years, said payments to be proportionately small at first and gradually increasing year by year, so that the heavier payments will not have to be made until a man's land has come into the full profit of return. That in all cases where land is leased from the Crown, whether under perpetual lease (with right of purchase at the end of ten years) or lease in perpetuity (999 years), the tenant may, if he so desire, make the land his freehold, provided always that he shall not be permitted to mortgage such land to any one but the State. That it shall not be lawful for any man, or cor- poration, institution, syndicate, or any organiza- tion or any individual whatsoever, to purchase the fee-simple of any such properties, if he or they or any of them shall already be possessed of the fee-simple of 1,000 acres of first-class, 2,000 acres first- and second-class, or 5,000 acres of third - class land. That no land shall be offered by the State in smaller holdings than may fairly be considered of sufficient area to enable the leaseholder or purchaser to make proper provision for himself and family. That all the Native lands over which the State already has a lien, all lands owned by absentees, and such lands as present private owners are will- ing to sell to the State, be dealt with by the Land Purchase Board before the compulsory clauses are brought into operation." Now, Sir, I advocated these things at the general election of 1899, and I know that the same things have been advocated by others in this colony. If the Premier is in earnest about this thing he will bring in some legislation this session to deal in that very way with the waste lands, and he may depend upon it that such a measure will have safe and speedy pas- sage through this House. With reference to the land-hunger of which so much has been said from time to time, and of which I have a good deal to say both in and out of the House, it exists in a very marked degree in that part of the colony I have the honour to represent. In- deed, we have very little available Crown lands there, but what we have are rapidly being brought into the market; roads are being driven into the available areas, and we shall very soon have some thousands of acres placed at the disposal of intending settlers. But, Sir, if the members of this House could understand thoroughly the position of affairs in the Waira- rapa, I am perfectly certain that they would sym- pat hize very largely with what I am going to say with regard to the purchase of land in that part of the colony. The honourable member for Mas- terton has had one example in his electorate of the success that awaits anything in the shape 