account ; but that is not the case. And the amount of the land-for-settlement rentals would not make up the difference. I do not know whether it includes interest paid in connection with the Advances to Settlers Department ; I do not think it does; but I do think it includes rates on education and other endowments. have moved for a return showing the details, which I hope will be forthcoming. However, I think I have said quite sufficient to show that the figures given on page ix. of the Financial Statement are absolutely misleading and have no value whatever. Now, it is quite evident I shall not have time to finish my notes, but there is another point I should like to refer to, and that is the position of the North Island Main Trunk Railway. I am glad to gather from the Financial State- ment - though I should be better pleased to see it in the Public Works Statement -that at last reasonable progress is being made with it ; but, so far as I am personally concerned, I should be more satisfied if the work connected with the larger bridges and viaducts were let by public tender. There has been so much waste of time and public money and so much bungling in connection with the construction of the Makohine Viaduct that I have lost all confidence in the ability of the Public Works Department, or of the Government, to successfully carry out pub- lic works on the co-operative principle where skilled labour is required. Even in connection with ordinary earthworks I am satisfied that the taxpayers do not get fair value for their money under the co-opera- tive system. Then, there is a very brief reference in the Statement to the San Fran- cisco mail-service. I do not propose to discuss that question at the present time, because I have no doubt that better opportunities will be given later on. But what I want to say is this : that there are two matters in connection with which the people of the Auck- land Provincial District will stand no nonsense. These two matters are the completion of the North Island Trunk Railway and the retention of the San Francisco mail-service. They want the promise made last year, with regard to the North Island Main Trunk Railway, kept - namely, that it will be completed within three years from now. And they want the retention of the San Francisco mail-service, with Auckland as the port of call. And any Government that does not do justice to Auck- land in reference to these two matters will receive a very bad time at the hands of the electors. Just a word with regard to the out- look for the colony. I agree with what has been said by previous speakers-that the out- look is anything but encouraging. The low price of wool, if it continues-and I am inclined to think it is going to continue for some time to come-will affect the purchasing-power of the people, and consequently the revenue-not only the Customs, but the railway revenue. Then the price of cereals is so low as to make it impossible to grow wheat in this country at a profit. We know, too, that there is a proba- Mr Massey bility in the near future of the South African war being brought to a close, and we hope it will be brought to a close ; but, if so, there will be a falling-off in the demand for oats. What the price of oats would have been during the last eighteen months without the demand from I South Africa, it is impossible to say. Then, in regard to frozen meat, we are being pushed very hard by the Argentine Republic, and in all probability we shall find them very awkward competitors to deal with. But, Sir, it seems to me that the affairs of the colony require at present very careful management, and it be- hoves us, if we wish to hold our own and to make reasonable progress, to settle down to the development of the natural industries of the colony, particularly the agricultural and pastoral industries, in a proper business-like and systematic manner, and without any more class or experimental legislation, and without increasing the drain upon the colony any more than can possibly be helped. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- I wish to make a personal explanation. The honourable member for Franklin, in the course of his remarks, quoted from Hansard some observa- tions I made in reference to the Ministry in 1893, and I wish to explain to the honourable member for Franklin and to the House that I do not wish to vary or qualify those statements in any way whatever. On the contrary I in. dorse them. When Sir Robert Stout, who was not a member of Parliament, formed the Ballance Ministry in January, 1891, he in- cluded in that Ministry certain persons whose names I could never have approved of, and whose names would never have been approved of had they been submitted to the members of the Liberal party. This is the Ministry of which I disapproved -- An Hon. MEMBER .- What year ? Mr. FISHER .- 1893. These are the names : Hon. R. J. Seddon, Hon. Sir Patrick Buckley, Hon. W. P. Reeves, Hon. John Mckenzie, Hon. J. G. Ward, Hon. A. J. Cadman, Hon. James Carroll, Hon. William Montgomery. I have already said that the members of the Liberal party would not have approved of these names had the names been submitted to them. The Ministry of which I did approve, after the alteration in its personnel, was this Ministry : Right Hon. R. J. Seddon, Hon. John McKenzie, Hon. A. J. Cadman, Hon. James Carroll, Hon. W. C. Walker, Hon. W. Hall-Jones, Hon. T. Thompson. Now, can any gentleman sitting on the Opposition benches quote any remark made by me in derogation of this last Ministry, the names of which I have given? I spoke in opposition to the Ministry of 1893 because from its inception I objected to its composition. There were men in that Ministry who had no right to be placed in a position to represent the Liberal party of New Zealand. Now, Sir, the Premier afterwards, in referring to the acts of the Ministry of 1893, in relation to myself, speaking in Wellington on the 7th December, 1896. said,- " He (the Premier) wished to refer to a matter which was right he should do at this 