have just enumerated. The honourable mem- ber for Nelson City, in speaking on this debate, led one to imagine that he had a brief for the mortgagees of the colony. Well, I believe he has. There is no doubt that many mortgagees, more especially those who are trustees in trust estates, are very severely dealt with under this In my opinion, the Govern- mortgage-tax. ment would be wise if they wiped it off the statute-book altogether; and if it is necessary to raise revenue by any other means, then, I say, make an increase in the graduated land-tax. If that were done, in my opinion it would do a lot of good. It would necessitate those who occupy very large holdings at the present time, and who do absolutely nothing in the way of cultivation of these estates, to cut them up and closely settle them. Why, Sir, I do not know one of all those honour- able gentlemen who have condemned this Statement this session who has not voted for every loan proposal that has been brought down by the Government. Surely to Goodness, if they made themselves so conversant with the financial position of the colony this year, they would have done it no later than twelve months ago, but to take their speeches then and com- pare them with the speeches delivered on the present occasion one would think they were not the same men at all. I say they are unfair to the Government they support, they are unfair to themselves, and if they were doing their duty to their constituents as they should do, and as they were pledged to do, they would return to them the trust the people placed in their hands at the elections. Now, Sir, these https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 men have not the courage to do that; they have not the courage to go before their con- stituents, but they say, " We are opposed to bor- rowing, we are opposed to any further expendi- ture of public moneys." No; they will come here and denounce the Government, and endeavour to assist, and assist in such a way that at elec- tion time they will hang on to the Government like grim Death, so that they will be returned by their constituents. When the honourable member for Nelson City was parading his figures before the House I made an interjection and asked if he had got his figures from the Treasury. He immediately replied to me that he had not. Well, I can assure the House that when the member for Nelson City made that reply I felt I had been right in supposing they were his own figures only. I thought, " Oh, well, it is all right, the country is safe." The honourable member for Ashley also stated that there were so many Commissions set up that it alarmed one. Well, I believe the only member it did alarm was the honourable mem- be for Ashley himself, because I do not think any honourable gentleman in this House was more disappointed than that honourable gentle- man when he was not put upon one of these Commissions. He also stated which, I think, was unfair and uncharitable-that the Premier, when he was in Pahiatua addressing the settlers there, denounced the Farmers' Union. The honourable member stated that he quoted Mr. O'Meara I have the newspaper here in front of me containing the speech which was delivered by the Premier on that particular occasion, and there is not one word of denunciation in the whole of that speech. I would like to quote just one little piece to prove that the honourable member is absolutely-well, I will say out of date in making a statement of that sort. At all events, coming from such a source, one would naturally take the statement the honourable member had made as a fact. This is what the Premier stated, and how the member for Ashley could twist it into a condemnation of such an organization I fail to understand :- "If the country settlers were to combine producers would obtain better prices for their products, and the good results would affect the inhabitants of the towns. Similarly, when lower prices ruled it affected the townspeople." Now, to be fair to the Premier, what the honourable gentleman should have stated was that the Premier did not denounce the union, but denounced the platform they started with, and he was justified in doing so. What was it ? It was purely and simply a Conservative plit- form. That was what he denounced ; he did not denounce a union of the farmers, or any other union. I do not think there is a country mem- ber, at all events, in this House who would not like to see the farmers unite so as to further their own interests, but not on any party political lines such as that which the or- ganizer of the union endeavoured to secure by promulgating certain doctrines and distributing certain pamphlets, which would have led, in my opinion, to a resuscitation of the National Ass. That is now all altered. I hope, Sir, that the farmers will combine, and that they will be a strength in the country, in order that they may have their wants attended to. No member in this House has spoken more than I have done respecting the farmers' grievances, and I shall continue to do that so long as I am in this House, whether I am in opposition or support- ing the Government of the day. I am not sur- prised at the honourable gentleman's utterances in this House, because we all know that when he was first returned for the constituency which he now represents he was returned as a member of the Conservative party. I am speaking of the honourable member for Ashley. In fact, I believe that he attended one of their first caucuses. If that is so, he would simply be returning to the fold which he deserted many years ago if he went back to them at this june- ture. And perhaps he is wise, because we know that many years ago he predicted a change and supported the party that he thought was strongest in the country. He may have similar notions now ; but, at any rate, if he does return to that fold it will possibly be the last time he will have the opportunity of making a charge in this House. Then, Sir, we had the honourable member for Riccarton. He said that we had too much khaki in our streets. Did he not help to send away our contingents to South Africa? Now that our boys are re- turning, it appears they are compelled by some 