I say I really do not think it matters much if Mr. Flatman, say the other day that he it does take eight years. My reason for saying thought the railway from Springfield to Otira this is that if it is carried on as it has been in should be stopped. I understand there is a the past the colony will not get value for the tunnel there that is to cost a million and a money spent. I do not object to co-operative quarter. workers, for the men are paid for what they actually do. I believe that we have some workers on the North Island Trunk line who from Otira to Springfield, and I am told it is to make only 43. 6d. a day ; and no one will say cost a million and a quarter, and when it is that that is a large wage. Whichever side I finished the country between the tunnel and take I believe in stating the case fairly. I Springfield is simply useless. It will be good should not like honourable members to think that I am one-sided, and I do not wish to make statements that I cannot bear out, scandalous waste of money, to carry this on. I am sorry I cannot speak of the Otago Central but I believe there are some workers there who do not make more than 4s. 6d. per day. from personal observation, but I remember the But what I maintain is that we should not late Sir John Mckenzie said it was useless to go further than where the railway takes the carry this railway any further-that it was going material for its construction. We have got to the Makohine Viaduct, and we have been economy in this way, and stop these unproduc- there for several years, and we have the for- mation completed twenty-six miles beyond. I am not an engineer, but I think the cost has roads and bridges. I think, in the past the been twice as much as it would have been had we had the railway there to take the There has been too much patchwork. Too material on as the line proceeded. Mr. HALL-JONES .- It has cost more of course, but certainly not double. Mr. LETHBRIDGE .- Well, I think it has cost nearly double, and it has put the settlers there to great inconvenienee. They cannot even now ride down the main road. as the money will go. In the past we have Mr. HALL-JONES. - It has been like that every year. Mr. LETHBRIDGE .- It has never been so small bit in another, and by the time one bad as this year, and from Taihape to Paengaroa to carry on the railway-work they have had to has been lost. I think the settlers in the hitch two rails to horses and sledge them along the road. That means that the whole road is destroyed this winter. I hope to see a sub- my district I have two or three counties, stantial sum on the estimates from the Minis- ter for Public Works to assist them to put that or #50,000 under this Act. They have made road in something like repair. I say, really, if and metalled nearly all their roads, and have the railway is completed to the timber on each only a few bridges yet to construct; and that side, so that the timber may be sent to Auck- is where the Government help should come in. land, and brought down to the West Coast, Let the settlers in decent country-in some that is all we require for some years. I am glad, Sir, that the Premier in his Budget says and very hilly country it is impossible for a few that he is going to draw in, in respect to the settlers to borrow sufficient to make roads - expenditure on district railways. He says, - with they should be taught the benefits of this "In respect to the expenditure on several classes of public works, district railways, and Act, and in the matter of bridges alone the Government should assist them. I am pleased especially buildings and works which are more the Minister of Lands has seen fit to hand a matter of convenience than of necessity, pru- dence demands that there should be a reduc- a great deal of the money voted over to the tion in the expenditure thereon, especially local bodies. I know some of my friends object to handing the money over to local authorities, seeing that our population is so slowly in- as they say local authorities let contracts and creasing, for it should be borne in mind that the increased ratio of population is much below the work is done too cheaply. There might that of the increased ordinary expenditure. have been something in this when work For every million borrowed and expended on was hard to get, but under present circum- stances I say the money is better handed over non-revenue-producing works and objects an to local authorities. In my district the local annual charge of about 10d. a head is entailed authorities cut the work up into small con- upon every European man, woman, and child in the colony." tracts, and let these contracts to the settlers. I am glad to see that, because I think that The settlers have done well out of the contracts, which have been well carried out; and the these main trunk railways should be finished, and the district railways could wait. I was settlers have their roads, which they are proud VOL. CXVIII .- 14 Mr. HALL-JONES .- Nothing like it. Mr. LETHBRIDGE. - It is seven miles long, for scenery; but cattle or sheep will not live on scenery. I think it would be a pity, and a into a desert. I hope the Government will use tive works at once. Now, money has not only been borrowed for railways, but for making money has been misspent in making roads. many tracks have been made which are really useless. The late Minister of Lands, of course, owing to illness, could not attend personally to his department; but I think the present Minister will adopt a better system, and start from where the roads are good and make them good as far been proceeding in this way : A small bit has been done in one corner of the district and a bit has been finished the bit formerly done back districts should be taught the bene- fits of the Loans to Local Bodies Act. In which have borrowed something like £40,000 country they cannot do so- in papa country but where they have ordinary country to deal 