reviled because they insisted that labour legis- lation was going too far. I maintain that the members on this side of the House have been working in the true interests of the work- ing-men. They saw that the legislation intro- duced by the Right Hon. the Premier would react on the workers themselves, and they told land. Then, there is the Ohura Valley, in them so; and now the Government party are beginning to realise it, and the Government Whip now says that we want a rest from labour legislation, and that there was a danger of going too far. For my part, I hope they have not gone too far already. There is another case in point if we take the case of the Native legislation. The Native legislation introduced by the Right Hon. the Premier in 1894 is altogether contrary to that which is proposed at the present time. The lines on which we are going now are more in accordance with what was advocated by many of us on this side of the House at the time that the legis- lation of 1894 was introduced. Even if we take the case of the very-much-talked-of penny post, did not nearly every member of the Op- position advocate the penny post long before it is the first time since I have had the honour was introduced? I do not want, Sir, to take away from the credit which is due to Sir Joseph Ward for introducing the penny-post system, but I feel sure he himself would give credit to members on this side of the House for having supported him in that reform. More particu- larly do I not wish to take credit away from Sir Joseph Ward, because I realise, if Mr. Seddon had remained Postmaster-General, in all probability we should not have had the penny post at the present time, for at the time many of us were advocating the introduction of the penny-postage system the Right Hon. the Premier was only in favour of allowing it to be introduced in and near our large cities, leaving the inhabitants of the country dis- tricts out in the cold altogether. So I say in that respect the credit is due to Sir Joseph Ward for actually being the Minis- ter that inaugurated the penny post. In my own particular district, when Sir Joseph Ward visited it a presentation was made to him by the Liberal and Labour League in commemo- Old Country or other parts of the world ration of the introduction of the penny postage ; but, although the presentation was made by the Liberal and Labour League, it was sub- scribed for by people of all political distinctions, and I feel sure the Postmaster-General will value a presentation made in that way more than if it had come from any individual set only. Now, one of the most important matters by the Government. It is not only the laws dealt with in the Statement, I consider, is the actually passed, but it is the state of uncertainty settlement of the people on the land. The settlement of the land, the Premier says in his happen next. That tends in the direction of Budget, is of paramount importance. Since I have had the honour of holding a seat in this House I have always endeavoured, to the best desirable class of settlers are debarred from of my ability, to advocate the importance of opening up the country for settlement, the from starting industries in the colony, even if it importance not only for the colony, but also does not go further than that and cause people for the Province and City of Auckland, and the electorate in particular that I repre point I wish to bring under the notice of the sent. I look upon it as a disgraceful thing been shut up so long. The Government were going to open up a hundred thousand acres last year, but up to the present time only about five thousand acres of it were opened up; and for that block of five thousand acres no less than fifteen thousand applications were put in, showing the immense demand there is for which thousands and thousands of acres of land belonging to the Crown and suitable for settle- ment are lying idle. There is a good road leading from where the railway nearly touches it at Kawakawa down the Ohura Valley ; and I would urge the Minister for Public Works to do the best he can to get the railway authorised from Kawakawa to Stratford, so that that land, when it is cut up, may be of greater value, so as to encourage the Government to go to the expense of constructing that line of railway. Mr. HALL-JONES .- That is not being done. Mr. LANG. - Certainly not. Why you should authorise the Stratford end and not the Auckland end also I cannot understand. I am very pleased that the Minister of Lands visited my electorate during the recess. It of a seat in the House that the Minister of Lands has visited that district. It is perhaps one of the most important electorates so far as the Minister of Lands' Department is con- cerned, in that there is a large quantity of unoccupied land in the district, and a great portion of it Crown land. I can assure the Minister that his visit to the district was very much appreciated, and I hope he will visit it again during the next recess, so that he may see some portions that he had not time to see during the last visit. Now, I think the Crown and Native lands should be settled before land is taken under the Land for Settlements Act. And it seems to be a great pity that Parliament ever consented to the compulsory clauses of the Land for Settlements Act, because I consider it has done as much harm to the settlement of the colony as labour legislation has to the starting of industries in the colony ; for it goes without saying that any one from the who wish to come to New Zealand to settle will not do so if there is a possibility of their home being taken from them after they have lived upon it for years, and have expended a lot of money upon it. And so it is with the industries. People will not start industries in New Zealand when they know they may be hampered at any time by the labour laws passed they are in. They never know what is going to keeping capital out of the country. So far as the settlement of the land is concerned, a very taking up land ; and people are prevented also to sell out and go to other parts. The next 