the quality of the sleepers has deteriorated to | such an extent that rigid inspection has had to be insisted on in the interests of public safety, and the inferior quality of the sleepers now offered is evidenced by the large number re- jected by the Inspectors appointed to examine them. New-Zealand-grown sleepers are em- ployed in every instance where they can be ob- tained and used without imperilling the safety of the line ; and, in order to increase the life of the sleeper, the department has recently ob- tained two creosote plants for treating the sleepers prior to their being laid in the track. The visit to this colony of contingents of the Imperial and Indian troops led to a very large passenger traffic to the various centres visited by the troops ; it also necessitated the convey- ance of the troops from one end of the colony to the other by train on very short notice, and made very great demands on the railway staff. The difficulties were accentuated by the shortage of rolling-stock suitable for carrying passengers. I am, however, pleased to be able to place on record the fact that the whole of the arrange- ments were carried out in an entirely satis- factory manner, and reflected the greatest credit on the whole of the railway staff of the colony. In view of the reductions contemplated in fares and freights, I estimate the revenue for the year ending 31st March, 1902, at £1,760,000 and the expenditure at £1,152,000. The usual reports and returns are attached hereto. # MINES STATEMENT. [ For the Returns and Tables referred to in this State- ment, see Appendix C .- 2.] https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 The following is the Mines Statement, laid upon the table by the Minister of Mines (Mr. McGOWAN) on the 5th September, 1901 :- Year ending 31st December, 1900. Product. Quantity. Gold 373,616 oz. . . : 326,457 Silver .. .. Copper-ore 12 tons .. .. Antimony 3 Manganese-ore 166 Mixed mineral 2,126 Chrome-ore .. 28 Colonial coal exported, includ- 112,707 by Home ing that used steamers Coke exported Colonial coal consumed in New 981,283 Zealand Kauri-gum .. 10,159 .. . . Total value of production for 1900 Total value of production for 1899 Total increase mit my annual Statement to Parliament. In doing so it gives me much pleasure to re- mark on the continued and growing import- ance of the mining industry, which, taken as a whole, and judged from a productive standpoint, may be said to be generally satisfactory, and no small factor in the advancement of the colony. From causes which will be referred to further on, it will be seen that the output of gold and silver for the year 1900 was rather less than that of the preceding year, but as against this there was a decided increase in the production of other minerals ; and, notwithstanding the decrease in the output of precious metals for the time being, the actual value of the mineral production for 1900 was in excess of that of the year 1899. The several branches of mining will be referred to under their respective headings. # MINERAL PRODUCTION. The annexed Table No. 1 shows the quantity of gold, silver, coal, and other minerals, includ- ing kauri-gum, produced during the year ending 31st December, 1900. The total production of gold and silver was 700,073 oz., valued at £1,478,481, and shows a decrease in value of $75,530 as compared with the unusually large production of the preceding year. The output of other minerals, including coal and lignite, has been 1,106,484 tons, represent- ing a value of £1,224,666, or 118,672 tons, value £122,123, in excess of the previous year. Kauri- gum to the amount of 10,159 tons, valued at £622,293, was obtained. Compared with the production of the previous year this shows a" decrease of 957 tons, but an increased value of £14,374. The quantities and values of the chief mineral productions for the past two years are summarised for comparison as follow :- Year ending 31st December, 1800. Value. Quantity. Value. £ 1,439,602 389,558 oz. 1,513,173 38,879 349,338 . 40,838 45 .. .. 101 . . 588 135 tons 407 12,751 1,309 6,591 . 110 . . 83,065 98,136 89,480 18 9 885,754 490,642 404,532 622,293 11,116 607,919 . 2,703,147 £2,656,554 2,656,554 £46,593 