matter, it is a very serious one for my district -the extension of this line to Grahamstown before the connection is completed, in accord- ance with this promise made in the Public Works Statement of 1891. I have no objection to extend the line to Grahamstown, but, I say, carry out this promise first. What benefit would this extension to Grahamstown be to the northern part of the district ? There would be the break between the present terminus at Hukerenui and Kawakawa. The extension to Grahamstown might benefit a few people at Whangarei, but it would be of no benefit to those in the North. With regard to this mono- poly of the Northern Steamship Company, I cannot understand why the honourable gentle- man calls it a monopoly. I have no interests in this company, but I have this to say of it : It is the only company which has rendered steam communication possible between the North and Auckland, and it has been at all times willing to assist the settlers in regard to freight and passages. The rates are still high, but it is open to any other company to come and run steamers there; and the manager of the com- pany has always been willing to meet the settlers and endeavour to assist them in regard to freight and passages. I am sorry to have to say one word which the honourable member for Marsden may consider to be against him and his district. I know Whangarei very well. I have good cause to remember it, because it was there I met my better half, and it is a place I can never forget ; and I should be want- ing in my duty if I did not do all I could to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 help them in getting any assistance in regard to railway communication, and it would be un- fair on my part to do anything to injure the people of Whangarei. But I consider that I should be wanting in my duty, not only to Whangarei, but to my own district, if I con- sented to have this extension to Grahams- town completed before the connection is made with Kawakawa. Mr. HALL-JONES .- Eight miles of that work are now in hand. Mr. HOUSTON .- Yes ; but the same amount of money it would take to make the connection to Grahamstown would almost complete the line to Kawakawa. There is the large bridge over the river, which will cost a very large sum, and which must be completed ere the line can be taken to the other side of the river. A mis- take was made by the department in taking the line on the present side of the river ; it would have been much better if it had been taken on the other side, and would not have cost so much as this extension to Grahamstown. 12.0. With regard to the timber-men-I may say I do not know them, but I have heard of them-it is strange that one of the reasons given for extending the line to Grahamstown is that these same men might get their timber down to deep water easily ; yet these men are considered monopolists who are doing all they can to injure the district. Sir, knowing Wha- ngarei as I do, I say that if the line is extended to Grahamstown it will mean that the death- would go to Grahamstown, and the traffic now stopping at Whangarei would go right through to the North, which would, of course, act inju- riously to Whangarei. I believe that those who are opposed to the extension of the line to Gra- hamstown are only opposed to it on account of the break between Hukerenui and Kawakawa not being completed. They wish to see the break in the line completed, so that people might have access to Auckland by rail, instead of having to make the longer journey by sea from Russell. My voice is so bad to-night that I really must express my regret to the House that I have spoken so long ; but there are one or two other points I would like to refer to. I may say at once I do not want to refer to the finances of the colony. When we have such budding Colonial Treasurers like the member for Nelson City, the member for Ashley, and the member for Riccarton, it would be presumptuous on my part to attempt to go at any length into the question of our finances. I may say, however, that I quite agree with the statement the Hon. the Colonial Treasurer makes in the Budget with reference to the curtailment of expenditure on public buildings. I cannot agree, however, with one honourable gentleman when he refers to the public works expenditure, and says that that expenditure benefits the landowners alone, and not the workers. Sir, what if we stop all public works ? We would soon see what the effect would be on the workers. The landowners could do without it, but the workers certainly could not. I say, Sir, the workers are benefited perhaps more than the landowners. Now, on the question of railways, I have to compliment the Minister on the concessions he has granted. No doubt they have been very beneficial to the farming population in many parts of the colony ; but I am sorry to say he has not extended the same concessions to all parts of the colony. I look on our railways as a system, and I hold there should be no difference made between one line that may not be paying and other lines which are paying. I do not see why a heavy tariff should be put on the line that is not paying its way. Railway concessions have been granted to the amount of #165,000, which, I think, must be of great benefit to the people. But who benefits by the concessions? It is those persons through whose property the railways pass. Now, we in the North have all along assisted to pay the interest on the money that has been borrowed for our railways and other works, and we are so far getting very little benefit. I would like to say-and I am sorry to have to make this remark about the Minister for Railways-that only a short time ago I asked the question about the rates on a short line between Opua and Kawakawa, a dis- tance of seven miles, where 10s. d. is the rate charged for a distance over which in other parts of the colony the rate would only be 3s. 5d. We in the North have to pay our share of the interest on the borrowed money got to construct the other lines, and yet we are taxed because the small line there does not yield a larger 