bearing upon this case. It was simply beating blundered. Now, the part of these proceedings the air, citing cases to try and make them fit in that has pleased me least of all is this alleged with this case in order to get Mr. Cohen out of expression of regret. One member after an- the scrape. I hope to Goodness that the House other has declared that this letter contained I will not accept that letter as one of regret. expressions of regret. I have read it myself certainly shall not do so, and I shall go into the and I have heard it read, and I have failed to lobby against it, if I do so alone. The only word find one single expression of regret, except re- of regret in the whole letter is to be found where gret for the necessity that compelled him to do he regrets that the necessities of his paper should it. I am going to inflict this letter on the have been so great and of such vital importance House again, and I will ask honourable mem- to the public that the end justified the means. bers to stop me when I come to any expression Therefore our Standing Orders were of no con- of regret, so that we may argue the particular sequence. If we have our Standing Orders clause containing it. A cooler and a more wil- amended the time spent yesterday shall not have ful piece of "cheek" than this letter is it would be difficult to imagine. The writer lectures been wasted. If that is done, we shall not have a repetition of this howling farce. I will oppose the House, and he dictates to the House, and he patronises the House. I will now read his the motion in its present form. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) .- I have taken no letter, which is addressed to the Speaker :- part in this debate because I considered it a waste of time, which I believe the Premier to House through you in respect to a matter be responsible for. If he had brought down which is to engage its attention to-day. yesterday morning a sensible resolution, fining the proprietor of the Evening Star, say, $25, publication of certain evidence given before its the matter would then have ended, and we Mines Committee prior to the report of the should now have been getting on with more latter is a breach of its privileges; and the important business. With regard to the amend- Privileges Committee, to whom the subject was ment now before the Chair, I would point out referred, have reported that, with regard to that it does not say who is to pay the £15. certain questions put to me as a witness, I Supposing the proprietor of the journal refuses declined to answer the same. to pay, and supposing the reporter also refuses, who, then, can be made to pay ? I consider that state that matters of the greatest interest to the resolution ought to be amended so that the the people of New Zealand generally, and of proprietor of the Evening Star shall pay the Dunedin (where the publication took place) in amount, and not the reporter, who, I think, is particular, are involved in the question of the not to blame at all in the matter. Therefore I promotion and flotation of companies concerned think the amendment ought to be made more in the dredging industry. explicit, and unless this is done I shall be com- make the fullest inquiry into alleged grievances, pelled to vote against it. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) .- I trust the House and I believe the Select Committee were en- deavouring, in the public interest, to sift the will come to a conclusion over this matter. I think every honourable member will admit whole matter thoroughly. Nothing, in my judg- that sufficient time has now been expended over ment, could aid them so completely in prose- it. Life is too short for discussions of this kind, cuting their investigations as the publishing of and not only that, but the country expects im- the evidence, for thereby the public knew what portant business at our hands. I believe the were the subjects being inquired into and what were being omitted, and what evidence House will consult its own dignity by now com- therefore remained to be supplied to the ing to an immediate decision. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) .- Sir, Committee in order that they might have the whole facts before them before making it gives me unfeigned pleasure to find myself in their report to your honourable House. From complete agreement with my colleague for the city, Mr. Fisher. He is a gentleman who information received, I can state that the report in the Dunedin Star will have the de- desires no greasy compliments, nor am I going sired effect, and the Committee have tendered to give them, but I ask honourable members to say whether his logic is not unanswerable. I to them evidence which will enable them to make a far more searching inquiry than would submit that he put the case in its most cogent and lucid form, and his logic was absolutely otherwise have been the case. It was simply unanswerable. If since the earlier stages of with the desire of enlarging the scope of the Committee's investigations, and thereby of this wretched pettifogging incident it has been assisting your House and one of its Commit- magnified into undue importance, it is entirely tees, that I published the evidence. It was not owing to the bungling of the Premier. with any view of transgression against the An Hon. MEMBER .- It is worse than bung- wishes of the House or the Committee that ling. the report was made. Proceedings of the Com- Mr. HUTCHESON .- Yes; it is worse than mittees on the Counties and Factories Bills bungling. I am not going to impute motives, but the resolution has been worse than bungled. have been published by most of the papers of the colony, and with beneficial results. From A leader of men in this Parliament, as a leader the views enunciated in the House on these of men in warfare, would be considered to have committed an act worse than a crime if he two measures, it is the desire of the present Parliament to make these Bills suitable to the blundered as manifestly as the Premier has VOL. CXVIII .- 27. "SIR,-I wish to address your honourable "The House has already decided that the " With respect to the first point, I wish to " Your honourable House was petitioned to 