ture to say, realise in this Statement that economy which I think the present condition of the country justifies. I think our expendi- ture is too high, and unless we boldly face the position and economize we will have the drastic work of 1887 to do over again. We have had a challenge from one Minister, who asked which of the members of this House would agree to any of the votes in his district being reduced. I accept his challenge at once, and I say I am perfectly willing to accept pro rata with any member in this House a reduction in the public expenditure. I think our public expenditure now is far in excess of what the position of the country justifies, and that in every department of the service my words of prophecy will soon come true. The first item of importance we find in the Financial Statement is a refer- ence to the land- and income-tax, which at once gives an opening for the full discussion of the question of taxation, and this w is fully availed of by members. We had the member for Auck- land City (Mr. Fowlds) advocating that the land- tax should not only be increased 1d .- which is double the ordinary tax now prevailing -but that it should be increased to 3d., which opinion is indorsed by the member for Lyttelton. He says, "Quite right." The land-tax should be increased to 3d., he urges. Now, the land-tax produces something like £294,000 a year, which includes some mortgage-taxes, but all from land, and if you increase the tax to 3d. it would be an enormous increase nearly three times as much -on that taxation which the agri- culturist is at present paying. But what underlies this advocacy ? It is built on a false basis. These honourable gentlemen represent- ing cities are under the impression that the presence of population in our towns is in- fluencing the values of the agricultural lands in the colony. That is the contention, I under- stand, of the honourable member for Lyttelton -that the expenditure of public money and the presence of population are influencing the value of produce in the country ; and the Premier makes the same statement. Why, what influences the value of produce is not the presence of population in this country at all. It is the presence of consuming populations and competition in the markets of the world, especially London. Sir, these same theorists would tell us that the great population in Lon- don influences the values of the agricultural lands surrounding London. It does nothing of the kind. The value of the agricultural land surrounding London is largely determined by what other countries can bring . such produce as they can produce-to compete with them in their own markets. That being so, I would urge these honourable gentleman to go deeper into the subject, and not to jump at rash con- clusions. If it were possible for the people resident in the colony at the present time to consume the whole of our agricultural produce and to leave no surplus, we could understand that the presence of population in the towns would enormously influence the cost of the goods produced by the agriculturist, but until that comes about it is wrong for these honour- Mr. T. Mackenzie able members to urge an enormous increase of the taxation upon any one section of the com- munity not balanced by a corresponding tax on other forms of wealth. Sir, we have in con- nection with this land- and income-tax the denunciation of the old property-tax. Now, who was stronger in pleading against that tax than the honourable member for Masterton (Mr. Hogg) ? But he represents an agricultural constituency; and what astonishes me in that connection is that while he denounces the old property-tax he supports the property tax in all its forms regarding the agriculturists he represents in this House. There were some exemptions that ought to have obtained under the old property-tax and which those who fa- voured that system would have carried if they had had the opportunity, but I say that if these exemptions had been carried it would have made a more equitable, workable, and better tax than that which was substituted in its stead. Coming back to the honourable mem- ber for Masterton, I say that for him to de- nounce the old property tax, and still support a property tax as far as land is concerned, is to take up an illogical position and one he ought to abandon at once. Does the honourable gentleman not know that every other form of investment in this country is first of all per- mitted to earn a clear $300 income in return to the investor before any tax is put on ? But how does that apply to the agriculturists who have put the honourable gentleman in this House ? Whether the agriculturist goes to the bad every year or not, so long as his property is above the exemption he has to pay every farthing on that property, whether he is making anything out of it or not. Surely, if the system of property-tax was wrong regarding all other forms of property than land, it is wrong to say that a tax shall be paid by the agriculturist irrespective of results, and to free the man who has another form of investment. Then, Sir, this mortgage- tax, which has been alluded to by the honour- able gentleman who preceded me, is another form of taxation which ought also to be dealt with. I am a trustee of an estate where £3,000 is invested in mortgage. It is an estate that is left for a family, and the whole income of that family is about $140 out of this investment. But under this system of taxation there is £12 10s. de- ducted from that income for taxation, and there is no other income coming in. The taxa- tion amounts to 1s. 10d. in the pound of every pound of the income. Now, that is a system of equitable taxation that is lauded to the skies by those honourable gentlemen who have never studied it. Another person, who invests no less than $10,000 in a bank, and who wil! receive his $300 a year, and who will live in. a very excellent house, has not to pay any taxation whatever. Do members mean to say that is a fair and equitable system of taxation ? Is that placing the burden of taxation on those best able to bear it, and removing it from those least able to bear it ? I venture to say the reverse is the case, and the system of taxation that permits one person with a property of the 