fish during the first half of the day for the last half of the day. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK .- If you went to Bucharest what would you do ? The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- If I went into a hotel I should expect that the hotelkeeper would provide enough fish for me during the forenoon to do for the afternoon. In the same way, I cannot see why people cannot lay in sufficient fruit in the forenoon to do them for the afternoon. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about physic ? The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- I have dealt with the question of physic. In the same way, I cannot see why people should not lay in suffi- cient confectionery in the forenoon to do them for the afternoon. I have never been able to see any good ground for exempting these people from the operations of the half-holiday closing. When the time comes, if it is put to the test, I shall vote for removing these exemptions from the Bill. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I must say that I have some sympathy with the remarks made by the Hon. Mr. Feldwick-that is, that chemists might very easily arrange amongst themselves a certain rota in each part of a town for closing. I may say that I am familiar with the arrangements made in a city a good deal bigger than any city in New Zealand. I am referring to a time over thirty years ago, and to a city in South America. It was not a British town ; it was inhabited by people of a nationality that Britishers usually look down upon ; but in that city they had certain regula- tions with respect to doctors, chemists, and midwives. Every morning you saw in the morning paper an advertisement stating which doctor was on duty that night, which chemist was on duty that night, and which midwives were on duty that night, and that applied not only to the city generally, but to each quarter of the city ; and the other doctors, chemists, or midwives, of course, went off duty on that par- ticular night. And that is the spirit in which I think we should regulate our affairs in a matter of this kind. I am quite prepared to give chemists every reasonable facility. They certainly should get their holidays like every- body else ; but, considering that they are obliged to assist at any time for the sake of preserving human life, I think they ought to regulate their affairs in such an intelligent way that the public should know that they can always get assistance in times of sickness. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON .- I should like to say this: that the master chemists in Dunedin are all in favour of this Bill. They want to get away like other people for their half-holiday. The chemists close on Sunday, and every night, and no great harm happens. But if there should be any case of emergency there are always certain chemists who live on the premises, and they can be rung up or called on on Sunday, or on any other night in the week ; and they are quite willing to arrange amongst themselves that this should be done- that there should be a rota. That might be very well left to themselves. I have received a Hon. Mr. Twomey number of telegrams and letters from employers in Dunedin in favour of passing a Bill of this kind. I shall support this Bill. The Hon. Mr. BOLT .- I may say that the same opinion is held by the chemists in Wel- lington. I have here a resolution which was passed at a meeting held conjointly by the employés and the employers. This resolution emanates from both parties. It is as fol- lows :- " Resolved, That the master chemists ap- prove fifty-four hours as the week's work of an assistant, provided the stipulated hours be subject to arrangement between employers and employés. That the meeting recommends the Government to make the statutory half- holi- day compulsory upon chemists, with provision for opening between the hours of seven and nine p.m .; also, that provision be made for the compulsory closing of chemists' shops at eight p.m. on four days of the week, other than Saturday and the statutory holiday ; and that chemists be allowed to open on Sundays and holidays only between the hours of half-past nine and half-past ten a.m., and seven and nine p.m." So you see the feeling is quite unanimous, not only in Dunedin, but also in Wellington. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- The Hon. Mr. Bolt has just stated what I was about to put before the Council. I have received a similar circular to that referred to by the honourable gentleman. But I am not altogether satisfied with section 3. It is stated there : " All chemists' shops may be opened for the supply of medicines and surgical appliances only be- tween the hours of seven and nine o'clock in the evening, but not longer." The Hon. Colonel PITT .- On the day ap- pointed for the closing of shops. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- Yes ; but sup- posing a case of croup arose at ten o'clock, or two o'clock in the morning, and a child was thus suddenly taken ill, what would be the position of the parent who knocked up a chemist to get medicine under those circum- stances? It would be quite contrary to the provision of this clause to supply medicine after the hour named. An Hon. MEMBER. - What is the case now ? The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- That is what I want to know. The chemist can only supply medicine between the hours that are specified in this clause. I assume if he went beyond that, and if an Inspector was inclined to be objec- tionable, it is quite possible that the chemist might be held to have infringed the Act. This shows how difficult it is to make regulations in regard to chemists, where questions of serious illness come in and death may result. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- I suppose, Sir. there will be scarcely any difference of opinion as to the desirableness of exempting some shop- keepers from closing on the day appointed for the half-holiday. Of course, fish, and pastry. and fruit, and that sort of thing are perishable, and if they are not used up at once the shop- keeper may sustain more or less loss. 