AYES, 15. Louisson Smith, W. C. Arkwright Pitt Feldwick Swanson Jenkinson Reeves Tomoana Jones Rigg Walker, L. Kelly, T. Smith, A. L. Walker, W. C. NOES, 13. Pinkerton Barnicoat Johnston McLean Shrimski Bolt Bowen Montgomery Stevens Gourley Ormond Twomey. Jennings Majority for, 2. Word retained. Bill reported. The Council adjourned at half-past four o'clock p.m. # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Thursday, 5th September, 1901. First Readings-Departmental Returns-Financial Statement -Mr. Speaker-Departmental State- ments in Hansard-Financial Statement. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 FIRST READINGS. Wellington Harbour Board and Corporation Empowering Bill, Maori Relics Bill, Charitable http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero Institutions Rating Bill. # DEPARTMENTAL RETURNS. Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster - General) brought up the annual report of the Post and Telegraph Department, and moved, That it do lie on the table and be printed. Mr HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said he would like to know if the report would be printed directly, as he believed the Railway Report that was laid on the table the day before had not yet been printed or circulated. He hoped that both reports would be printed with the utmost despatch, as they were of the greatest importance to members. He hoped that the honourable member would give the necessary instructions to the Printing Office at once. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) desired to point out that all the assertions made by mem- bers on the Opposition side of the House with regard to the intentional keeping-back of docu- ments until the financial debate was over had been fully justified by the course now being pur- sued. As most of the members had spoken, documents that were necessary to properly understand the financial position of the colony were now being submitted. gentleman was making a speech, and if he was complying with the Standing Orders. Captain RUSSELL said that he always com- plied with the Standing Orders. It was honour- able Ministers on the other side of the House that did not do so. If the delay in furnishing these returns was not intentional on the part of the Government, then it must have been caused by culpable negligence. An Hon. MEMBER .- Well-timed negligence. Captain RUSSELL believed that it was well- timed negligence. In future honourable Minis- ters should be more discreet. He was surprised at the little wisdom that had been shown by the Minister in producing the document when he did. For decency's sake, that and the other documents referred to should have been kept back for a week or two, as they would have been just as useless then as now, when the de- bate was practically over. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the House had heard a good deal about these papers, and parti- cularly B .- 1, and the Government had been compared with their predecessors for keeping these papers back. He had stood it so long, and he was now going to kick. He might tell honourable members opposite, in respect to these returns, and in respect to the Financial Statement, and in respect to B .- 1, that they were the only Government that had given the House an opportunity to discuss it during and before the debate on the Financial Statement was over. Mr. J. ALLEN .- No. Mr. SEDDON .- Does the honourable mem- ber say " No" ? Mr. J. ALLEN .- I do. Mr. SEDDON said he would just show the honourable member that he was wrong. He had caught him napping this time. He would have done better to have kept quiet. The honourable member for Riccarton wanted to know why the paper B .- 1 had not yet been laid on the table of the House, when the late Mr. Ballance laid it on the table on the 23rd June, 1892. He had gone further than the honour- able member for Bruce had, for he had com- mitted it to writing, and had put the motion on the Order Paper. and therefore he (Mr. Sed- don' could not refer to it. It so happened that these honourable members had looked at the index, and they had seen that Mr. Ballance did lay a paper on the table of the House on the 23rd June, and immediately follo. ing it was "B .- 1," but there was no date opposite B .- 1 ; and because of that the honourable member for Riccarton and other members had concluded that B .- 1 was laid on the table on the same date -23rd June, 1892. Now, there was no B .- 1 laid on the table of the House at all in 1892. He had had the whole matter gone into, and he had a return showing the dates on which the Financial Statement was delivered, and B .- 1 was presented, from 1888 up to 1901 inclusive. This was certified to as an official document, and if honourable members wanted it laid on the table they could have it :- 