Mr. HEKE .- I do not know. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) .- 7.30. Sir, I do not intend to take up the time of the House at great length this evening, because I do not propose in any way to deal with the Budget which has been the subject of this debate lasting over now a considerable space of time. We have not had any further light added to that which is contained in the Financial Statement, and the criticism which has been levelled against the tables, and gene- rally against the policy of the Government as shadowed forth in that Statement, has not been of such a character as to need any reply thereto. I may say in a general way that it is astonish- ing how many members, who profess to know so much about tables and the finance of this country, should differ so materially one from the other ; and any one not understanding the true position of affairs would be quite mystified, I am sure, in listening to the different versions enunciated by the various speakers. The main reason why I now take part in this debate is to answer some points in the speech delivered by the honourable member for the Western Maori District. There were some statements made by him which I cannot possibly allow to pass unchallenged. I do not care much myself for adverse criticism-that is to say, where I feel that I am in the right. I take very little notice of the utterances of others adverse to myself on any large questions with which I am associated. Neither do I care for Press criti- cism ; and I am sure if the remarks contained in any newspaper were of a character justifying the responsible persons being brought before this House for a breach of privilege-if it de- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1. 32106019788253 pended on me to move, such a motion would The honourable member never be moved. representing the Western Maori District, in the course of his speech, condemned the Govern- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero ment on its Native policy, and its adminis- tration thereof. He told the House that this Government, in respect to the Natives, had not given effect to their public utterances ; and, as contrasted with previous Governments, he said they were a long way behind in that consideration which they should show, and which is due to the Native people. He further said that during his term in this House as a representative of his people nothing had been done to the advantage of that race. Now, on this point I must differ from the honourable gentleman. I will remind the House that during the administration of the present Government, and while he has been a member of the House, there have been more Native grievances settled than ever have been recorded in any previous Administration. We have had more work done and grievances remedied through the medium of what is known as the washing-up Bill-the Special Powers and Contracts Bill-each time it has passed than was ever achieved before by any Government. An Hon. MEMBER .- Not last session. Mr. CARROLL. - Although a similar Bill did not pass last session, last session was not the only session that this country has enjoyed in its parliamentary history. There have been washing-up Bills passed through this House at different times, and the majority of questions settled and validated have been chiefly matters specially affecting the Native race-grievances handed down through and by successive former Governments as a legacy to the pre- sent Administration. And, furthermore, I can tell the House that the Government has spared no time, no care, or attention in devoting itself to the investigation of Maori grievances. We have been plain and out- spoken with the people. We have taken them into our confidence. We have asked them time after time to tell us the real source of all their troubles, and where we have discovered them to be genuine and remediable we have not failed to set them right, and where we have found them to be beyond redemption we have not been afraid to tell them so. We have not kept them buoyed up with false hopes for any ulterior purpose ; but plain speaking to them we have found to be efficacious, and that has been one chief reason why at the present time the ma- jority of the tribes in this colony have reposed such confidence in the present Administration as they never before conceded to any other. They know where they are. It is because we have gone on the policy of plain speaking, we have taken the trouble to visit their districts and interview them personally, and find out where the pinch was-where the corns were that gave the trouble-and, as far as we could, recti- fied the evils of the past, that we now enjoy the fact of a prevailing contentment in the minds of the Maori people. The honourable member and his particular section are entirely singular in their dissatisfaction. The honour- able member mentioned the Native Land Act passed last session, and he said that it did not emanate from the Native people, that it did not embody the desires and aspirations of the Native race : it was not the kind of legisla- tion they required. The honourable member said it was manufactured solely by the Govern- ment, and that he was unaware of it. An Hon. MEMBER .- The worst Bill ever passed by this Parliament. Mr. CARROLL .- The honourable member will see by results later on that it will redound to the credit of this institution. An Hon. MEMBER .- Not at present. Mr. CARROLL .- If the honourable member lives long enough he will congratulate himself on having been a member of this Assembly when that Bill passed into law. Well, my honourable friend the member for the Western Maori District said he was against it-it was a bad Act, it was loading the land and the people with burdens. Now, I will just quote his re- marks on the Bill last year. There was no gentleman in this House who was more at my elbow all through the fight of last session when we carried this Bill through all its stages. He said,- " Sir, I stand up to inform the House what is the desire of the Maori people generally with regard to the Maori Lands Administration Bill. The wish of the Maoris in connection with this 