are protecting Mr. Cook." Does any member of this House think we are protecting Mr. Cook ? because they will find themselves mistaken if they do. I am quite sure neither the member for Wakatipu nor the member for Bruce will protect Mr. Cook or anybody else, or even the Premier if he does wrong. But upon this evidence which was adduced before the Privileges Committee the Premier said Mr. Cook has been floating companies in Dun- edin wrongfully, and defrauding people, and so on. Sir, during the course of this speech he made this remark : "I am more honourable than the member for Palmerston : I do not say things behind a person's back, and I do not play the part of a political sneak." Well, I do not know what a political sneak is. The Premier was referring to this business, and I ask you, Sir, and members of the House, to recollect what the Premier was saying about Mr. Cook. He was leading up gradually, degree by degree, to only one conclusion, and that was that Mr. Cook was the man who had given this evidence to the Evening Star. That was what he led up to. An Hon. MEMBER .- That he could have done so, if he liked. Mr. J. ALLEN .- You stated a good deal more than that. You led up and up and up to it by insinuation, and nobody who knows what in- sinuation is could have come to any other con- clusion than that you insinuated that Mr. Cook gave the evidence. And then the Hon. the Pre- mier says that he does not make insinuations, that he does not talk behind people's backs, and that he is not a political sneak. If it is not to be a political sneak to make an insinuation of that kind respecting a man who is not here to defend himself, and without even having read the evidence, then I do not know what "a political sneak " is. I am not defending Mr. Cook. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is just what you are doing. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I am defending him against the insinuation that he gave this evidence. I have read his evidence. He has given his evi- dence on oath before the Privileges Committee. I believe a man on his oath. It is not for me to say that he is telling an untruth without having any evidence that he is untruthful ; and I understand that when before the Privileges Committee on oath he denied giving this evi- dence to the Evening Star. The Premier ac- cepts that as of no value, and, in the absence of the man, insinuates that he gave the evidence to the paper. I say it is bemeaning the posi- tion of Premier, bemeaning our Parliament, that the man who is at the head of it should make an insinuation of that kind against any man unless he has something to prove that what he says is correct. Mr. Cook may be all that the Premier says he is, but the Premier has no right to make these accusations, and members know that perfectly well. It is wrong that the House should sit quietly and hear either Mr. Cook or members accused of such things. I have no sympathy with insinuations Mr. J. Allen at least here to defend themselves, and can fight it out, but Mr. Cook is not. And, though I do not know him, I say the insinuations ought not to have been made against him that have been made by the Premier this evening. Then, we are told that the honourable member for Waka- tipu and the members round about are pro- tecting this man. An Hon. MEMBER .- That touches them " on the raw." Mr. J. ALLEN .- The honourable member for Caversham is entirely wrong. It does not touch either myself or the honourable member for Wakatipu " on the raw." The man who gets touched "on the raw " is the man who does wrong, not the men who are innocent ; and we are innocent, for we have no connection with Mr. Cook in any way whatever. I do not know any- thing about him, except from the evidence which has been produced before the Commit- tee, and in regard to that there is a great deal. more to be said on the other side than appears to the public at present. But the Premier has prejudged the case, and has prejudged it to such an extent that he has said to the country that Mr. Cook has been defrauding the people and working swindles in Dunedin, and he has done that without having the evidence before him. As I say, he has prejudged the matter : and if he has prejudged it wrongly, and it should be proved that what he has stated with regard to Mr. Cook is wrong, what a gross injustice he has done to the man. An Hon. MEMBER .- These charges have been published in the Press months ago. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Exactly ; that is my state- ment ; but part of the evidence was only in the public Press: that is the gravamen of the matter; and the evidence afterwards taken in Committee modifies to a very large extent the evidence which was taken during the first two days. There was not any cross-ex- 8.30. amination in the first two days. After- wards these matters were inquired into by ques- tions and cross-questions, and a great deal more light was thrown upon the thing, so far as my judgment goes. But, whether he is guilty or is not guilty, that is not the question of the moment. I say it is unfair to any man whose case is being examined that the Premier should accuse him of being a scamp and a thief- for that is what it is-before the Committee has re- ported on the case : it is unfair and unmanly to have done so, and I hope the House will resent the action on the part of the Pre- mier. The Premier said this information was given in order to smooth over the Press. I think the desire to smooth over the Press comes from the other side. Is the Premier afraid of the Press? I would like to ask honourable members if the Premier fears the Press? If ever I have come across a man who fears the Press-and who has given evidence of it to-day-it is the Premier. He would sacrifice the privileges of this House in order to keep sweet with the Press. The members on this side of the House have desired to do what is right to the Press and to this House. The 