has increased more than it has ever done in the colony previous to this Ministry coming in. Mr. Ballance added,- "I think if honourable members agree with me that we can do without borrowing that is the true policy to pursue in the future." Since these words were spoken what have we done? We have raised and spent from sur- plus revenue-the true source from which Mr. Ballance said public works should be done - £2,225,000, and from direct borrowing we have raised about eleven millions and a quarter in ten years, increasing the net debt from thirty- seven millions in 1891 to over forty - eight millions in 1901-not bad for a Government which went into power determined to exercise economy. Let me now quote Sir Joseph Ward, one of Mr. Ballance's lieutenants at that time. In the financial debate of 1892 Mr. Ward, re- plying to Mr. Rolleston, said,- " We have indicated clearly and fully that we do not intend to go in for borrowing, and yet the honourable gentleman is not satisfied. He even endeavours to make the country be- lieve that we do not intend to do what we say." The country knows now that they have not done what they said, whether they intended to or not. Mr. Ward, in the same speech, also said,- "It has been a customary thing to indicate that we were going in for a borrowing policy either within or outside the colony. It was generally assumed that we were going to borrow outside the colony. When they heard that we were going to do nothing of the kind they breathed again, and then it was assumed https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 that we were going to borrow within the colony itself. . . The Government do not pro- pose to borrow either within or without the colony. I am sure the ironical laughter I hear http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero is only an indication of the disappointment they feel." That is in Hansard, Volume 75. Since then we have not only borrowed again and again. but we have done so in a most lavish way, and the results have not been consistent with what the honourable gentleman then said. He also said,- "The Government seriously intend that, as far as New Zealand is concerned, their policy shall be exactly as it is stated in the Financial Statement-one of self-reliance, and that we shall live within our means." These are the words of Mr. Ward, the present Minister for Railways, in the financial debate of 1892. I promised to show the honourable member for Auckland City-I am sorry he is not here-and the House and the country how the burden of interest is increasing on the general taxpayer. I will do it now. Since 1896 the interest paid has been :- Interest paid. 1896 . £1,683,775 .. . 1897 1,769,469 .. .. 1898 .. 1,741,412 .. 1899 1,767,467 .. . . 1900 1,749,393 . .. .. 1901 1,745,616 Mr. Graham £1,819,225, an increase of interest payable since 1896-only five years-of £135,450. This does not include interest on land for settlements nor for advances to settlers, although the honour- able member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) implied that it did. Sir, I am going to prove that the interest on the advances-to-settlers and land-for-settlements loans is not included in the £1,819,225, which is an increase of interest on the general taxpayers of £73,609 over last year. If you will turn to page 5 of the estimates, under the heading " Per- manent charges," you will find that on the advances to settlers there are sums of £45,000, $15,000, and £7,200 put down for interest, amounting to £67,200. This amount is not carried out in the money column, nor is it included in the total sum of £1,819,225. On the next page you will find, with regard to the land for settlements, there is £62,693 set down as having to be paid as interest on the various sums borrowed, and it is not carried into the total. There is simply a note in each case " Amount to be recovered from the Land for Settlements Account." There is another amount of $8,000 for the same purpose treated in the same way, and these three sums amount in the aggregate to £137,893, for which the colony is responsible, and we have got to pay more interest than is shown in the total put here by that sum. Why is it shown thus ? I say that, in my opinion, it is done deliberately to deceive the people who lend the money in the Old Country. It makes the amount appear £137,893 less than it really is. Now, all money paid for interest should be properly set out and included in the total sum of interest payable. When we receive the interest, and as we receive it from those who borrow the money, it should appear as a recovery on the revenue side of the account. This would be the honest and straight-out way to show that account, and then no such mistakes could occur as were made by the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier). If we add the sum of £1,819,225 to the sum of £137,893 it makes our total payment for interest £1,957,118. That is the actual amount, and not £137,000 less. It is true, as I have said, that £137,000 has got to be recovered ; but the colony is re- sponsible. The colony is in the position of the backer of a bill. If the people who borrow from Government do not pay it the colony has got to pay it ; and whatever is paid, whether it be the whole of the amount or only a portion, it ought to be shown on the receipt side of the revenue account. Then we should always know actually what we did get back, and there would be no mistake about what was recovered and what was not, and the difference would show what the colony would have to find. There is no doubt about that. An Hon. MEMBER. - Did you get these figures from the Treasury ? Mr. GRAHAM .- I did not get any figures from the Treasury, or from any member of the House, or from any one else. I collected them ; and any one will find them accurate if 