ter would be before the Cabinet in the course of a few days, and it would then be decided whether a Bill should be introduced this session or not. Mr. BOLLARD had no objection to a Bill . similar to the one that was passed in the inter- ests of Wellington. Mr. HALL-JONES said that, in the event of a Public Works Act Amendment Bill coming down this session, he would be very glad to introduce such a provision. # TEACHERS' SALARIES. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked the Government, If they will see that, in intro- ducing the new scale for teachers, the status and emoluments of infant-mistresses are pre- served, their duties being of a most important character ? Mr. HALL-JONES ( Minister for Public Works) said that, as regarded the status of school-teachers, there was nothing in the pro- posed scale to interfere with the discretion of the Boards in assigning to the teacher any status they might think fit. With regard to the salaries, under the proposed Scale No. 1 he believed there were a few in Otago and one or two in Canter- bury whose salaries would be affected. Under Scale No. 2 he did not know of any case of teachers who would be affected. However, this was a matter that would come before the House, and the House would have an oppor- tunity of dealing with it. # PATRICK J. OWENS. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) asked the Govern- ment, Why the recommendation of the Public Petitions Committee of last session in the matter https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 of the petition of Patrick J. Owens, late asylum attendant, Auckland, was not given effect to ? The matter involved in this case was a rather painful and sad one. Mr. Owens for over twenty http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero years had held the position of attendant in the Auckland Lunatic Asylum. In the exercise of his duties he nearly lost his sight, and he had to retire. He had splendid testimonials from the doctors who from time to time had been in charge of that institution, and also from Dr. MacGregor, Inspector-General ; and at the time he went out what then was considered fair and reasonable compensation was paid to him, but instead of a slight improvement in his sight he had got worse. He had a large family, and most of the members of it were help- less. The case came before the Public Petitions Committee last session, and they recommended his case to the favourable con- sideration of the Government, but up to the present time nothing had been done. Now, there were precedents where men under similar circumstances had got compensation, and it so happened that, instead of their health im- proving, they had got worse, and the Govern- ment had given further compensation. He could assure the Government that this was a hard case, and unless the Government gave further relief there was nothing for it but for Mr. Owens to apply to the Charitable Aid Board for help. He did not think the Government would Mr. Hall-Jones like to see an old servant of the State being reduced to such a position, and he hoped the Government would give effect to the recommen- dation of the Committee. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for 4.30. Public Works) said it was a regrettable thing that an officer who had been so long in the public service should be reduced to a posi- tion as related by the honourable member. We all regretted that sort of thing, but the question was whether this officer's eyesight was affected by his work. Now, the evidence before the de- partment was that it did not affect his eyesight. We knew many cases in other departments, and in other walks of life, such as with private em- ployers, where the eyesight was affected not be- cause of the work that was done, but because of some physical defect. That seemed to be the case with this poor unfortunate man. His case was brought before the department, and he was given the fullest compensation which the law allowed ; in fact, the department went further, because when the man received compensation he was also given three months leave on full pay. He thought that was very fair treat- ment, and it was accorded to this man because he had been a good officer in the ser- vice ; but members must bear in mind that the Government had a duty to perform not only to Owen but to every person in the colony, and under the circumstances, and seeing that the colony had given all that the law allowed, he failed to see why the Government should be called upon to do any more. Mr. BOLLARD said the Committee had re- commended further compensation. Mr. HALL-JONES said the Committee could not possibly have known all the circumstances connected with the case. The Government had the evidence which was put before the de- partment - that the man's eyesight was not affected by his work. He might say, in reply to a remark of the honourable gentleman, that he knew of no case where a man who had re- ceived compensation had afterwards received further compensation. DUNEDIN HOSPITAL TRUSTEES. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) asked the Government, Whether their a:tention has been called to the report of the August meeting of the Dunedin Hospital Trustees, at which these gentlemen gave a direct denial regarding the charges of ill-treatment which the member for Waihemo witnessed of a patient named John Mackenzie, although these trustees had no personal knowledge of the facts, as not one of them was present when the suffering occurred of which that member complained ; and, fur- ther, whether the Minister has read the ex- planation made by the doctor attending the patient of his conduct in that connection, and his sweeping declarations of deceit, untruthful- ness, and fabrication which he wishes the pub- lic to believe attaches to those who did not, and do not, appreciate his action in connec- tion with this case ; and, if so, will he set up a Commission to investigate the charges made by the member for Waihemo regarding 