Egmont County Bill, h., Rep. Sel. Com. 462 Election of Chairman of Committees, l.c., q. (Hon. Mr. Reeves), 454 Election of School Committees and Education Boards, h., q. (Mr. Laurenson), 633 Ellesmere Railway-station, h., q. (Mr. Lawry), 623 Engineers' Certificates, h., q. (Mr. Millar), 633 Exclusion of Strangers, h., q. (Mr. Symes), 150 Exportation of Arms Bill, l.c., 1R. 640 ; 2R. 661 F. Fiji, h., q. (Mr. Herries), 614 Financial Statement, h., m. 1, 46, 77, 95, 151, 207, 226, 278, 484, 506 Findt, Maria, h., q. (Mr. Colvin), 620 Firemen's Certificates, h., q. (Mr. Millar), 633 Foreign Companies: Payment of Stamp-tax, h., m. (Mr. Fowlds), 597 Foreign Companies trading in New Zealand, h., q. (Mr. Fowlds), 657 Fraser, Hector, h., q. (Mr. Monk), 624 Fraser, The late Mr. M. J. S. Mackenzie and Colonel, l.c., m. (Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker), 558 Fraser, The late Colonel, h., m. (Mr. Seddon), 562 Friendly Societies, l.c., q. (Hon. Mr. Jennings), 640 Fulloon, Emily Maria, h., q. (Mr. Herries), 657 Funeral of the late President Mckinley, h., Obs. (Mr. Seddon), 563 https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 G. Gisborne Appointment to Upper House, h., q. $ (Mr. Ell), 623 Government Loans to Local Bodies Act, h., q. Mr. Hogg), 611 H. Hansard, h., m. (Mr. Seddon), 634 Hansard, Departmental Statements in, h., m. 224 Hospital and Charitable Aid Boards, l.c., m. (Hon. Mr. Jenkinson), 500 Hospital Nurses Registration Bill, l.c., Cons. of Amend. 202 I. Imported Railway-carriages, l.c., q. (Hon. Mr. Bowen), 398 Informal Petitions, l.c., m. (Hon. Mr. Jenkin- son), 292 Invercargill Reserve Leasing Bill, l.c., 3R. 687 J. Judgments of High Court of Rarotonga, h., q. (Mr. Herries), 611 K Kaikorai Valley, Railway for, h., q. (Mr. Bar- clay), 650 Kaituna Postal Arrangements, h., q. (Mr. Rhodes), 630 Kerr, Death of the Hon. J., l.c., m. (Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker), 149 Kingi, Tewi, and Others, h., q. (Mr. Lang), 656 L. Landless Maoris in Waikato, h., q. (Mr. Kaihau), 654 Law Amendment Bill, l.c., m. 594; Com. 596, 688 Lee, Mr., late Inspector of Schools, Welling- ton, h., q. (Mr. Fisber), 633 Library Accommodation, l.c., m. (Hon. Mr. Rigg), 687 : h., m. (Mr. Seddon), 646 Licensing Bill, h., 1R. 644 Lighthouse, Capa Brett, h., q. (Mr. Houston), 650 Limitation of Profits and Prevention of Rings and Combines Bill, h., 1R. 460 Liquor Licenses in King-country, h., q. (Mr. Lawry), 613 M Mackenzie and Geraldine Counties Boundaries Alteration Bill, h., Rep. Sel. Com. 619 Mackenzie, The late Mr. M. J. S., I.c., m. (Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker), 558 : h., m. (Mr. Seddon), 560 Mail - trains : Onehunga and Auckland, h., q. (Mr. Napier), 628 Mangonui Mounted Infantry, h., q. (Mr. Hous- ton), 610 Maori Carvings and Curios, h., q. (Mr. Ell), 621 Maori Hostelry at the Bluff, h., q. (Mr. Parata), 65 Maori Relics Bill, h., 1R. 204 Married Men in Permanent Forces, h., q. (Mr. Bollard), 612 Mckenzie, Sir John, Death of, l.c., Obs. (Hon. the Speaker), 149 McKinley, President: Attempted Assassination, l.c., m. (Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker), 399 : h., Obs. (Mr. Seddon), 339 ; m. (Mr. Seddon), 462 MoKinley, President, Death of, l.c., m. (Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker), 557 : h., m. (Mr. Sed- don), 559 Mckinley, President, Funeral of, l.c., m. (Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker), 596 : h., m. (Mr. Seddon), 563 Members' Election Expenses, h., q. (Mr. Fisher), 610 Military Pensions Act, h., q. (Mr. J. Allen), 610 Miners' Rights Fee Reduction Bill, l.c., 1R. 640 ; 2R. 689 : h., 3R. 597 Miners' Rights Fees, l.c., m. (Hon. Mr. Bolt), 687 Mines Statement, h., 570 