the colony, and as that from which one has to judge as to whether it is progressing or other- wise. Sir, I noticed when the Right Hon. the Premier was reading that Financial Statement he gave the credit balance of the colony as being $532,564. Well, it is now publicly known to all members of this House that this is the surplus shown in the present Financial State- ment. Now, the remark that I have to make in regard to the surplus is this : that within my knowledge, during all the years that I have been in this House, we have had each succes- sive session a Financial Statement showing a surplus of somewhere about the same amount. To my mind, that does not argue a more flourishing condition of things than hitherto under the administration of the present Go- vernment. And, Sir, I form that opinion by asking myself this question : Supposing that £530,000 odd of surplus were devoted to the purpose of paying off part of our national debt, probably we would not have a surplus at all next year. Sir, that, to my mind, would be a test which should sa isfy members of this House as to whether there is any object in arguing about the financial position of the colony. I would suggest to the House this : that we should ear-mark and put on one side the surplus which now exists of $532,564. Do not let it be tampered or interfered with until the Financial Statement of next year is brought down, and we see what surplus we have then over and above this money. Now, what I want to know, and what I am not satisfied about, is this: If we have this £530,000 odd of money regularly remaining to our credit year after year, where, then, is the necessity that we should be continually borrowing more money to carry on with ? Sir, I am afraid that if we go on as we have been doing we will be continually increas- ing our national debt, which will have to be borne by the land and the people of the colony, and the end will be that we shall find it utterly impossible ever to get rid of it. And I must say that I look with very very grave suspicion upon this continual building-up of the national debt. I desire to impress upon members that, though I am a Maori, I know a very great deal of the ins and outs of these financial matters. It seems to me that it is my duty to guard against and to prevent any portion of this debt being saddled upon the Maori lands. Now, Sir, I am advised that the national debt of New Zealand at the present time totals somewhere about $50,000,000, and I suppose if that money were divided out on a population basis it would come to about $50 or $60 per head of the men, women, and children of the colony. I think it will be a very sad thing if this continues, and the Government are pre- vented from doing any more good for the colony. The Maori inhabitants of New Zea- land are called upon to suffer many and grievous disabilities, and have been called upon to suffer many more during the years I have been in this House. I will endeavour to explain what these grievances are. The lands of the Maori i charge for subdivisional surveys on the land. inhabitants are being purchased by the Go- Mr. Kaihau think, Sir, I am not beyond the mark in sating that within my own district upwards of two millions of acres have been purchased in that manner. Therefore I cannot say I am satisfied that the welfare of the Maori people is pro- gressing ; but I must say that their burdens and troubles have been greatly increased during the years I have been in the House. Sir, I hoped and believed when I was first returned to this House that it was the desire of the Government to relieve the Maoris of some of the burdens that then oppressed them. I thought, after certain in- terviews between the Premier and represen- tatives of the Maori people, that measures would be introduced to alleviate their griev- ances. Now, Sir, a very serious misfortune has befallen the Maori people through the passing of "The Maori Lands Administration Act, 1900," and the trouble in connection with that Act is this : The Maori people are turning round in every direction to find out what is going to be done, and they have come to the conclusion that it is going to do them a very serious in- jury. The origin of that Act was this: 11.0. The Maori people desired to be given a Council to administer their lands and decide how they should deal with them, and they sub- mitted their proposals to this House in the form of a Bill, which did not pass this House, but which they understood was the foundation upon which the Act of last year was framed. But when the Maori Lands Administration Act of last year was passed and circulated amongst them the Maoris were surprised to und that it did not contain any one of the matters for which they had stipulated. They were given no power to act as they desired, and they were bitterly disappointed. They found that it was a much more grievous burden than they have hitherto had to bear. There is no benefit de- rivable by them under the Act. The money that is required to be expended is so large that no benefit is left to the owners of the land. I will endeavour to illustrate it in this way : On the day the Maori Councils are constituted the expenses will probably amount to about Is. per acre over the whole of the land to be dealt with by the Council. Then, there is this further question to be contemplated : The Maoris have no means of estimating how many years the lands will be under lease before they come back to them. Under the Act lands may be leased for twenty-one years, and there is a provision in the Act which renders it competent for the lessee to renew for a further term of twenty- one years. When the lease comes to be re- newed the improvements will be charged as an extra burden on the land. Then, there is the other trouble in connection with the renewal of the leases, as I have explained. Then, we have to contemplate the cost of survey, which bas also to be borne by the land. When we have got bevond that stage we have still another difficulty to contemplate: when the land is subdivided that means a further Then, after the subdivisional surveys have been 