and the poorer people will suffer in consequence, but the farmers will suffer the most, because if the trust regulates the price of flour they will also regulate the price of wheat ; so that this is one of those threatened monopolies that the whole colony should rise and protest against, and prevent. Then, there is another matter I wish to speak of, and that is with regard to land for settlements at Wanganui. Wanganui has for many years been in want of land on which people can be placed. The late John Ballance was the instigator of the Land for Settlements Act; and if there is any place in this colony that deserves to reap some benefit from that Act it is the Town of Wanganui and district, for which he was so long the member. We know that there is a cry throughout the colony for more land for settlements, and those members who are opposing loans are doing their level best at the same time to try and get land purchased in their districts. But they ought to know that without a loan the land cannot be purchased ; and I think the time has come when Wanganui is entitled to a fair proportion of the benefits of that Act. Not only should an arrangement be made under which some of the land in that district should be purchased back for settle- ment purposes, but I think it is high time that the Native Department or the Lands Depart- ment woke up with reference to obtaining the Native lands that are at present held by the Crown and cutting them up in such a way that settlement can take place. In this connection I might mention the following blocks: 500 acres, mouth of the Kai Iwi-good agricultural ; https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 several blocks, containing 63,732 acres, Taua- kira, Te Tui, and Taonui Nos. 1 and 2. Taonui Block No. 1 contains 7,000 acres, and is only a short distance from town, and the land is good. The Tauakira Block No. 1 is about / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero seventeen miles from town, and is good land for settlement, and contains 30,000 acres. When we consider that the Government have held these blocks for a number of years, I think it will be admitted the time has come when something should be done with them in the way of settlement. Now, as I say, not one single acre within thirty or forty miles of Wanganui has been acquired for settlement, and therefore I maintain it is high time that Wanganui had its fair share. There is only one other matter with which I intend to deal, for, as I have said, I am not going to occupy the time of the House unnecessarily. This other matter, in fact, furnishes the very reason why I got up to speak in this debate. I am referring now to & statement that was made by the honourable member for Bruce in the course of his speech. Speaking earlier in this debate, the honour- able gentleman stated : "Then, Sir, I look to this year, and I come across an item the honourable member for Wanganui will be in- terested in. I am sorry he is not in the Chamber just now." And the honourable member for Bruce then went on to charge the Government with bribery in giving a subsidy to the River Settlers' Company in Wanganui. Continuing, the honourable member said : "I Mr. Willis see a vote down for a Wanganui steamer, and I understand the story to be told about the Wanganui River steamers is this - perhaps the honourable member who has recently joined the House, Mr. Haselden, member for Patea, will be able to confirm what I say." Mr. HUTCHESON. - Is the honourable gentleman allowed to quote from Hansard of this session ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable member has no right to quote from Hansard of this session. He may only quote from notes that he himself has made. Mr. WILLIS .- I am quoting from notes. There was a charge made against the Govern- ment that they have been guilty of bribery by granting an additional subsidy to the Wanganui River Settlers' Company, and that state- ment, I say, is utterly incorrect, and I am sur- prised the honourable member should have made it. The honourable member led off by stating there were many corrupt acts on the part of the Government, but the only two he mentioned were this one in reference to the Wanganui River Company, and one which referred to the district of another member of this House. With regard to that steamer contract, it is only right, as this charge has been made, that I should make an explana- tion. Many years ago Messrs. Hatrick and Company were given a contract for the carry- ing of mails up the Wanganui River. They carried out the service remarkably well. They put a great deal of enterprise into it, and, gene- rally speaking, there was no cause of complaint so far as the carrying-out of the work was concerned. But the settlers themselves com- plained that the charges were high. Well, I will say, in justice to Messrs. Hatrick and Co., that these charges were in conformity with the contract entered into by the Govern- ment. But the settlers considered the charges were unreasonable ; and not only so, but the fact of the charges being high was so serious to them that after considerable trouble they formed themselves into a company and pur- chased a steamer. When the contract was entered into with Messrs. Hatrick and Co. there was an undertaking in that contract that, in the event of the service being further ex- tended, that contract also should be given to Messrs. Hatrick and Co. Well, Sir, during last session the question was put to the Pre- mier in the House whether he would grant to this new company the right of competing for tenders for the conveyance of the mails, and he said that he would, and it was considered as a pledge given by the Premier. On the strength of that promise certain arrangements were entered into by the River Settlers' Company, and representations were then made to the Government for the right to contract for the mails. But a reply came back from the de- partment to the effect that in the original contract it was agreed that a continuation of the contract for a further period should be given to Mr. Hatrick. Well, Sir, the River Settlers' Company considered they had a very great complaint ; they considered they had the 