brought into exercise to protect those rights and privileges whenever they were assailed. Sir, I desire to express my strong disapproval of that line of conduct. If it be said that a Government supporter ought not so to speak, I take leave to say that I care not one jot for the opinions of members on either side when discussing a question of this kind, and besides, there are no points in being an undeviating supporter of the Government. You do not get medals for that. But, as proving the weakness of the Premier's position, neither he nor the Minister for Railways, nor the Minister of Justice, could quote one single precedent in support of the attitude they now assume. Not one. Let me briefly relate the circum- stances of this case : Parliament declared that a breach of privilege had been committed. It immediately set up a Privileges Committee to inquire into all the circumstances surrounding the case. A witness refused to give evidence. The Committee took the proper constitutional course, and at once reported to the House the conduct of the recalcitrant witness. Can the Premier adduce one instance to show that that course was wrong? The honourable gentle- man knows he cannot; and why he adopted this particular attitude is to me, to this mo- ment, a perfect mystery. He has on former occasions worthily defended the privileges and the dignity of Parliament. What has brought about this peculiar change it is not for me to say. Could a case be more weak-could any honourable gentleman occupying the posi- tion of leader of this House be reduced to a more pitiable position than to be compelled to quote such a case as that contained in the charges against Judge Chapman, which was discussed in this House on the 7th August, 1874 ? This is an endeavour to get from this recalci- trant witness the name of the person who sup- plied him with the shorthand report of the evi- dence, which is the property of this House, the property of this Parliament. This witness de- clines to furnish the name of that person, and, in addition, he aggravates the offence-he delibe- rately flouts Parliament-and this conduct the leader of the House defends. Not only that, but the honourable gentleman eulogizes the conduct of this witness. For instance, the honourable gentleman, in his elaborate testi- mony to the journalistic ability of the witness, says that, so far from being punished, he ought to receive so many hundreds a year extra from his employers. I never before heard a Premier or any other member of the House eulogize the conduct of a witness who had deliberately set the authority of the House at defiance. It is the first case of the kind in the history of this Parliament. The honourable gentleman, as I say, quoted the case of Mr. Luckie and Mr. Ward, to which I have just referred. In that case, after the House had resolved that a breach of privilege had been committed, and the House had decided to censure Mr. Luckie, who was a member of the House, Mr. Luckie was called in to receive the decision of the House, which was announced to him by the Speaker. Mr. which I wish specially to direct the attention of the House, this being the parallel case upon which the honourable gentleman founded his whole position this morning - Mr. Luckie said, -- "He might at the same time say that his position, and he thought also that of the House, in dealing with the matter was very much simplified by the handsome and frank manner in which the gentleman from whom he ob- tained the information came forward and said that, to save further complications, he (Mr. Luckie) had better give his name as that of the person from whom the information was ob- tained. The publication of that evidence through his instrumentality resulted from mis- apprehension, in consequence of his not having distinguished between information received from a member of the Committee and from a witness examined before that Committee. He should not have thought of divulging information ob- tained from a member of the House ; but he considered a witness under no formal obligation to maintain silence respecting his evidence. He trusted that, having made this explanation and apology, his remarks would be taken in the same frank spirit by the House as they were offered by him." Now, Sir, has the gentleman who supplied Mr. Cohen with the shorthand evidence taken before the Mines Committee in this clandestine and surreptitious manner come forward to announce to the House that he is the culprit ? Mr. SEDDON .- He is not a member of the Committee. Mr. FISHER .- How do we know he is not ? Does the honourable gentleman know ? If he is not he could not come forward. But what if he is a member-and that is what we want to find out ? Mr. SEDDON .- It is not the question of privilege then, it is to get at some member. Mr. R. THOMPSON .- You will not do that. Mr. FISHER .- Yes ; I agree with the honour- able member for Marsden. I am afraid we shall not find that out. But I want to point out to the House again the urter fallacy-I will not say the stupidity- of quoting a case such as this as a precedent for our guidance in the case before us. In the case quoted, the culprit attended in his place in the House and apolo- gized for his conduct. Now, has any person apologized for the offence committed in this case? No; the Premier, referring to the explana- tion offered by the person who surreptitiously obtained and published the evidence given before the Mines Committee, said he was not culpable, and he then proceeded to eulogize him, and to contend that the explanation was satisfactory. Satisfactory ! Why, I heard members all round me say that the so-called explanation of to-day is in reality a serious aggravation of the of- fence. The letter from Mr. A. E. Cohen, and from those who are behind him, advising him . -of course, they must defend their connection, with the letter-that letter, I say, from Mr. Cohen to the Speaker is not only an insult to this House, but it is the most impudent pro- 