ettes, my growth was never impeded from smoking them, nor, so far as I know, was my health ever affected from it. I believe a cigar- ette of good tobacco is better than a cabbage- leaf cigar at any time A cigarette is a clean smoke every time. Why, there are honourable gent lemen in this Council who smoke pipes that would kill you ; you can know them a couple of yards off. All the time they are smoking they are absorbing the poisons of nicotine. They sometimes suck in a quarter of a tea- spoonful at a time, and get upset for the whole day. The fact is, that there are already re- medies against this evil, and I say it is a public scandal that those remedies are not applied. We have Adulteration Acts in this colony, and can you tell me where they are enforced either in regard to milk or anything else ? I say there is not the slightest effort made to enforce them. I am told that in some places cigarettes are sold to boys at 3d. a packet of ten cigarettes. What are those cigarettes made of? If the boys did as I do-made their own cigarettes out of genuine tobacco-I will guarantee very little harm will be done. But the boys' funds are usually limited, and the consequence is they buy all kinds of cheap trash. I say if the Adulteration Acts were enforced it would tend to an improvement in the health of the public generally. I consider it a disgrace to the Go- vernment that these Acts which are on the statute-book are never enforced. There are no responsible officers to enforce them, and private individuals scarcely dare take action, even if, in the case of milk, they know it comes from a dirty dairy. They cannot go on playing the spy and take samples, and go through all that kind of performance. Then, to go further- and it is quite apropos of this Bill-there is the question of the liquor sold in the country. The honourable gentleman dragged in the liquor- trade. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- No. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK .- Well, you as- sisted to drag it in. I say the inspection of the liquor sold in this country ought to be taken in hand by a responsible officer. Every hotel- keeper should be liable at any moment to have bis whisky or his beer taken and inspected. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- There is only water put in it. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK .- You would not say that if you were speaking. You would say that all sorts of things were put in. The fact of the matter is that the evil arises from the sale of cigarettes made of noxious materials, and it lies entirely with the Government to prevent the sale of such things. As regards the Bill itself, I think the honourable gentle man has introduced it under an erroneous idea altogether. He has, no doubt, been prompted by some committee of benevolent ladies or something of that kind. We owe all Bills of this nature to those ladies. This Bill is going to be, not a public nuisance, but a Council nuisance for some time to come, I suspect. The strin- gency of it perfectly satisties me that the honourable gentleman is really acting under 1 1 that one could imagine as proceeding from ladies. Section 4 says, " The Court before whom any boy is convicted of a third offence under section three of this Act may, instead of in- flicting a penalty as provided by that section, sentence such boy to a whipping." Why, the suggestion is horrible, and it warrants my straight-out opposition to the Bill. I shall conclude my remarks by moving, That this Bill be read a second time this day three months. Debate adjourned. The Council adjourned at ten minutes to five o'clock p.m. # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Wednesday, 11th September, 1901. Breach of Privilege. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. # BREACH OF PRIVILEGE. INTERRUPTED DEBATE. Interrupted debate on the question, " That in the matter of the breach of privilege that has arisen through the publicity of the evidence given before the Goldfields and Mines Com- mittee in respect to the promotion and flota- tion of certain dredging claims by Mr. Cook, by the Dunedin Evening Star, the House accepts as satisfactory the expression of regret of the representative of that journal, and this House resolves to proceed no further in the matter; and the amendment proposed thereto To omit the words ' as satisfactory,' in line 5." Amendment, to strike out words " as satis- factory " agreed to. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) .-- I move, That after the words "accepts the expression of regret of the representative of that journal, and " the words "on payment of the sum of #15" be inserted. It will then read, "The House accepts the expression of regret of the representative of that journal, and, on payment of the sum of #15, this House resolves to proceed no further with the matter." I think this will meet the wishes of nearly all honourable members who have spoken in the course of the debate. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- I do not think the amendment is quite clear. I do not quite understand whether it is proposed to inflict the penalty on the proprietors of the news- paper or the parliamentary correspondent. Mr. SEDDON .- I do not care who pays it. Mr. MASSEY .- But it is not for the Premier to say ; it is for the House to say, and I think the Minister who moved the amendment should give some explanation of what is really in- tended. The House is being placed in a very unfair position. I shall be happy to give way if the Minister will explain what is proposed ; 