further amendment then, or to vote against the original motion. The Minister of Mines Atkinson has given notice that he is going to move an Bollard amendment. He has not told us what it is. Collins The secret, and silent, and surreptitious way Ell in which this amendment is brought down to Fraser, W. the House may be satisfactory to the Minister Hardy of Mines. I can see no object in being silent Haselden or secret over is. He might just as well have told us at once what it is. We are to assume that a great luminary is about to bring down a wonderful amendment to the House, to do every- move that the words "as satisfactory " be thing that is right. That is the usual way with struck out. the Premier, but there is nothing in it. I shall not vote for this proposed amendment, although I admit the principle, because I think the understand the position, Sir. It appears to me accused person ought first to be brought to the that if we carry the honourable gentleman's bar of the House. When the other question amendment we shall be in the same position as comes to be put, I shall reserve my right to de- we were before. If we leave the rest of the termine whether I think it is satisfactory or words in to the end of the motion, it will still not. If it is unsatisfactory we shall then have mean that we are going no further in the an opportunity of voting against it ; but if the matter. If that is to be the result of the caucus that has lately been held, I do not Premier thinks fit to bring down a resolution more in accord with what he ought to have done, think those who are in favour of upholding as the gentleman who is supposed to lead this the honour of the House have gained anything. House and look after its privileges, then I shall They have given the Premier what he wants. support it. I suppose the Premier, having put It simply means that we are going to let the up his colleague to make this amendment, is pre- offender go after telling him that his explana- pared to admit that he made a mistake origin- tion is not satisfactory. ally. I am glad that is so. Perhaps it is the pressure of the caucus that has led to the scien- tific adjustment that was previously spoken of give us any further explanation, we have only by the member for Auckland City, or some other to try and drag it out of him. It is usual when a Minister moves an amendment to tell adjustment which the caucus has been able to bring about. I can only hope that the adjust- us what the effect of it will be, and members ment forced on the Premier by the caucus is a ought not to be asked to vote upon a question satisfactory one. At any rate we shall hear it until they know exactly what the effect of it is presently, and we shall then be able to judge going to be. I believe the Minister intends to whether it is a satisfactory one or whether we do well, but he should inform the House what shall have to adjust it still further. he intends to do. Mr. FISHER .- Sir,- Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable member has spoken. Mr. Allen had not spoken going to say that in connection with this matter since the amendment. we seem to be getting into a somewhat awk- Mr. FISHER .- When the Premier submitted ward and perhaps difficult position. Sir, it is the fresh amendment. quite evident from the amendment that has Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER. - There is no been moved that the Premier has discovered, fresh amendment before the Chair. There can perhaps from the opinions expressed during the be only one amendment before the Chair. afternoon-perhaps from the opinions expressed Mr. FISHER .- Well, I will not be cut out. at the informal caucus that we are given to The House divided on the question, " That understand was held this afternoon-that a all the words down to the word "accepts" stand majority of the members are not favourable to part of the question." the motion he proposed in the early part of the day. Consequently he had, so to speak, climbed AYES, 42. down by arranging with his colleague, the Allen, E. G. Hogg O'Meara Minister of Justice, to move an amendment, Allen, J. Hornsby Palmer and with that object an amendment has been Arnold Houston Parata put from the Chair that all the words down to Barclay Kaihau Seddon and including the word "accepts" in the mo- Bennet Steward Laurenson tion should be retained. That amendment has Buddo Lawry Symes been carried. It will now probably be followed Carroll Thompson, R. Massey up by another motion to strike out the words Thomson, J. W. Colvin McGowan after "accepts ' with the view of inserting other Duncan Mckenzie, R. Ward words. But our difficulty is this: we do not Field McLachlan Wilford know what the other words are to be, and I Flatman Millar Witheford. think we ought to know. Mills Fowlds Tellers. Graham Morrison Carncross Hall Stevens. Napier but still it may be carried too far. However, Hall-Jones NOES, 18. Pirani Herries Rhodes Lang Lethbridge Tanner. McNab Tellers. Meredith Fisher Monk Hutcheson. Majority for, 24. Amendment negatived, and words retained. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) .- I now Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- I do not An Hon. MEMBER .-- It will be all right. Mr. HERRIES .- If the Minister will not Mr. MASSEY (Franklin). - When 7.30. the adjournment took place I was Sir J. G. WARD .- Patience is a virtue. Mr. MASSEY .- Yes, patience is a virtue, 