say it was un-English. What would be said if the same position were taken up in respect to other questions and other newspapers ? It would be pointed to as the most absurd narrow- mindedness ; but here they had these broad. minded men lecturing the House about putting an advertisement in a paper because some one who had been connected with it had expressed pro-Boer sentiments. What would be thought if the Government, in the matter of adver- tising, say, a railway excursion, refused to put the announcement in an Opposition paper ? He had intended to vote against the item as an indication that he disapproved of expenditure by the Government in this direction, because he did not think it was a right thing for the Government to come down to advertising in this way; but now, as a protest against the utterances made that evening, he should vote for the item. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) said he had intended to vote to strike out this £260, because he considered it an unnecessary expenditure of public money ; but, after having heard the explanation of the Government, and also having heard the speeches delivered by honourable members, in which they had deliberately ac- cused the Government of propping up anti- British institutions and supporting men of pro-Boer sentiments, and in that way diverting discussion into an altogether wrong channel. using this advertisement as a weapon of politi- cal warfare of a most unjust and unfair kind, he had determined to vote against the motion proposed by the senior member for Wellington City. A business man who was a Conservative, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 and who on that ground declined to advertise in a journal because it expressed radical senti- ments, would be looked upon as a madman. The Government had advertised in a widely- circulated journal, and to condemn them in the way that had been done was neither rhyme nor reason. He had also listened to the charges made against Mr. W. T. Stead. Now, he knew that during a large part of his career Mr. Stead had been fighting the cause of the poor and oppressed, that he had stood by the most helpless part of humanity when it had not been his personal interest to do so, and that he had done this not only to the ruin of his own reputation and to his financial loss, but that for it he had been degraded and imprisoned. This gentleman had taken up an attitude in connec- tion with the war in South Africa which every patriotic man must deplore. Surely they were honourable enough to give him credit for honesty of purpose; though mistaken, he be- lieved him to be honest, and he did not believe he had accepted a penny of Boer bribe. He believed him to be sincere, and that what he was doing was from a mistaken sense of duty. He did not think the Government ought, for the future, to go in for this sort of advertising ; and the Government should learn from the present debate that their strongest supporters would not support them if they did. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) said he could not understand the attitude of the last intended to vote against the item on principle. How could the attitude of honourable gentle. men criticizing the item on side issues affect the principle ? He took the same attitude as the Premier, who said it was unfair to attack the item because of the character of the paper re- ferred to. He wished to draw attention to this point : his mind went back to a time more than twelve months ago when the writings of an officer of the House were under consideration, and the attacks levelled at him when defending that officer, though not sympathizing with his writings. It was idle to pretend there was no association between the two editions of this paper, when on the title-page the joint editors' names were noted. He was amused at the strange defence that had been made of Stead from those whose Imperialism and anti-Boerism was known throughout the colony. However, all this did not affect his attitude in regard to this vote. No Ministry had a right to embark in a line of advertisement of this kind without consulting the House. Nor did he think the advertisement was worth the money, as it was well known that the journal did not command anything like the respect it did. Moreover, the colony did not want advertising in this way. Mr. SEDDON said, It was fair argument to discuss the question on the lines adopted by the last speaker, but he would point out that session after session they had incurred liabilities in respect to advertisements of the resources, industries, and scenery of the colony, which they thought would be advantageous. All other colonies and all other countries in the world were doing the same thing. If, however, the House was of opinion that they should not do it, let them try conclusions and in a proper manner indicate that to the Government. What did the member for Wellington 10.0. City say ? He said, "I care nothing for the £260." Well, he (Mr. Seddon) under- stood the House was discussing whether the estimates should be passed, but as the member said, "I do not care for the money ; it is because you advertise in a paper, and because that paper has certain views on a certain question that I attack you ": then it meant that the Government must advertise only in certain papers. If the Government advertised only in papers that supported them, it would mean that a large number of papers would not re- ceive Government advertisements at all; and if that argument was to hold good some honourable member would call for a return to show to what papers the money for Government advertising had gone. An Hon. MEMBER said the return was on the table at the present time. Mr. SEDDON said, Yes, they could take that return, and what did they find ? They would find that the Government had been absolutely fair in distributing its advertisements, and had not withheld them from the papers that differed from them. There were thousands of pounds involved in that return, yet here was a long discussion raised about a paltry #260; therefore, he came to the conclusion that some 