would bring about a new era in connection with the work of the House, still, he was satisfied the system had been a failure, and that some other system would have to be adopted for economizing time than the one proposed. He sincerely hoped the resolution proposed to-night would be carried, and that the honour- able member would not add to that resolution the clause fixing the hour of rising at midnight or even as late as half-past twelve. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) wished to make a personal explanation. He felt sure the honour- able member did not wish to misrepresent him when the honourable gentleman stated that in- stead of the three persons he (Mr. Pirani) said were present at the Committee besides himself and the Chairman there were five, and the honourable gentleman mentioned one of the five to the House-Mr. Herries-who was not present at all at the time he was there. There- fore the honourable gentleman was one out, so they would cry quits. The House divided on the question, "That the words proposed to be added be so added." AYES, 26. Allen, J. Rhodes Heke Hutcheson Russell, G. W. Atkinson Bollard Russell, W. R. Lang Collins Lethbridge Smith, G. J. Fowlds Tanner Massey Thomson, J. W. McLachlan Fraser, W. Gilfedder Meredith Tellers. Monk Buddo Hanan Haselden Pirani Graham. NOES, 32. Houston Allen, E. G. Palmer Kaihau Arnold Parata Laurenson Seddon Barclay Carroll Steward Lawry Colvin McGowan Symes Field Thompson, R. Mckenzie, R. Fisher McNab Ward Fraser, A. L. D. Millar Willis. Hall Mills Tellers. Hall-Jones Napier Carncross Hornsby O'Meara Stevens. PAIRS. For. Against. Hardy Flatman Herries Duncan Smith, E. M. McGuire. Majority against, 6. Amendment negatived. The House divided on the question, " That the motion be agreed to." AYES, 35. Allen, E. G. Mckenzie, R. Fisher Arnold Fraser, A. L. D. Mclachlan Barclay Hall McNab Bennet Hall-Jones Meredith Mills Buddo Hornsby Carroll Houston Napier Collins Kaihau O'Meara Colvin Palmer Lawry Field McGowan Parata Mr. McNab Smith, G. J. Ward Carncross Willis Stevens. Steward NOES, 24. Hogg Allen, J. Rhodes Hutcheson Russell, G. W. Atkinson Bollard Russell, W. R. Lang Fraser, W. Lethbridge Tanner Thomson, J. W. Gilfedder Massey Millar Graham Tellers. Hanan Monk Laurenson Haselden Pirani Symes. Heke PAIRS. For. Against. Duncan Herries Flatman Hardy Smith, E. M. McGuire. Majority for, 11. Motion agreed to. FINANCIAL STATEMENT. ADJOURNED DEBATE. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) .- Sir, in rising to resume the financial debate I must confess that it is with some diffidence I do so, having suffered for the last two days under a debate on a question of privilege, which was, I think, sufficient to cloud any man's mind on the question of finance. I regret very much that on Friday night last the Premier was not allowed to reply. I intended to speak on that evening, but finding that the Premier wished to reply I decided not to speak in the debate at all ; but, as that arrangement fell through, I must now claim my right to speak, and it is the duty, I hold, of every member in this House to place his views before the country and before his constituents on a question of this kind. Sir, in addressing myself to the question to- night, I will say at once that I do not agree with those members who have been condemning other members for expressing their opinions on the finances of the country in an indepen- dent manner. There is no member of this House who believes more in the freedom and independence of debate in this House than I do, and I am not going to join with those mem- bers who have been castigating others for their independence of thought on this question. But, Sir, I cannot help remarking that some of those members who have been very severe in criticizing the financial proposals of the Go- vernment were in the earlier part of the session very hard on the Government for not having been very extravagant in their expenditure. I will first of all refer to the remarks of the honourable member for Riccarton, for whom I have the greatest regard. He is always very candid, and if it were not for a few members of his kind in the House the debates would become very dull. The honourable gentleman in the early part of the session took the Go- vernment to task for not having spent large sums of money under the Land for Settle- ments Act. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I must remind 