calcitrant witness in a patronising way, and as if he had done something of a highly An honourable cha- honourable character. racter ! If the evidence was obtained in an honourable way, who is the man who gave this information to Mr. Cohen? Why should we not know the name of this " honourable" man ? The Premier tells us that after this motion is disposed of he will move an alteration in the Standing Orders to meet all future similar cases. Sir, let me tell the honourable gentle- man-as he well knows-that his intended action in that direction is quite unnecessary, for hereafter the privileges of this House are in the hands of Mr. Cohen, and not in the hands of the Premier. If the motion of the Premier is carried, the House may expect no more secrecy from me in regard to what takes place at meetings of Committees, for upon that motion being carried by this House I shall im- mediately, if it so pleases me, hand to any re- presentative of any newspaper anything that transpires at any meeting of any Committee of which I may be a member ; and I say that not by way of threat. Now, we have examined every member of the Mines Committee, we have examined all the witnesses who appeared before the Mines Committee, and all except one witness -Mr. Cohen-denied absolutely all knowledge of the manner in which this shorthand report of the evidence taken before the Mines Committee was disclosed. And if we are not to believe the Mines Committee as a whole, who can we believe? As things now stand, is not every member of the Mines Committee under suspicion ? Is not every member of that Committee entitled to feel aggrieved because of the evidence taken be- fore that Committee being published in a news- paper ? Every one of them may be charged with having given the evidence to the public in this clandestine and surreptitious way. The Premier quotes a case that occurred in 1874. Let me first refer to Mr. Cohen's letter-I think the Premier called it Mr. Cohen's letter- which is addressed to the Speaker, and through him to the House. A more nonchalant, im- pudent thing I never listened to. Mr. Cohen kindly gives Parliament advice and guidance as to the course it should adopt in all such cases to avoid difficulty in the future. The patro- nising air of the letter aggravates the offence tenfold. Mr. Coben must have felt great con- fidence in the strong support behind him. Who is behind him? It would seem that in future we had better submit all ques- tions of privilege to the gentlemen who sit in the newspaper reporters' gallery, for evi- dently they form the ruling power. Then, I would ask the House to observe that Mr. Cohen consistently tells the Committee and the House that he admits the technical breach of the Standing Orders. The House by resolution had previously declared that a breach of privi- lege had been committed. Was it not kind of Mr. Cohen to admit that he had committed a breach of privilege. That was, I think, ex- tremely kind. So we have Mr. Cohen's kind- Jir. Fisher the other. I was going to ask the Premier. when he gave us that magnificent testimonial of Mr. Cohen's ability as a journalist, whether he intended to append the testimonial to the resolution of the House. Then, again, Mr. Cohen kindly absolved the shorthand writer and the Secretary of the Committee from blame. He is so magnanimous as to say that, whoever the person was who handed him the shorthand writer's report of the evidence taken before the Goldfields and Mines Com- mittee, it was not the Secretary or the shorthand writer. That, too, was kind of Mr. Cohen. In a patronising way he says, " Who- ever you may choose to blame, you ought not to blame these two officials." Mr. Coben is willing to aid us in every possible way except to tell us the name of the man who gave him the report of the evidence. What is the use of publishing the evidence now as part of the pro- ceedings of the Committee ? The evidence of Mr. Easton and Mr. Cook has already been published in the Dunedin Star, it is published in Hansard, and then we shall witness the farce of seeing it laid on the table of the House with the report of the Committee. That will form a fitting part of the pantomime indulged in by the Premier this morning when he said there would be so much about bowing and scraping at the bar of the House and pandering to the dignity of Parliament. I agree with the member for Bruce that that was a very undignified position for the leader of the House to take up. I: would have been much more satisfactory to the House if the Premier had dealt with this matter in an open and straightforward manner. If the Premier's resolution is carried, I ask. Sir. who leads this Parliament, the Right Hou. Mr. Seddon or Mr. Albert Elias Cohen ? Does it not show to what dire straits the Premier is driven when he is shut in to quoting one precedent, which does not touch this case in the most remote degree. This is his precedent, quoted from the proceedings of the House of the 7th August, 1874. The concluding sentence of the report of the Joint Committee on the ques- tion of privilege in the case of the charges against Judge Chapman is this :- " Your Committee are of opinion that a breach of privilege, for which Mr. Ward and Mr. Luckie are primarily responsible, has been permitted by the publication of this telegram." You cannot get one case on all-fours with the case now under the consideration of the House. Does the publication of a telegram in any way correspond with the deliberate and donant publication in the Dunedin Star of eight columns of evidence which was taken by the parliamentary shorthand writer before the Goldfields and Mines Committee? Not at all. Then, what happened in that case ? Mr. Luckie, in his concluding sentence, said,- " He trusted that, having made this explans- tion and apology, his remarks would be takes in the same frank spirit by the House as they were offered by him." There is an explanation and an apology. Where is the explanation and apology here ? 