was made ; and if I had not replied to it I am | first brought up, and the member for Franklin sure the honourable member, with his well- known impartiality, would have got up in his place and replied to the honourable member for Riccarton, who made the assertion, in a better way than I have done. Sir, I was never more surprised than I was this afternoon when I was told, after my return from Petone, by the honourable member for Christchurch City that this question of privilege was still going on. I thought the financial debate would have been proceeding. It really appears to me now that honourable members are carrying on this discussion merely to show the falla- ciousness of their reasoning and the crude- ness of their arguments in the debate on the Financial Statement. The honourable member for Riccarton has himself taken this course, apparently, to disprove the figures he produced in his speech on the finances of the colony. Sir, I regret I have had to speak on this matter again. I hope it will be the last time ; but if the occasion arises and the circumstances warrant it, if it is necessary to speak in justifi- cation of a course the Government have attempted to follow, and if we have motives attributed to us quite outside this question of privilege, I say it is the duty of members of the Ministry to protect themselves or their colleagues or their party from attacks of the kind. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- Sir, so much new matter has been introduced into this de- bate by Ministers since the last amendment was moved that it is impossible to allow it to go without answer. The Postmaster-General quoted the instance of a breach of privilege at Home, published there on the 31st July, and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 yet, in reply to repeated invitations from me to specify what that breach of privilege was. he refused to give the House any details, and wanted the House to think that that breach of privilege might be compared in some way with the one at present before the House. Why, there is no comparison at all. The breach of privilege the Postmaster-General alluded to followed the publication of a series of cables sent Home by the correspondent of the Daily Mail in South Africa. In the House the Minister of War had said that the Dail. Mail had obtained from the War Office, in a surreptitious manner, information they had no right to, and, in the reply to that statement from the Minister in the House, the Daily Mail challenged the Minister to prosecute it and justify his accusation. The Minister thought discretion the better part of valour, and instead of doing it he got the House, like the present Ministry did on one occasion when Sir Walter Buller hid challenged a Minister, to declare the newspaper comments a breach of privilege. The House of Commons naturally went no further. Then the Postmaster-General said that the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) found the Opposition like a ship without a rudder, and he took charge of the ship. Why, it was the Postmaster-General who was like a ship with- out a rudder when this breach of privilege was took charge of the ship, and it was in conse- quence of the member for Franklin's utilisation of the rudder that the Postmaster-General did what the Premier thinks he ought not to have done, by setting up the Privileges Committee. But we have the facts from the Postmaster- General about this resolution. He told us that the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) was "outpaced by the Government in the matter of tactics." Yes, that is the fact. The amendment we have before us may well be described as "outpacing the member for Wel- lington City in the matter of tactics," because nobody takes the amendment seriously as the opinion of the Government. Mr. FISHER .- They did not consider the position ; they felt the position. Mr. PIRANI .- Yes ; the member for Wel- lington City points out that the Government did not consider the position, but that they felt the position, and acted accordingly. Now, there is a remarkable thing in the letter to the House of the Dunedin correspondent of the Evening Star that to a great extent confirms the idea of those members who think the Pre- mier had something to do with it. Any mem- ber who studies the words used by the Premier in this House will know that one word he mis- uses very frequently is the word " contumely." Instead of using the word "contumacy," the Premier invariably uses the word " contumely," and this letter of the correspondent of the Dunedin Evening Star has the same misuse of the word " contumely." He says in his letter, "I contend that there was no contumely or disrespect to the House." Of course, he meant "contumacy." It is a most remarkable thing that the Premier and the representative of the Dunedin Evening Star should make the same misuse of that word. Of course, I would not like to say that the Premier wrote this letter, but it seems to me that the person who did write it must be almost a cousin ger- man to the Premier. Now, the Premier, in the course of his speech this afternoon, quoted from the rulings of the Speaker, which he called the Standing Orders, on page 113, No. 10, to prove that this case was on parallel lines with the offence committed by a member of this House when an order was made to purge the offence by withdrawing the words and apologizing. I asked the Premier to quote Ruling No. 11, which is more à propos, but with his usual discretion he refrained. Now, anybody who has read this letter from 7.30. the representative of the Dunedin Evening Star will see that there is nothing but a qualified withdrawal in that letter -- a qualified withdrawal that would not be accepted by any Speaker of this House from any member who had transgressed the rules of the House. In regard to the letter, there is also another point that I want to em- phasize, as supporting my disbelief that it was drawn up by a journalist. The following sentence occurs in it : "It is not with any view of transgression against the wishes of the House or the Committee that the report was 