who has interrupted me was on the staff of a newspaper-I need not say much about that- pay it in any case, no matter whose name is I am sure he endeavoured to carry as much inserted. It is only playing with words and information in his memory as he could, and splitting straws to attempt to amend this motion if he wanted to give that information to the in the direction desired by some honourable public he gave it. members. We have had a most amusing speech An Hon. MEMBER .- It is not professional to from the honourable member for Dunedin City obtain it in a backstair method. Mr. McGOWAN .- The honourable gentle- have thought would have some knowledge of man says something about backstairs. I do not know anything about backstair methods ; twopenny - halfpenny matter on exactly the gentlemen who use those expressions must have some acquaintance with that method of obtaining information. I understand the posi- tion the honourable gentleman takes up-1 am the members of the Opposition collectively and not saying whether it is honourable or not, but I recognise the position he takes up in regard to newspapers, and that he is endeavouring to get as large a fine inflicted as possible on the newspaper or the reporter. Mr. FISHER .- You have not explained about the coldness of the room. Mr. McGOWAN .- I am not talking about that just now. With all his cleverness the honourable gentleman has been made the tool of party on this occasion. It has been the object of the honourable gentlemen opposite to lington City (Mr. Fisher) and those on this get the honourable gentleman to go in that side. To meet the case the amendment is direction. Mr. FISHER .- Leave all that to me. Mr. McGOWAN .- This surely must annoy you when you require to interrupt me so much. I am coming pretty near the truth, which is not always palatable. The reporter has ob- tained for his paper certain information ; that information appearing in the paper before it has been reported to the House is a breach of privilege. The position taken up by the Pre- mier in the first instance was that this had been done repeatedly, and nothing had re- sulted from it. I do not know that we have not a breach of privilege in the paper this morning. However, I want to bring the matter down to a fair issue. As to the amount of the fine, the honourable member for Wellington City wanted to make the fine severe : and the amendment proposed by the Minister for Public Works makes it somewhat less severe. The honourable member for Bruce takes up the position that the fine should be divided, and a certain amount placed on the individual, and a certain amount on the paper. What does this mean ? It does not matter on whom the fine is imposed ; it will be paid by the proprietors of the paper. Here is the proposal :- "The House accepts the expression of regret by the representative of that journal, and, on payment of the sum of #15, this House resolves to proceed no further in the matter." Hon. MEMBERS .- By whom ? Mr. McGOWAN .- By the representative of the journal. An Hon. MEMBER .- Then, why not say so in the resolution ? Mr. McGOWAN .- It is in. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is not. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why should the reporter pay a fine ? Mr. McGOWAN .- Because the journal will (Mr. Barclay), a gentleman whom one would the privileges of the House, and he puts this same footing as the rights of the people in rela- tion to the Sovereign. I never heard anything more absurd. I think, after the opportunity severally have had of having a tilt at the Pre- mier, the whole matter could be easily settled by accepting the amendment now moved. It is a reasonable one. It meets the whole diffi- culty, it maintains our privileges, and condemns the method of obtaining news. It is hardly necessary for the House to go further. The only difference between the members of the Opposition and those supporting the Govern- ment is the difference of amount between that proposed by the honourable member for Wel- brought down as a reasonable position to take up, and it is, I think, a proper amendment for the House to adopt. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) .- I have refrained from speaking at all on this subject, because I regarded the whole matter very largely as a waste of time. It ought to have been settled in a few minutes, and I believe had matters been dealt with in the right way from the outset it would have been settled in a very short time. When the matter first came before the House I thought the proper course, immediately the House had decided that a breach of privilege had been committed, would have been to at once demand that the person who committed the breach of privilege should be called to the bar of the House. I am sustained in my belief by a reference to the " Rulings of the Speakers," on page 158, No. 17, which says,- " In the case of a newspaper article, if mem- bers call attention to it, it is read by the Clerk ; a motion should be made that it is a breach If that is of the privileges of the House. affirmed, the person responsible for the article is summoned to the bar of the House to give an explanation ; after the explanation the House determines what course should be pursued." Now, it appears to me that this is perfectly clear, and when once the House has decided that a breach of privilege has been committed, then the person accused should be brought to the bar and dealt with there and then. This course was not adopted, and we have now an almost interminable discussion. My par- ticular reason for rising at this stage is to express my intense surprise at the speech we have just heard from the Minister, from whom we might have expected a judicial utterance- the Minister of Justice. I am quite sure he entirely misstates the attitude of honourable 