There was another company started that I am interested in. It has been in existence about two years and a half, and not a bit has been done by the prospectors, except that they are drawing fees; and the secretary is also drawing fees. Then, there was another com- pany. The secretary was the vendor, and the directors sent this secretary-vendor to prospect the claim. After he had gone the incongruity of the position appeared to dawn upon them, and they sent another man after him; and the latest I have heard is that that man is going about the country interviewing shareholders, and, of course, drawing fees the whole time. There are other companies where the position is terrible. It is a huge swindle from beginning to end, and it is very nearly time that Parlia- ment did its duty properly in this matter. There are big interests involved, and the ques- tion ought to be looked into. I intend to pro- pose an amendment in Committee, and I may as well put it on record in Hausard now in case it does not go any further. The new clause which I intend to move is as follows :- " No mining company shall hereafter be registered, if the ground intended to be worked by such company is a dredging area or claim, unless the Warden exercising jurisdiction in the district where such claim or area is situated shall certify under his hand and seal that such claim or area has been thoroughly tested, and there is, according to the evidence submitted, a reasonable prospect of such claim or area being payable : Provided that, in cases where such area is not in any mining district, an Inspector of Mines appointed under the Mining Act shall certify as aforesaid." Now, there are hundreds of instances where not a bit of prospecting has been done, and not an attempt has been made to test whether there was any gold at all or not ; and yet you will see mining experts certifying in the prospectus that there was gold in heaps, and that there was nothing to do but to go and shovel it out. We have heaps of these prospectuses, and it has been found afterwards that absolutely no test was made of the thing. What we want is that the gold shall be looked at before the com- pany is floated or put into the market, and that the public shall have some reasonable ground to believe that the ground is workable and dredgeable, and that it contains gold. I am not the author of the clause I intend to move later on. The author of it is a very capable man, and one who understands the position, for he is an old digger. I think there is nothing that would inspire greater confidence in the mining industry than that this clause should appear in the Bill, in order that the War- dens would in the future certify that the ground was auriferous. I trust, Sir, the Council will make the Bill as drastic as it is possible to make it in respect to mining. My opinion is that there ought to be a special Bill for the dredging industry, because it is not right that commercial companies-and there are a good many in the country-should be hampered by the restrictions which we intend to put into this Bill, and which have reference Hon. Mr. Twomey mainly to swindling concerns. For that reason I think there should be a special Bill for dredg. ing. It should be kept separate from the ordi- nary company law. The Hon. Mr. REEVES .- Sir, we know that in this world there are a number of fools : I refer to those people who go into speculations without knowing what they are doing. From the time of he South Sea bubble to the present time the same story has been told over and over . again. We have every safeguard at the present time for men of common-sense who wish to go into companies. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. The Hon. Mr. REEVES .- I say we have every safeguard. No man is obliged to go into a company unless he is satisfied the company is sound, and has good prospects. Any man who does anything else goes in for what is nothing more nor less than a gamble. My honourable friend, Mr. Twomey, goes into these gambles himself. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- A man wants a run for his money. The Hon Mr. REEVES .- Yes, a man wants a run for his money, and in nine cases out of ten they lose it. However, I would like to see an amendment in our mining law, but I cer- tainly do not agree that there should be Govern- ment inspection, and all the rest of it. If I am going to Canterbury, or to the Bluff, to buy ten thousand bags of oats, is there to be a Govern- ment Inspector accompanying me to see that I make money out of it ? Sir, it is really absurd and ridiculous to hear people get up here, who have lost a few pounds in mining speculations, making such a noise about it. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- I have lost money by it. 'The Hon. Mr. REEVES .- Yes, and I have lost money by it too, and I have made some, and I hope to make more. Sir, I say let men use common-sense, and they will not be led astray. They should be well advised in regard to what they are going into. Of course, people may make mistakes, but if they exercise common- sense they will come out right in nine cases out of tea. The Hon. Mr. BOLT .- Sir, I think there is a good deal in what the Hon. Mr. Reeves says. A great many of the losses sustained by indi- viduals is due to the fact that they have not exercised sufficient caution or discretion in entering into their engagements. I believe. however, that the irregularities the Hon. Mr. Lee Smith has pointed out have been confined to one office. For myself, I have not heard of similar irregularities in any office beyond that. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- There are others. The Hon. Mr. BOLT .- Well, all I can say is. I have not heard of them; and it certainis seems a most extraordinary state of affairs that directors should go on making calls in respect of a property they did not possess, and did not know anything of the deeds or agreements which should have given them possession of it. It appears to me that men who go into business and carry on a business in that loose way 