the orderlies ? Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said the orderlies were reported, but the Commandant did not think there had been a neglect of duty. MANGONUI MOUNTED INFANTRY. Mr. HOUSTON (Bay of Islands) asked the Minister of Defence, If he will take the neces- sary steps to recoup the members of the Mango- nui Mounted Infantry, who suffered severely through the fire that occurred in the Plague Hospital at Auckland, where they were camped at the time of the Royal visit' to Auckland ? Nearly all the clothes and accoutrements of these men were destroyed by fire through no fault of the men themselves. The troop suf- fered to the extent of some £250. He hoped the Government would accede to the request to recoup the men for their loss. These men gave their time, and at great inconvenience attended the celebrations in Auckland, and it would be most unfair that they should be asked to bear this heavy loss. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said he would make inquiries into the matter. STORAGE ACCOMMODATION FOR MAGA- ZINE RIFLES AND CARBINES. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) asked the Minister of Defence,-(1.) What storage accommodation will be provided for the magazine rifles and carbines lately imported into the colony ? (2.) Whether these arms are now stored in a drill-shed at Mount Cook ? (3.) Whether the fact of these arms being left in that shed will not interfere with https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 the training of the following troops : Perma- nent Artillery, Wellington Navals, D Battery, and Wellington Engineers? (4.) Whether the Minister will give instructions for these http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero arms to be removed elsewhere at an early date ? He might say that the storage of these rifles in the place mentioned was absolutely dangerous to the men carrying on their big- gun and other drill. He was informed that the corps mentioned were put to very serious inconvenience owing to the limited space now at their command. It was desirable that some alteration should be made before any serious accident took place. It was generally ad- mitted by all the officers that the rifles were in the road at present. He hoped the Minister would take the earliest opportunity to have the rifles removed. Mr. SEDD. N (Minister of Defence) said that every precaution would be taken to prevent anything occurring such as the honourable member feared. The Government would take steps to have the rifles stored in the proper place. Mr. WILFORD .- Where is the proper place ? Mr. SEDDON .- I will let the honourable gentleman know later on. MILITARY PENSIONS ACT. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) asked the Minister of Defence, If he will introduce an amendment of the Military Pensions Act to extend the opera- Mr. Hornsby injury has resulted from sickness, disease, or other causes than those now provided for ? He understood that under the Act of 1866 provision was only made for military pensions being given to men who had been actually wounded. The provisions of the Imperial Act were much wider than ours, and they provided, both in the case of officers and men, that disabilities caused by climatic disease and exposure in the field should be a ground for receiving a pension. The Imperial regulations further provided, " In cases of disability contracted in the service, but not caused by the service, may award a temporary pension for a period not exceeding three years." And by a fur- ther regulation this pension may be renewed. Pensions and gratuities under the Imperial law were also provided for widows, children, mothers, and sisters under certain conditions. A great many of our returned troopers were suf- fering not so much from their wounds as from injuries received through climatic troubles, and no provision had been made for them at all in the Military Pensions Act, while the Home authorities had made such provision ; and he thought we ought to be at least as generous in respect to these men who had served their country, and who had been disabled by disease. as they were at Home. Now, he was informed on good authority that many of these men, owing to the effects of climate, were rendered incapable of working for a good many years. and some of them perhaps for ever, and he wished to know whether the Premier, consider- ing the services these men had rendered to their country, would amend the Act so that some provision might be made for them, as was done at Home. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said an amending Act was under consideration. There was one direction, at all events, in which it re- quired alteration - namely, a member of one of our contingents might be wounded and incapacitated while keeping his father and mother, his father being an invalid, and tu- cause the father was alive he could not get a pension. An amending Act would be intro- duced. # WORKERS' COMPENSATION FOR ACCIDENTS ACT. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) asked the Pre- mier, Whether, as insurance offices decline to insure trainers and jockeys on race-days against loss under the Workers' Compensation for Acci- dents Act, he will have the Act altered so as to exclude racing-clubs from the provisions of the statute ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said. Yes. the Go- vernment did not sed its way to do that. MEMBERS' ELECTION EXPENSES. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Government, Why the return relating to tii certified election expenses of members at tis last general election, ordered by the House of the 24th July, 1900, has not been laid on the table ? 