ceed on public lands, or would it be a wise policy to hang up many of these lines of railway that are now approaching a paying point ? To say that we should sit down content with such partial results would surely be considered the quintessence of folly." Then, he further said,- " I do not think it would be wise, even if it were feasible, to attempt to raise another loan in the English money-market at the present time." Mark that. Then, further, speaking in 1892, the year before the banking and financial trouble, and when the money-market in Lon- don was not favourable, these are the remarks of the late John Ballance :- " The same objection, however, that applies to foreign loans does not apply to borrowing within the colony, and I believe it possible to place a moderate loan at a reasonable rate of interest, extending over some time, without any difficulty." Just exactly what we are doing. We bor- rowed locally in the colony half a million- because the London market was unfavourable - at reasonable rates on short-dated debentures. At that time I was stated, by all the Conserva- tive papers and by those honourable gentlemen opposite, to be the strong man of the Ministry : " Seddon was the strong man of the Ministry," and " It was Seddon that must be looked to." It was not our late chief. By doing this they sought by detraction of Mr. Ballance and ex- tolling myself to make mischief. Far be it from me to say anything that would dim the lustre of the deeds and services of my late chief ; but I say at that time it was said that I was the strong man of the Ministry; and now it is said that this then strong man of the Minis- try is running the colony headlong to perdi- tion. Now they extol my late chief, and ele- vate him,-make him a saint,- and I am the one not to be trusted. Keep him as such, revere his memory, and I will help you to maintain him as deserving every praise. In 1892 he converted the 1877 loan - $500,000 I think it was. He paid £110,000 for that $500,000, so that £610,000 was the price to the colony. He was denounced by the Con- servative Press and by those gentlemen op- posite for so doing. They said it was a finan- cial job ; and one and all said, "Why don't you borrow the money ? " He converted that loan. I stood by him ; it was the right thing at the time to do. We had our struggles during that period, but he was going in for a moderate borrowing policy, and, in order to obviate borrowing that year, he paid $610,000, or £110.000 premium. I had to defend him against these gentlemen opposite ; and now from my own candid friends here I have to experience almost a reversal of the situation at that time. They denounced me and they denounced the Government, and they say we are not carrying out that policy; but I say that proof positive of our consistency to that policy is to be found in the records of this House and of the colony. Then, Sir, I just want to say a word at this point in re- ference to a remark made by the honourable member for Riccarton. It is in connection with a slight mistake in the price at which It is the money was raised in London. marked at 3} per cent., while really we actually paid 4 per cent. The honourable gentleman made the discovery, but at the same time he forgot to find out that there is a margin of £20,000 in the amounts chargeable under the permanent Act, and was at the most a slight clerical oversight. It was a small error, and my honourable friend was very keen to detect it. I come now to the debate itself. I may say it has been of a somewhat varying cha- racter. At one time it was certainly going dead slow; at one time-I think, the second night after the debate started-no one would speak at all ; but, Sir, I then suspected there was something behind all this, and it was not long before it made its appearance. Our friends opposite abdicated. If I might use an American term, they absolutely "skedaddled" ; they would not attempt to debate the State- ment at all, or criticize the policy therein fore- shadowed. But then, Sir, some of my candid friends encouraged them, by making some adverse criticism on the Statement, and they at last plucked up courage, and prolonged the debate. And, Sir, it has been, so far as they are concerned, a miserable exhibition from the very start until the time they finished. Sir, I only need call members' attention to the last three speakers on that side. I will begin with the member for Selwyn. I remember, Sir, in respect to that honourable gentleman, a statement that once appeared, to the effect that Sir John Hall wrote all his electioneering speeches for him, and, after the reading exhi- bition the other evening, I feel satisfied that statement is correct. Sir, I think if ever we want to introduce a lay-reader into the House I know where to put my hand on one. The member for Selwyn, Mr. Hardy, would excel in that capacity. Then, Sir, I come to the mem- ber for Waitemata, another of the last three speakers. Well, Sir, he disappeared ; he con- ceived, we saw him in labour, and then there were some involved sentences of a questionable character ; and what was the result ? Sir, I may tell the House-and I do it without wish- ing to hurt the honourable gentleman's feelings -that I hope he will not do it again, because the result almost proved to me and to the House very clearly that there was an indica- tion of political senile decay. Then, Sir, I come to the member for Patea. I mentioned something about members of Parliament and the fly in amber, in another place, and I was surprised to see how some members had brought it up in Parliament. Was it reason- able to bring it up in this way? I say No. But, as to the honourable member for Patea : First of all I had an official intimation that he was defeated by fifteen votes ; then I had an official intimation that he was de- feated by six votes ; then I had an official in- timation that he was defeated by one vote ; and then I found him in Parliament by the bungling of the Returning Officer. Here is a member 