Mr. MEREDITH was glad to hear that he had misunderstood the Premier. He was de- lighted to find that the Premier intended to strike, and he hoped that all honourable mem- bers would strike at twelve midnight. If they did so he believed that better work would result, the best interests of the country would be served, and honourable members would pre- serve their health, which, under the old system, they could not do. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) said he was as anxious to have early sittings as was any other member, but experience had shown that they had not been a success. He had found it almost impossible to get a quorum at Com- mittees, and it was quite a common thing at half-past ten in the morning to see Committee Clerks trying to get quorums for the different Committees. It was impossible to carry on the business of the House in that way. But who was responsible for the late sittings ? It was those honourable members who were always talking on every conceivable subject that came up in the House, and who prevented the busi- ness of the country from proceeding. The amount of twaddle he had listened to during the last day or two had sickened and dis- gusted him. As to the suggestion of the honourable member for Kaiapoi, that the closure should be introduced, he (Mr. Thomp- son) hoped they would always have freedom of debate in that House. He would like very much to see early closing and the House to rise at midnight; but he did not think the amendment of the honourable member for Nelson City should be given effect to. The fact was that members of the House had it in their own hands to say at what time of night the House should rise. If members would make up their minds at a certain hour to say that the ad- journment of the House must be carried, the Premier, of necessity, must fall into line. He admitted that when discussing the estimates it might be absolutely necessary to have late sittings, otherwise it would be in the power of three or four members to prevent the estimates passing at all. He was amused at the speech of the honourable member for Masterton, who was never happy unless his voice was ringing from one end of the Chamber to the other. If that honourable member would take an example from him (Mr. Thompson), and speak less, the business of the House would be facilitated. He intended to support the motion now before the House, but he trusted members would come to some arrangement amongst themselves and decide that the House, except under extra- ordinary circumstances, as when dealing with the estimates, should rise at any rate not later than one o'clock in the morning. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) admitted that the last speaker had set a good example to the House that session by refraining from un- necessary speaking, and he only wondered what members did not come to Parliament in the the reason was. The reason would probably be forthcoming when the public works estimates first instance for Committee-work, but to fulfil legislative functions. The Premier seemed to came down. Now, he did not think the be under the impression that they came there Premier had given any good and sufficient to grant him supplies of money, and when that reason for the motion before the House. He was not very much in love with morning sittings, as he had never had to work so hard in the early part of any session as he had to do that session, simply because, owing to the House sitting on two mornings of the week, all the Committee-work, correspondence, and business intrusted to members by their con- stituents had to be jammed into the other mornings. By the motion of the Premier they were given the alternative of either sitting in the morning or else sitting to all hours of the night. He believed the middle and better course was contained in the amend- ment moved by the member for Nelson City, and which he intended to support. He was able to stand late sittings as well as most people, but he looked forward with dread to going back to the habits of previous sessions, when on many occasions members only got home in time for breakfast, and when Bills were rushed through the House when members were not in a fit state to properly consider them ; and on that account measures had been placed on the statute-book during the last few sessions which had proved to be utterly useless and un- workable, and members at the end of the session had often gone home with their health partly broken down. . One gentleman who had until lately been a member of the House was now very seriously ill, and his friends ascribed his illness to the late hours of the last Parliament of which he was a member. As he believed the work of Parliament could be done very much better and more quickly within reasonable hours and without going into morning sittings, he would support the amendment of the mem- ber for Nelson City. Mr. TANNER (Avon) did not think any one could accuse him of unduly taking up the time of the House. No one had been more deeply revolted by what had occurred in the House during the last couple of days ; but fortunately he had been able to keep his tongue bridled. He had no sympathy with the Premier what- ever in his motion to abolish morning sittings and revert back to previous usages. When members were sent to Parliament the people who sent them there believed they were sending men possessed of some common-sense ; but, judging by the hours of sitting, they found out afterwards that the bulk of members were deficient in that respect. The chief offender of all was the Premier. Who had not heard the Premier, at two o'clock in the morning, when the estimates were under consideration, and when some member moved that the House should adjourn, say that the night was young, and that he himself felt perfectly fresh, and insisted on going on with the work? All that the Premier wanted was to get his estimates through as quietly as possible and with as little discussion as possible. Now, it seemed to him that an exaggerated importance was attached by some members to Committee-work; but 