the Council, in considering this matter, will simply discuss the principle of the Bill, not its provisions. The principle of the Bill is that boys under seventeen, or whatever age the Council may choose to fix-I have taken that as between the two extremes of other countries, sixteen and eighteen- shall be pro- hibited from smoking cigarettes. That is the principle I desire to see affirmed. The pro- visions of the Bill are merely suggestions - be- cause this is a new subject. I have merely suggested that it should be an offence for any person to give, or to sell, or to supply cigarettes to any youth under seventeen years of age ; and if any one is convicted of doing that he shall be liable upon conviction to a penalty not exceed- ing £10; and also that any youth under the age of seventeen convicted of smoking a cigar- ette shall be liable for a first offence to a fine of 5s. ; for a second offence, 10s. ; for a third offence, #1, and for a third offence he shall be liable-in lieu of a penalty, at the discretion of the Court-to whipping. An Hon. MEMBER .- That will not do. The Hon. Colonel PITT .- My honourable friend says it will not do. I ask the Council not to discuss these matters here-let us discuss them when we get into Committee; but I will explain to the Council now my reason for putting that in. If a lad under seventeen were convicted I do not suppose he would be able to pay the penalty himself, and we know that if he did not it would fall upon the parents ; and perhaps it is right that it should, because they would probably then take very good care to see that the boy did not smoke again. But the reason why I put whipping in is this : If a lad is 'euto enough to evade the vigilance of his parents and the police for more than two occa- sions, so as to be convicted of a third offence, then I think he has very well earned the right to supply the material upon which the sentence of the Court should be carried out, and I think that is the only way in which he could be de- terred. However, I would ask the Council not to consider very much the actual provisions of the Bill now, which can be fully considered when we get the Bill into Committee; but I ask them to discuss and consider the principle which is laid down here, that boys under seven- teen years of age should not be allowed to smoke cigarettes. I move the second reading of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- I beg to second that. We have got a Bill, Sir, before us now to which I can cordially give my support, though I do not know that I can give my support alto- gether to some of the details of the Bill, because I should like to see some of them altered ; but that is a question for Committee. Sir, this cigarette-smoking has assumed such dimensions that really something ought to be done in the interests of the young people of New Zealand. I had on many occasions at Dunedin to pass a suburban district school in the even- ing when that school was being dismissed for the day, and I say, Sir, that it was a disgrace to the parents of the children, and also to the schoolmaster, to see so many of those children Hon. Colonel Pitt with cigarettes in their mouths-children smog- ing who were probably only five or six years old. Well, something should be done to stop that. It occurs to me also. Sir, that it would be a good thing if a provision was put into the Bill to stop the making-up of threepenny cigarette-packets. I think it is wrong for people to make up such packages, as they are made up in order to induce children to buy threepenny worth of cigarettes to smoke. It shows that these people are catering for the children ; and surely it would be an easy matter to provide against that. In addition to the places that have been mentioned by Colonel Pitt, I may say that Japan not long ago passed a law that no one could smoke under the age of twenty. one years. An Hon. MEMBER .-- When was that ? The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- About three or four years ago. Sir, I will go further, and say this: Smoking has become very offensive to those who do not themselves smoke-and espe- Why should cially smoking in the streets. people be allowed to go down the streets in the morning, when the atmosphere is fresh, and pri- lute it with tobacco-smoke ? If you go behind people smoking at this time of the day you are apt to be upset for the whole day. Why should they be allowed to make themselves a nuisance to other people? And why should people in offices be allowed to smoke? In well-regulated offices people are not allowed to smoke there. I say that in no well-disciplined office should the people be allowed to smoke. In steamers. also, a very comfortable place is provided for people to smoke in. 1 do not envy the feeling of those who sit in that atmosphere, but the who smoke apparently do not mind it. But you find people walking along among the passengers. smoking away, smoking even amongst the ladies, and making themselves a nuisance. Why should they not keep their pipe and their smoking to places where they would not be any inconvenience to other people" I would sooner put up with a man takie: whisky than I would put up with a man smoking. A man cannot annoy you much by taking a glass or two of grog, but he can annoy you very much with his pipe. In rail- way-stations you see notices up, " Smoking ne: allowed," but how many stop smoking on that account ? At all events, the regulations should be carried out on the Government railway.sta tions, so that people would not be allowed to de this sort of thing. Sir, I could go on mentict- ing a great many other places where eviis cf this kind should be stopped. I think that the Corporations, if they took the matter in hand. could, at all events, prevent smoking in the streets ; and that ought to be done, esperta now when we know that consumption is caught from the expectoration that goes on in the streets-and this, of course, is a practice that smokers are most addicted to. When the expectoration dries up in the streets, it is sur- posed to blow about and give people consump tion. Well, why should people be allowed :: spit all along the streets, making themseives objectionable ? 