emanated from the Opposition benches, have been. clever in the extreme, not clever in the way the honourable member for Riccarton meant when he congratulated the member for Hawke's Bay and the member for Bruce, but clever in the strategistical artifice of drawing the Government side and making marionettes of them. Yes, the Opposition have piped the one air-that the colony was on the verge of the precipice of financial disaster-and the mario- nettes have danced to it. They have impressed two or three honourable members who I think should have known better. I appear in this House to-night, Sir, and in this debate, as a student and a pupil. I wish to learn what the actual position of the colony is financially. Possibly I am not able to grasp it and analyse it unassisted, and consequently I have to listen to the speeches of honourable members and weigh their utterances. I will here say that if the honourable member for Palmerston wishes to have a little humour at my expense, I will at any time give him half an hour in the Whips' room, or in the lobby, or anywhere he likes. There is nothing I would enjoy more. I know the honourable member is making interjections in a good spirit, and that there is nothing aggressive about them, but I would remark to him that it would be as well to allow me to give expression to the views I have without interruption. No doubt the honourable gentle- man will appreciate them before I have con- cluded. I was saying that I had studied the speeches of the honourable gentlemen who have so far spoken, and I have found I had some diffi- culty in being guided by those speeches, because https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 they were to a very great exte .t inconsistent. Inconsistency is found in all the walks of life. It is found in business sometimes, and inconsis- tency there is called "dishonesty." It is found http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero in politics ; it is found everywhere. It is found on the racecourse even, and there, when incon- sistency is brought home to any one, he is " put up " for twelve months or more. Unfortunately that law does not obtain in Parliament, other- wise one or two members who have spoken in this debate would not be in Wellington at the present time-they would have been "put up " for life. The speeches of the two honourable gentlemen representing the Opposition were speeches one would expect from them. They were consistent. For eight or nine years they have spoken in the same groove. The mere fact of any policy having been put forward by the present Government was quite sufficient for those honourable gentlemen, whether they be- lieved that policy to be correct or not, to oppose it; in fact, it was their absolute duty, as His Majesty's Opposition, to find fault with it. But as to the speeches of some of the honour- able gentlemen who followed them, they were the personification of inconsistency, and in making this statement I recognise the gravity of it, and shall endeavour at a later stage to prove it. In passing, I wish simply to con- gratulate the honourable member for Hawke's Bay and the honourable member for Bruce, because their speeches were clever, and they | draw three or four members on the Government side to support them in their endeavour to show . that the finances of the colony were unsound. Only one word in passing, with regard to the honourable member for Bruce. I think it was ungenerous of him to attribute to the Premier that his only motive in sending our young men to South Africa was entirely political. He said that if the Right Hon. the Premier had been present he would have shown that ; and added that the Premier had not a spark of Imperialism, and actually had not a spark of humanity in him. Well, I can speak from experience of the honourable gentleman's treatment and feeling for our boys that have been sent to the front. I say that if every one of them had been his own children he could not have shown more con. sideration, kindness, or solicitude towards them when they left here, when they reached South Africa, and when they returned. There was not a lad that was sick, or missing, or wounded but most anxious inquiries were made for him, and his parents were kept from day to day duly posted as to how their sons were progressing. I say that was recognised by the Premier to be his duty, and it has been con- scientiously carried out by him. Then, when they returned, positions were found for those that required them as soon as possible. In every case, of course, good positions could not immediately be found, because it is a very diffi- cult thing to do where we have hundreds of them coming back at one time. Some of them, possibly, are a little fastidious, and some of them may have felt that they were not suitable for the work offered to them ; but I feel perfectly sure that the member for Bruce, when he comes to think it over, and when he reads his Hansard report, will recognise that he has to some extent been ungenerous to the Right Hon. the Premier. Now, turning to the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, I have said already that his speech was clever and interesting ; but what astonished me more than anything was that he took as his text a statement, reported to have been made by the Premier to a deputation, that we were in an unsound financial position, and outside that text the honourable gentle- man's speech was simply a string of generali- ties, and nothing very specific in them with regard to the position of the finances of the colony. Now, prove the falsity of that text and nothing remains, and its falsity must be demon- strated if we use a little common-sense. First of all, the Premier has denied it. I know some members on the Opposition benches will say "That is all the more reason why we should believe it"; but that is not the view I take. He has denied it ; and, more than that, within forty-eight hours of the Right Hon. the Premier having been accredited with giving utterance to these sensational words, Sir, Joseph Ward made a speech in Wellington shadowing forth the financial position of the colony in far from a pessimistic tone. Now, it is unnecessary for me to say that the Premier and Sir Joseph Ward are always, in all matters of policy, in all mat- ters affecting the colony, in close intercourse 