an abstract of the proceedings of the Com- mitteo. He gives merely an abstract to the uewspaper reporter. He does not give away the whole of the proceedings of the Committee, nor does he give away the property of the Crown, the shorthand-writer's report, which is paid for by the moneys of the people. If it were a right thing to do to give away the pro- perty of the Crown in that way, why not give it honestly and openly and fearlessly to all news- papers, and not merely to one? Why should all other newspapers be barred from the pub- lication of this evidence? This is the point at which the honourable gentleman defeats him- self : Why should all the other newspapers be debarred from publishing this evidence, which is said to be of such great interest to the people of the colony ? If it is of such great interest to the people at large, was it not only fair that it should be given to every newspaper in the country? Why should this evidence become the exclusive property of one news- paper? If, then, it was of so much interest in especial to the people of Otago, or to the people of Dunedin, why not publish it also simultaneously in the Otago Daily Times ! Honourable members say that would not do ; but the ground urged by the Premier this morning was that the aim, the object of the publication of the evidence, was to inform the public at the earliest possible moment. Then, the honourable gentleman referred to those direful swindles- I think he used the word "swindles " - by which the public suffered, and he said it was desirable, therefore, that the evidence taken by the Committee should be placed before the people at the earliest pos- sible moment. Very well, why not publish it in all the newspapers? There ought to be a report for the scrupulous journal, as well as for the unscrupulous. Why should I, as a journalist, why should any other man as a / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero journalist, have to bow and scrape, and plot and plan, and go up the backstairs to get in- formation in this dirty and dishonourable way ? And then the man who does this dirty business is lauded and defended by the Premier of the colony on the floor of this House. It is in- credible. Sir, I say in conclusion that if the motion of the Premier is carried this will be the last, so far as I am individually concerned, and 1 am entitled to be the judge of my own action- I say if this resolution is carried this is the last question of privilege for me in this House. ] shall talk no more of the privilege of this House in future. If I choose to give to a reporter any- thing that has transpired in Committee I will do it if I please, and your parliamentary privi- leges may go hang. I would not be surprised if other members adopted the same course. With regard to the suggestion that after this motion is carried we shall amend the Standing Orders, may I assure the honourable gentleman that that course is quite unnecessary ? This resolu- tion, if carried, settles all question as to the validity of the Standing Orders. They will no longer have any validity. The honourable gentleman might have proposed to go one step Mr. Fisher the Press representatives in the reporters' gal- lery, asking them to be good enough to revise them, and submit the result to this House for its adoption. That would be a fitting conclu- sion to his motion. That is what we have come to now. Sir, I have as much interest in the dignity of this House as any man in it, but I think the way to protect that dignity is not to adopt the course suggested by the Premier. I am very glad things have come to such a pass. I think the result of this case will be that we shall arrive at some final settlement in regard to the position of these reporters and the evidence taken before Committees of this House. As to the alteration of the Standing Orders with a view to the admission of reporters to the meetings of Committees, if the House chooses to adopt such an absurdity as that - Mr. SEDDON .- There is a precedent for it. Mr. FISHER .- I have read all the trash printed in the Wellington newspapers abou: the proceedings in the House of Commons : but does the honourable gentleman sup- pose that in the abstract or precis that appears in the London Times they would print the same twaddle that would be printed in this country with regard to the pro- ceedings of Committees. When reporters are admitted to the meetings of Committees of this Parliament the public would probably be in- formed with great delight of what the news- papers would call a "scene " between Mr. Fisher and some other member of the Com- mittee, but they would never see any honest report of the real business transacted by the Committee. The Committee-room would be the playground of the reporter. I know when a reporter does his work and when he does not. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Your time is up. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) .- Sir, the two speeches that have been delivered by the member for Bruce and the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) have had im- ported into them a great deal of unnecessary amount of heat. It makes one wonder what is at the back of it so far as those two honourabie members are concerned. What is the propied! of the last speaker in the amendment he has moved ? He has been declaiming with a great deal of bitterness about conduct that he criti- cizes as dishonourable ; but his amendment is to try and compel the representative of the Dunedin Star to do something that would be absolutely dishonourable. He asks that, in con- sequence of his refusal to do that which is and has always been recognised by the journalistic profession as dishonourable, he should be' brought to the bar of the House and fined 525 because of his refusal to do a dishonourable act. and by such a process he possibly hopes to in- duco him to do something which would be mos: dishonourable. In addition to this, he pm poses by his amendment to inflict penalties upon the publisher and the reporter without either being heard in their defence at the bar of the House. Could anything be more unfair or unjust ? Now, take the honourable mem- 