and what do we find ? The total value of ex- ports in 1891 was $9,566,397, and in 1 00 the enormous sum of £13,246,161, showing an increase of 38 per cent .; and yet some pessi- mistic people are foolishly crying about bad times, while the outlook is quite the reverse. At any rate, these figures show a steady internal progress throughout the whole colony. The Commissioner of Customs in the United King- dom has always stated that where you see the consumption of beer, tea, sugar, and tobacco going up, it is strong evidence of the general prosperity of the people, and their spending power is correspondingly increased. I think, Sir, that should convince the House, so far as they need convincing, that the Customs revenue, which is the financial pulse of the colony, is not decreasing, but the department is very much alive, and is doing exceed- ingly well, producing most excellent results. Well, Sir, the honourable member for 3.0. Hawke's Bay also challenged us with profligate expenditure; but there was nothing to show that he was right in his assertion. It was a bald statement without any backing up by facts or figures, and I will be able to show that the expenditure with which I have some- thing to do, and which is so far concerned with my department, is not a profligate expenditure at all. Then, I notice the Opposition always overlook the credit side of the book. If they would be only fair, and give the other side as well, so that the public could judge between them and us, we should be quite satisfied. No sensible man ever tries to arrive at the balance of an account without looking at both sides of the ledger. All we ask for is to have a fair investigation, and we are quite prepared and proud to show what a flourishing position the colony is in financially. Having given you such satisfactory figures, I think, so far as this de- partment of the colony is concerned, I need dwell no longer on them. I will pass on, there- fore, to a remark of the honourable member for Bruce. He says that the Valuation Depart- ment, which is also under my charge, had in- structed the valuers to put up land-values throughout the colony. That I emphatically deny. It is a most vicious statement, and I deny absolutely that there is one atom of truth in it. I have not time to go into the whole matter now, but I refer honourable members to Hansard, No. 10, page 95, wherein is pub- lished the exact instructions that were sent forth to every officer in this colony from the Valuer-General's Department. But, of course, some honourable members do not seem to realise that this is a very large department, and that they have had exceptional work to perform since they started. To give you some idea of what it means, I have just ascertained what number of valuations they had to go through. I find that the increases in the North Island were phenomenal, whilst there was very good and substantial progress in the South Island. The valuations of the North Island were 119,258, and in the South Island 112,707, giving a total of 231,965 separate valuations. it has been a very difficult matter in going through the whole of the colony to bring out the valuation on sound business-lines of what we considered was a reasonable and fair one. But you cannot expect, in a very large business of that kind, to get the scheme and work perfect at once. At any rate, judging from what I told you of the large number of valuations made, the proportion of complaints have been very small. That is a very good index as to whether they were levelling out fairly or not. Of course, we know there have been some very reasonable complaints. There is no question about it, and they will have to be remedied; but the number as compared with the whole has been very small indeed. Now, the rail- ways have not been included in these valua- tions, and only the surface valuation of mines. What, then, is the result? The land valua- tions in 1898 were £138,000,000, in round figures, while in 1900 they were £147,000,000; and let me point out to honourable members that there is still only about one-third of this colony properly and truthfully valued at the present time. The remaining portion has to be done, and the department is going on with the work steadily. Now, honourable members will recollect that when the property-tax was abo- lished the land- and income-tax was introduced. Let us compare the two and see what it means. The property-tax, which included all improve- ments, yielded a return in its last year of £356,741. If members look at the report, B .- 15, 1890, they will find the figures. It is a singu- lar thing that under the old property tax the improvements were always very small, owners keeping them down as much as possible ; but the moment the new system was introduced the value of improvements ran up. Like a barometer, they rose with the weather, and more especially when they were made exempt from taxation. Since the change was made, the land-tax in 1892-93 yielded #297,181, and it has gone on, sometimes increas- ing and then fluctuating, until last year it yielded only #294,583. The income-tax, which in 1892-93 only represented 3,443 per- sons, yielded £67,367; now the number has increased to 5,656, yielding the large sum of £173,808. Surely this must be conclusive evidence as to the wealth of the colony steadily increasing. It must convince any one who thinks the subject out, when they find the number of those who have to pay income-tax increasing to such an extent in ten years, that there must be more money in the colony; be- cause you must recollect that a man does not pay the tax till he has an income of over $300. Putting the two amounts together, the land- and income-tax make a gross sum of £468,391, as compared with the old property-tax, £356,741. Let me point out to honourable members that if the old Property Assessment Act had remained in force, and the same amount-namely, 1d. in the pound-had been levied annually, the settlers would have had to pay a very much larger sum. Now, the salaries attached to the Valuation De- partment are, I admit, increased this year, but 