The honourable member for Riccarton on that occasion said : "If I am returned to the House whenever the Government bring forward any measure I will be with them. There can be no three lobbies. There is only the 'Aye' and the 'No. " Now, I am going to show you again the inconsistency of the honourable member. He said he did not know a third lobby. I am going to demonstrate that he does know a third lobby. And, by the bye, that just reminds me that in a leading newspaper published in Canter- bury, known as the Spectator, the following im- portant announcement occurs : - "Messrs. W. W. Collins and G. W. Russell may fairly be complimented upon the de- termined stand they have taken up anent the Public Revenues Bill and the '£40 steal.' They should have been backed up by every member of the House who possessed a spark of independence. There are men and men. There are also jelly-fish." This is the opinion of a leading Canterbury journal upon the Public Revenues Bill and what is now known as the "$40 steal." Let us look how the member for Riccarton voted with regard to these subjects. He could find a third lobby when they were before the House, for we find when the Public Revenues Bill was being dealt with he voted for the second reading and its committal, but when it came into Committee he was like the Arabs - he packed up his tent and silently stole away. Mr. PIRANI .- There were a good many with him. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER. -- Possibly. And where was his vote when the £40 was given to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 members? The honourable member for Pal- merston opposed it, and took his stand in the House and voted against it. There is consis- tency ; but the honourable member who con- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero gratulates himself in his own paper on the position he took in regard to these two sub- jects, after not voting against one of the pro- posals and then accepting the benefit accruing therefrom - well, he is a political juggler ; his kaleidoscopic changes from one side to another must remove any confidence one should have in him. Again, it is fresh in my memory, there was a question before the House which, ·on its second reading, the honourable mem- ber supported, and when it came into Com- mittee he voted against it; and when it came to the third reading he spoke against it, and was challenged to record his vote, but he could not be found. The division-bell was specially rung to see how he would vote, but he was not forthcoming, although he was in the Chamber three minutes before. Yet he told us he was a consistent supporter of the Seddon Administration, and that there were only two lobbies. It has simply come to this : that he has not been the success he anticipated, he has not had-shall I call it the encouragement ?- he expected. His seat is still over there ; his seat is not here. He expected long before this to either be the bright Kohinoor in the diadem of the Opposition, or the Colonial Treasurer on the Ministerial benches. He has now found Mr. A. L. D. Fraser consequently- Mr. WILFORD .- He has been had by both. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- Yes; he has been had by both. Consequently, in his attempt to discover the Isles of the Blessed he has drifted into the drawing-room of the damned. Review- ing the speeches of the honourable gentleman eighteen months ago and his utterances in this Chamber within the last few hours, no better words can describe his political position than those of Milton,- Farewell hope, and with hope farewell fear ; Farewell remorse; all good to me is lost; Evil, be thou my good ! Mr. McGUIRE .- Give us something about the Financial Statement now. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- I said to-night I was no financier. I was particularly not going to deal with the intricate question of finance, but that I was going to endeavour to show this House and country the inconsistency of honour- able members who attack the finances of the Government. If that is not dealing logically and legitimately with the Financial Statement I regret the honourable member who comes from the West Coast, which I understand is a district as prolific in intellect as butter, should not be able to appreciate me. Now, the honour- able gentleman, the member for Nelson City, supplemented his remarks yesterday evening by saying that he did not pretend to be a financier. Well, I venture to suggest to him that, if there is any man in this House who does pretend to be a financier, it is the honourable member for Nelson City. He has for many years pretended to be a financier, and to have a marvellous power of analysing the most intricate questions of finance. Now, he has told us, almost in stronger language than the honourable member for Riccarton, that our position was disastrous, that we were in a maelstrom from which we could not be ex- tricated except by far more masterly and honest hands than those now on the Treasury benches. But the honourable gentleman is, if possible, more inconsistent than the honourable mem- ber for Riccarton. I find that he says that no autocratic government has been more lavish in the administration of affairs than has been done by this Government during the last few years. Now, if honourable members will remember these words, it will be interesting to find what that honourable gentleman's opinion was on a previous occasion, not so long ago. But he has got the political influenza that was brought into this House by the honourable member for Hawke's Bay and the member for Bruce. It is contagious, and he and the honourable member for Riccarton have it very bad, and in a milder degree so has the member for Dunedin City. Now, the honourable member told us last night that this Government had been most extrava- gant, and that our surplus was obtained on a wrong basis, and had been wrongfully trans- ferred to the Public Works Account. An Hon. MEMBER .- Hear, hear. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- The honourable gentleman may be perfectly right. I do not 