system had not been adopted by the colony we should be paying £180,000 a year more for interest than we are paying now ? An Hon. MEMBER .- He put it in a different Way. Sir J. G. WARD .- He may have done so, but that is what the honourable member for Riccarton conveyed. I am glad to hear that the honourable member for Wakatipu is the keeper of the honourable member's intentions in his absence. I listened to the honourable member for Riccarton. I may, of course, have made a mistake as to what he said ; but I am generally fairly well able to grasp a thing-I hope, as able to do so as my honourable friend- and what he said was that if we had not gone in for this drawn-loan system we should be pay- ing £180,000 more interest than we are now- in fact, I think he gave our interest account with this amount added to it. What was the system adopted for ? Why, for one reason, to effect a saving in interest ; and, having effected it, to come and tell the House that if we had not done a particular thing at a particular time we should be going to leeward to the extent of the saving is about as logical as saying that if we had not borrowed money at all New Zealand would not owe any money. Of course, that is logic, according to the honourable member ; but for the honourable member to put forward such a statement as that, in order to show how much worse off we ought to be to-day, is a most extraordinary thing indeed. The honourable member for Riccarton complained about the increase in the indebtedness of the colony, and honourable members must have https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 noticed his quivering voice-indeed, you could almost see a quiver in his eye from here-when he said that he actually trembled to think what the consequences might be if we were not able to obtain money in the English market in twelve months from now. He might have said that, unless the people of this country were completely bereft of their senses, and had a set of men on these benches who did not know how to steer the colony in times of trouble, then disaster might arise. Any one can carry things on under easy and favourable conditions ; any man can sail a ship in a fair wind ; but it re- quires a navigator to be at the helm, assisted by a loyal and non-mutinous crew, when the ship is in troubled waters off a lee-shore, to steer it off the shore and into placid waters. What is the lee-shore so far as this colony is concerned ? Is it that, in consequence of some important statement in connection with the colony's finances which was alleged to have been made by the Premier, but which he has given the House his assurance time and again he did not make - is it because of that statement we are going to be told that the country is getting on to a lee - shore? What is the dangerous coast under the lee of the ship that we have and require to claw off from ? If honourable members want to know what is the real trouble-what is the difficulty-they have got to look a long way from New Zealand ; they have got to look to South Africa for the real Sir J. G. Ward Government is - and rightly - warning our people to assist them, and assist themselves, and assist the colony in steering clear of the lee-shore of trouble, and especially so during the next six months. Now, what is the trouble to which I allude? Anything in connection with our own colony's affairs-either its finance, its trade, its or laws ? Nothing of the sort. Honour- able members know that millions of money have been teeming out of the English Ex- chequer in order to carry on the South African war, and they know that as the result of that. trouble the drain upon the resources of the people of the Old World has been extraordi- narily great ; and that, as a natural corollary in consequence of that, money for the time being has become tight there, and the rate of interest has ruled somewhat high. But when members hear the honourable member for Ric- carton drawing an indication from that, and stating that the people of this country may, if certain things occur, be trembling on the brink of ruin in the next twelve months, I say it is an insult to his own intelligence and to the intelligence of this House, as it is an insult to the stability of this country. Sir, I say the Government could go on the English money- market if they chose to do so now and get all the money that this colony wants, providing we liked to pay more than our country's credit entitles it to get its money for ; and we can do so at any time during the next twelve months. But what are the Government going to do with the trust that is placed in their hands? They are determined, Sir, not to commit the people of this colony to the payment of an unnecessarily high rate of interest for a longer period than is necessary, and until the trouble in South Africa is settled, and until the lee-shore which that has provided for the ship of " Finance" has been weathered, we say we are determined to do our navigating prudently. There will naturally then be a lowering in the price of money in the English market. Sir, then will be the right time for this colony to go on the London money-market for its requirements ; but to talk about this colony being embarrassed, or likely to be embarrassed, on account of this tight- ness at present in the English market, and to talk, as the honourable member for Riccarton, and the honourable member for Nelson City, and the honourable member for Ashley, and a number of other members talked, about the country being in difficulties, I say is abso- lutely contrary to what is the fact. Sir, even if we were in difficulties, is it not the duty of the Government, is it not the duty of our public men, to point out to the people the way in which we should go in order to steer clear of these troubles ? But would any man who wants to extricate himself from a difficult position go and croak and preach that he was going to irretrievably fall ? Certainly he would not. He would make up his mind that he was going to do his utmost to weather the storm, and he would preach it, and in accordance with his preaching, if there was anything in him, in time he would succeed in doing so. He cer- 