no reason for the longer delay of this most urgent work. He was satisfied that the proximity of the land to the City of Wel- lington, and the long road and railway front- age, and the fact that there were abundant and permanent streams flowing from the hills would render the land very valuable for manufactur- ing and other purposes. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said there appeared to be some misconception about the matter, and he would like to make the Last session he had actual position clear. given an indication to the House, or to a depu- tation, of what was the estimated cost of doubling the line to the Hutt, independent of any general reclamation-works which those con- cerned desired to, be carried out independent of the line. The estimate of the department did not in any way cover the reclamation re- ferred to by the honourable gentleman, except- ing those necessary small portions to enable some of the present curves to be straightened. The department had gone into the cost of doubling and straightening certain portions of the line to meet the requirements of the Rail- way service, and that was estimated to be ap- proximately about £100,000. But it was quite a wrong impression to consider that this covered the cost of general reclamation-works sufficient to enable sales of land to be made to meet the cost of the whole work. This was not so. The Railway Department had not contemplated large reclamation-works ; that was not their business. The business of the department was to ascertain what it would cost to straighten and double certain portions of the line to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 provide for the largely increased traffic be- tween the City of Wellington and the Hutt; but if general reclamation-works were carried out to provide land so that its sale would re- http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero coup the cost of the whole works it would re- quire not $100,000, but probably $200,000 or $250,000. This was an impression that ought to be removed from the minds of the people- that the Government could reclaim land and double the line for $100,000, and that sufficient land would be left to sell or lease so as to cover the cost of the total improvement of the line. If the Government could do that it would, of course, be very easy, and, as a matter of busi- ness, it would clearly be their duty to take the matter in hand immediately : but they could not. And while he recognised that the work was a most desirable one, both in the interests of the public and to meet the requirements of the growing traffic between Wellington and the Hutt, it was not a work he could at present place in the category of the necessitous works of the colony, there being other urgent works requir- ing attention and that must demand priority. There were places where people had no rail- ways at all. There were railways to be finished before they could set aside such a large amount of money as was required for this work, even though he admitted the work was important and should be taken in hand as soon as it was possible to do so. It was idle to hold out a prospect of the work being commenced at an Mr. Field more urgent works had been undertaken. He would also like to say that, even if the line as proposed now under the Railway Department were straightened, it would not meet or pro- vide for the road requirements. That work would need to be done outside the Railway Department. Under existing conditions the Railway Department would, when it took the work in hand, do what was required in the interests of the railway; but the money re- quired for the making of the road, and the authority to do the work, would have to be given by the local bodies, who had certain powers conferred on them to enable them to make a road of the character required. # RAILWAY SERVANTS SUPERANNUA- TION AND CLASSIFICATION ACTS. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) asked the Government, When the Government Railway Servants Superannuation and Classification Acts may be expected to be circulated ? This was a matter that was of great interest to a large number of people, and he trusted the Minister would be able to give him a satisfac. tory reply. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the superannuation scheme had been prepared for some time. It was very comprehensive, and he could say, without, he hoped, being egotisti- cal, an excellent scheme, though necessarily a difficult one to introduce. At the present time the financial portions of it were undergoing examination by the actuary of the Government Insurance Department. When it was returned to the Government from that officer he would again submit it to the Cabinet, and it was for Cabinet to say whether the proposals in connec- tion with it were acceptable, and if they agreed he would be very pleased to submit it to Parlia. ment this session. # WORKERS' WEEKLY RAILWAY- TICKETS. Mr. E. G. ALLEN (Waikouaiti) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will make workers' weekly tickets on suburban lines available for girls travelling by train between the hours of eight a.m. and nine a.m., providing that the girls so travelling present to the Stationmaster a cer- tificate signed by their employer to the effect that the applicant is a bona fide worker in his employment ? The concessions made to workers were much appreciated by them, but it must be remembered that these workers' trains generally left about seven a.m., which was too early an hour for those girls, who started work at nine o'clock. If they travelled by the early train they would have to wait an hour in the cities until their workrooms opened. He did not think that the concession that he asked for the girls would lead to any abuse of the privilege if the applica- tion for a ticket was in all cases certified to by the person for whom the applicant was working. and it would be a great boon to the girls. He understood that unless the tickets were safe- guarded as he indicated large numbers of 