STATUTES COMPILATION BILL. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON .- Sir, I think this will be found to be a very useful Bill. It is not a consolidating measure, but still it has the effect of bringing together the law and its amendments, if this Council or the other House so desires it. Sections 2 and 3 are really the whole Bill, and explain themselves. I could read these sections, but I do not think it is necessary. It is simply this : We know that a certain law and its amendments may be spread over a number of statutes, and it is very diffi- .cult at times to know where they are and how to get them. This Bill simply says that this -Council or the other House may by resolution -order certain Acts to be printed and brought together, so that all the members, or, rather, the whole country, shall know what the law is. I -do not think I need go any further than that, and I move the second reading of the Bill. Bill read the second time. # MINERS' RIGHTS FEE REDUCTION BILL. The Hon. Mr. REEVES .- Sir, I wish to say a very few words in regard to this Bill. The Bill has passed through another place, where it met with approval and was not at all opposed. Under it a certain amount of relief will be given to the working miner, or the men who are generally known as "hatters," on the goldfields. In 1885 the fee was reduced to 5s., but after that it was increased to 10s. Now it is proposed to reduce it to 5s. again, and, as I said just now, the Bill has gone through the other House and the Goldfields Committee. I https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 now beg to move the second reading of the Bill. Bill read the second time. SHOPS AND SHOP-ASSISTANTS BILL. The Hon. Colonel PITT .- Sir, the short ob- ject of this Bill is to provide a half-holiday for the chemists, and it puts the law back pretty .much as it was in the year 1894, because by the amending Act, " The Shops and Shop-assistants Act, 1895," chemists' shops were excepted from those ordered to be closed for the weekly half- holiday. The whole of the chemists in the principal towns of the colony are. I understand, in favour of this Bill, and I believe they have addressed the Hon. the Minister of Education in reference to the Shops and Offices Bill in the direction in which this Bill goes. Of course, -chemists recognise that they are to a certain extent the servants of the public, and that they . should keep their shops open at such hours as will enable them to meet the exigencies of acci- dents and sickness, and that is provided for in section 3 of the Bill. I trust that the Bill will. be allowed to be read the second time, and I think there should really be no objection to it. Therefore I content myself with moving the second reading. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK .- Sir, I have much pleasure in supporting the Hon Colonel Pitt as regards this Bill. It appears to me that if chemists' shops are to be closed, an accident may at any time occur and be most disastrous to the sick persons. I think certain exemp- tions ought to take place. I understand that in the country of which Bucharest is the capital, arrangements are made by which a chemist's shop is open at all hours of the night in proper rotation ; and I believe that the rota- tion of these shops is always properly notified in the newspapers of the city. It must appeal to every honourable gentleman that it is neces- sary that some one or more chemist's shops should be available at all periods of the day. No one can tell when an accident may occur ; no one can say when an accident may happen to any one of the gentlemen sitting here in this honourable Council at the present moment ; and, if it happened at a shut up time, the necessary medicines might not be obtainable, and serious results might follow. So, Sir, I think this Bill is a good one. If there are any defects in the Bill, they certainly can be remedied in Committee. Then, as regards the Shops and Offices Bill, another measure before us-into which amendments having the effect of this Bill might be introduced in Committee - it may not pass through all its stages and through all the differences in respect to particular clauses between the two Houses ; but I think honour- able gentlemen might regard this Bill as a matter of urgency, and, as being in the in- terests of the public health, and as a safeguard of the public weal, it is something which I think we ought to attend to, and which we ought to pass. Sir, I have much pleasure in seconding the motion for the second reading of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. RIGG .- I think this Bill is one which the Council might very well pass. I can- not understand why the Bill has been drafted in the form in which it is. It seems to me to be simply repeating certain sections of the Act of 1894, which Act has never been repealed ; and it would be a much simpler Bill if it had con- sisted of one clause, to this effect: that sub- section (a) of section 7 of the Act of 1895 be repealed. That would be exactly what is re- quired. At the present time chemists are ex- empted from closing, and, of course, it is in their option whether they will open their shops and carry on their business or not ; but that has one disadvantage which has been found to exist by the chemists, and that is that it leaves the way open for perhaps one chemist in a place to keep his shop open and thus prevent the rest of the chemists in the same place having a half-holiday. I think there is a neces- sity for this Bill, and I hope it will pass. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- I cannot see why chemists should not close like other people. They close on Sundays at present, and we never hear any complaint of any great inconvenience caused by such closing. Of course, they open on certain hours on Sundays, and this Bill pro- vides that they shall open on half-holidays in the forenoon and between seven and nine o'clock in the evening. I am, of course, only referring to the clause objected to in this Bill. I think that is sufficient ; but I cannot see why a fishmonger, fruiterer, or confectioner should be exempted. Anybody can lay in sufficient 