prices all over the world. The information that | Dunkirk, Liverpool, and Hull. He wished to Mr. Gow would be able to impart they already had impress upon the House the necessity of doing at hand. He approved of the suggestions made everything it could to widen the markets of the colony. Then, here were one or two other sets by the honourable member for Riccarton. The of figures : Victoria did business with nineteen Government could easily appoint gentlemen who would give information week by week as to the foreign ports, New South Wales with seven- teen, and we with nine. The department now prices ruling in the various principal markets of under discussion had been practically dead since the world. As to the frozen-meat trade to the it was started ; but he hoped, as they were voting Cape, there was the fact that cool-storage would a large sum towards it, that during the next be required there in order to secure any mea- twelve months it would do something to justify sure of success in delivery, and the question its existence, otherwise he, for one, would be was, Would that pay? He did not think it willing to abolish it. He thought the depart- would. But they might depend upon it that there were gentlemen connected with the grain ment should devote its energies not so much to the development of the tourist traffic, in which and meat trade who were intimately acquainted he did not think there was very much after with all the opportunities in almost every mar- all, but to the widening of our markets, and ket in the world, and it was only flinging away if they did so they would deserve well of the money to send a man of very average ability to look after this matter, perhaps because he had country. been doing a little successful political touting. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) said this ques- answer to the honourable gentleman's figures tion was a serious one, and there were facts and figures connected with it of so striking a cha- racter as to command the serious attention of every member. About eight or nine months with these other ports which accounted for the ago a conference of the Chambers of Commerce amount of trade done by the Australian Colonies of New Zealand had been held in Christchurch, referred to. It would be more to the point if at which a number of very important matters had been discussed, and the following resolution, ideas to the Minister. If the Government among others, was brought before that body by could afford to attract those steamers to this Mr. Patterson, of Dunedin, and carried unani- country that were always trading to Australia, mously : "That, in the opinion of this confer- we should, of course, be able to do a greatly increased trade with the countries alluded to. ence of the New Zealand Chambers of Com- Efforts had been frequently made in various merce, (1) the wide extension of New Zealand ports on the Continent of Europe and in the trade is a matter of national importance and ought to engage the serious attention of the Go- Old Country to get sufficient cargoes to fill even sailing-vessels to come here regularly, but there vernment and of the commercial community." https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 The motion also urged that the Government was not sufficient cargo to do so. If this colony should grant steam subsidies, commended the were to open up a trade with Germany it might Department of Industries and Commerce, and be possible to attract other steamers here, but what cargo should we have to fill the expressed a hope that the extension of trade would be made by it a leading object. In this vessel in return? We had not the goods that Germany would take in, because the rates connection he would put two or three sets of of their tariff against what we had to send figures before the Committee which he consi- dered worthy of its serious consideration. New would preclude us from sending cargoes. If the Minister in charge could succeed in Zealand exported of her products to the United bringing vessels from Australia to New Zealand Kingdom 79 per cent., to Australia 14 per cent., -such vessels as were trading there-there and to foreign countries 6 per cent. New South Wales exported to the United Kingdom 31 per might be some opportunity for a return trade. Coming to the question of London alone, he had cent., to other British possessions and foreign to say that what the honourable gentleman had countries 35 per cent., and to the Australian stated was true : that if a depression occurred Colonies 34 per cent. ; while Victoria exported in London this country suffered. But, if a de- to the United Kingdom 30 per cent., to other pression occurred in London, it was London British possessions and foreign countries, 42 per that controlled the trade of the world ; and if cent., and to the colonies of Australasia 28 per London was depressed, that depression would cent. This showed that New Zealand was be felt throughout the other countries trading relying almost altogether on London for a with it and us, unless, of course, there might market, and was consequently affected by the be special circumstances, such as those prevail- slightest depression or expansion of that market. ing in South Africa at the present time. As to They were making no effort to widen their the department itself, he wished to say he did field of commerce. A Committee had been set not think sufficient salaries were being given to up by this House to deal with trade and com- attract the most capable men to take control merce. Last year it had met once, elected a of the departments. Competent men would Chairman, and done no more business. This not take control of affairs under $1,000 per year it had never met at all. There were ports annum. One company in Christchurch paid its to which the Australian Colonies had steamship manager £1,000 a year - he was a capable man lines constantly running, and which we never -and it paid them to do so. Men who were sent a ship to. He would name some of these : really fit for positions in these departments Manila, China, Japan, Bremen, Hamburg, VOL. CXVIII .- 45. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) said the was that this colony should have all the same fleets of steamers as the other colonies, which was impossible. It was the steam connection the honourable gentleman would offer some 