rate of 7s. 6d. per hundredweight, and it only takes seven rails 35 ft. long to make a ton. Imagine the hundreds of tons that have to be carted, and the state of the roads at the end of the winter. If there had been a practical man in charge of the viaduct he would have run an · aerial tramway across the gorge, an engine could have been taken across in pieces, rails would have been laid down, and the train would not have been detained for a single day. Mr. HALL-JONES .- Is Mr. Sneddon not a practical man ? Mr. HASELDEN .- I do not know anything about him. I am a practical man myself. Mr. HALL-JONES .- Question. Mr. HASELDEN. - Yes, I am a practical man. I say that a wire rope might have been thrown across-there is one across the Rangi- tikei River 20 chains long, and a rope could have been put across the Makohine Gorge; but we find the whole of the material was carted round by the road. I have seen engines and quartz- crushers taken over worse country than that ; and I say there is no reason at all why the rail- way should not have carried the material to the end of the viaduct and then run it across on a wire rope. At the present time they are so very eager to complete the railway there that nearly all the work is done by co-operative labour, which every one knows costs three times as much and takes three times as long as the ordinary contract work. Even the men themselves are dissatisfied with it, and complain that they do not get fair-play. That is the fact about the Makohine Viaduct. And why is this? Because they want to employ https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 co-operative labour. Every co-operative man is a vote for the Government, because he dare not vote otherwise. I say they dare not do it. Let the ballot-box next time be taken from the polling-booths to Hunterville or Patea, and the votes counted together with all the others, and they will see where the co-operative vote will be then. I can assure you that not only the railway-work, but the whole of the co-operative work of the country, is costing one-third more than if it were done by contract. I know what I am speaking about. Some are not making a living-wage, others are making from 10s. to £1 a day ; and I ask, Can we in the present state of the finances of the country afford to allow men to make £1 a day? But I suppose so long as we can get loan-money so long shall we keep up the false prosperity of the country by paying high wages, and so long as you do that so long will you have the support of these men. There are no less than six thousand co-operative labourers in the colony, and the men are kept moving about from place to place according to the elections. As I have mentioned the word "election," I will go on with it, and I will correct the honourable member for Wanganui about the Wanganui River mail-subsidy at once. I had no wish to mention it in the House, because I want the settlers' boat to get the subsidy. I will tell the honourable member for Wanganui the facts of the case. It is quite true what he said about Mr. Haselden on his boat. He received £750, because he was one of the "right colour," to carry a mail that a Maori had done previously for $75; no tenders were called for it. How could the settlers' boat compete with that, when Hatrick got £750 for carrying mails that did not cost him a penny ? The settlers thought it was not a fair thing; they did not apply for £750, but simply for a share of the subsidy, and were refused. They then sent a petition down, and they sent the manager down, and he was refused ; and they sent delegates down, and they were refused ; but the moment the Government nominee at the last election visited Raetihi and found that he would not get a vote unless the subsidy was granted -- An Hon. MEMBER .- That is not correct. Mr. HASELDEN. - It is correct. Three days afterwards the subsidy was promised ; but they have not got it yet, and that is why I did not mention it, because they ought to get it, and it has been promised. I will go further now, and will say that there is a worse case of bribery and corruption on the part of the Government, and that was buying the Aberfeldie vote. A bargain was struck. "So-many votes for the Government nominee, and $2,000 shall be put on the estimates for a bridge over the Manga- whero Stream." The settlers carried out their part of the bargain. Not only did they vote themselves, but they got their friends in other districts to vote at the Aberfeldie booth, so as to swell the numbers. They are thoroughly ashamed of themselves now ; but what can you expect when the Government of the country will stoop so low as to bid for votes at by-elections. It was a block vote to the Government nominee, where always up to that time the block vote had been for the Opposition member. What bought them over? It was the promise of $2,000 for a bridge. An Hon. MEMBER .- When was that ? Mr. HASELDEN .- Last election. Mr. HALL-JONES .- They claim to have had the promise for years. Mr. HASELDEN. Yes, promised ; but not the slightest chance of getting the promise fulfilled until it was found that it would influ- ence the election. Have they got it yet ? An Hon. MEMBER .- Yes. Mr. HASELDEN .- I am very glad. They will vote for me next time. That is another forty votes for me at the next election, and you will find that I shall come back here with a big majority. I am now coming to the speech of the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier). In the first place, I may say it has been stated in the Auckland papers that his speech was the talk of the lobbies. For my own part, I did not hear it mentioned in the lobbies further than that members expressed themselves as being very much astonished at one of the rank-and-file being put up to reply to the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, Captain Russell. Of course, as a lawyer, he did his best, and, having no case, he abused the other side; but he also made mistakes. First, on the subject of our wool export. I am 