their professions during the last ten years, and to emphasize it he resurrected from one of Junius's letters the following : "In moments of difficulty and danger, flattery and falsehood cannot deceive, and simplicity takes it place." An Hon. MEMBER .- Those are not the words. Sir J. G. WARD .- Sir, I say that is very nearly the quotation of the honourable member as I took it. At all events, it is near enough for my purpose. Sir, I can only say, in reply to the honourable member, that flattery and false- hood are evidently in the minds of some people, who are urging in the one breath that we should reduce our public-works expenditure enormously, and in the other are urging that large public expenditure should take place in their particular districts. Sir, I say if they are sincere they ought to ask the Government to largely reduce the public expenditure. And one of the best ways to do it, and at the same time to show their sincerity and earnestness and practicability as well, is for these members, who are the reflex of the opinion of their own constituencies, to show the Government the works in their districts on which expenditure can be reduced. They have a special knowledge of their own districts, and they will be better able to show the Government in what direc- tions expenditure can be reduced in their own localities, and so effect a reduction all over the colony. The honourable member said, If this extravagant expenditure went on unchecked a position of affairs would arise in this colony that would be disastrous ; and yet he advocated retention of the co-operative workers-the very backbone of the whole public-works expenditure https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 -and he had to admit that more money was wanted, or otherwise a backward condition of affairs would result. The honourable member had the North Island Trunk Railway in his vision when he made that statement about co- He knows perfectly well operative workers. that the North Island Trunk Railway is being made by co-operative labourers, and he knows the Government are determined to push it on ; and it again shows that he is anxious to preach in one direction but to practise in another. He knows that his seat would be unsafe, and that he would not again grace this House with his presence, if he advocated that the co-operative workers should be put off, because that would mean at once the stoppage of the North Island Trunk Railway. That is an illustration of the sincerity of honourable members who are ask- ing that there shall be a large reduction in the public-works expenditure; but the moment it touches their own quarter they are anxious that the co-operative workers should be kept going ; and he is naturally anxious that the North Island Trunk Railway and other public works should be kept going as well. To whom, then, does the extract from Junius's letter apply to- to the honourable gentleman and his friends or the Government? We openly practise what we preach ; they preach the very opposite of what they wish and would have the Govern- ment do. The quotation, or at least a portion of it, aptly applies to them. Now, on the Sir J. G. Ward honourable gentleman took exception to the fact that the old-age pensions had risen from £108,000 to £215,000. The honourable mem- ber did not tell the House that the Premier, when he made that forecast of £108,000, did so under different circumstances from those which prevail now. Does the honourable member not know that no Maoris were included in the old- age pensions scheme at first ? Hon. MEMBERS .- They were. Sir J. G. WARD .- I say originally they were not. Yet the honourable members keep that information to themselves, and let it go forth that, with only Europeans having the rights, the Old-age Pension Fund has increased from £108,000 to £215,000. Many restrictions in the Bill when it was first before the House have been removed, and the honourable members opposite urged that the scheme should be made general. Their object in doing that was to try and crush the scheme by the excessive amount that would be required, and when they cannot crush it in one way we find them trying to do it in another ; and you have these honour- able members coming before the House and making statements-that are necessarily dis- seminated among the people of the colony-that the old-age pensions scheme, instead of costing £108,000 is costing £215,000, ignoring the fact that the Maori population is now included in that. And surely the Maori population has a per- fect right to receive benefits under this humane scheme-an equal right with those who are old and infirm Europeans. The honourable member keeps that very important fact entirely in the background. Then the honourable member says the mortgage-tax has not been given away this year; and the honourable member for Nelson City, Mr. Graham, says the same thing. Why do they not say what they are prepared to do ? Why do they not give an indication that they are prepared to have the mortgage tax repealed, and to raise an equal amount by having an in- crease in the graduated land-tax. An Hon. MEMBER .- What right has that question to come up ? Sir J. G. WARD .- It has every right to come up. It has been indicated by the Govern- ment that we can only have a remission of the mortgage-tax by the substitution of some other system of taxation. Are they then, I ask, pre- pared to increase the graduated land-tax upon properties above, say, #15,000 or £20,000 ? If they are prepared, let them show their willing- ness by making the suggestion, and the mortgage-tax will soon go. Let us see some indication of their sincerity, not merely in precept, but in practice, and they will find the Government is quite prepared to meet them in the direction that I have indicated. But honourable members, representing those whom they do in this House, want all they can get, and to give nothing whatever in return, and then they are prepared to find fault with the Government, and to point out all manner of misdeeds according to their own point of view. Then, there is this question of the com- plaint regarding the increase of departments and 