bility-who are horrified at what has been me of a single case, after a journalist has been done in this case, but who have yet re- brought up for contempt, where he has altered peatedly given information to the newspapers. his position ? I do not know a single case in Moreover, they have said they will continue to this colony. So that, as to bringing the matter before the House, and as to bringing the wit- do so. They have been known to attend Com- ness up, that matter should rest with the Com- mittees for no other purpose than to ascertain mittee, and not with the House. I find that what was going on with the view of giving it to the newspapers. I say, Sir, that that has been the honourable member for Hawke's Bay sup- done repeatedly. I have now shown the dis- ported me in the attitude I took respecting Mr. Watson. The question was whether he should tinction between the two cases. In my opinion, appear personally or by counsel, and it was one of two courses must be taken : either throw ultimately agreed that he should appear by open the Committees altogether to the Press, counsel. Therefore, if you are going to deal or so amend our Standing Orders that if any- with Mr. Cohen because of his refusal as a wit- thing like this occurs again, we will know how ness to give certain information, you will have to deal with it, and those who offend will have to allow time for notice to be given to him, and to put up with the consequences. All I ask for now is time to think over the matter, with to decide as to whether counsel shall be per- the view of bringing down proposals such as will mitted. Mr. ATKINSON .- Move a vote of thanks to uphold the privileges of the House, and I think, be consistent with the desire of members. In him. That is about the way to meet the case. this case, we should deal with it as one body, Mr. SEDDON .- I think honourable members who as the representatives of the people have had will find, when the question of upholding the their privileges infringed. We must, naturally, privileges of this House is concerned, that protect ourselves ; but in the meantime I do not neither Mr. Cohen nor any one else influences think it fair to cast suspicion on the members me. At the same time I believe in doing what of the Goldfields Committee, for, according to is fair, and I will not depart from that course. the practice amongst members, and also accord- Some members have spoken of parallel cases. ing to our Standing Orders, once a member has We have had reports of Committees postponed denied making a statement, or has denied being on the merits of the case. There was a similar case in 1874, where the report of a Joint Com- mittee of Privilege was laid before the House. final in this House ; and, therefore, if it is final It had reference to the publication in the Tribune so far as the House is concerned, it is final so newspaper of the 4th August of certain infor- far as the Committee is concerned ; and no . mation. The Committee was known as the Ward-Chapman Inquiry Committee. The Com- member has any right to say that, because he mittee found that Mr. Ward had given infor- has been unable to obtain from Mr. Cohen the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 mation to Mr. Luckie, a member of the House, name of the person who gave him the papers, he should say it must have been one of the who telegraphed it to the Southern Cross news- members of the Committee. I appointed a paper ; and, on the motion of the Hon. Mr. O' Rorke, it was resolved,- Royal Commission at one time to deal with the "That, in the matter of breach of privilege celebrated Fox correspondence. I do not know that has arisen through the publication of the to this day who did it. purport of certain evidence given before the Ward-Chapman Committee, the House, having case that allowed it to be copied. considered the report of the Select Committee, another Commission, and I shall have to bring accepts, as satisfactory to this House, the the honourable member for Waitemata before apology of Mr. Luckie for having been the that Commission and make him disclose who means of publishing this evidence, and the ex- pression of regret made by Mr. Ward before the it was who obtained that precious document. Select Committee for divulging his evidence : and this House resolves to proceed no further plied the Fox correspondence. in the matter." An Hon MEMBER .- That is not a parallel atmosphere much clearer than most members. I do not know, and I have often wished that case. Mr. SEDDON .- That brings me to the dis- I could have found it out, so as to remove altogether any suspicion I had. tinction between that and the present case. In the case to which I have just referred, the evidence which a witness had given was given I wil tell you that privately. by himself to another party, who transmitted it Commission appointed, and I am brought to a newspaper. In the present case it is the publication of the report of the evidence holus- before that Commission, look at my position. If this information is given to me privately I bolus in a newspaper; but I myself do not see cannot in honour use it. I must either have much difference between the two cases. Mem- the information openly or I cannot have it at bers of the House are in the habit of telling the all. However, the motion is that this question newspaper reporters what transpires, not in one be postponed until Tuesday, and I shal ) make Committee but in several of them, and it is only this a first order of the day for Tuesday. It a question of degree. The practice has been may be, of course, that we shall require to growing from time to time, and there may be a party to a transaction, our Standing 11.30. Orders insist upon that being taken as Mr. MONK .- It was your negligence in that Mr. SEDDON .- Now I shall have to appoint Mr. FISHER .- Everybody knows who sup- Mr. SEDDON .- I must confess I live in an Mr. FISHER .- You mean the Fox business ? Mr. SEDDON. - But if there is another 