colony ought to be taxed, and I shall show the honourable gentleman some facts and figures with which he is, perhaps, familiar, but which he never publishes to the world in his public speeches. Now, take the Defence Department. Well, now, I am afraid I must call a halt. In this department, I must confess, there seems to be something queer. If one hears at any time about anything going wrong, of a muddle of some kind, of any trouble or scandal in some department or other, and if one is asked to guess which department it is, in nine cases out of ten if one guesses the Defence Department one would be right. I do not think that it is the fault of the honourable gentleman who is in charge of the department-I mean the Minister of Defence. As far as that honourable gentle- man is concerned he has plenty of energy, and decision, and knowledge, and I know of no one in the colony who is likely to make a better Minister of Defence than the honourable gentleman. I believe that in the way of energy, enthusiasm, knowledge, and skill, he makes the best Minister we could have; but somehow or other the department 11.0. does not seem to work very smoothly. In regard to the expenditure of that depart- ment, last year it was £206,000 odd, which included over $87,000 for South African contin- gents. This year, while there is only £30,000 put down for contingents, the expenditure is to be £213,000, which is £7,000 more than that of last year. Perhaps it will be said that this is on account of increased capitation, but it is not so. The estimated amount for last year was £40,000, but only £16,000 was spent, and there is only $30,000 put down this year. The cost of the new rifles is not included in these estimates. There is an amount of £20,000 for small-arms ammunition, but I do not see any- thing for new rifles. As to the vote of $373,428 proposed by the Committee of last year, I understand that the authority to expend that is under the Defence Act of last session. As far as this department is concerned, it will pro- bably be as well for us to look into the expenditure when it comes up; but I should like to say here a word or two in re- gard to the defence proposals, and the defence management of the Government. I may not be correct, but I have a very strong idea that it is a weak spot in our defence scheme that so little attention is paid to the Militia. If there is a lesson to be learnt from the unfortunate war in South Africa it is as to the value of the citizen soldier. There is no doubt about that, and there is no doubt that those people with whom we are at war were trained in the use of weapons, and had some elementary knowledge of entrenchments, and knew how to handle guns. It appears to me that it would not be impossible to inaugurate in this country a scheme by which the bulk of our inhabitants would have a little training, which, at all events, would be of some use. Remember that it is in defensive work that this sort of training is valuable. We do not propose to go on an offensive warfare, but it may be necessary Mr. Barclay is training in defensive work that will be found extremely valuable. I will ask the House to permit me to read an extract from a very valuable paper on the subject of defence by a gentleman who is well qualified to deal with a question of that kind. In regard to the Militia he says :- " Militia rolls should be made up and kept revised each year, and in cases where the fixed establishment of Volunteers fell below the mini- mum fixed by the Government, either in a centre or in any of the surrounding towns or townships, the Militia provisions of the Defence Act should then be enforced, and the first-class Militia called out for drill purposes." Then,- "The expense of drilling any portion of the Militia would, it appears to me, be but trifling. There would be no necessity for uniforming the men, and they would be called out for drill in their own time -morning, and evening, Saturday, and other afternoons when holidays are observed, &c. All that would be required would be drill-instructors and arms and accou- trements. The former could be supplied by the officers and non-commissioned officers of the Volunteer Force, and, as to arms and accoutrements, they should be in the colony against emergency arising." My time, Sir, is going very fast, and I should like to deal at some length with this question of defence, but as I have a lot of other matters that I wish to deal with, and probably another opportunity will arise, when we come to the Defence estimates, or on the first item of Supply, I will leave what I had to say in regard to that matter for another occasion. But, before leaving this question of the finance of the colony and the increase of the public debt, I should like to say something that cer- tainly is not new-to make a statement for which I do not claim any originality- namely, that the interest which we have to pay on our debt is a great drain on this colony. It is the heaviest item of expenditure that we have, and I say that the time is rapidly coming when the question will have to be considered whether we cannot manage to make some of our public works without going to London to borrow the money. As far as I understand the process, what happens is this : We are not able to build a mile of railway in this country -unless out of revenue - without getting the permission of a number of gentlemen who live or sit in London. We desire to borrow the money to build a railway ; but we do not get, of course, any coin ; we do not get any notes ; we practically get nothing but the loan of the credit of the gentlemen in London who are supposed to lend us the money. They practi- cally guarantee our credit at the bank. Then, of course, the exports we send Home practi- cally pay what is to be paid in the way of interest for our loans, and pay for our imports as well. Now, it appears to me that a scheme or reform could certainly be suggested or proposed by which we could avoid paying £3 or £3 10s. per $100 to these persons, who practically merely 