evitably would be that our exporters of frozen mutton would receive far better net returns. I think the Government have done a great deal for the farmers, and I am speaking as the representative of an agricultural district. There have been large reductions in railway freights, There has made mainly in their interests. been, since this Government have been in power, the remission of the tax on im- provements. There has also been a large development of the dairy industry, for which the Government may claim a great deal of the credit -not the whole of it ; but a good deal of it is fairly claimable by the Agricultural Department, and in this and other directions large and substantial benefits have been conferred on the farmers. But, Sir, there is a great deal more still to be done in the same direction. The farmers, pastoralists, and agriculturists are the backbone of the coun- try, and I do not think their interests have relatively had the same amount of attention at the hands of this House as have the interests of those who are termed the " workers," although that term is not properly restricted to artisans, for if there are any workers in the country it is the agricultural farmers themselves. But, Sir, as distinguished from workers, as we understand them to be defined by that term, I say I think that the farmers have a right to band them- selves together, as they are now doing, for the promotion of their interests ; and I am very glad that they are combining with a view to bringing their reasonable requests before this House and the Government with a united voice, a voice to which I feel sure it will be found https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 politically wise as well as morally just that the Government should listen. Although I am a country member, a member for a district mostly agricultural, I have always stood shoulder to shoulder with the members for the cities in their endeavour to obtain the passing of Liberal labour legislation in the in- terests of the workers in the towns. But, although the labour legislation we have had has been in the main good, it is always possible to go too far even with a good thing. Food and exercise, for example, are necessary to man ; but if a man attempts to take too much of either in the twenty-four hours he suffers for it-food has to be assimilated and exercise judiciously spread over time. So I think, in regard to our labour legislation, we should give time to assimilate the legislation we have passed, to allow our industries to adapt them- selves to the altered conditions, and it is un- wise to push ahead too far. Now, there is, rightly or wrongly, a considerable amount of alarm, amongst the agriculturists of my dis- trict at any rate, in view of proposed legisla- tion not only by the Government, but by private members, in Bills that have been brought before the House. They fear that the conditions are to be made too stringent, that the hours of labour will be too greatly curtailed, and that the result will be prac- tically that larger burdens will be placed on their backs as agriculturists, and they have Major Steward they cannot contemplate this with equanimity. I consider, Sir, that the Labour party has had an exceedingly good innings. I have been very glad to give them my help; but I think it would be well, in regard to the future, to adopt the advice of the Colonial Treasurer and " go slow," and that it is now time that we gave a little more attention, as we ought to do, to the wants of the settlers as distinguished from the workers. The settlers are workers, but honourable members will understand what I mean when I differentiate between the two. There is one point in the Budget to which I wish to refer with regret. I notice that the Treasurer, although he admits that the mort- gage-tax presses unjustly, does not propose the reduction of that tax this year. He winds up his reference to this matter by hinting that as to repeal this tax would mean a loss of £25,000, he cannot contemplate reducing his revenue by that amount unless some means be found of replacing it. Well, Sir, I invite the honourable gentleman to come down with some other proposal to replace this tax, and I feel satisfied, if it is necessary that the £25,000 should be replaced by some other form of taxation, that he can easily propose one more acceptable to the House and more just in its incidence than is the present mortgage-tax. I hope, therefore, although the Treasurer inti- mates that he does not this session intend to reduce or repeal the tax, that he will think better of it and submit a proposal in that direction. There is yet one other point to which I wish to refer. The Treasurer, while he contends-and, I believe, rightly -that the finances of the colony are in a sound condition, yet winds up with this advice :- "I advise, and in all good faith, that at the present time the good steamer ' Finance ' should be steadied, and that 'Slow,' not 'Full speed ahead,' should be the order on the dial." Well, Sir, I think if he altered the wording of the metaphor it would be better, inasmuch as to reduce to "half-speed " would be better than going slow, because I understand that where a ship goes dead slow she makes very little pro- gress indeed, and I hardly think he meant that. With regard to borrowing, I hold that we should not do anything to cripple the policy of land-settlement, nor should we attempt to reduce the amount at our disposal for the pur- pose of loans to settlers, because both these enterprises are remunerative, and do not really add to the debt of the colony. But I admit that for other purposes than such as these -- that is to say, for purposes other than repro- ductive public works or services-we should go slow ; and, holding that view, I must say that I do not like to see items of expenditure such as that for the Review of Reviews, while we have refusals given to provide funds for useful public works in the district of any honour- able member. Further, Sir, while I admit that many of the increases, and perhaps the larger portion of the increases, on the esti- mates in regard to the salaries of public servants are automatic, and that cannot be 