July last. It comes from Reuter's Telegraph Agency-and here I might say that the colony last year paid £585 for sending what I might characterize, in journalistic language, as a lot of "slush." This is a sample of the sort of thing the colony is paying £585 for to cable to London :- " A Leaderless Opposition. - A sensational feature of yesterday's proceedings in Parlia- ment was the resignation of Captain Russell, leader of the Opposition, who stated that no organized Opposition existed to need him." Mind you, this telegram has been carefully compiled by the Premier, because all telegrams sent from New Zealand by Reuter's Agency are paid for by the colony and are under Govern- ment auspices ; and the idea of the Premier, who knew twelve months before that the member for Hawke's Bay was not leader of the Opposition, and who also must have known that there was no such thing as a resignation, because a man cannot resign what he does not hold-and Captain Russell did not hold the leadership of the Opposition this year-paying so much a word in cabling stuff of that kind to the Old Country is outrageous. An Hon. MEMBER .- What is the date of that telegram ? Mr. PIRANI .- 4th July, 1901. There are a lot of other cablegrams in which the name of the Premier is particularly prominent. Then, I might refer to a paper published in the colony which regularly publishes political critiques from a Minister of the Crown, and it is amusing to read his criticisms on the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 financial debate; but I am sorry that the rule of Parliament prohibits me from reading his criticism on the present financial debate, be- cause we cannot quote newspaper remarks in http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero connection with debates which are before the House this session. I understand that there was a public function here in connection with the presentation to a Minister of the Crown under the auspices of the Eighty Club, and the Premier, not content to wait for his reply in this debate, took the trouble at that function to refer at length to the criticism which members of his own party, during the present session, have launched against the Financial Statement, and he made a most re- markable misquotation in connection with those criticisms. After generally casting as- persions on members of his own party for their frankness during the present debate, he said, " But there were some people in regard to whom, like the fly in amber, he wondered how the devil they got there. (Shrieks of laughter and applause)." Now, the Premier rather mis- quoted Pope when he referred to the "fly in amber." He not only misquoted Pope, but he did not give in full the reference that he ought to have given; and, in order to supply that omission, perhaps it is just as well to give the full quotation. Pope says,- Pretty in amber to observe the forms Of bars, or straws, or dirt, or grubs, or worms. The things, we know, are neither rich nor rare, But wonder how the devil they got there. Damn with faint praise, assent with civil leer, And without sneering reach the re-t to sneer. Willing to wound, and yet afraid to strike, Just hint a fault and hesitate dislike. There could be no truer description of the Pre- mier's methods. But it struck me on reading this that the Premier could have quoted some- thing very much more à propos to those of his followers whom he referred to. Members will probably have read that very interesting Ameri- can story " David Harum." They will remem- ber that one of his sayings of world-wide signi- ficance is that "a reasonable amount of fleas is good for a dog-they keep him from brooding over being a dog." But, joking apart, and leaving on one side the Premier's doubtful allusions to his followers, I think- Mr. SEDDON .- I was speaking of the Oppo- sition at that time, and of you in particular. Mr. PIRANI .- The Premier could not have spoken of me, because I had not spoken in this debate, and he was referring to those who had spoken. The Premier is not quite as ready as he ought to be. Probably his experience on the voyage from Greymouth has rather upset him. But there is reason, I think, for some uneasiness in regard to our financial position, and, as was pointed out by the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), the Premier himself over and over again in his Financial Statement is far more pessimistic in regard to the future than any of his fol- lowers who have been so hardly criticized. The alarm, to my mind, is not so much on account of the increasing expenditure, which is very great, or on account of a possible diminution in the revenue. To my mind, if disaster comes at all, if there is a necessity for prudence and carefulness, it is because of the financial outlook outside New Zealand altogether. If New Zealand cannot possibly get borrowed money outside the colony, it is ridiculous to say she can carry on at the pre- sent rate of public-works expenditure with what it is possible for her to borrow within the colony itself. And I have no hesitation in saying it will be impossible to float a loan on the Home market at anything like a reasonable price for a very great many months to come. The finan- cial outlook in London at the present time, or at the time the last mail left, was very grave indeed. Just then the American financiers, who had purchased very heavily in Consols when the recent war issue was made, had un- loaded every penny of their purchases on the London market because of the necessity for get- ting cash for use in America itself. In Germany the traders there had overshot the mark ; their trading had been doubtful and rotten financially, and the collapse of many banking institutions had caused a very grave financial position there. In Belgium gambling and over-financing had been carried on to an enormous extent, and the consequence is that trading is in a very disas- trous condition. In Austria financial matters were never worse than they were last month. In Russia, for a couple of years past, the finances have been in a very grave condition, 