ployers' Liability Act were practically the same as in this case, but a scare has been created for political purposes. I warn those who are doing this that they are bringing down a hornets' nest about their ears. "What will happen ?" This is what, in my opinion, will happen if those people go on as they are doing : the labour party will get worse and worse, and will take in with them the farm labourer ; and you will see that this action to create alarm will, if continued, result in harm being done to the colony. I certainly regret it very much, and I am afraid of it. An Hon. MEMBER .- Do not be afraid. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- I am afraid, be- cause I think the matter is very serious. If we have two antagonistic parties determined to fight each other to the death the colony must suffer. I think, therefore, that if the em- ployers of labour were wise they would take things quietly. They know that I am in a small way one of themselves. If all employers suffer, I shall suffer, and consequently I have the same interest in the matter. There is nothing more dangerous to the community than the attempts that are being made to create unrest, irritation, and dissatisfaction. Suppose I were a candidate, and on moving about the constituency I found that the Farmers' Union was opposing me, what would I do? I should take care that I would make my speeches appeal to the agricultural labourers. That is what candidates will do, and that is why you will find that action such as I have pointed out will have a very bad effect. think that farmers have any amount of things in common necessitating their binding them- selves together, but to do this they need not become antagonistic to the unions. The Arbi- tration Act is one of the grandest measures on our statute-book. I am satisfied of that, but I say that the labour party are driving it to death. That is where the danger lies. We have now, however, got a Judge of the Arbitra- tion Court who, I think, will keep the labour party in their place, and that is what was badly wanted. If we did not have that Act the workers would be ground down ; but we want to have a Judge administering it in such a way as to check the wantonness of the labour party, for a good deal of wantonness has been shown on their part. Another thing that we want is a change in the constitution of the Conciliation Board. When a certain Bill comes before us, which I believe it will do shortly, it is my inten- tion to move that a change be made such as that suggested. There should be no Conciliation Board at all, but, whenever a dispute arises, two of the operatives and two of the employers should be appointed by both sides, and they should be presided over by a responsible Magis- trate. You would then have a Board that would understand exactly what is required, and would administer it judiciously, and not make it a source of profit to themselves, as is being done at present. With regard to the Bill itself, I must admit that I got confused over the way it was being muddled up in Committee, Hon. Mr. Twomey vote. I do not believe in going back, but, so far as I can see, the Bill has gone back a step, and this is what I object to. The Shops and Offices Bill has been working fairly enough. If the Hon. Mr. Shrimski would withdraw his amendment, and the Hon. the Minister would postpone this question and move the adjourn- ment of the debate, and let us go back into Committee again, we could then put the Bill in a decent form. We set ourselves up as a body that gives close attention to Bills, instead of distinguishing ourselves by making speeches. That is where our strength lies, and that is what we pride ourselves on. Can we honestly claim these virtues if we send down to another place a Bill that is likely to be laughed at? That is my trouble. I know the Bill will come out all right in another place, for they will put it right; but I have a feeling of pride in this Council, and I do not like that anything should go out of it in a slipshod man- ner, so that other people would be laughing at it. I would therefore ask the Minister to do as I have requested him. Virtuous indignation was aroused because we send out of this country for goods which we should manufacture in the colony. Very well, that is a problem, and a very big one. We never can manufacture for exportation in this colony so long as the stan- dard of living remains as high as it is. We never can compete with countries that are working twelve hours a day and paying half our wages. It is impossible that we could compete in the markets of the world with our manufac- I tured products. An Hon. MEMBER .- We are doing it now. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- We are not to any extent. We might send a few blankets or rugs over to Australia. An Hon. MEMBER .- We are sending butter from Taranaki. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- I mean manufac- tured goods, the result of factory labour. I know what I am talking about very well ; and if you want to drag butter in, very well. We cannot manufacture for export, and that fact staring us in the face, what should be the policy ? We should say to ourselves, "We cannot export, then we will import as little as we can ; we will protect our own industries so that it will be impossible for the product of cheap labour of other countries to come in and compete with us." That is the only successful way to do it. You scream here because a Chinaman comes in to compete in the labour-market, but you do not say a word about the cheap products of labour coming in here under free-trade. Is that sense ? No, it is not. Our policy should be protection. If we want our industries de- veloped, if we want to increase the population of the country, if we want the country to grow in prosperity, and if we want it to carry a large population, there is no other possible means of achieving that except by protecting our indus- tries. I hear a certain honourable gentleman laugh. Well, I am willing to discuss this sub- ject with any one. There is a limit to the land, and as soon as the land is settled on you cannot 