no goods - sheds, there and no stock-yards ? Does the department think that the farmers are going to lift fat bullocks into the cattle- trucks ? And, in regard to produce, the farmers will not take produce to stations where it will be exposed to the weather. They would far rather cart it a greater distance to another station where there are the ordinary facilities. I think the Railway Department might be a little more generous in granting concessions to settlers in this respect. There is another matter which I desire to refer to in connection with the railways, and that is the damage done by sparks from engines. I maintain that the owners of properties destroyed by fires caused by sparks from railway-engines should be com- pensated. I, myself, together with other mem- bers representing country districts, worked for many years before we could induce the Government to compensate farmers for stock killed by order of the Inspector. We pointed out that it would be much fairer that the loss should fall on the whole colony than on a few unfortunate farmers, and the same argu- ment applies to damage done by sparks from railway-engines. I do not suggest that the compensation to be paid for such loss by fire should be paid out of the railway revenue-I think that would be unfair ; but I cannot see, in cases where the department have reason to believe that the fire was caused by sparks from an engine, why a sum should not be placed on the estimates for that purpose. I will give three instances which occurred in my elec- torate, and they are only three out of many which have occurred in the colony. In the first case a settler had his fence destroyed by a fire https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 caused by a spark from an engine ; and, in con- sequence of the destruction of his fence, his cows got out and they strayed on the railway- line, and the train ran over the cows and killed them. That settler was fined for allowing his cows to stray on the railway-line. They burned his fence, they killed his cows, and then fined him. The next case is that of the owner of a swamp. The owner bought that swamp entirely on account of the flax growing on the swamp. Sir, no less than three times that flax has been burned, the fire being caused by sparks from the railway-engine. Just as the flax was ready to cut, a spark from the railway-engine set it on fire. The result of that has been that the owner has had to move his mill a long distance from his home, and has had to pay a royalty on other flax. I visited this place during the last recess, and, even although it had been a wet summer, I noticed three or four places where fires had been started by sparks from the railway-engine ; but fortunately, the season being a wet one, the fire did not spread. Now, this case was heard by the Commissioner, Mr. Poynton, and three witnesses gave evidence that they saw the fire start. I will read what the Commissioner himself says in reference to it. He says, - " A large area of growing flax was destroyed by a fire spreading from the railway. The swamp containing the flax runs close up to Mr. Lang probable such was the case. The total value of flax destroyed would be somewhere about £1,800." That is the loss to this settler simply on ac- count of damage done, and I think it is right he should be compensated. It is true the Com- missioner said that if a drain had been made for about 30 or 40 chains the fire would have been prevented from spreading. Any one know- ing the nature of swamps knows that it is exceedingly doubtful if the drain would stop the fire from spreading ; but, even if it did, why should the settlers be put to the expense of preventing fires caused by the Railway Depart- ment ? If any one should do this it is the department itself. Or, at any rate, they should have done what the owner of the property would be quite willing to do-that is, for each party to pay half of the cost; but this the department refused to do. The third case was that of a wattle plantation at Wairangi. I now come to the question of defence. In his State- ment the Premier says, " Some honourable members may have misgivings respecting the large amount asked for for defence." And I certainly think that some honourable members have misgivings on account of the cost of run- ning this department, for it is now three times what it was a few years ago. I ask, Can we afford this lavish expenditure ? Where does this money come from ? Does it mean, as the Premier said with reference to the money required for the old - age pensions some sessions ago, " A few less roads and bridges " ? Does it mean that the settlers who have no roads leading to their homes, and have to put up with all sorts of "privations and difficulties that are heartrending to endure," are to con- tinue in that condition ? I would say, let the Government provide the roads first, and then they may, if they think fit, go in for what we may call luxuries. The money should be ex- pended on useful works, and not on what is only ornamental. We do not want a standing army in New Zealand. It is recognised that our first line of defence should be the navy ; and if the Government will only encourage the Volunteers to attend drill regularly, to make themselves proficient, they will be going in the right direc- tion. They should further encourage rifle clubs, especially in the outlying districts where regular Volunteer corps cannot be formed. At present not half enough inducement is offered to those clubs. Mr. HALL-JONES .- They have got a start now. Mr. LANG. - It is not enough. A session or two ago I asked the question in the House, but the Premier did not see his way to give much encouragement. Assistance is now being given, but it is not nearly enough. There would be no more useful body of men in the colony than those to be found in the rifle clubs, and they ought to be encouraged. The expense in doing so need not be great. Nearly a year ago the Government had placed a sum on the esti- mates for the purpose of purchasing flags for 