Peace of the district had left. This gentleman was wired to by the Justice Department and asked if he would accept the position, and he wired back saying he would. This was nearly twelve months ago. He has not yet been appointed, though I had the promise of the Minister of Justice that he would be appointed. Mr. McGOWAN .- I would like to see the promise. Mr. MASSEY .- I am not quite sure that I still have it Mr. McGOWAN .- I say you cannot produce it. I say there is no member in the House who can say I gave a direct promise in regard to the appointment of any Justice of the Peace. Mr. MASSEY .- Does the Minister of Justice deny that he wired to the gentleman whom I have referred to? If he does not deny it, then my statement must be accepted. Mr. McGOWAN .- I have carried out every promise I have made. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - Sir, after what has been said by the member for Wellington City, I think I may make a personal explana- tion. Mr. ATKINSON .- Sir, is the honourable gentleman in order in making a personal ex- planation, seeing that two speeches have come in since I addressed the House ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- It is not usual, but I will allow it. Mr. SEDDON .-- The honourable member misrepresented me. He said I was not here when this particular matter occurred. I was here .- I was only out of the House for a few minutes, and I was here when the honourable member for Franklin started it. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1. 32106019788253 Mr. MASSEY .-- I did not start it. Mr. SEDDON .- You did start it. raised the question as to the validation of the acts of the Justices of the Peace. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Mr. MASSEY .- No; I was not the first. Mr. SEDDON .- Sir, I say the honourable member .raised the question. Very well; I saw at once the position we were going to get into, and consequently, as the leader of the House and as one of the Ministry who agreed to the Bill as introduced, when I saw a de- parture that was likely to lead to trouble, I took the action I thought right, and, simply because it does not meet with the approval of members opposite, we have had a very long discussion on the subject. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) .- I desire to make a personal explanation. The question I put to the Premier, with reference to his denial of my statement that he was here at the time, is this : If he was here, surely he should have interfered when the promise was made ? But the chief point which I wish to make clear is with reference to the statement of the Minister of Justice that I had accused him of having broken a promise he had given with regard to the amendment subsequently moved by Mr. Barclay. I regret anything I have said should have given the honourable gentleman that im- pression. It was never in my thoughts for a moment, and I hoped I made it clear. I re- Mr. Massey evidence of the personal bona fides of the Minister of Justice, that he voted in favour of Mr. Barclay's amendment. But, Sir, my com- plaint was that the promise made by the Minis- ter of Justice, to which he adhered personally, and which, in my opinion, should have been binding on his colleagues because he was the Minister in charge of the Bill, was rendered ineffective by the Right Hon. the Premier de- clining to be bound by it, and he took a ma- jority of the House into the lobby against his colleague's promise. But, I repeat, I had not the slightest intention of impugning the bona fides of the Hon. the Minister of Justice in the matter, and I regret if any words I used could have borne that construction. Mr. SEDDON .-- I cannot allow the honour- able member to misrepresent me; and I will tell him something further now. I did not hear what my colleague said, and I asked him whether he made a promise to insert the amend- ment into the Bill ; and he said, " No, he had not made a promise to put it into the Bill.' Mr. ATKINSON .- You said you were bere, and that you knew all about it. Mr. SEDDON .- I came here just immediately after the member for Christchurch City (Mr. Smith) made his remark, and I asked the ques- tion when it was said that a promise was made ; and my colleague made exactly the same reply as he did just now-namely, that he never made a promise to put it in the Bill. Mr. ATKINSON .- If you had heard what was said there was no need for you to ask. Bill read a third time. The House adjourned at half-past one o'clock a.m. (Friday). You # LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Friday, 20th September, 1901. First Readings-Bill discharged-Friendly Societies -Waipawa Railway-siding-Education Boards Election Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READINGS. Counties Bill, Statutes Compilation Bill, Miners' Rights Fee Reduction Bill, Rabbit Nuisance Bill, Shops and Shop-assistants Bill, Exportation of Arms Bill, Mortgages of Land Bill, Promissory Oaths Bill. ## BILL DISCHARGED. Mortgages of Land Bill. # FRIENDLY SOCIETIES. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS asked the Minis- ter of Education, Whether the Government will set up a Select Committee, consisting of mem- bers of both branches of the Legislature con- nected with friendly societies, for the purpose of 