Government known nothing about the 8.0. matter I would not have said much about it; but to my certain knowledge re- presentations were made to them six years ago that the Inspectors had far too much work to do, and that in consequence it was absolutely impossible for them to give that inspection to the mines which is due to properly safe- guard the lives of the miners. Notwithstanding this, whilst they have gone on spending hun- dreds of thousands of pounds annually on our railways, roads, and bridges, they have never yet appropriated as much as a few thousand pounds to provide for the proper inspection of our coal-mines. According to an account which has reached us from Greymouth, and which I have every reason to believe is true, the manager of the mine in which the great · accident happened some years ago admitted he had allowed men to go into it with naked lights, and yet the Inspector could know no- thing of this. Sir, if the Government do not make proper provision this year to fully protect the lives of our coal - miners, then I say it will be a criminal act, and on their shoulders will rest the responsibility for any catastrophe that may happen. As members will see from the report by the Commission, hardly a mine is in a position it ought to be in. A very simple method could be adopted to pro- vide a better system of inspection. A retainer should be given to some miner employed in the mine to act-at every coal-mine in the colony. Power need not be given to those appointed to order anything to be done. All that they need do would be to give a report on the working of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 the mine every month ; and they should be em- powered to telegraph for the Inspector in the event of anything being wrong. By that means permanent Inspectors would be watching the safety of the miners always. I am aware that at the present time an inspection can be made on request by two employés. That, however, cannot be effected, because men rarely care to put a report into a manager's book, for the reason that they might at any time be dismissed for simply stating what is true. If the retainer were, however, given them, they would be placed in an official position, and an independent report would be the result. I do trust the Government will take this matter in hand seriously this session, with the view of doing something in the direction of safeguarding the lives of those men. Now, Sir, I would like to say one or two words in con- nection with the Bank of New Zealand and the preference shares. Here is another case of the assets of the colony having been reduced, be- cause we borrowed half a million to purchase preference shares in the Bank of New Zealand. The interest was to be paid by the bank, and the bank was to pay the principal also, and so long as that position remained the colony was not affected to any extent. We find, however, that during the past few weeks this half- million has been paid back by the Bank of New Zealand. This means that until they mature- in about three years, I think-the colony will Mr. Millar those shares instead of the Bank of New Zea- land. We likewise find that the Consoli. dated Fund has absorbed this half - million, so that the probability is that it has been added to the permanent debt of the colony. In my opinion, there is a poor chance of the Colonial Treasurer ever paying out of the Consolidated Fund the cash received for the preference shares. I would ask, What sort of an heritage is the present Treasurer leaving for his successors ? From every corner that one can possibly imagine he seems to have absorbed every penny-piece of available cash, and the man who follows him will have some very dirty and unpleasant work to do, in my opinion. As for those preference shares, when the Bill was before the Committee I opposed the clause in toto-that the bank should be given power to repurchase those shares ; because if it was good enough for the colony to pay half a million for shares in the Bank of New Zealand, which was in a bankrupt condition, it was good enough for the colony to hold them when in a state of prosperity. But we were overruled on that Committee, with a result that was inevitable- namely, that they have got the shares back. And yet I hear members wondering what raised the price of the Bank of New Zealand shares. Could anything else happen than for the price to rise when the capital was reduced by 50 per cent. ? The shares became of double value the moment they paid this half-million. And now we hear talk about the payment of a dividend next year. I should like to know what right they have to pay a dividend while they are in- debted to the colony to the extent of two millions? It is those two millions of the Go- vernment money which is enabling them to make the enormous profits they are making at the present time. And yet, forsooth, they are going to wallow in dividends, and pass on these two millions for the colony to carry for all time. If I am fortunate enough to have a seat in this House in the year 1903 I do not think a Bill will be rushed through as quickly as it was on the last occasion. We have had fair time to look round the whole position. We know that the bank is in no danger, and that it is doing well; and it will be, then, the duty of this House to make such terms as will be in the interest of the colony, and not entirely I do not in the interest of the shareholders. begrudge dividends going to the shareholders when they are entitled to them, but I do not think the colony should allow dividends to bo paid until we see that the institution is making some provision for paying off some of its liability to the country. I do not agree with those who urge the abolition of the Assets Board. It must be remembered that we have a large liability in connection with the Assets Board, and if we attempt to force them to put their lands on the market it simply means that, if the sales of those lands do not go higher than the values estimated by Mr. Foster, the differ- ence between that and the book values will have to be paid by this colony. I would rather see two or three or five thousand a year ex- 