means an increase in the public works. Mr. SEDDON .- No; but that they are to go on. Mr. ARNOLD .- Well, I do not wish an in- crease in the public-works expenditure; but I say that the Government should go on at as reasonable and safe a pace as possible. I did intend to refer to a number of other matters, but the time-limit will not permit. In closing, I should, however, say a few words with regard to the Labour Department, and the other ques- tions I shall have to hold over until the various Bills are before the House. I desire to congratulate the Labour Department upon the work that is being done by it. I find that the whole of the salaries paid by that department amount to only #2,890. I know that the work of the four city Inspectors is very heavy indeed. Throughout the whole day they have to remain in their offices looking after permits, keeping their books, attending to correspondence, and to various other matters. Then, during the evenings when the shops are closed, and also on half-holidays and holidays, they have to go through the length and breadth of their cities to see that the law is being kept. I am, there- fore, very pleased to find that a small increase -I wish it was larger-is to be given to them. I wish to call the attention of those honour- able members who are not greatly in love with the work of those Inspectors to the number of prosecutions in New Zealand during the last twelve months, and also to the number of convictions, and I think they will find that the number of convictions will prove that the Inspectors pause before they take any employer to Court, and that when they do so they have just grounds, as is shown by the evidence pro- duced at the trials, and the result. I have already shown that the number of factories in / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero the colony has increased to 6,744, which em- That certainly does not ploy 53,460 hands. show that the manufacturers are closing their shops ; that certainly does not show that their businesses are not paying, and that they cannot get on. Whilst certain newspapers and honour- able members speak so loudly with regard to the condition and the prosperity of the colony, we are glad to think that things are more comfortable than they previously were ; but while they talk like that I would ask them to read some of the evidence that has been pro- duced, and which they have in connection with the Federation Commission's work, and they will recognise, as some of the workers have recognised, that there are other places that are equally as prosperous as New Zealand, and which some workers, at any rate, prefer to work in. I have wished to speak in connec- tion with some of the other questions, but I have no time to go into them. I will do so if opportunity offers afterwards, but I do say this, in closing, to the Government : that I trust they will continue the policy they have been working out for the last ten years. I trust that, while it may be necessary to slow down a little as the Right Hon. the Premier has said, he will not call a halt or go dead slow, for immediately he Mr. Arnold prosperity there will be a time of adversity, and immediately the time of adversity comes he will find that those honourable gentlemen in this House who have been crying out so during the last few days will be the first to turn on him and rend him for that which has been the result. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- Mr. Speaker, I do not think, Sir, it is necessary to reply to the remarks of the honourable gentleman who has just sat down. No doubt the honourable mem- ber is thoroughly conscientious in the opinions he has expressed, but so far, Sir, he has not had much parliamentary experience ; and probably when he has been in this House for a Parlia- ment or two he will look at political matters from a different point of view from that from which he looks at them at the present time. In several respects this has been a most remark- able debate-remarkable, in the first place, from the fact that most of the hostile criticism in regard to the Statement has come from the Government side of the House; and remark- able, in the second place, from the fact that the Minister most immediately concerned, the Right Hon. the Treasurer, has been absent from the House during the greater part of the time that his Financial Statement has been under discussion. That, of course, was not his fault ; and I take this opportunity of saying that I am glad to see him back in his place, and I congratulate him on having escaped from the storms and perils of the West Coast. But I am inclined to think that if he had stopped away a few days longer it would not have been necessary for him to come back at all, for in all probability we would have had a new Government, with, probably, the member for Ashley at its head, and the Seddon Government would have been a thing of the past. On this occasion we are at a considerable disadvantage in discussing the Financial Statement inasmuch as we have not been supplied with the reports of the great departments of State-the reports of the Railways, and Lands, the Post and Tele- graph Departments. Then, Sir, I do not think that any one will deny that we should have the B .- 1 parliamentary paper, giving us the details of the revenue and expenditure for the last year. Of course I need hardly say that I am strongly of opinion that these reports and parliamentary papers are being kept back on purpose and in order to make it more difficult to criticize the Financial Statement, and that they will be forth- coming immediately the Statement is disposed of. Then, Sir, the Statement itself is as obscure as it is possible for words and figures to make it. It reminds me of a saying put into the mouth of one of his characters by Shakespeare, in the " Two Gentlemen of Verona," where he makes one say " You have an exchequer of words, but no other treasure." The Statement, in my opinion, does not contain a single original or statesmanlike idea ; it does not contain a single idea that is likely to be of benefit to the people of the colony; and, though I am prepared to admit that it does contain a certain amount of good advice about prudence and economy in connection with financial matters, still, coming 