appointed. Dr. Symes was appointed tempo- rarily at Christchurch. He had been engaged for a long time before he was appointed tempo- rarily, and had given effect, as far as possible, to the requirements of the district under the direction of the Chief Health Officer. The local bodies of the colony were also asked to co- operate with the department, and he had no doubt that they had done a great deal, together with the department, in stamping out many evils. From the reports obtained by the Health Department, and from the information medical men throughout the colony had obtained, it was evident that malaria was not known to the residents of New Zealand at all. It was only found in men who had returned from South Africa. Now, in Masterton they had measles and influenza long before the Health Department was established. Mr. HOGG said it was malaria. Sir J. G. WARD said medical men stated it was not malaria. However, he fully recognised, as he was sure the majority of the House did, that this department was a very important one, and he fully recognised that the officers must be highly qualified, and must be kept clear of local influences and local pressure. They had had evidence of the valuable work that had already been done by this department, and the department had been ceaseless since June last in its activity in assisting the local bodies and people in different portions of the colony in health matters. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) hoped the Minis- ter would not take it that any members who spoke on this important subject were desirous of reflecting in any way on him or the officers he had appointed. They were only anxious that the greatest benefit that could be derived would accrue to the people of the colony from this department. So far as the district he repre- sented was concerred, they had one visit from Dr. Valintine, who just looked round and then went away. This officer had not come back, although they had at present an outbreak of sickness at Carterton which almost amounted to an epidemic. They were all very anxious to have the benefit of the Health Department, for the reason that the local bodies could not or would not do the work. It was no use the Public Health Department imploring public bodies to join hands with them, because they would not do it, as local influences were too great. He was quite convinced, after reading the newspapers of the colony, that they were drifting back very rapidly into the condition in which they were found to be when the plague scare was on. The only way to cope with the difficulty and danger that threatened was to have the whole matter of health control ad- ministered by the department. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) wished to make a personal explanation. The honour- able member for Avon had said he would not speak in the tone of the honourable member for Auckland City. He wished to assure the honourable gentleman that he was speaking with perfect earnestness when he drew attention to the state of the atmosphere in this portion of the Sir J. G. Ward House. He did not hesitate to say that on ordinary occasions, when the House was any- thing like full, the atmosphere in this portion of the Chamber was sickening and disgusting. He would continue to draw attention to this matter until it was remedied, and he hoped it would be remedied. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) was really surprised that the Hon. the Minister paid so much attention and went to so much trouble to confute the statements of the honour- able member for Masterton. Now, the honour- able member for Auckland City (Mr. Witheford) told members all about the beautiful climate of Auckland, and about its being the healthiest place in New Zealand- quite regardless of statistics. The honourable member did not tell the House that any sign of the plague was ever there, and it seemed to him the honour- able member protested too much. However, he had no desire to excite any discussion as to the relative sanitary qualities of any part of the colony. In regard to the atmosphere of this Chamber, he did not think the trouble lay in the latrines at all, because there was no evi- dence of anything offensive there. The trouble was the avenues through which the air was drawn for the supply of the Chamber. Mr. HALL-JONES said the air came direct from Sydney Street. Mr. HUTCHESON said that was a new arrangement, but the fact remained that if any impurity got into the boiler of the heating- apparatus members got the full benefit of it in the chamber. However, coming back to the vote, he was quite satisfied the Hon. the Minister had no need to apologize for this department, or for the officers of the department. The principal feature that recommended itself to him in connection with this department was that it removed from the local governing bodies, and from local influences, the drastic work of the department in regard to condemn. ing insanitary buildings, et cetera. If the right men were appointed as Sanitary Inspectors, he was quite satisfied that, under the control of the Chief Health Officer, this department would do good work, and that it would be a safeguard for the health of the colony. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said he was sorry that honourable members should, without any knowledge of the working of this department, have passed the reflections on it which they had done. He knew, in connection with local bodies in his district, that Dr. Mason had done really good work, and he doubted whether it was possible to get a better head of the depart- ment than the Minister had obtained in Dr. Mason. He only hoped that Dr. Mason would have as free a hand in future as he had had hitherto; and, if so, he felt quite sure that that officer would be able to accomplish very good work for the colony. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) wished to draw attention to the question of the inspection which was required regularly under the Act. He was sorry to say that he thought it was only too true that some districts were drifting into the same neglected state that they were in 