8.30. do when they were in distress finan- cially ? How did they raise money ? They actually took and increased the grain-rates on the unfortunate farmers of Canterbury. That was the only remedy they had for raising money to fill their depleted Treasury ; and the farmers of Canterbury will never forget or for- give them for it. Yet they talk of themselves as being the friends of the farmers; but the farmers have shown that the proper place for them is the cold shades of Opposition. Then, some honourable gentlemen have complained that there has been an abnormal increase of salaries-that it is shown on the estimates, and so on. One honourable gentleman-I think it was the member for Riccarton or the member for Nelson City-it was the latter, I think ; and I know where the member for Nelson City got his figures from ; he evidently had been reading the Evening Post. He chal- lenged the Ministry ; and the advice I have to give to the honourable member is: Do not go to the Opposition Press for your figures. He said that outside the classified departments there was an increase in salaries of £45,000. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I never said that. Mr. SEDDON .- As far as the honourable member for Riccarton is concerned, he did not state any amount ; but I will come to him by-and-by. Now, the honourable member for Nelson City made the statement that outside the classified departments there had been in- creases in salaries by over £45,000, and he challenged my colleague to prove the con- trary. Well, I tell the honourable member -- and when we get to the estimates I will ask him where he can point to this £45,000 of increase of salaries in the unclassified depart- ments. The total amount of proposed in- creases of salaries, as shown on the estimates, are as follows :- In departments subject to classifica- 43,633 tion Cadets 1,464 Under agreements, or by regulations 1,120 Ordinary increases 9,852 $56,069 (a) Classified Departments- Post and Telegraph, under £9,484 classification . . On promotion 3,708 ... .. 13,192 Railway Department - Under classification 10,000 Other increases, wages, &c. 20,441 30,441 £43,633 (b) Other Departments - $7,386 620 under $200 .. 224 between $200 and $300 2,965 $300 . #400 46 £1,015 $400 . $500 695 21 175 6 over $500 .. . 7 heads of departments 250 2,135 924 £12,436 Mr. Seddon not dare to touch the classified departments. They are responsible as well as we are for the classification ; and, of the large increase in the Railway Department, £20,000 is presented by increase of wages practically in the Railways Department. That, I say, is for wages. We know who insisted upon the increase in the wages of the unfortunate workers in our rail- ways. An Hon. MEMBER .- The Opposition. Mr. SEDDON .- No, they did not. It came from the Government and from the Liberal party. It came from the Ministry and the Go- vernment, and their own party, and we take credit for it, and we glory in being responsible for that increase of the working-men's wages by 1s. per day. There is nothing to regret in that. But what did you vote for last year? It was said, " You must have more men, and, of course, you must pay them a living-wage." Now, coming to the estimates we have prepared, we will give you the fullest information, and I undertake to say there will be no motion to take back the estimates and cut them down by £50,000 when you have got the particulars. It is not fair till the House gets the particulars to complain and say we are not careful. Every pound in the estimates has been carefully con- sidered. Take the Secretary to the Treasury : Twenty millions of money went through his hands last year, and his salary for that is not one-half of what a bank inspector receives. We have not been paying salaries commensurate with the responsibility or with the efficiency of the men we have had in New Zealand ; but if you are to have brains in the public service- which you must have-you must pay for those brains, and if you do not pay for brains your best men will leave you, and you will have muddle and disaster. I am not prepared to withdraw one shilling from the estimates, and I' am fairly sure to be able when in Committee £ on the estimates to justify every proposed in- crease. I will now come to the question of the Consolidated Fund. There was some anxiety which arose owing to the large expenditure in the first quarter in the Consolidated Fund. I will tell honourable members how it arose. I do not want to keep anything back from honour- able members ; it is my duty to give them the fullest information. There was in the Co- lonial Secretary's Department an increase of £15,000 because we had the census. Then, there was in the Education Department- you are all responsible for it-an increase of £19,700; then, in respect to defence, it was brought into the first quarter of this year-the capitation of Volunteers, $22,400. We shall have to change the time for fixing the capitation ; the time we have now is February, and we do not get in the returns, and hence it was not paid till the first quarter of this year. Then. in the Department of Lands and Survey- putting more men on to surveys to get people on the land-there was an increase of 96.5.6. There is your anxiety gone in respect to the increases in the Consolidated Fund for the first quarter. Then, we come to additions to 