£377,178. . . I am going to show that this ex-financier of the House is wrong, and that the accumulated surplus is over two millions, and £521,144 is all, excepting £54,286, the surplus of last year, notwithstanding Mr. G. F. Richardson, the late Minister of Lands." Well, Sir, that was in 1898; but things have progressed exactly the same, so far as I can judge, since then. Yet the other night he said that the finances of this country were being pushed to perdition, and they had been going wrong for years and years past by the squander- ing of the present Government. He was and has been a member of the party since then, and has consistently and knowingly voted for every sum borrowed by the Government now in power. In fact, he has done worse : he has helped to spend every cent of it. He was one of the Royal Commissioners last year, and he also had a very nice road made in Nelson, known as the Rocks Road, at the expense of the colony. Last year the Nelson Harbour Bill was passed, giving them something like £70,000. Now, I have no doubt in my own mind that he has approached the Government with the view of getting the mud-flats over there walled in, and they have declined to do it, and that is what has hurt the honourable gentleman's feelings. He thinks that he is a heaven-born financier. but if we are to get such a financier as that, well, heaven help the country. Now, coming to the greatest question of the day-the settle- ment of our lands-I am very pleased to see that we have got the Lands Report for this year already. One honourable gentleman said to-day, and I quite agree with him, that the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 administration of our lands is the first duty not only of the Government, but of every member of this House. It is the one depart- ment that wants attention more than any other. It is the one thing that either makes or mars a country. The lands of our country should be administered in the most liberal manner that it is possible to administer them ; they should be administered in the most live way that is possible, and they should be administered by the best men it is possible to get to administer them. I regret that I cannot say that this is the case altogether throughout this department. A great many of the systems are fossilised. Take, for instance, the administration of our Land Boards. I think this is one of the most fossilised bodies in the colony. It is one of the things that should have been blotted out years ago. If we are to have Land Boards they should be elective. Do not let us continue the present system of having nominated men, who know nothing at all about lands, and care less. In most cases their object is simply to attend as many Land Board meetings as they can and draw their expenses ; and they like to be able to say, " I am one of the pets of the Government - a member of the Land Board." I am not going to discuss the question of leasehold versus frachold, because, it matters not whether this Government or any other is in power, every estate that is bought we are putting the people nearer the freehold. The more estates you buy Mr. Syines the freehold ; and when the people get strong enough they will demand the freehold system if they wish it. In taking up forest land I would let the settler have it on any tenure he chooses-leasehold, freehold, lease in perpe- tuity, or license to occupy with the right of purchase. In my district we have all the various systems, and the settlers are all, where properly treated, prosperous. Last year I find the forfeitures were 310, because they would not or could not pay their rent. It is very nice for the Commissioner of Lands to say they would not. No doubt many of them could not pay their rent ; but he knows quite well why they could not, and had to forfeit in most cases, for the simple reason that they had no roads. The Land Boards insist upon the regulations being strictly carried out in all cases, yet they neglect to carry out the regulations themselves. A man is loaded in many cases from 2s. 6d. to £1 per acre for roads : that is, he pays 4 per cent. on the loading for 999 years, and has not got a road. Some have been six and eight years and have not even got a pack-track yet. The Land Board says that if they do not go on their land it will be for- feited, and yet a man has to take his wife and family there, and has no means of taking any- thing to his land unless in a balloon. The Board should be prepared to carry out their part of the regulations before insisting upon the settler carrying out his. You would not hear of the forfeitures if the people could get to their lands, but unfortunately they cannot. Ninety-nine leases were surrendered chiefly because the rents were considered by the lessees to be too high. Of the lands which reverted to the Crown in this way, 124 sections were again offered to the public, and eighty-eight were selected by other tenants. So that the forfeitures were not so much. But why should these unfortunate people, who in many instances had spent $20, £30, or $40, have lost everything? Why not help them ou the land, and where the rent is too high reduce it, and thus keep the same tenant. Now, in connection with the improved-farm settlement, there are at present forty-six settlements, and they are situated in Auckland, Hawke's Bay, Taranaki, Wellington, Otago, and Southland. They contain an area of 76.069 acres, of which 27,094 acres have been felled and grassed, and are occupied by 490 settlers. These settlers' improvements are worth $108,835, towards which the Government has paid $67,812, which amount is added on to the value of the land. Now, Sir, the honourable member for Waihemo was just now saving that these settlers, before they went on the land, should contribute some- thing towards it. Does he not call that con- tributing something towards it ? I think these settlers have, at any rate, contributed some- thing which proves they are bona fide settlers, and secured the Government and colony against any possibility of a loss. Now, in Taranaki the area felled and grassed is 8,388 acres, and the Government expenditure was $15,603, the number of settlers 130, and the value of their 