perhaps accounts for our backwardness in coming forward in this debate. I understand that the value of the praise of the honourable member for Parnell is somewhat discounted by the fact that he was not here to listen to the speech ; nor can I believe that any one who did hear the speech can have been so impressed by it as to write as the Star's parliamentary correspondent has done except the honourable member for Auckland City himself. There are a number of fine sentiments in the Statement, as there commonly are in any production of the Premier's. There are a number of common- places about the need for " prudence and economy," for "great care and economy," and a number of other copybook platitudes, de- livered with an approach to religious fervour that has obviously carried away some members on the Premier's side. I refer more especially to Mr. Flatman, the member for Geraldine, upon whom the Statement had such an effect that he did not see how, " as a Christian country," we could fail to support the policy of the Premier. The reference to the religious aspect of the question at once sent me to the book which contains an elaborate account of his latest missionary journey. It is the official record of "The Right Hon. R. J. Seddon's Visit to Tonga, Fiji, Savage Island, and the Cook Is- lands." Let me cite, to illustrate my point, these beautiful words from an address which he delivered at the Island of Aitutaki, recorded on page 313 :- " I have been making inquiries, and am glad to find that there is very little crime on your island-no serious crime, at any rate. I allude https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 to crime as against the laws of man ; but can the same be said in respect to breakers of the laws of our Creator? As 1 shall, I hope, from time to time be furnished by Colonel Gudgeon with information as to your earthly well-being, I also hope I shall be furnished by the Reverend Mr. Lawrence with information as to your moral and general behaviour and spiritual wel- fare. I impress upon you to be good. Those who are good and those who obey the laws of our Creator prosper ; their health is good, and comforts come to them. If, on the other hand, you disobey these laws, you are punished ; suf- fering and anguish overtake you." Honourable members should not laugh ; it is a very high standard that the Premier sets. The honourable member for Hawke's Bay was unkind enough to suggest to the House an inscription to be put at the foot of a statue at some distant date to be erected to the right honourable gentleman ; he proposed, " He bribed the people." Taking a hint from the beautiful passage I have just read, I would suggest, as & better inscription, " He impressed upon the people to be good." Now, coming to the matter of the Budget, the member for Patea claimed that there was nothing at all in it for the farmers. He has surely overlooked the state- ment that has been referred to by the member for Ashburton, under the heading of " Crown Tenants' Rebate of Rents," and it discounts considerably the attack which the last honour- Mr. Atkinson when one finds that a very cardinal part of its policy has already been adopted in the right honourable gentleman's Budget. Let me rend, first of all, from the Farmers' Union platform their second plank :- "That after the payment of the first deposit tenants on Crown lands in back country, and where roads are unformed, be allowed three years occupation free." That is the declaration of this Tory organiza- tion which it is the duty of all good Liberals to endeavour to explode. Let us see how the right honourable gentleman does it in his Budget, on page xix. :- "At this juncture it is well to speak plainly, for from facts which have come within my own knowledge it is quite clear that a person taking up bush land, and having little or no capital, cannot pay rent until the land yields a return. There are practically no returns for two years. By that time two years' rent are in arrear, and the yield is not sufficient to maintain the settler and his family. Another two years pass over, and still find him behind in payment of his rent, or, if he has paid the rent, he has probably had to borrow the money for that purpose. Under these circumstances it is much better that the State should insist upon the improvement conditions being strictly com- plied with and allow the tenant to sit rent-free for the first four or five years." He has adopted this plank from the Farmers' Union in its entirety, and somewhat enlarged it, and no doubt the Farmers' Union will not at all object to the enlargement. I made some reference to the occasion when the Right Hon. the Premier spoke on Monday night. They were not altogether a happy family at that gathering, though it was confined, of course, to true Liberals ; but a number of them, speaking to the toast of "The Industries of the Colony "- a number of employers-made a pretty severe attack upon the present position in this colony in the industrial world. There was no discus- sion upon the labour Bills that have come be- fore Parliament this session, and I do not propose to discuss them now, beyond stating that they seem to be framed rather by some visionary from "Looking Backward " than by a gentleman who lives and works and thinks in a practical world, and is looking side- ways as well as backwards and forwards. But, with regard to what took place at the Eighty Club, two or three employers spoke to a toast and made an attack upon the chronic industrial strife in which this colony has been plunged for some while, and it was left to a gentleman who makes a profit out of this strife, at the rate of a guinea a day, to stand up for the present system. Now, it seems to me that the Premier spoke wisely when he urged labour unions to moderate the use to which they are putting these Conciliation Boards; and it also seems to me that the Legislature has a good deal of responsibility in the matter : not that I would suggest any serious retrogression upon our labour legislation, but there is one important 