railways alone, to say nothing of the other great national assets the colony owns. I hold in my hand a list of the railways in England and in the United Kingdom. I will read them :- Total Capital paid up and Name of Company. raised by age of Loans and De- Track. benture Stock. Great Central .. 41,560,757 Great Eastern .. 49,689,446 Great Northern 54,512,564 Great Western .. 84,424,177 Lancashire and Yorkshire 61,904,515 London and North Western 118, 126,653 London and South Western 43,491,491 London, Brighton, and 25,038,616 South Coast London, Chatham, and 27,692,841 Dover Midland 170,550,931 .. North Eastern 72,149,145 . . South Eastern .. 27,169,635 Caledonian 58,567,502 . . Glasgow and South West- 21,739,816 ern North British 56,229,843 1,242 .. .. New Zealand 17,207,328 2,212 . .. In England and Scotland there is only one railway company that has a mileage greater than we have got. And the majority of them have a shorter mileage of railway than we have. Then, take Canada and America,- Mile - Name of Railroad. Total. age of Track. Boston and Maine 10,765,567 1,715 New York, New Haven, 20,049,598 2,047 and Hartford Baltimore and Ohio 2,023 45,117,099 Central Railroad of New 16,618,120 Jersey Erie .. 64,032,708 2,109 .. 18,376,235 Middle Atlantic 1,396 New York Central and 67,426,996 2,394 Hudson River Lake Shore 22,190,400 1,413 New York, Ontario, and 16,168,520 Western Reading Railroad 1,456 44,335,500 Chicago and North Wes- 5,076 44,335,500 tern Chicago-Burlington 59,065,000 7,249 .. Chicago-Milwaukee 48,200,000 6,153 .. Canadian Pacific 55,900,000 6,500 Canadian Grand Trunk .. 67,038,302 2,963 It will be seen that there are only six com- panies with a greater extent of railways than New Zealand, and before many years pass by Sur J. G. Ward of the world. All I would ask is that in judging our position, without taking too optimistic a view, honourable members and the people of the country should try and grasp what the value of this magnificent asset will be as the natural development of the country progresses. It is impossible for any one to approximately specu- Mile- late, but it is certain that the value of our railways will be so greatly enhanced that they will largely minimise the public debt of the colony. Why, even if you take the United Kingdom-and there private companies are the owners-the value is greater in nearly every one 483 than is the case in the Colony of New 'Zea- 1,110 land. Then, during the last ten years, the 825 national asset of the State-owned property has 2,602 increased in value over five millions according to 556 the statistics of the colony, and yet honourable 1,924 members point out-at least, some of them do- 900 that there is not a very satisfactory state of 438 affairs so far as the finances of the colony are concerned. Now, let us again take the railways 608 as a case in point. This colony has had to convert large lengths of our rails from 301b. to 40 1b. ; 1,431 from 40 lb. to 52 1b. and 53 1b., and from 53 1b. to 1,632 56 1b., and lastly to 701b. So far as our rail- ways are concerned, we may say we have remade 939 our tracks more than once in order to meet the 394 exigencies of the ever-growing traffic ; and is there a member of this House who will say that that was not only a good thing to do, but it was unavoidable ? As our traffic grew we had to in- crease the weight of our rolling-stock, and now we have fixed our tracks finally at the maximum of 701b. Now, I want to say a word about the honourable member for Palmerston. That honourable member made a statement about the amount of money available in the banks and the savings - banks of the colony. The honourable member is not here, but he knows he made the statement, and I indicated to him to-day that I was going to refer to it. Sir, the honourable member said there were eighteen millions of money on deposit, that there were three millions in cash and bullion, and that there was invested fifteen millions of money, and consequently this money was not available for the people. Does the honourable 678 member mean to tell us that if you borrowed five millions of money in England to-morrow you would bring the gold to New Zealand, and that it would be available to the people ? There would be no transport of gold from the Old Country here except to the extent of the neces- sary balance of bullion to regulate the trade 480 and the necessary requirements of the banking institutions concerned. I say that during the last few years, for the first time in the history of this country, there has been more money deposited in the savings-banks and other bank- ing institutions of the colony than is required for the carrying-on of the ordinary trade of the colony. It is the first time in the history of the colony that these banking institutions have not had to go to England to obtain, in some instances, four and five millions of deposits, and in some instances, I believe, more than the amount I have 