for some of them want educating, I know, on political matters. Now, this shows that this union was originated in Auckland, at Kaitaia, by Mr. Glass, and that it has for its object the destruction or opposition of the labour legisla- tion passed by this Government. Now, I con- tend that the condition of the worker has improved since the first labour laws were passed in this House in 1894. They have gone on steadily improving, and their influence has been in an upward direction ; and capitalists, having greater confidence in the present state of things, bave spent more money in bricks and timber and iron than ever they did before. Yet these farmers are opposed to them. I will now read another extract from the Lyttelton Times : - "Mr. J. Studholme, junior, seconded the motion [to form the union]. He said, if they were to succeed they must start on right lines, and, therefore, it was necessary that there should be a conference at which all should be represented. They must have it thoroughly understood that they were not a farmers' union in opposition to the interests of farm labourers, or they would have papers like the Lyttelton Times taking advantage of any slip they might make. "The motion was carried." Mr. Studholme wants to get a certain number of working men, farmers' employés, shepherds, and ploughmen to subscribe to the objects of the union and pay in a yearly sum ; but they will not be able to attend the meetings, and consequently every motion brought forward in the interest of the employer will be carried. But, - " Mr. Glass explained that the Council would meet in each province, starting with South- land, in about two months, and directly all the provinces were organized and their Councils had met, there would be a conference of dele- gates in a main centre." That will probably be Ashburton. But the strangest part of the business is that one of our Ashburton business men, a member of a firm that lends more money than any other financial firm in Ashburton-I refer to Mr. Max Friedlander-in moving a vote of thanks to Mr. Glass for his able and clear address, took occasion to say that " the borrowing which had been going on lately by the colony was against the wish of every farmer." Could any reason- able man believe that ? Here is a money- lender, the representative of a large firm in Canterbury, who has enormous sums to lend- not at 5 per cent., but at 7 per cent., with 2} per cent. commission. He went on to say, "The increasing of the public debt by $50,000,000 by the present Government was leaving a very unfair legacy to their children, who had no hand in contracting the debt." These farmers, who are to be educated by Mr. Glass and the union, were asked to believe that this Government has increased the public debt by £50,000,000! Could anything be more ridiculous or absurd? But it is the kind of thing we hear from the Opposition benches. Waymouth-known to many members of the House-one of the most enterprising men in connection with the frozen meat trade. In fact it has grown up under him and his former master, Mr. Grigg, and he has been indefatigable in his efforts to reduce the cost to the farmers who send their sheep to the works for conversion. He has reduced the cost to almost one-half. But they never raised the butchers' wages, nor the fellmongers' wages, nor the tallow-men's wages, nor anybody else's wages except perhaps the directors' wages. Now, Mr. Waymouth has been in Wellington recently, and has approached the members of this House to see if he could not get some check on this objectionable la- bour legislation. He says that if the Bill now before the House is placed on the statute-book it would mean that they would have to increase the cost of conversion by 25 per cent. Well, I think that is a big stretch. Even supposing the butchers did ask 25 per cent. increase of wages, these men are entitled to share in the 100 per cent. reduction previously made and given .to the farmers. Why should not the butchers have a share in some little advantage given through no efforts of these farmers, but simply through force of circumstances. But these men are not infallible. The Hon. the Minister of Mines, speaking the other day, so far forgot himself as to even take credit for the enormous increase that has taken place in the production of wool and mutton, and other products of the farmers. I was astonished to know that that was a suitable increase for which he should take the credit. I wish to speak now of the Lands for Settlement. I believe that has been lauded, but it has not been overlauded, in Canterbury. I do not know all the estates acquired, unless one or two, in Otago, but I think, without exception, I know every estate that has been purchased in Canterbury up to the present day by the Government, and I be- lieve these estates have paid and are paying more interest to the State than they have cost. But I hope the Government will proceed as cautiously as they have hitherto done in Canter- bury in purchasing estates at a fair market value. I am afraid that there has been an inflation recently both in grain-growing and sheep-growing land in consequence of the high prices ruling for sheep and wool and grain. Why, three harvests ago I sold my wheat for 4s. a bushel at the machine, and no farmer can tell me that was not a paying price ; and some farmers recently have got 4s. 10d. a bushel. An Hon. MEMBER .- What are they getting now ? Mr. MCLACHLAN .- Well, I am not selling just now. I want half a crown. But there is another branch of settlement that I do not believe, and never have believed, it was prudent for the Government to enter into, and that is purchasing land near towns for what is called The Minister of Lands village settlements. is not here, but there are plenty of his col- leagues here to tell him what I say ; and I challenge the Minister of Lands to lay upon the table a statement of all these village settle- 