manures, bricks, clay, coal, and also the issue of cheap tickets for the workers of Auckland, Wel- lington, Christchurch, and Dunedin on the suburban lines, have all been credited to the farmers. According to one member the other night there was also credited to the farmers the carriage of polo-ponies, racehorses, hunters, and hounds returning from polo and other meet- ings. Mr. SEDDON .- The farmers got concessions to the amount of £107,000 this year. Mr. SYMES .- I am glad to hear it ; but that those reductions should be credited to the farmers surpasses my understanding. I admit that substantial reductions have been made to farmers, but these reductions have benefited the towns and working-classes equally as much as the farmers. I have a great many other matters to go over, but my time is up, and no doubt there will be some other opportunity of referring to them. I thank honourable mem- bers for the very attentive hearing they have given me whilst giving my views on some of the questions contained in the Budget. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) .- Nearly every country representative who has spoken- and the honourable member who has just sat down is one, and the honourable member for Pahiatua is another-have referred to the city representatives as opposing the farmers, and I wish to say that the city representatives, so far as I am concerned, have never opposed giving assistance to country settlers. Mr. SYMES .- I was not aware that I had made any such reflection, and if I did so I withdraw it. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) .- Sir, before making the few remarks I wish to make this evening I would like to congratulate the new member for Patea on the sensible and practical speech he made a day or two ago. I also welcome him to the ranks of the farmers in this House as & great acquisition. It is quite evident to me that the electors of Patea have selected the right man to represent them, to look after their interests in this House, and to see that justice is done to them. He seems to me to be a man who has the ring of true metal about him, and, by way of comparison, altogether different from some of the weak-kneed members who are on the Government side of this House. He, at all events, would have the moral courage to vote as he speaks, and not like some of the members on the other side, who speak one way and vote another. Mr. SEDDON .- So long as they vote straight it is all right. Mr. BOLLARD .- The Right Hon. the Pre- mier said to the member who has just sat down, when he stated that he was going to kick against some of the policy measures of the present Government, that he could kick as much as he liked so long as he got his vote. Mr. SYMES. - He will not always get it. Mr. BOLLARD .- Well, we shall see. At all events, I wish to say this : that the honour- able member who has just sat down is evidently wavering in his allegiance to the Government Mr. Symes has been a great deal said in this debate about the finance of the colony, and we have had opinions from a large number of members. Therefore it is not my intention to weary the House by a repetition of the figures, but I would just like to give a little summary of the posi- tion of the colony. I find from the returns published last year that the value of the free- holds of the colony amount to £109,708,003, the mortgages on freeholds amount to £35,032,010, leaving a balance of £74,675,893. Then, Sir, we have the public debt, amounting to $49,257,787. The debts owing by local bodies amount to £6,963,254. This makes a total indebtedness of £56,231,011, leaving a balance of £18,454,882. This is what the lawyers call the equity of re- demption. It is only fair that we should add to this the value of our railways, which I put down at sixteen millions, and Crown lands, nine mil- lions. This makes altogether £25,000,000. It is only fair that we should add to this the securities of local bodies, which I put down at ten millions, making altogether £53,454,882. This shows that the position of the assets and liabilities of the colony is this: that we owe £91,253,121 in public and private debts, and that what is called our equity of redemption is $53,454,882. Now, supposing a private indi- vidual was in that position, would he be said to be a prosperous colonist ? I say he would be considered to be in a very shaky condition. Now, our loans have not been levied on the taxation powers of the people. They have been principally on our assets, in the shape of Crown lands and other securities. Mr. SEDDON .- I did not hear you reckon up the value of the public buildings. Mr. BOLLARD .- That is contained in the value of Crown lands. I did not say the waste lands of the Crown were worth nine millions. At the end of the present year we shall cer- tainly have to pay in interest on public and private loans £2,300,000. Let us take the im- ports and exports as far as we have got them. A good deal has been said about the non-pro- duction of documents necessary to enable mem- bers to understand the position. We have seen nothing of the Year-book, nor any other infor- mation about the imports and exports ; but I presume when they come out they will be about even, in consequence of the fall in the price of wool. The returns for 1900, in round numbers, are : Exports, €13,000,000; imports, €10,000,000, leaving £3,000,000 difference between imports and exports. Why, Sir, when we take the interest on our loans-I am not dealing now with the taxation on our people -when we take the interest off that, we have only about €700,000 left-about €1 per head for every man, woman, and child in the colony. That surely is not a satisfactory state of affairs. A good deal has also been said during the debate about sheep and wool. We have been told by honour- able members, who say they are farmers, in this House that the extra price sheep have brought will compensate for the loss in the price of wool. Why, Sir, they are either wilfully de- ceiving the House or they know nothing at all 