price, the man in Wellington agrees to accept | it their duty to legislate on lines which lie so. it at that price and posts a letter to that effect. Within an hour or two he changes his mind and sends a wire to the merchant in Auckland to say that he does not want the sugar ; the revocation of the order arrives in Auckland a week before the actual order; in that case it is manifest no injury has been done to the Auck- land merchant. Clause 5 relates to covenants in a lease rendering an executor personally liable for certain covenants entered into by the testator. The proposal is to relieve him of such liability. Clause 6 refers to trustees being registered as the holder of shares in an estate in which they are trustees. Under the law as it stood in England some short time ago, a trustee, if he registered himself as the holder, became per- sonally liable for the whole of the calls on such shares. I understand that in the case of the Glasgow Bank a large number of persons were ruined in consequence of this provision in the law. Trustees were made personally liable for the whole of the calls on the shares in proper- ties they were simply administering. I may tell honourable gentlemen that the alternative here proposed has now been made in the English law. Clause 7 has been struck out. It pro- vided for the limitation to one year with re- gard to civil wrongs, excepting in a case where titles to real estate were concerned. Clause 8, " Damage for breach of promise of marriage" : I see the Committee has altered the amount of damages recoverable from $500 to €550, I be- lieve in order to enable such cases to be taken into the Supreme Court. I have no objection to that proposal. Then, clause 9, " Jurisdic- tion as to costs in administration suits ": I see the Committee has struck that out also. I am sorry they have done so, because I think it a very important and useful clause. If the Coun- cil will bear with me for a moment or two I will read a short paragraph from the Hon. Mr. MacGregor's speech in reference to that clause. He said,- " Clause 9 is one of the most important of all, because it deals with the powers of the Supreme Court to allow costs in administering estates. This subject of solicitors' costs in administra- tion actions is one that has brought more op- probrium on the legal profession than any other. We know that sometimes an estate is brought into Court to be administered by the Court when there is really no cause or justifi- cation for it. And yet because of that doctrine of the Court of Chancery any beneficiary or any executor has the right at any time by simply asking for it to have an estate administered by the Court. The result is that very often not merely two sets of costs-plaintiff's and de- fendant's-but several sets of costs have to be paid out of the estate, and often in this way estates of considerable amount have been frit- tered away in legal expenses without the slightest advantage to any living being except the law- yers." I think such a clause as this should not have been struck out by the Statutes Revision Com- mittee, and I can only express my regret that men of the legal profession should so often find apparently in their own interests. Clause 10- has reference to the limitation of time within. which wills may be impeached. Clause 11 empowers the Supreme Court to grant special. relief in cases of encroachment by building. According to the present law, if a man inad- vertently has built upon his neighbour's land, perhaps at considerable expense, the Court can order the removal of the building. This clause gives power to the Court to assess the damage-that is, if in the opinion of the Court it was not intentionally done. The Court can either assess the damage or make such reasonable arrangements with the owner of the land as it may think proper. Clause 12, which deals with voluntary conveyances, is of such a technical character that I will not ven- ture to explain it to the Council ; but I am told. that what is herein provided is already the. English law. I believe that it is the law in New South Wales also. The Committee has. put in a new clause referring to forfeitures of agreement for a tenancy, giving the Court power to grant relief in certain cases. I hope. that will also commend itself to the good judg- ment of the Council. I do not know that I need say more with regard to the Bill. I think that most of its provisions will commend them- selves to the good judgment of the Council, and. that the Bill will be allowed to go into Com- mittee. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- I am very glad to be able to support this Bill. It was first in- troduced into this Chamber by the Hon. John MacGregor. I think it is of advantage, not. only to Parliament but also to the community generally, when legal gentlemen strive to set at. rest some of the uncertainties of the law. This. Bill is of a highly technical character, and that accounts, I suppose, for the absence of members during this debate. It has been before the Statutes Revision Committee on several occa- sions, and it has commended itself to that Committee, which consists not only of quali- fied laymen, but also of a number of lawyers who have a good knowledge of technical law. In the first place, I might remind members of the Council that when the Bill first went to the Statutes Revision Committee, two years ago, most of the clauses were agreed to. On the last occasion, however, several were struck out. It was thought that their provisions were too advanced, or in some respects dangerous. It was unfortunate that no person was present to clearly explain the technicalities of the Bill to the members of the Committee. Some of the clauses struck out by the Committee were not struck out unanimously. In some cases the divisions were very small. They all agreed that amendments in the law were necessary, but that the clauses which were struck out required further consideration. On the other hand, the Committee inserted a new clause which provided for the Supreme Court giving relief to persons in case of a forfeiture of an agreement for a tenancy, or for a breach of covenant by a tenant in possession, and in other cases when the law does not now provide a suffi -. 