capital out of it. I say that is unpatriotic, and it is not right. It will do no good in military circles at Home, and I do not think it is right that anything should be said to hurt the feelings of officers who are here. There are good officers, and good soldiers, and a comradeship has been established among the men, and we should not do anything that would tend to destroy it, but should endeavour to promote it as far as pos- sible. Later on I shall have a report to lay on the table that will, in all probability, be read with interest. Motion agreed to. EGMONT COUNTY BILL. Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) brought up the report of the Local Bills Committee on the Egmont County Bill, recommending that, as the Standing Orders had not been complied with, the Bill be not allowed to proceed. He moved, That the report lie on the table. Motion agreed to. PRESIDENT MCKINLEY : ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATION. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, by 3.0. leave of the House, I desire to move the following resolution: "That this House desires to express its detestation and horror" at the diabolical, wicked, and unprovoked attempt made to take the life of the worthy and revered President of the United States of America, William McKinley, and desires to extend to Mrs. McKinley, the relatives of the President, and the American people, its warm and sincere sympathy, and further shares with all good https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 people sorrow and grief that a man could be found who, without cause or provocation, should attempt to take the life of a good and great man ; that members rejoice and are de- lighted to hear that the assassin has failed in his attempt, and that the wounds inflicted are not likely to prove fatal, and hope that the sufferer may recover speedily and be restored to health, and that he may for many years to come be of service to his country and the world at large." On Saturday last the civilised world was shocked by the news of the dastardly attempt that had been made on the life of the President of the United States of America. Sir, it came as a great surprise, because it could not be said that there was any justification for such a crime. The crime was entirely unprovoked. It is well known that, personally, President Mckinley is of a most amiable disposition ; that he is a kind and good man ; and, notwithstand- ing the great powers with which he is endowed, he has ever ruled with moderation, and he has always endeavoured to do that which was for the improvement and the uplifting of humanity and for the good of his country. Sir, all this causes us to wonder why such a dastardly act could be attempted. What can be the moving spirit of those who form and join associations, and select an individual to take the life of his fellow? There was nothing personal-no grievance-and, so far as America is concerned, there is no ground whatever for the dastardly act. Besides that, you have the Mr. Seddon devotion of the President to his country's service, and you have the fact that during the time he has given his service to the country the country has prospered and the condition of the people has improved. Again, I say, we are surprised and shocked at this occurrence. Sir, I have said in this motion that President Mckinley is a great man. That will never be questioned. He has the highest attributes of a statesman, and, although the departure from the Monroe doctrine is only of recent date, when you come to note in respect to diplomatic relations, and, more especially, in respect to China, that the advice of President Mckinley was adopted by the nations that were involved in that difficulty, he has proved himself, when emergency arises, to be one of the foremost statesmen of the world at the present time. What is to us most pleasing is the fact that we as a colony have ever had his good wishes, and he has also further given proof of his friendliness towards Great Britain on several occasions. I may say that the friendly relations which exist between the two nations are only natural, and we trust they will continue and grow closer and closer until, as a matter of evolution, we shall be working together, united as one people and one kindred. Under all these circum- stances, we as a people in this colony the more deeply regret what has occurred, and our sym- pathies naturally go with the statesman who has been stricken down so suddenly. I mentioned just now that there was friendliness as between the two nations. I say we are one people ; the same blood flows through our veins. We are kindred. Blood will tell. It is no fault of the American nation that a separation took place. That was the fault of the British statesmen of the day. And without desiring to allude to the past, I say any one who calmly and dispassion- ately reviews what transpired must come to the conclusion that if there had been the same treatment in those days meted out to the Pilgrim Fathers of America as is meted out to the people of Australia and New Zealand. there never would have been two separate nations, but there would have been one great English-speaking nation dominating the world. Another question one would naturally ask is, whether the form of government existing would lead to anything of this kind. There are those who have done these dastardly deeds for the purpose of removing a monarchy : but it appears to me that whether it is oligarchy, monarchy, or democracy, the same thing occurs. What other conclusion, therefore, can you arrive at but that it is not the forin of government that is aimed at, but that there are men who are opposed to all law, and who are opposed to all order, and it is these self- willed individuals, those who rebel against society, who adopt these evil ways. They serve no purpose so far as they themselves are con- cerned, neither can any organization to which they belong promote or improve the condition of the people, but quite the reverse. It must only cause a check, and it must force organized society to take such steps as will prevent a re- currence of these dastardly acts. Sir, freedom 