now constructing our railways is more expen- sive than the contract system, then I think it is quite time for the Government to reconsider the whole question. I am not opposed to the system of co-operation, but I think we are carrying it too far. I am afraid the system as now carried out is to a large extent educating our men, both young and old, to look to the State for employment. If the system continues to be carried on wholesale I am afraid the result will be that the self-reliance of our people will to a large extent be destroyed, and I do not think that is a good thing for any . country. However, Sir, I hope the Govern- ment will as soon as possible bring down a carefully prepared estimate showing the cost of the construction of our railways per mile under the co-operative system. Mr. HALL-JONES. - You have it already. Mr. R. THOMPSON .- I have not seen it, nor have I heard anything of it. I should very much like to have some further information from the Government. I am not condemning the system if it can be shown that the cost is not greater, but if the system is more expensive than the tender system the whole thing should be inquired into. Sir, I might ask 9.30. some of those who have been very severe on the financial proposals of the Go- vernment, do they suggest that we should cease to open up our Crown lands, and to road them ? Do they suggest that settlement should be stopped ? No, Sir, I do not think there is one member of this House who would suggest it, and I think it would be a most unfortunate thing to happen to this colony. If we want the colony to progress, if we want to make room for https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 settlers, and to encourage people to go upon the lands, we must provide money to road the lands, and give the people every inducement we can to settle on our waste land. There is no doubt whatever that the tendency of the people at the present time is for the young people to congregate too much about the towns. Wesee the population of our large towns rapidly increasing, although the population of the colony is increasing very slowly. I should like to point out that it is a very serious thing indeed to see the whole life- blood of the country districts gradually drifting into the towns, and I do not think that it is a healthy state of things. Then, Sir, I would like just to say one or two words in reference to some complaints that have been made against the Government in con- nection with the sending of the contingents to South Africa. Does any member of this House imagine that it was possible to send large bodies of men without incurring heavy expenditure? The thing was impossible, and I believe that nothing the Government has ever done since they came on those benches met with more popular approval than the sending of those men to South Africa. And, as I have said, that could not be done without heavy expenditure. We must therefore be prepared to meet the expense. To my mind, that is the only thing we can do, and unless we were pre- pared to do it we should have held our tongues, Mr. R. Thompson when the history of this colony comes to be written it will be found that there is nothing the Premier has done since he took a seat on the Treasury benches for which he will get greater credit than for his action in connection with the war in South Africa. Then, Sir, some members have even growled -have complained -of the money expended in giving a suitable reception to their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York. Sir. it was impossible to extend the usual courtesies due to those distinguished visitors without the expendi- ture of money. It is true the sum total may be heavy, but I fail to see why we should now cry over it. It was done ; we all approved of it, and now that it is all over I do not think it is good form for us to turn round and blame the Go- vernment for having spent money for this pur- pose. Sir, some reference has been made to the unrest that exists amongst the people through- out the country districts of the colony at the present time. I admit that there is consider- able unrest and considerable uneasiness, but there are causes for that which, I think, can be very easily explained. First amongst those causes, I believe, is the low price of wool ruling for the last year. Our small sheep - farmers have received little or nothing, while those amongst them who were depending upon the clips have been left almost without the means of living; their expected income has disap- peared altogether. And then, Sir, another cause of the agitation and unrest that at present exists amongst the country people has been brought about by the Workers' Com- pensation for Accidents Act. There is no doubt whatever that that has to a large extent caused a feeling of unrest. Farmers all over the colony have been advised by their legal advisers that they cannot insure against casual labour-that if any accident happens to any one casually employed they may be let in for dam- ages which may be ruinous. Now, Sir, if that is the law, the sooner we amend it the better. It is true the Premier has stated from his place in the House that he does not think that is the law. I have no doubt that he intended, when the Bill went through last session. that that should be so, but I am told on the very best legal authority that that is the meaning of the present Act. Mr. SEDDON .- We negatived the proposal to include agricultural labourers on division. Mr. R. THOMPSON. - That is all right. I quite admit that the honourable gentleman is under the impression that he is right, but at the same time I know for a fact that the best legal advice that can be obtained in the colony has been obtained, and that advice is that casual labour could not be covered by the insurance. If that is the case, the sooner we get the Act amended the better. For instance, some member of the House might get a boy or a man to take his portmanteau from his place to the steamer, and that boy or man might get run over and injured at the wharf, and the per- son for whom he carried the portmanteau would be liable. The thing is absurd, and I say again. 