scheme and the amendment of the Classifica- tion Act this session ? Earlier in the day the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Bar- clay) had asked a similar question, but the honourable gentleman in framing his question failed to touch the pith of the matter. He was sure the Minister for Railways, with his usual courtesy, would supply the information that was necessary. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said he could only give the same answer to the honourable member as he gave to Mr. Barclay. The scheme was now under examination by the Actuary of the Government Insurance Depart- ment, and until his report was received and the Cabinet had considered it he could not say whether the scheme could be brought down this session. ## TREE-PLANTING ALONG RAILWAY- LINES. Mr. COLVIN (Buller) asked the Government, If they will take into consideration the desira- bility of planting the land along the railway-line between Westport and Waimangaroa, and also a portion of the pakili between Westport and Addison's, with wattle-trees ? He understood that the planting of wattle-trees in Auckland had been a great success. There was a large quantity of barren land in the vicinity of the railway between Westport and Waimangaroa, also between Westport and Addison's, which, he believed, could be profitably utilised if planted. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said that, from information he had received, it was doubtful whether wattles would grow on the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 railway land between Westport and Waimanga- roa, and it did not appear right to expend rail- way funds in making experiments of this sort. # AUCKLAND VARNISH COMPANY. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will authorise a trial of the Auckland Varnish Company's varnish at the railway workshops ? Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said authority had already been given for a trial of the Auckland Company's varnish, but the material, he understood, had not yet been manufactured. RATE ON SULPHURIC ACID. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) asked the Minister for Railways, If, when making fur- ther reductions in the railway tariff, he will consider the advisability of reducing the rate on sulphuric acid ? The Hon. the Minister knew that the Orepuki Oil Company had been severely handicapped by the remission of the duty on kerosene, and they were also being handicapped by the fact that the railway rate for the carriage of sulphuric acid, which was an important factor to their work, was £15 a ton from Burnside to Orepuki. The company built the tanks themselves and filled them at the works at Burnside, and they were taken from there by the ordinary goods train. A truck of Mr. Fisher £1 10s. a ton. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the honourable gentleman might not be aware that the rates on sulphuric acid had been reduced by 50 per cent. He did not know whether the honourable gentleman's remarks applied to the rates since the reduction had been made. He would, however, be glad to inquire as to whether the representations he now made required any further attention. # RAILWAY CLASSIFICATION. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether it is his intention this session to bring in a Bill amend- ing the Classification Act now in force ? Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) could only give the same answer as he had given earlier in the day to other honourable members. # TADMOR VALLEY CO-OPERATIVE WORKS. Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) asked the Go- vernment, If they will make inquiry into the following complaints, which have been publicly made, in connection with co-operative work at the Tadmor Valley; and, if found to be cor- rect, either wholly or in part, will they take the necessary steps to remove any cause for such complaints : (1) That, although the standard day's wage has been fixed at 7s. 6d., co-opera- tive workers are obliged to sign for sections of work to be satisfactorily done without any price (per yard or otherwise) being set on the work; (2) that the co-operative workmen have no knowledge whatever as to the wages they are earning or will receive until they are called upon to sign for what the officer in charge may be pleased to allow them for their work; (3) that under these conditions two parties of able-bodied men on co-operative work have been paid the sum of 48. 6d. and 5s. per day respectively, the workmen having themselves to pay for the hire of horses and drays for the removal of earthwork; (4) that the men have to wait six or seven weeks before they are paid the wages they have earned ; (5) that, instead of the men being paid at the works, they have, in some cases, to walk eight miles to the post-office and wait till eight o'clock at night for their money, thus necessitating their return to camp very late at night? He asked the question be- cause of complaints having been made into the correctness of which he had not been able to investigate ; but he asked the Minister to make prompt and complete inquiry into the matter. and, if he found there was cause for complaint -he felt sure it was without the Minister's knowledge-whether he would at once take steps to prevent the continuance of such an undesirable state of affairs. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) said the matter was being inquired into. and the honourable gentleman was right in saying that if the statement indicated in the question was correct it would be at orc. remedied. 