about it. All we know is that in the Gazette it giving them authority largely in excess of what is stated that a £500,000 4-per-cent. loan has we know they can spend, we are giving them a power which I think this House never intended been issued since last March. Sir, while deal- they should get. I must draw attention to the ing with this question of the Public Works Fund, we are told in the Statement that after fact that out of the proposed expenditure this taking into account cash in hand on the 31st year of £1,950,000 have to be deducted liabili- March, the unexhausted power to borrow under ties to the extent of £1,292,095. Thus there previous Acts, a new loan of £1,000,000, and can only be provision for $657,905 for new the contribution of $500,000 from the Con- votes. We must remember that. Well, how solidated Fund, the Government will have much of that $1,950,000 is going to be spent ? If relatively the same amount as last year, the sum of #2,532,515 to set against the proposed expenditure for this incoming year. then it will simply mean that during this year The estimated expenditure they state at the Government will do very little more than complete and pay for the works representing £1,950,000, thus leaving a credit balance of the liabilities on the 31st March, 1001, or else $582,515. But, Sir, I wonder whether this estimated expenditure includes the whole ex- the works we voted for last year will remain on the estimates to swell the liabilities and penditure which they contemplate to take authority to spend. Last year we had in the come on year after year, deluding the consti- Public Works Statement the intention to spend £1.938,000, but after the supplementary esti- so much money granted every year; but this mates were completed we found the authority money is not spent. to spend rose to $2,196,000. How much higher is this £1,950,000 to rise before we are done not spend it, because they have not got it. with it ? There is another feature in the Public Works Account that is worthy of notice. On would not ask them to spend it. That also is the 31st March, 1900, the liabilities were a point on which I desire to warn the Govern- $494,895; on the 31st March, 1901, they have ment. I hope they will see that they have the mounted to £1,192,195. Now, what does that money in hand, or have a certainty of being able to get it, before they incur liabilities which mean? It means that the House is doing that which I think is not wise. Year after year it would involve expenditure. That would be a is authorising the Government by the public very serious and dangerous position to get into. For the Government to incur huge liabilities works estimates to expend a sum of money which it knows perfectly well that the Go- without the certainty of being able to pay them Vernment cannot spend during the twelve would mean that they would be forced to bor- row money at rates that would not be at all ad- months, and has no intention of spending ; and what is the effect of that? The result is vantageous to this colony. Though the people that we are giving to the Government the of this colony are anxious to have roads and power to discriminate between votes, and of bridges, I think they would rather wait twelve https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 saying which they shall spend and which they or eighteen months, and even two years, for shall not spend. Now, to a certain extent you them than that we should imperil our credit, or must give that limit, but when we make that put ourselves in such a false position. Sir, I will not pursue my remarks in regard to the Public limit as large as we did last year, and probably will be asked to do this year, then I think we Works Fund further, as there will be another are doing an unwise and indiscreet thing. and a better opportunity afforded to us later Parliament is losing the control of the public on to go very fully into that subject when dealing with the Loan Bill. We will know then expenditure. Of course, that is no new thing in this House. Last year the authority to what the proposals of the Government really are, and we will know then really that which spend was #2,196,365; but what did the total we are expected to authorisa them to do, and actual expenditure amount to ? It amounted we can then discuss and criticize the whole to $1,307,511-that is to say, we authorised them to spend £888,854 more than they did position more properly. amazed at the paragraph in the Financial spend. Of course there are liabilities ; we know that. But what I do contend is that the Go. Statement referring to the report of the Mid- vernment bring down public works estimates land Railway Commission. I really must refer and these estimates are overloaded with votes. to it, because I should not like it to remain on Members are pleased because they see the record uncontradicted. The Treasurer says, on votes there, and they go back and tell their page xiii., that " after a very exhaustive inquiry a Commission has reported, practically, that the constituents they have got so much money, company and debenture-holders have been very and, lo and behold, at the 31st March how much of that is spent? Members all know that what I am stating is correct. Now, would could have found a single word to justify that it not be very much wiser for the House to come statement. Certainly they could not have to some decision as to how much money really found it in the report of the Royal Commission. can and will be spent before Parliament meets Why, if there is one thing that the Royal again ? Vote that amount and say, " We leave it to the Government to see if they can borrow Commission was prevented from saying any- the necessary money. If you can borrow this thing at all about it was as to what the money you may spend this amount." But I debenture-holders or the company were en- titled to receive from the colony. I am not say that by going on as we are doing now and tuencies into believing that they are getting An Hon. MEMBER .- The Government will Mr. W. FRASER. - If they have not got it I I was somewhat well treated." When I heard that read 4.30. out I wondered where the Government 