made by the abolition of the extra charge on the people from one end of the colony to the the Rimutaka Incline to $700 per annum. other, and the country is to be congratulated upon it ; but yet a member of the Opposition ferred on the farming community by providing tries to minimise this splendid feature of our in the regulations that farmers and others country's progress. Now, I want to say one may combine, and thus obtain small lots word to the honourable member for Patea. He of manure, et cetera, at a cheap rate. There is a new member, and has not had a very great is also a reduction in passenger-fares. Honour- deal of experience in this House, so that to able members surely know that the farmers re- some extent one ought to be a little lenient in quire to, and do, themselves and their families, referring to the statements he made. But I want to call attention to one utterance he de- travel over the railways. livered, which I think is only right I should reduction in fares. reply to. The honourable member said that $46,000 of remissions on railway rates were Where did the given to the South Island? surely must know that there has been an honourable member get that from? The enormous reduction in fares. honourable member, if he got it from anywhere, got it probably from some wrongly informed bers do not know what they are talking about. newspaper, which has led him and others into The reduction on single fares is 30 per cent., the belief that the Government was differentiat- ing in regard to railway rates as between the but on return fares between 9 and 10 per cent. two Islands. Sir, it is absolutely incorrect. The whole system of the change was to bring There is no such thing in the whole tariff. about cheapness and uniformity, and to do away with the abominable method of return fares There is not a rate that does not apply to the under which many people of this colony lost whole colony, except it be where water-carriage what they had paid for the return half of their is competing with the railway, where special tickets. If a man took a return ticket under rates are made, and these are to be found in both Islands. But to say that there is a dif- the old system and he could not come back within a specified time, he lost his ferentiation in rates as between the North and money. The honourable member does not South Islands is to say that which is contrary to pay for the tickets he uses himself, but he fact, and I challenge either him or any one else travels over the lines, and he knows that to give the instances in detail. They cannot, because they do not exist. Then, the honourable thousands of people under the system of return member went on to say that the reductions tickets lost their money, because they frequently could not avail themselves of the second portion made were of no benefit to the farmers, nor, he said, was the penny-postage. Now, let of their return ticket, and the system was un- satisfactory to every one concerned. Now we me tell the House what the Government in have a system under which every one is treated this respect has done for the farmers since alike. And what we intend to do before very the railways came under Ministerial con- trol in 1895. We have reduced the rates on long is to make concessions, and allow persons with single tickets to break their journey at any milk and cream for cheese-making, butter and cheese, chaff, turnips, lime for ordinary pur- station until they get to the end of it, and con- tinuing until the ticket is exhausted. Under poses, lime for manuring farm lands, grass- the old system of return tickets, nine people out seeds returning from seed cleaning establish- of ten, when they were quite sure that they would ments, sheep, wool, empty butter and vegetable not be able to go back within the specified time, packages, phosphorized pollard for extermina- paid a high price for a single ticket-30 per tion of rabbits, New-Zealand-grown vegetables, cent. more than they do now. We have made green flax, agricultural produce, dairy produce, an enormous reduction in the single fares, and onions, bonedust, guano, manure, salt, rock- the public have shown that they appreciate it salt, linseed, beans, bran, native flax, flour, fully. peas, sacks in bales and bundles. The following mitted that there has been a 30-per-cent. reduc- is approximately the value for one year of the tion in single and a 9-per-cent. reduction in concessions granted for the principal articles enumerated : Reduction of live-stock rates, return fares. 225,000 ; chaff, lime, et cetera, $3,000 ; agricul- fare except the tourist. tural produce, $40,000; manures, $1,000 ; free carriage of lime for agricultural purposes and sense. The average tourist who comes to this concessions on butter and cheese, $5,000 : colony does not take either a single or a return total, $74,000. In addition to the foregoing ticket, but he takes an $8 excursion ticket for concessions on articles which may be said to be the whole colony. I want to say one word produced, or mainly used, by the farming com- about my honourable friend Mr. George Fisher, munity, farmers have been materially benefited M.H.R .- " the people's George," the ladies' by the reductions of rates made for iron and favourite, the man's hero, and the Demosthenes other articles of merchandise which are in of the House. He made a statement to this every - day use by them. For instance, the effect : that Sir Robert Stout formed the Bal- abolition of the extra charge of 1d. per mile on lance Administration. I say that, to my know- merchandise goods carried over a large number ledge, he did nothing of the kind. The man of the branch lines of the colony was equivalent Further, material advantage has also been con- An Hon. MEMBER .- There has been no Sir J. G. WARD .- The honourable member An Hon. MEMBER .- 9 per cent. Sir J. G. WARD .- Those honourable mem- Those honourable members have ad- An Hon. MEMBER. - Nobody requires a single Sir J. G. WARD .-- That is all stuff and non- 