any rate, I do not think the man concerned in gard to the flouting of the Standing Orders, that is entitled to high eulogies for his honour- this is what he states in his memorandum able share in that transaction. The member before us :- for Wellington Suburbs said that this was a first offence, and that possibly it was a case for against the wishes of the House or the Com- probation. Well, while I should have agreed mittee that the report was made." entirely with the member for Wellington Suburbs if the journalist made the same accuse Mr. Cohen of something like disin- amends that any accused before a Court makes genuousness in making that statement. Of before any Judge will grant probation-he course, it was not with a view of transgressing the rules or flouting the House, but he did it must, at any rate, show genuine regret for what he has done; but there is not a single with the knowledge that his action was a trans- . expression of apology in the whole of that gression of the wishes of the House, and in elaborate communication from Mr. Cohen. In violation of the. Standing Orders. That is a very different matter. But there is no indica- the last paragraph there is certainly the word " regret " used, but if members will look at it tion here or in his evidence that he did not they will see that no full apology is conveyed by know perfectly well that he was doing an act that word in that part of the letter. The mem- which was against the Standing Orders in mak- her for Wairarapa, with his natural jealousy for ing public this evidence. Yet I am sorry to the interests of the profession with which he say that he does not put the matter as clear as I could have wished in his evidence. Question is connected, objected to the imputation of sordid motives to the reporter and the newspaper 387 is as follows :- concerned. While I do not think there is any aware that it was a breach of the privileges of necessity whatsoever to impute a sordid motive Parliament ?- I admit that it was a technical in the sense of supposing that the information breach of the privileges of Parliament, but I was estimated to be worth so much in money, understood it was the object of the Committee as a journalist the reporter said, " This is good to obtain the fullest information with regard to copy ; let us have it in." That is no doubt what he said. Mr. Cohen, I think, describes the dredging industry of the Otago District, his o \\n explanation as "frank "; but I am not and that object would largely influence the sure whether he said that himself or left it to publication." one of his eulogists to say it. "Eulogist " precise terms that he knew it was a breach of means one of those supporters of the motion for a censure on Mr. Cohen. He professes, at the Standing Orders, but we may take it as an any rate, to give a frank description of his indication, and believe that the mitigation was that it was only a technical breach. I do not motives in publishing this report. If he had know what other kind of breach of the Stand- been frank I think he would have said, "I ing Orders there can be than a technical breach know that is good copy, and I published it." of what is a technical rule for the protection of What did he say ? He said it was simply in the public interests he did it, to strengthen the the House. Now, to come to Mr. Cohen's ex- hands of Parliament, and to assist the Com- pression of regret :- mittee in the inqulry they were undertaking. through the medium of my paper, to assist in His words were,- " Nothing, in my judgment, could aid them so the prosecution of a searching inquiry into a matter of the greatest concern to the mining completely in prosecuting their investigations industry of Otago has led me to commit a as the publishing of the evidence, for thereby breach of privilege." the public knew what were the subjects being inquired into and what were being omitted, and Right Hon. the Premier asked us to accept, what evidence, therefore, remained to be sup- as amounting to an expression of regret and plied to the Committee in order that they might apology on the part of Mr. Cohen which have the whole facts before them before making should disarm us from taking further proceed- their report to your honourable House." ings in asserting the dignities of this House. Now, surely Mr. Cohen is professing a little Now, if I had been the draftsman or adviser of too much. Surely he is professing too high a Mr. Cohen, instead of the Right Hon. the Premier, degree of virtue for a man who should come I should have said, " If you want to be straight- here somewhat in the attitude of a penitent- forward, you should have put it this way : surely he is asserting more than he is entitled to assert-more than his best friend in the ' I regret that my anxiety to supply my paper with good copy has led me knowingly and House will say he is entitled to assert-when deliberately to break your Standing Order ; but he says he simply did it in the interests of full if you will repeal your Standing Order I shall inquiry, and to strengthen the hands of the not need to repeat the offence."" I ask honour- Committee. Then, he says, -- able gentlemen, taking the memorandum right " It was simply with the desire of enlarging through, whether there is any exaggeration in the scope of the Committee's investigations, what I say. Two-thirds or three-quarters of and thereby of assisting your House and one the memorandum contain a lecture to the of its Committees, that I published the evi- House concerning the absurdity of our Standing dence.' And that statement, again, cannot be taken ! Orders, and a regret comes in at the end which "It was not with any view of transgression Now, I must say I think I am entitled to "In receiving this information you were Now, he does not expressly admit there in "I regret that my bona fide endeavour, Now, that is the expression of regret that the 