position, or little chance of obtaining good appointments. The female teachers have very few other avenues for employment, and conse. quently they are swarming into the teaching profession, which, as a rule, they do not make a life occupation of, as do the men. It will be found by the evidence, when it is placed in the hands of honourable members, that, with the exception of country schools with an average attendance of up to thirty or forty at most, female teachers are not so effective as males. might say that I was one of those who advocated equal pay for males and females in this House, and until I heard the evidence of those who had considerably more experience than I have had I adhered to the principle that men and women should be equally paid, but after hearing the testimony of those who have been twenty or thirty years in the service-those who have reached the highest rung of the educational ladder-headmasters in large schools, Inspectors, and those who are the best judges of the work done in the different education districts -I have had to admit, although very reluctantly, that in many cases the work of the female is not equal to the male, as, for example, the female teacher, in the judgment of educa- tionists, is not able to effectively instruct and control the Fifth or the Sixth Standard in the large town schools. Just imagine some forty or fifty boys passing this year the Fifth Standard and coming trooping into the Sixth class-room- what chance is there of a female teacher pro- perly controlling them ? In regard to literary instruction, I admit that they are quite capable - possibly as capable as the males; but there is more than that to be considered in teaching : you must be able to sustain the attention of the class, and you must be a good disciplinarian, especially in a town school. In the country, although strict discipline may not be so necessary, nevertheless the position of a female teacher becomes irksome when she has to deal with big boys who are not amenable to correction or discipline, or who set her authority at defiance. I maintain that for a country school of up to an average of thirty pupils the female teacher is just as efficient as a male. There are a few instances in which the female is able to take charge of a larger school ; but there are also many cases in which the female is not physically able to discharge in an effi- cient manner the functions of a teacher in a school of that size. Up to that size we have recommended that females should be paid the same salary as males. The same remark ap- plies to the assistants in town schools. We find there that the teaching of the standard classes up to the Fourth can be done by female teachers just as efficiently as by males, and we recommend that they get nearly the same salary. The Canterbury female teachers are flooding this House with petitions asking us to increase their salaries to those of the males. Now, I consider that the Canterbury female teachers have very little to complain of. They have been treated very liberally by their Educa- tion Board, and it is scarcely courteous to the members of that Board for the teachers to | of the higher positions they now hold. Now, Mr. Gilfedder come here to deputationise and petition this. House in the manner they have done without first consulting their Education Board, for in the scale we have drawn up we have given sufficient latitude to the Board to adapt it to the circumstances of their various schools. These lady teachers will find that they have nothing whatever to complain of. We pointed out to one of them who gave evidence before the Commission that she was labouring under I a misapprehension with regard to the applica- bility of the scale of staffs and salaries to the female teachers in the Christchurch schools. I will just take one or two instances in connec- tion with the Canterbury schools to show how the suggested scale will "pan out," because I know that in the future members of the House will receive communications and petitions from lady teachers, perhaps in other parts of the colony, who will take a leaf out of the books of those teachers who seem to be discontented in North Canterbury. I will take the Kaiapoi School for example. I find that the headmaster, Mr. Alexander, will get £300 a year, with a free house or house allowance of $50 per annum. Miss Menzies will get #140, she gets now £125 ; Mr. Lynskey will get #220, now he is only getting £159 10s. ; Mr. Hill will get £120, now he only gets $90; Miss Blackwell will get £105, the salary being now only £100; Miss Smith will get $100 instead of $75, while one of the pupil-teachers will be raised to the position of an assistant, at $80 a year. I could quote, if I had time, numerous instances in which the same adaptability of the scale to the school I maintain that the female will hold true. teachers of this colony have very little to com- plain of. The Commission were restricted by the order of reference to a capitation allowance of €4. If we had been allowed greater latitude and more funds we would have recommended higher salaries for females ; but it will rest with the Boards to so adjust their staffs in the city schools that the imaginary grievance will entirely disappear, for, with but one or two exceptions, no lady teacher in Canterbury will be reduced. We have given sufficient lati- tude to the Education Boards to adapt this scheme to their own circumstances. One school in Christchurch-I think it is the Syden- ham School-is at the present time overstaffed, otherwise the staffing we have adopted is some- what similar to that in vogue in the North Canterbury Education District, which is more liberal than obtains in Otago and other districts in the colony. Honourable members can see from the report of the Commission that it is within the province of the Education Boards to so substitute two pupil-teachers for one assis- tant, or to appoint a pupil-teacher instead of two, and divert the money thus saved-say, #35-to- the assistant teacher, whose salary the colonial scale will prejudicially affect. The Boards can also arrange the assistantships with regard to the receipt of the fixed salaries, just as the headmaster can arrange the work amongst his assistants. Some of the female teachers fear that males will be substituted for them in some 