without the slightest foundation, except some telegram he had not seen. The honourable gentleman had never seen the telegram. Mr. J. ALLEN .- No. Mr. SEDDON said, Then he (Mr. Seddon) wanted to know what was his foundation for this charge. Was it some one who had told him? Was it because some one had told him something that he would stand up in his place in the House, under the protection of privilege, and make the statement he had made ? The honourable gentleman was in other hands. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I know where I am. Mr. SEDDON said the honourable member was in other hands, and any one who would so far forget himself as to do what the honourable member had done must be left to himself. Mr. ATKINSON .- What does that mean ? Mr. SEDDON said it meant that if a man had a conscience at all, if a man recog- nised the seriousness of what he was doing, and the great wrong he was doing-if he recognised that-remorse would be his punishment. That was what he meant. If the honourable mem- ber had no remorse or conscience, if he as a man was devoid of that finer feeling which should permeate the breast of every fair-minded man in the land, he was unworthy of notice, and he ought to be treated by him (Mr. Seddon) with scorn. He would take no notice of him at all. Then, the honourable gentleman said that he had given the Premier warning. What warn- ing had he given? The honourable gentle- man's language was that "the Premier was parading our boys at the front for political purposes." Was there a word of warning in https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 that to indicate that he had something in his mind about their going to Invercargill? He had used those words, and according to them he was now in a false position. No such warning indicating a serious charge as that now mentioned had been given. The honour- able gentleman had gone further, and said, " The Premier's professions about the boys at the front are for political purposes." There were political professions and there was parading at the front ; but was there anything to indicate what the honourable member had now brought on to the floor of the House ? Was there any- thing to cause him or any member to suspect that there was anything behind, such as had just now been mentioned ? He maintained there was not, and that by no possible con- struction could it be made to suggest that the honourable member had this in his mind. His opinion was that the member for Bruce had not this in his mind at the time. Mr. PIRANI .- Oh, yes, he had. Mr. SEDDON said, It seemed the honourable member's keeper sat behind him ; it was the honourable member for Palmerston. Why did not the member for Bruce give notice that he would ask for the correspondence between the Premier and the officer commanding the men on the "Tagus " from Albany should be laid on the table? There was nothing to warrant what he had said. Why had he not asked in a proper manner that this correspondence should be produced ? If it had been refused, that would have given some colour to his statement. No. warning had been given, no request made for the correspondence. The honourable gentle- man had done nothing open or honourable : he had laid back to the last moment, and then took this opportunity of giving him (Mr. Seddon) a stab in the back. Well, he had had a good many things said against him in his time, but this charge was one which would bring its own condemnation to the mind of every right-thinking member of the House and to the people of the country. In making such a statement without being able to give anything in support of it the honourable gentle- man was playing a desperate game ; but he was foiled, absolutely foiled, for the facts were against him. The people of the country would know now how to take the honourable. gentleman at his true worth. He now knew him better than he had done before. He had. been warned against the honourable member as being dangerous by an old colleague who had passed away. That warning at the time, he thought, had not sufficient foundation, but now he knew it was well founded. Still, he could hardly believe it. He could not under- stand the honourable gentleman making such & charge, and believed that in his calmer mo- ments he must see that it was his duty to withdraw what he had stated. He (Mr. Seddon) had nothing to keep back with respect to our soldiers, or in respect to his actions in connec- tion with everything that had been done for them. He was prepared to give the fullest in- formation in respect to what had passed between him and the Home authorities and the officers. He would be judged by that corre- 10.0. spondence; he had nothing to keep back. And would the parents of our sons at the front believe the honourable member ? Why, he (Mr. Seddon) had gone, as he believed, on the right track. It had been his wish to see that everything was done to remove the anxiety of the parents, to give justice to the sufferers, to give due credit to our sons ; and in respect to this matter there was certainly nothing politi- cal in it on his part. The movement for the Fourth and Fifth Contingents to go South came from Otago, and it came from Southland ; and, in deference to that, the destination of the steamer was arranged by the Transport Officer. And when they came to Dunedin that was the time ; and if the medical officer had then said these men should not go to Invercargill, and he (Mr. Seddon) had insisted on sending them to Invercargill without the consent of the medical officer, then he would probably be to blame. But he said that his indication was not strongly that they should go, and they went on this condition ; and he did not know one man who went to Invercargill who had suffered. He did know there were many who fell ill ; and it did not matter by which route they came - if they had malarial fever or enteric fever in the system, it was not a ques- tion of going a few miles out of the latitude on the sea that would make any difference. There were some who came to Auckland, some who came to Wellington, some who came to. 