for the tendency of such words is to make the people infer that we are not doing justice, especially when, as I have pointed out, the speakers are unanimous in their remarks on the subject. The Evening Post has been touch- ing on the same matter. The statements have all been pretty well on the same lines, so that I must come to the conclusion that there has been an inspiration, and I know there is a fount from which such inspiration may flow. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Time is up. Hon. MEMBERS .- Go on. Hon MEMBERS .-- No, no. Mr. SEDDON .- The following two lines give exactly the present situation :- Truth from his lips prevailed with double sway, And fools who came to scoff remained to pray. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .-- Sir, I wish to make a personal explanation. The Premier has mis- represented me. He accused me of having stated that the ways and means of the Public Works Fund were a certain amount, and that I had only quoted the appropriations for the year. It is true I did that, and I immediately followed it by quoting the actual expenditure for the year, and I showed that the expenditure for the year, including the liabilities, had gone beyond the ways and means of the Public Works Fund, and I repeat that now. Sir, the honourable gentleman attempted to explain away my argument by saying he had a balance of half a million in the Consolidated Fund. It is perfectly true he had that half-million in the Consolidated Fund, but it was not part of his ways and means ; for he had already trans- ferred $500,000 from the Consolidated Fund to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 the Public Works Fund, and I have given him credit for this already. That was one mis- representation. The other misrepre- 9.0. sentation is this: He accused me of http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero misrepresenting the liabilities of the Public Works Fund. In order to put myself right I shall quote the words of the statute :- "The liabilities of the Public Works Fund shall mean and include all liabilities under any contracts entered into by the Government under the authority of any Act in that behalf." I say that any liability must of necessity in- clude a contract, as the Act says, entered into by the Government under an Act on that be- half. The Premier has made a remark in re- gard to a mine I am interested in, but I shall probably have another opportunity of saying something on that subject. With reference to the Commission's report, the Minister of Mines has told me that the Inspector's report has been received, and I have moved that that report be laid on the table. Mr. SEDDON .- I have not gone as far as I might have gone in respect to the report on the mine I referred to. I say that report has been in existence some months, and it has been known to the honourable gentleman, and he has taken no action whatever in the matter. I say I will not hear reflections cast on Mr. Haselden, or upon Mr. Proud, or Mr. Lomax, who were Commissioners. Mr. Proud has a reputation as a mining Inspector and expert in he Old Mr. Seddon soul of integrity and efficiency ; nor on Mr. Lomax, who is an experienced coal-miner. It is a most serious matter, and some steps must be taken to remove that state of things. Mr. J. ALLEN .- What steps did you take ? Mr. SEDDON .- Did not the Inspector come down ? Mr. J. ALLEN .- No. Mr. SEDDON .- He was with the Commis- sioners. I come to another misrepresentation of the honourable member. I have his table copied, and he says here,- "The total available ways and means up to 31st March, 1901, was $2,339,749, and the appropriations from 1900-1901, were £2,196.365, leaving available ways and means on the 31st March, 1901, of £143,384." It is quite true that later on-because he knew he was going to be brought to book for it-he used these words: "The expenditure during the year was $1,307,511." Therefore you deduct that from the ways and means of last year and it leaves the balance available of £1,032,236, and not taking, as the honourable member did, the appropriations. If you do not spend the money, you have the money at hand. I cannot quote from Hansard, but I guarantee that I am reading what Mr. Allen said. An Hon. MEMBER .- You are misquoting. Mr. SEDDON .- It so happens that what I have used is a clipping or cutting from Hansard. Now who is misquoting ? Mr. J. ALLEN .- The Premier omitted to quote the words between the words I first used and later ones. I certainly did quote the ways and means of the Public Works Fund. I de- ducted the appropriations for the year, and I said so in plain language, and then I went on to say that "that available balance we did not have." The Premier forgot to quote those words. I said I did not know in the history of the colony that it had before occurred that at the end of the financial year the colony had no ways and means to meet its responsibilities. Mr. SEDDON .- I should like to ask the honourable gentleman why he should trouble to prove a negative. The words he used were : " this available balance we did not have." Certainly not. He had available $1,032.000. He puts a table there to show and prove that. to infer that only £143,000 was available at the end of the year. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- Sir, the Premier has hinted rather than stated that two parts, at any rate, of the speech I de- livered on the Financial Statement were the result of inspiration. It is not at all difficult for one to understand from what direction the honourable gentleman thinks the inspiration came. I wish to assure him of what he already knows -- that I was one of the earliest speakers in the debate. I spoke before the member for Nelson City and the member for Ashley. I needed no inspiration from anybody as to the position I was going to take up. I did not confer with either the editor of the Evening Post or any other gentleman in regard to the speech I was going to deliver. 