them, perhaps, of an adverse nature. I would point out that in France they have got institu- tions similar to what is proposed here, from which they derive a very large revenue. Even theatre tickets have to be stamped, and the revenue is used for charitable purposes. I beg to move the second reading of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I am sorry that I cannot support this Bill. I think it is a decided mistake for the State to legitimatise and recognise gambling in any shape or form. If I had to vote on the totalisator question, from one point of view I would certainly vote against it. The question may be a very difficult one to deal with, but at the same time I am not prepared to assist in any shape or form proposals for State gambling, because I have seen so much of the gambling by means of the totalisator. So long as gambling was restricted to "hawks " and "pigeons," the "hawks" plied their avocations no doubt, and the "pigeons " had to look after themselves, but when the totalisator was legalised, and a sort of stamp of a paternal Government was put on the whole transaction, many other people besides the "pigeons " entered into these transactions, with very much hurt to themselves, and also to the hurt of the general moral sense of the com munity. Therefore I am very sorry indeed to see any further recognition in a public way of gambling in any shape or form. At the present time all this spare gambling money goes over to Tasmania ; but, as far as I have read the news, one of the first effects of the federalisation of the Post Office in the Commonwealth has been that that place of transacting business has been closed to the lottery-promoter, and that the Commonwealth will have no place in her borders open to this class of traffic, and there- fore it will be swept out of the whole of the Southern Ocean. There is no reason for us being afraid of money being sent away from here. As I said before, Sir, I cannot support this Bill. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- I think I can speak on this, not being a gambler myself. My nature would not allow me to be a gambler if I wanted to, so perhaps it is no thanks to myself that I am not one. Sir, there is a good deal to be said for this Bill. In other countries a large amount of the revenue of the State is made out of lotteries. Take, for instance, Italy. There there is a Government lottery, out of which a large amount of revenue comes. It keeps the money in the country ; and we never hear any outcry against it. It enables people to specu- late a little, and they can put in 9d. a week and have the chance of getting something. My honourable friend says that the Commonwealth is not going to have this. It is not quite settled yet; and I do not know whether the Commonwealth's proposed action will do much good, because Tattersall's will be removed to another place. A large amount of benefit could be got from this measure, and it would pre- vent a very large amount of money going out from this colony every year. Some €100,000 or more goes out of this colony to these lot- teries, and it might be very well kept in the colony and do no great amount of harm. With regard to what my honourable friend said about the totalisator, when the totalisator was in Adelaide they thought it was increasing gambling and they did away with it. How long had they done away with it before they were wanting it back ? Those who in the first place were most anxious to get it out of the country were the first to move to get it back. Would my honourable friend like to see the state of things back again that existed when Christchurch was practically the headquarters of the bookmakers ? An Hon. MEMBER .- Squash them. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- Everybody tried to squash them, but they have not been able to do so yet. The money, instead of going into the bookmakers' pockets and being wasted, goes to the support of all the people who like to go out to the races for their holidays. The extra money that was paid at Christchurch in the attempt to get the better of the "tote" bettors was money simply transferred from the book- makers' pockets to the totalisator. I do not know that there was any more gambling in it. Whatever goes on the totalisator is seen, and no one borrows money and gets himself into trouble over it. A person must have the hard cash or he cannot gamble. It is not like the old system, when the bookmakers used to make a round of the offices and banks, and had a large number of the employés in their power. That is all done away with, and I hope never to see that sort of thing back again. How does the gambling on the totalisator compare with the gambling done in dredging shares? I question if the people have lost as much money through the totalisator as they have done through dredging shares. Everything is gambling. If you buy goods to make a profit out of them that is gambling. An Hon. MEMBER .- No, no. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- The honourable member says "No, no "; but if you lose money by dredging you may as well lose it by the totalisator. I hope, myself, that this Bill will get its second reading at all events, and that the clauses will be fairly discussed in Com- mittee, so as to see if anything can be made out of it. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- I do not think that the honourable gentleman who introduced this Bill could have been serious, and I feel per- fectly certain that he does not hope to get it through this Council. Sir, gambling is admit- tedly an evil, and a growing evil, and it is deplored by all right-thinking persons in this colony. The honourable gentleman tells us that as we cannot put down gambling, that gambling still exists, and that money goes out- side the colony in connection with sweeps on horse-races, the State ought to foster gambling. The same might be said about other evils. The State might just as well say to all evil-doers, " We cannot make you conduct yourselves in accordance with the laws, so we will fashion the laws in accordance with your conduct ; the law must be obeyed." I do not think any honour- able member of this Council, whatever may be his views on the question of gambling, could 