change, no other members were there. All I can say is, if they had been at the Petone Flower Show, they would have been all the better for it. To return here, and to have to listen to cold-blooded speeches such as that delivered by the honourable member for Riccarton on a matter that has already been threshed to death, is such a contrast to that scene that it almost makes one feel disposed to go back again to the flower show. Now, Sir, after all this talk about this 5.0. question of privilege, I hold here in my hand a report of a question of privilege that was raised in the House of Commons only last July in connection with the publication of certain matter in the Daily Mail : and what was done on that occasion by the Conservative Adminis- tration, and by the Right Hon. Mr. Balfour? Did he attempt to parade the fact, as some members in this House are doing, that after the House has declared this is a breach of privilege it will be a loss of dignity, a loss of prestige, a loss of the privileges of Parliament, if we do not impose a fine, and if we do not bring the people concerned before the bar of the House in order to go through the farce that has charac- terized similar proceedings on all former oc- casions ? No, Sir, he did nothing of the kind. As soon as the resolution was passed by the House of Commons that a breach of privilege had been committed, he decided, in a common- sense way, not to bring the reporter or the publishers to the bar of the House of Commons and not to fine them, and no further action was taken. Mr. PIRANI .- What was the breach of privilege ? Sir J. G. WARD .- It was in July last, this year, and it was in connection with the Daily Mail. I have here a column-and-a-half account http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero of the proceedings, and honourable members might like me to read it, but I do not think they do. They know perfectly well what is at the bottom of all this question here. An Hon. MEMBER .- Read it. Sir J. G. WARD .- I think I will leave it to some other member to read, but I say the fact remains- Mr. FISHER .- What did Mr. Balfour do ? Sir J. G. WARD. He took no action at all, beyond asking the House to declare it was a breach of privilege. Mr. FISHER .- What do you propose ? Sir J. G. WARD .- We propose some action ; but it does not matter what we propose in this House, every suggestion that has been made causes dissatisfaction to some honourable mem- bers. In the first instance, it was proposed by myself - not upon the floor of the House, but in conversation with some honourable members opposite and upon our side of the House-not to set up a Committee, but to bring the reporter and publisher of the Dunedin Evening Star to the bar of the House, and honourable mem- bers, excepting the honourable member for Brnoe, felt that was not the best course to adopt under the circumstances, and they urged that it should go to a Committee. Sir J. G. Ward Sir J. G. WARD .- Well, the honourable member did not give utterance to his views on that occasion, or, at all events, he did not sav he disagreed with me. But we came to that course after consultation with honourable members opposite, and the medium through which the suggestion came was the honourable member for Franklin. Very well ; as soon as the report is brought down and a resolution is submitted to the House we find that not only some members opposite, but that some members of our own party, hold strong views on the matter, and they believed that a fine should be imposed. They did not think that the reporter and the publisher of the Dun- edin Evening Star should be called before the bar of the House, because their com- mon - sense told them that this proceeding has always been a ludicrous farce in the past. Now the honourable member for Riccarton tries to convert the fact that the Govern- ment decided to confer with those members of our own party who have decided views on the question that a penalty ought to be imposed in addition to the resolution submitted to the House into a Government crisis. Does the honourable member mean to tell me that. in order to have that fair and common understanding between members of a party and the Administration when a difficuity arises, such as arose in this case owing to a large number of men entertaining similar views to those of the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) that a fine should be impos d. it is not the duty of the Government to confer with those members and ascertain what their views are? Many members of our party held pronounced views on this question that a fine should be imposed, and a fine has been sug- gested to the House, after consultation with members of the party. Mr. FISHER .- This is my motion, not yours. Sir J. G. WARD. - I am quite sure my honourable friend, who is a sensible man, will recognise that in a matter such as this is. where there has not only been a question of privilege and diversity of opinion as to the penalty, but where an attack has been made by some honourable members, particularly on the head of the Government- Mr. FISHER .-- He says his motion has been carried by forty-two to eighteen ; that is my motion, not his. Sir J. G. WARD .- The honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) found he had deserters in his camp. As soon as the honour. able member took charge temporarily of the ship over there without a rudder-unless it be that the general manager, the member for Franklin, is the rudder for the whole party- what occurred ? Mr. FISHER .- I was nearly sent for. Sir J. G. WARD .- The honourable member says he was very nearly sent for; but the honourable member will recognise that, just as he was about to be sent for, the first mate of the rudderless ship on the opposite side, the 