point out to the Premier that there is a point which requires attention in connection with the expenses of licensing elections and Licen- sing Committees. This is especially the case in districts where the Counties Act is not in operation. Where the Counties Act is not in operation the local bodies have to contribute to the expenses of the licensing election and the Licensing Committee, whether they have a licensed house in the particular district or not. I think this is very unfair, and the proper arrangement would be to deduct the expenses of the election and of the Committee from the amount of the licensing-fees collected, and then hand over the balance to the local bodies of the districts where the houses are situated. I hope the Premier will consent to an amendment to that effect going into the Bill. Mr. SEDDON .- I will look into it. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- Sir, 1 was not aware there would be any discussion on this Bill at this stage, but I am prompted to make one or two remarks in consequence of the observations made by my colleague (Mr. Atkin- son), who suggests that there should be a clause inserted in the Pill to bring the law of New Zealand into line with the law of Great Britain by prosecuting the persons found drinking in publichouses during prohibited hours as well as the publican. There is a recommendation to that effect, I am aware, in the annual report of the Commissioner of Police. My object in rising now to speak on the point raised by the member for Wellington City is this: that I think it would be a wise thing to do, if we are asked to adopt any portion of the English Act, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 to adopt other parts. Therefore I will ask the honourable gentleman who asks leave to introduce this Bill whether he will introduce into the Bill section 24 of the English " Intoxi- / http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero cating Liquors Act, 1872," which is as follows :- "Subject as hereinafter mentioned. all pre- mises on which intoxicating liquors are sold or exposed for sale by retail shall be closed as fol- lows, that is to say : on Sunday, Christmas Day, and Good Friday, during the whole day before one of the clock in the afternoon, and between the hours of three and six of the clock in the afternoon, and after the hour of eleven of the clock at night." That would do away with all illegal Sunday trading. I would like my colleague the mem- ber for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson) to say whether he approves of the suggestion to intro- duce this provision of the English Act as well as the one to which he has himself called atten- tion. I understand the honourable gentleman, by his genial laughter and his sympathetic laugh, to indicate that this provision ought to be included in the Act as well as the one he has called attention to. Therefore I call the attention of the Premier to the fact that if he wishes to introduce a Licensing Bill that will meet with the approval of all he has only to in- troduce the provision which I have just read. Mr. LAWRY (Parnell). - I think, Sir, that the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) has put his colleague the "medium " member for Wellington City into a corner. The honourable member for Welling- ton City (Mr. Atkinson) says we should take an example from the English Act, and his col- league (Mr. Fisher) has shown him that he cannot take one section of the English Act without taking the whole. Sir, the honourable gentleman (Mr. Atkinson) is pursuing his usual tactics. Whenever he is placed in a corner he manages somehow to shuffle out of it. The honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) has pointed out clearly what has been done in England. The honourable gentleman, however, does not appear to clearly understand what the English Act means. When he was speaking, one honour- able gentleman interjected, " Great Britain." Now, Sir, if the honourable member who made that interjection understands what is done in the Old Country, he will realise that Great Britain as applied to the Act indicated is a misnomer. It is an English Act, but it does not apply to Wales. What has the result of that Act been ? It has been proved that in Wales, where the houses are closed by statute every Sunday, there are more cases of drunken- ness than in any other place in Great Britain. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about Scotland ? Mr. LAWRY .- The present generation does not drink to any great extent in Scotland, but when I was a boy the old Scotsmen did drink ; and no doubt the present generation will con- tinue to drink in moderation as long as they live, and the generation after them will drink in the same way. Now, Sir, any measure the honourable member may bring down cannot, in my opinion, be a perfect measure unless it once and for all deals with the question of licensing in the King-country. Sir, I take it we have been neglecting our duty in this House. An Hon. MEMBER .- Kill the Bill. Mr. LAWRY .- If the honourable gentleman does not bring down a Bill and deal with the whole question he should bring down no Bill at all. What have we been doing here day after day? We have been playing ; we have been worse than school-boys. During the whole of this Parliament we have been allowing this Parliament to be insulted by petitions that have been presented asking us to induce the Government to violate the law. An Hon. MEMBER-You did it yourself. Mr. LAWRY .- I presented no petition at all on the question, and would not do so. Sir, it comes to this : that the honourable gentle- man cannot bring down a Bill that will satisfy anybody at all. That is the state of affairs, and the best thing the honourable gentleman can do is to introduce his Bill and then drop it, because any good provision that may be in it would be killed by honourable gentlemen oppo- site ; and we moderate members on this side, in our strength, will not be strong enough to carry out anything that will be of advantage to the trade and of benefit to the people. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- I hope the amendment which has just been suggested by the honourable member for Wellington City 