honourable gentlemen are supposed to have tried to make it better than it was when the Government introduced it ; but, after all the trouble and time that have been expended on it, I do not think it is worth the paper it is printed on. The Hon. Mr. LOUISSON .- Sir, I shall sup- port the third reading of this Bill. I hope and trust that the wholesale charges of swindling, and so on, made by my honourable friend Mr. Twomey are rather exaggerated. I think it will be a very bad advertisement for New Zealand if his description of what has taken place is alto- gether correct. We must all admit that in mining matters, as in other matters, a certain amount of swindling goes on ; but I would point out that that generally takes place at a time of excitement, when what is commonly termed a boom is on. In the history of mining all over the world occasions arise where some very rich discoveries are made in some particular locality. Well, that always gives an impetus to mining in general and to the formation of companies, and, as a matter of course, a lot of companies are formed which really have no prospect of any success. That is always the case, and, I think, always will be. Any one who has had any ex- perience of mining matters, particularly in the colonies for the last twenty or thirty years, will have experienced several of these periods. It is a sort of mining epidemic which takes place at certain periods. and the result of that is that a lot of improper companies are put upon the market, and people lose their money. But I am quite sure that there will not be many honourable gentlemen who will go so far as the Hon. Mr. Twomey has in his wholesale denun- ciation of what takes place. I think he has ex- aggerated it-at least, I hope so. Now, Sir, with regard to the Bill itself, I admit that it is almost impossible to put down swindling and / http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero swindling companies by Act of Parliament. It is no more possible to do this than it is possible to make people honest and righteous in any particular direction by Act of Parliament. But, Sir, I think in this Bill an honest attempt has been made to introduce certain safeguards for the public. We must remember we cannot safeguard the public altogether from investing their money in unremunerative speculations. The public have to exercise a certain amount of caution themselves ; and there is a great deal of care and attention being given to various things in this Bill in the direction of safe- guarding the public, and particularly in regard to directors. It is generally understood that most of the irregularities in mining companies have come from the improper behaviour of directors, and from improper directors being appointed to these companies. Now, there are a great many clauses in this Bill which will put a director in a very different position in regard to the public and in regard to the company to that which he occupied before; and the Bill enacts that a director must not only hold a reasonable num- ber of shares, but that he must pay for these shares, and must pay his calls, and so on, just the same as the public have to do, and in many Hon. Mr. Jones very much better basis than it was before. In many other directions I think the Bill will be an improvement upon the present law, and will, at any rate, put a greater brake upon the professional company-monger. But, Sir, while certain honourable members, with the very best intentions I admit, wish to make a most drastic law in regard to mining, we have got to remember the mining industry itself. We have to remember that to a certain extent, and we must be careful not to go too far in the opposite direction. I say, if we surround mining laws with barbed-wire fences in every direction, and impose drastic enact- ments, we will absolutely crush out the mining industry. We must have a little latitude in these as in other matters, and if we make our law as strict as some honourable members would wish to make it, why, we would have no com- panies formed or registered at all. It would be so surrounded with legal difficulties and techni- calities that we would put the mining industry. which is one of the most important industries in this colony, back for years, because the for- mation and registration and carrying-on of companies would be hedged in with such enor- mous legal difficulties that it would be ahso- lutely impossible to work under them. The Hon. Mr. Twomey seems to feel that he has been treated in a rather severe manner in the discussion which has taken place on this measure. As far as I am concerned, I can assure my honourable friend that I did not intend to say anything disrespectful to him, or anything which reflected on his know- ledge or ability in any way. I simply discussed the various clauses of the Act according to my light, and it appeared that I did not agree with the ideas of my honourable friend. I did not intend to reflect on my honourable friend's knowledge of the subject in any way. But I will say, in conclusion, that, although this Bill may not be perfect-I do not suppose it is- still, I think it will go a long way in improving the present law in connection with mining com- panies. I know there are several honourable gentlemen here who have a great deal of know- ledge of mining matters, and they have devoted a large amount of time and attention to make this Bill as workable as possible, and I hope it will answer expectations to that extent -- that it will put some sort of check upon the mining scandals we have heard so much about. The Hon. Mr. BOLT .- I have very few more words to say on this measure. There has been a great deal of discussion upon it : but, as we are now concluding the debate on the Bill, I wish to enter my protest against the general tone of the debate in reference to the directors of companies. Throughout the whole of this dis- cussion its general tone has been that the directors of companies-without any attempt to distinguish or any one being singled out - were generally a crowd of rascals and scoundrels. There has been no attempt to discriminate. It would appear when a man became a director of a dredging company he lost all claim to respecta- bility. There are I do not know how many 