sented to set down the third reading for to- morrow, because in connection with it a very important point has been raised. We were told on the second reading of the Bill that it was introduced because " some of the highest legal authorities," quoting the words of the Minister of Justice, had expressed the opinion that it was necessary to introduce it on account of a new Commission of the Peace having been issued, and it being therefore doubtful whether it was necessary that the Justices of the Peace should be re-sworn. But this leads up to a still more important point : if it was necessary to introduce the Bill or to re-swear the Justices of the Peace, there still remains the doubt -- and I am sure that doubt exists in the minds of other honourable members besides myself- whether the Justices of the Peace could legally transact business between the issue of such Commission and the passing of this measure or the re-swearing of the Justices. I am strongly of opinion that they could not. The introduc- tion of the Bill shows that the Minister of Jus- tice was also of that opinion. He says now that he does not think anything of the sort, but we know that a great many of the authorities think it is the case, men whose opinions, per- haps, have as much weight as those of the I am sorry that the Minister of Justice. Government have not seen fit to accept the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay), which would have validated the action of the Justices be- tween the issue of the last Commission of the Peace and the passing of this Act. Had the Government done so there would have been no further trouble, but, as it is, it appears to me that all sorts of complications may arise. I https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 have not sufficient legal training to know exactly what the position is, but it appears to me that the refusal to insert this clause may lead to serious trouble. http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I did not consider that this was a subject that would evoke debate. I am positive, at the same time, that there is neither necessity for the Bill nor is there any necessity for any validation of what has been done by Justices of the Peace. The Government have been advised that it is not so. At the same time, there appear to be others who will make statements that it is necessary. Of course, it is quite possible that an eventuality may arise in connection with which opinions may differ as to this point ; but the Government have been advised that there is no necessity for any validation. Mr. MASSEY .- Your colleague has been ad- vised that it is necessary. Mr. SEDDON .- I say the proper advisers do not advise in that direction. If my colleague made that statement it may be he considered there was a necessity ; but, according to those who are responsible for advising us, it appears there is no doubt whatever that the decision of a Justice of the Peace who has taken the oath and acted in good faith is as good as if he were sworn twenty times over. If we were to pass a Bill validating what has been done, it would be an open admission that the Legislature con- clause being put in. Mr. Massey sidered it was necessary to validate their deci- sions. Mr. MASSEY .- The admission is there. Mr. SEDDON .-- No, it is not. The honour- able gentleman labours, like myself. under the want of legal training, but I am advised that it is not so. I may say that if it had been so, and my colleague had brought in a Bill which did not include what was wanted, it would have been self-condemnatory ; but he was advised by those responsible that this was all that was necessary. If that was so, why should the measure be loaded with a validation clause throwing a doubt on all the Justices have done? That is why I would not accept the clause. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- Sir. I almost agree with the Premier that it is not necessary to have this Bill. When we have a Bill which throws a doubt on the status of Justices of the Peace, and when we have the second-reading speech of the Minister in charge of the agar- ment-and I hold he knows more about it that the Premier-and when he says, in reply to an interjection of the honourable memiwr for Franklin as to whether the Bill is necessary, "It is considered necessary now ; there bis been a difference of opinion about that very subject, but the Government has been advised that it is necessary : some of the highest legal authorities have considered it necessary, while I believe that some other authorities do not consider it necessary." The Minister, there- fore, practically says that the Government have been advised that it is necessary. Mr. SEDDON .- To introduce the Bill, not to validate what the Justices of the Peace have done. Mr. HERRIES .- That is so, as that ques. tion was not raised until I spoke on the second reading of the Bill. The Minister of Justice goes on to say, " We find it necessary that they should be resworn." Now, if the Minis- ter in charge says that, and brings in a Bill in order that they may be re-sworn, then, I say. it is pertinent to ask that the Acts they have done should also be validated. The Minister in charge made a promise - and that is what ! complain of-that that validating clause would be put in. An Hon. MEMBER .- He said he would make inquiries. Mr. HERRIES .- No. But the Minister. I must say, properly voted for the clause moved by the honourable member for Dunedin City Now the Premier comes !! (Mr. Barclay). and, I will not say influences his colleague - I do not think he would be influenced by the Premier -- but he influences the Hous in a way that he has no right to when he knows nothing of the subject he is talking about. He knows nothing about the Bill. He was absent the greater part of the time we were discussing it. The Minister in charge of the department knows more about it. The Minister in charge makes a promise that he would put in a validating clause, and the Premier influences the House to prevent that 