would be very discreditable to the Council to send to the other place a Bill that would be laughed at. I have no doubt it would come out right in the end if honourable gentlemen do not mind the other branch of the Legislature laughing at it. No one will dispute that the Hon. Mr. McLean has always been and is a good employer of labour-that is generally admitted ; but we have others besides him in the country, and it is those others who do not treat their employés well who render labour legislation necessary. I have no doubt if all employers were like the Hon. Mr. McLean there would be no necessity for labour legislation. But the fact that there are bad employers has rendered it necessary. I am not going to make a labour speech to-day. I will only refer to a few things. First of all, I will refer to the Hon. Mr. McLean's reference to the country going to the dogs. Of course, he only took that up from previous speeches, and he denied it was possible for the country to go to the dogs. But really some of his utterances were well calculated to have this effect. He told us we were going about every hole and corner trying to raise money to pay for public works. That is really language he should not use, for he knows it is inconsistent with fact, and he knows also that it is detrimental to the interests of the colony that such language should be used by a man in his position. What does all the scrap- ing and running about mean ? We wanted half a million ; the time for raising money in England was inopportune, and so as to tide over till such time as money became cheaper in the London market it was obtained from ourselves and the other colonies. Then, the honourable gentleman tells us we are borrowing at 4} per https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 cent. and lending at 4} per cent., and how can we go on like that. The honourable gentleman knows that is only the emanation from - well, I will not characterize the officer who is the author http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero of that extraordinary view about the 44 per cent. The money has been borrowed at 4 per cent., but it so happened that it was not wanted im- mediately, and a few days' grace was given to the lenders, and these have been calculated to make it appear that the money was borrowed at 4} per cent. But there is no cognisance taken of the fact that the debentures sold at £100 6s. 9d., and no cognisance taken of the fact that very little expense was incurred in raising the loan. All this is omitted, and the dark side put before us; and we are told that we are borrowing at 4} per cent., which is not in accordance with fact. The honourable gentleman ought to have been more care- ful, and not have allowed either party or any other consideration to influence him in giving expression to utterances which he knows are detrimental to the interests of the colony, and calculated to send the colony to the dogs if it could be sent. Another thing he pointed out was that the annual charge was getting tre- mendous, and made out it was £1,700,000. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN. - I never said any- thing about the annual charge at all. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- You said it was interest going out from this colony on the bor- rowing for public works. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- Will the honour- able gentleman allow me to put him right? I told him at least £1,750,000 had gone out of the country-the moneys of loan companies that were being wound up that could not carry on business in the colony, borrowing money in London and lending it at 4} per cent. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY. - I beg the honourable gentleman's pardon. I misunder- stood him. The figures I was going to quote will, then, not apply ; but there will be no harm if I point out that, though the debt is considerably increased, the annual charge is not. "The annual charge in 1889 was £1,866,5-8, and in 1893 £1,837,169." The amount this year is only £1,745,615 : so that the annual charge has been reduced considerably, notwith- standing the extraordinary increase in the pub- lic debt. How this has come about is that most of the money that has been borrowed has been used in the purchase of land for settlement and in advances to settlers ; and these are pay- ing for themselves and are no burden on the colony at all, so that really now there is noth- ing wrong that I can see with the finances of the colony. How people can go on as they have been going on, creating a scare, is more than I can understand. There we are, with half a million of a money surplus this year, and we are told there is no necessity for an increase of taxation, and the Treasurer tells us that he will have a surplus of £146,000 next year, and when he says that it means that sum multiplied by three. That is how his surpluses all work out, so that everything is in a most flourishing condition. Of course, there have been increased expenses. But look at the Financial Statement. The revenue in many departments has absolutely doubled, and if you double your revenue you must increase your expenditure proportionately. The revenue of the departments of State has during the ten years of office of this Government increased 90 per cent., and in some cases 332 per cent. This debate has been sprung on us to-day as a surprise. There is a point that I would like to refer to here, and that is accident insurance. Now, we all know the theory on which that has been built. It is that every industry must pay for its own accidents, and it is the funda- mental principle on which accident insurance has been built in England. In that case, I would ask, why should the farmer be exempt from the operation of the Act? Am I to pay for an accident in my business, and also to pay taxes for hospitals and charitable aid to support persons who meet with accidents on farms ? That would not be right. I am sorry that the Premier did not tell the farmers this instead of telling them what he did. He ought to have told them the principle upon which accident insurance is built : and also that if they are to be relieved of the responsibility in connection with accidents in other industries, then it is only right and proper that they should pay for their own accidents. What did I do in my own case ? I took out a policy, for which I was charged 4s. per cent. ; and why should I go into hysterics because I have to pay that small amount for 