1901, showing the actual increase and what the increase should have been in proportion to in- creased traffic :-- Locomotives. Brake-vans. - CarR. Stock on 31st March, 1895 .. 269 498 204 305 603/241\|10,627 Stock on 31st March, 1901 .. Increase, 1901 over 1895 36/105\| 37 What increase should have 169314 129 been had stock been added to in proportion to traffic -viz., 63 per cent. Deficiency on basis of in- 133 209 92 31st creased traffic to March, 1901 . Stock ordered and to be built 59'117 27 year ending 31st March, 1902 65 74 92 Deficiency to 31st March, 1902 That, Sir, shows matters accurately, and also gives the present position. Some honourable members complain that the Government has done wrong by going out of the colony for its rolling-stock, but I wish to emphasize the fact that had we not done so the whole country would have been in a complete mess. We have made all we could with the appliances at our https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 disposal in our own country, and we have also imported, and we are still far short of what the Some honourable growth of traffic demands. members say that we ought to have got the rolling-stock from Great Britain, and not from America. To this I would say that I too believe in going to British countries for what we cannot make here ; but what are the facts in this parti- cular case? Although we distributed an order over four different firms in Britain, they have not yet delivered more than half the supplies. Although this may seem strange, it is never- theless true that if we had gone to America for these supplies we would have had the whole of it in the colony within five months from the time of giving the order. That is the difference between the two count ies. and why the colony was compelled to place a portion of its rolling- stock in America. Time was of the first conse- quence to New Zealand, and we spread our orders in Great Britain over four manufactur- ing firms and have not got our supplies vet. Everything we ordered from America for prompt delivery was got long ago. Now, I want to point out to honourable members, in regard to the complaint about the difficulty of the truck-supply, what has been done in New Zealand compared with other countries, and that is the only way in which to judge this matter. The following is a comparison of the tonnage carried in the various colonies, with tons carried per wagon, for 1900-1901 :- Sir J. G. Ward Tons Tonnage carried Colony. Wagons carried. per Wagon. New Zealand 3,461,331 10,868 318 .. Wagons. Cape Colony 1,261,03% 7,412 170 .. Queensland 1,688,635 6,141 275 . . South Australia 236 1,488,985 ; 6,288 Westralia 1,384,040 4,777 289 Tasmania 8,264 312,446 1,166 268 From this return you will see that we have 2,363 carried 318 tons per wagon, as against 289 tons, the next highest. This clearly indicates that 5,206 our wagons have been used over and over again. and that the very utmost has been taken out of them. Now, I shall give you another com- parison of what has been done in New Zealand 2,843 and other countries with regard to locomotives. The following is a comparison of the tonnage hauled in the various colonies, with tons hauled 1,812 per locomotive, for 1900-1901 :- Tons hauled 1,031 Tonnage Colony. Locos i per hauled. Locomotive 305 New Zealand 3,461,331 11,348 475 Cape Colony 1,261,038 2,654 .. 835 Queensland 1,688,635 5.040 353 South Australia 1,488,985 4,218 233 Westralia 1,384,040 5,940 Tasmania 67 312,446 4,663 .. That is an enormous strain that is put upon the railway-wagons in this country. We have a traffic per locomotive of almost double that of any of the other countries named. An Hon. MEMB+ R .- What section ? Sir J. G. WARD .- Over all the railways of the colony. I allude to this important point to direct the attention of honourable members to that which I think they ought to know . that the enormous burden of traffic going on here has been a tremendous tax on the railway rolling-stock, including locomotives and wagons, to say nothing of the tireless energy it has en- tailed upon the staff ; and that the complaint has been minimised to a large extent is compli- mentary, I think, to the railway service as it ought to be pleasing to every member of this House, and it certainly must be satisfactory to the country as a whole. From what I have shown I do not think the honourable mem- ber for Ashley, the honourable member for Kaiapoi, or other members who have spoken have any good reason for seriously complaining as far as this branch of the service is con- cerned. We will not cease to do our utmost to improve matters, and I hope, before I am done with the railways, to still reduce any cause for complaining. Now, with regard to the ap- pointment of Mr. Louisson to the Legislative Council, the member for Ashley made a strong 