member for Wellington City. I am only en- deavouring to demonstrate I am right in not following these honourable gentlemen in their We are told analysis of our colony's finances. by the honourable member for Nelson City that the surplus has been obtained on a wrong basis, and has been wrongfully transferred to the Public Works Account. Let us read what the honourable gentleman had to say on that sub- ject only a short time ago when he was anxious to be returned to this House. I quote his words, - " Two millions of surplus had been spent in carrying out public works, without the people of the colony being injured." That was his view then; he has turned a somersault that would be invaluable in the arena. Let us take one more statement of his. He is once more following the lead of the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, the honourable member for Riccarton, and the honourable member for Dunedin City : "The Ballance policy has been ignored by the Seddon Government." We have heard the Ballance policy quoted ad nauseam-page after page of his speeches were quoted ; and what did the honourable member for Nelson City say, when he was addressing his constituents, in regard to the Ballance policy? I will read to the House what the honourable member said ; it is most interesting-and, by-the-by, let me say, paren- thetically, that the member for Nelson City at that time was opposing a gentleman who sup- ported the Opposition-a very highly esteemed gentleman, Mr. Hursthouse, who had fairly and conscientiously analysed from his standpoint https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 the position of the Government. Mr. Hurst- house had said the Ballance policy had not been carried out by Mr. Seddon and his col- leagues ; and the member for Nelson City re- plied to him - the member for Nelson City, who now says we are not following that policy. His reply-which I ask honourable members to compare with what he said last night-was as follows : - " With regard to the reference to Mr. Ballance's self-reliant policy, he said it was impossible to carry out improvements, public or private, without money, and the people could not be called upon for all that was required, but by the amount that had been raised and expended in this way a saving of between £60,000 and £70,000 per annum had resulted. Old-age pen- sions had been paid without an increase of taxation being required. It had been said that the present Government came in as a non- borrowing Government. Of course, the great railway system could not be proceeded with without borrowed money. The Government had not done, as was done in the seventies, borrowed millions and imported people to do the work, and, when finished, leave the colony in a state of depression. The policy of the present Government had been to carry on works in a moderate way, contributing part of the cost out of surplus revenue, and, aiding by borrow- ing, making the works reproductive." Let honourable members think of the speech night, and compare it with the quotation I have read, and I ask, can any one believe in the consistency or the political truthfulness of an honourable member who gives expression to such contrary statements? I repeat, that if we are to-day financially unsound and weak, we were equally so eighteen months ago. An Hon. MEMBER .- No. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- Well, I will not say we were equally as weak, but we were practically as bad. If we are bad now, we were practically as bad eighteen months ago, because we were carrying on the same policy. I use this argu- ment to introduce the views of the honourable member for Nelson City in his speech last night and his views eighteen months ago. Now, this is what he said with regard to the financial position of the colony eighteen months ago :- "Liberal measures had advanced the pro- sperity of the country as it had never before advanced. New Zealand, which was in the sink of depression when Mr. Ballance snatched it from the feeble hands of its former guides, now stands among the very first of the Australian Colonies in point of material prosperity." There are the views of the honourable gentle- man when he was addressing his constituents. Again I ask, am I to accept the analysis of tho finances of the colony from one who is such a weathercock, and who can change colour liko the chameleon ? We go a little further, and we find that last night Mr. Seddon, according to the honourable member, was a financia Ana- nias; he was not to be trusted with the reins of Government, especially with finance. But what was the honourable gentleman's opinion, figuratively speaking, only twenty-eight hours before ? We find this is what the honourable gentleman said of our Premier :-- "Some good measures were passed last session, and the reason for their being passed was that in Mr. Seddon they had a giant compared with the men who opposed him, and he was a leader of whom New Zealand or any country might well be proud." Does he forget that eighteen months ago, when he was endeavouring to gain his seat, he said the right honourable gentleman was a giant compared with the men opposed to him, and that he was a leader whom New Zealand or any other country might well be proud ? He proceeds, -- "He did not know Mr. Seddon as well six years ago as he did now. He went to Parlia- ment as a Liberal supporter, a supporter of Liberal principles, and, fortunately, they had a leader whom he had learned to respect more and more, and he was a consistent supporter of the Government, and would support the Go- vernment and Mr. Seddon so long as the Premier maintained the policy of the past, as he intended to. After six years' experience, and knowing the Premier, he said that he had never had dealings with a better or straighter man than Mr. Seddon. He had absolute con- fidence in the Premier." I say it was dishonest and frivolous for the honourable gentleman to waste our time last 