ing to over £45,000. The following are the | to protect every labour interest, and the Go- increases proposed : Legislative Department, £808 ; Registrar-General's Office, £145; Govern- ment Printing Office, £50; Industries and Com- merce, £858 ; the Sanatoria, £340; the Trea- sury, $371; Taxation and Patents, £213; Jus- tice Department. £1,703; Native Land Court, £310; Prisons Department, £475; Customs Department, ₺1.725; Marine Department, £961 ; Stamp Department, £190; Lands Registry, £304 ; Education, £1,584 ; Lunatic Asylums, £1,898; Labour Department, $195; Mines Department, £377; Agricultural Department, £8,340 ; Defence Office, £17,517; Lands and Survey, £3,367; Valuation Department, £819; Public Trust Office, $537; Government Insur- ance, £2,114: total, £45,101. Some of these increases may be automatic-they may be in accordance with the Classification Acts appli- cable to several of the departments-but there can be no justification for a large number of these increases. Now, having contributed my share to the discussion of the Financial Statement, I wish now to call attention to the labour legisla- tion of the Government. At the outset I wish to say that I think the Government ought not to make the labour legislation more stringent than it is at present. All that is now required is that the existing Acts should be perfected where they are found to be defective, and that where experience has proved them to be in any degree oppressive the machinery of the Acts should be simplified and eased. The Govern- ment, in their own interest, should take care that a revulsion of feeling does not set in through a too stringent administration of the labour laws. The Government are deserving of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1. 32106019788253 the greatest credit for the labour legislation they have already passed, but I take leave to say that it was inopportune and ill-advised to introduce the Factories Bill this session. The Government would have better consulted the interests of the working-classes and the em- ployers if they had refrained from creating the feeling of irritation which we know exists at the present time, and which is being intensified day by day. Mr. PIRANI .- What party are you qualify- ing for ? Mr. FISHER .- This party-the Government party. I have been a loyal and consistent sup- porter of this Government for the whole ten years they have been in office. An Hon. MEMBER .- Ten years ? Mr. FISHER. - Yes. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about 1893? Mr. FISHER .- Well, what about 1893? If I did not support this party, did I support the Opposition party ? An Hon. MEMBER .- No ; you were a party of your own. Mr. FISHER .- That is true as to 1893. I was for a time a party of my own, but I need not go into that subject now. I say it is unwise of the Government to add to the discontent which is arising throughout the whole of New Zealand at the present time. The labour in- terests are well guarded by existing legislation. There is enough legislation on the statute-book vernment will be consulting all classes of the community. they will be consulting the inter- ests and feelings of the employers on the one hand and the workers on the other, if they will stay their hand for a time until the conditions of labour settle down again to something like a feeling of content. It is unwise to create a feeling of irritation between the employers and the employed, and, as a loyal and consistent supporter, I advise them not to make the conditions of existence too stringent, as be- tween the two parties. Now, as to the mem- ber for Ashley. He spoke in strong commenda- tion of the administration of the Minister for Railways. We are all prepared to do that. There has not during the whole debate been urged one word of complaint against the Minis- ter for Railways and his administration ; but, while the honourable member spoke in such complimentary terms in regard to one depart- ment, he ought not to have indulged in such wholesale condemnation of the Government in other respects. You cannot approbate and re- probate. He ought to remember that nothing is perfect. No man is perfect ; no section of men is perfect ; and, while there may be matters of administration with which he may reason- ably find fault, he ought to remember the many eulogiums which he has passed upon the Go- vernment in days gone by for their admirable administration. He was one of the strongest supporters of the Government, and, if put to the test, I believe he would support them to-day on any crucial question. I go further, and say that if any crucial question arose which im- perilled the existence of the Government the honourable gentleman would have to support them at the demand of his constituents. And that is why I complain. I care not who may be affected by my remarks. I have for years complained of the conduct of gentlemen who succeed in gaining seats in this House by votes of the Liberal and labour party in the country, and who then turn upon the Government, which is endeavouring to give effect to the desires of those very classes. That is not fair; it is not honest, it is not honourable. Sir, I take it as a good omen that the Government themselves have intimated their intention to modify their expenditure, and not to carry on at such a lavish rate as has been indulged in for some time past-that it will set its house in order financially, so as to meet the wishes of the people of the country. I wish now to say a few words in regard to the Commissions that have been set up during the year. The honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) criticized one Commission, the Coal Commission. I, on the other hand, am more inclined to criticize the Federation Commission, of which he was a member ; and, particularly, I want to know why the Midland Railway Commission was set up. I know the Public Accounts Committee of last session recommended that course, but, in the face of the strong and convincing opinion given by Mr. H. D. Bell before that Committee last year, I cannot for the life of me understand why it was deemed necessary 