of, because they have made them and paid for them themselves. I think I need not detain the House any longer. I think I have shown that we are not against borrowing money if the money is properly spent. I have tried 12.0. to teach the Minister for Public Works how to spend his money properly on railways. I shall have much pleasure in helping the Minis- ter of Lands to spend any votes he mav think fit to give my district for roads, and I am sure if he will take the advice of some of the settlers as to how the money is to be spent he will have it spent to better advantage than he will if he only takes the advice of his own officers. I forgot to say, in reference to spend- ing money for roads, that too much money is spent on overseers. A small vote is given for a particular part of a district, and a few men are put on to do the work, but they have a man to overlook them, and there is an engineer some- times to overlook him. That is where the money goes; and I say if a local body have the spending of it they have their own engineer, and he looks after the work without any extra cost to the Road Board or the Government. I thank honourable members for so patiently listening to me struggling through these few remarks. Debate adjourned. The House adjourned at three minutes past twelve o'clock a.m. # LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Thursday, 5th September, 1901. Informal Petitions-Hospital Nurses Registration Bill-Shops and Offices Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. # INFORMAL PETITIONS. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON moved, That the order of this Council (16th August ), " That the petitions of A Asher and 175 others, and of W. Bull and 103 others, do bie upon the table," be read and rescinde 1. The petitions referred to in the motion did not conclude with the usual prayer as provided for by Standing Order No. 17, and were otherwise out of order, and the usual course was to have them struck out. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI said he did not see any reason why the honourable mem- ber should move this motion. The Council had already accepted the petitions, and no fault had been found with them. Many peti- of this Act. Then, clause 4 is inserted as a new tions were presented to the Council that were informal, and, as a rule, the Council gene- ! shape the clauses in the Bill originally im- Jr. Lethbridge not be in strict accordance with the rules. He could only say he was sorry the honour- able gentleman had taken upon himself to move for the rejection of these petitions. As far as he was concerned, they had had their effect, and so he was perfectly satisfied, whether the Council received them or not ; but this showed the feeling there was on the part of the labour members against the poor people of the colony, as they now moved that the peti- tions be rejected. His object had been gained ; the petitiors had been received and read, and there was an end of the matter. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON merely wished to say that what he had done he had done as Chairman of the Petitions Committee. Seeing the petitions were not in order, the Committee had resolved that the order that they should be read should be rescinded, and it had devolved upon him, as Chairman of the Committee, to move that the order be rescinded. The Council divided. AYES, 16. Kelly, T. Scotland Arkwright Smith, A. L. Montgomery Barnicoat Pinkerton Swanson Bolt Feldwick Twomey Reeves Walker, W. C. Rigg Jenkinson Jones NOES, 11. Baillie Shrimski Johnston Louisson Tomoana Bowen . McLean Williams. Gourley Ormond Jennings Majority for, 5. Motion agreed to. # HOSPITAL NURSES REGISTRATION BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, if honourable members will compare the Bill as sent back to us by the House of Representa- tives with the Bill as passed by this Council they will notice that, as far as the principle of the measure is concerned, it is pretty well as we passed it. On the other hand, it renders its operation a little less restrictive; and perhaps it is just as well, when a new departure is made in regard to any profession or calling, that the rights of those who are practising that calling under the old conditions should be protected as far as possible. I am therefore quite prepared to ask the Council to accept the Bill as amended by the House of Representatives. In clause 2 honourable members will note that "Hospital" is made to include such other hospitals the proprietors of which consent to such hospitals being open to inspection under "The Hospitals and Charitable Institutions Act, 1885," as may be approved by the Governor in Council. I think that gives quite sufficient guarantee that the hospital will be a hospital within the intention clause. It is simply putting into different 