do for the country, and in my opinion we must do it. If we do not do it the people must do it for us in the next few years, because I am confident, when they once realise the position we are in at the present time, and the position we are drifting into-every year by year find- ing a big increase of expenditure and also finding an application year by year for loan- money-they will think it a peculiar thing to hear Ministers talk about having granted concessions of half a million when we have bor- rowed a couple of millions to grant these con- cessions. Is that business ? And yet that is what is taking place every year, and we find the Government are taking credit for the con- cessions given to the people of this country. If what the Premier stated is correct-that every million loan means 10d. per head tax on every man, woman, and child in this colony-then he has been successful in putting on taxation to the extent of 14s. 4d. on every man, woman, and child. But I do not think the people of this colony, at any rate, are prepared to stand much more of it, especially in view of what we have seen. Sir, as far as the financial position is concerned, I do not think I can say much more about it. I have endeavoured, without feeling, to analyse the position as it appears to me. I do not blame the Government for the whole thing. I say that every member in the House who has assisted them has to take his share of it. But what I do blame members for is that, if they really go into the matter, and see that what I say is correct, they now continue to assist the Government in their excessive bor. rowing. they must then take the responsi- bility of their actions. Then, Sir, I would also like to say a word or two in connection with the Coal-mines Commission. When the matter was before the Committee last vear, http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero only one mine was in question, and I was fortunate enough to get the Commission ex- tended to deal with all the mines in the colony. Sir, I did that with a full knowledge of what I asked for. I did it with a knowledge, too, that the Government had had the matter put before them during the previous year, and no action had been taken. Sir, the report of this Com- mission is in my hand now, and I am going to quote two or three paragraphs from that report in connection with certain mines. The first one is - "We are of opinion that on the whole case made for the miners, who were ably represented by their secretary, Mr. Donaldson, they esta- blished these facts :- (1.) That there are several fires now existing within the mine, one of which is alongside the main haulage-road, and, though bricked off, is evidently still of considerable power, and would, if not continuously and effectively watched, be a source of danger. (2.) That there is in the mine an amount of fire- damp and black-damp which, in the absence of better ventilation than exists at present, is a source of danger. (3.) That the means of escape in case of disaster have been insufficient for safety. These were the main charges made against the management, and they were, in our VOL. CXVIII .- 3. terrible explosion which occurred in this mine some twenty-two years ago, in which a large number of lives were lost, we think the Miners' Union were thoroughly justified in bringing them forward." That is the report on one mine. I will turn a little further on, and in connection with an- other mine I find this :- " We entered the mine by the only air intake, and crawled along it, chiefly on our hands and knees, for a distance of between 9 and 10 chains. This roadway is made through ground where the pillars have been removed without leaving sufficient support." Mr. J. ALLEN,-That is not true. Mr. MILLAR .- I am only quoting from the report. I do not vouch for the accuracy of the statement. This is a paper laid on the table of the House-a report on the mine :- "The props and timber overhead are break- ing under the strain, the floor is coming up, and the sides are bulging. It has all the indi- cations of a place that may close in at any moment. This intake leads into the main workings, which are on the dip from a main haulage- road, and are dependent entirely for ventilation upon the air intake. In every working-face we visited the air was deficient, and up the north side it was still more seriously so. The Inspector of Mines, who was present, could not obtain any reading from his anemo- meter. Dangerous and unhealthy as this con- dition of things is, the peculiar and immediate danger arises from the strong possibility of the intake closing, and the air-current, poor as it is now, ceasing altogether, when the black-damp. of which there is a considerable quantity in the mine, would probably overpower the men be- fore they could make their escape." An Hon. MEMBER .- Where was that ? Mr. MILLAR. - I will not mention the name of any mine. I am only quoting from a report :- " We were very unfavourably impressed with the condition of the whole mine. Broken sets of timber were not infrequent, the roof was ragged and apparently neglected, and there was altogether a want of care for the lives of the men employed. The quantity of timber set and in hand appeared to us to be insufficient for safety. The chief ground, however, for repre- senting this now to your Excellency is the apprehension of some grave catastrophe through the want of proper ventilation. We strongly recommend that immediate steps be taken to compel the owners of the mine to put it in a condition of safety." Then I turn to another report :- "The mine itself appears to be well managed, but is sometimes deficient in ventilation." Any one may go through those reports, and I am sorry to say there are only one or two mines that come up to what one might call a proper condition for men to work in. Now, I ask the House and I ask the Government, Is it right that men who are engaged in an industry such as this, an industry the product of which is necessary for every one in the colony, should 