mill at Mosgiel was started. These are two of at the dinner-table or in the Whip's room or the many public things in which the late Mr. lobby, or in any other place of conversation, Burns took an interest. I may say that Mr. who was more pleasing to listen to or who was Burns was closely related to the Scottish bard. so witty and humorous as Scobie Mackenzie. His grandfather, Mr. Gilbert Burns, was a Sir, in his own home life I never came across a brother of the poet. His father, the Rev. Dr. man who had exactly the same attitude towards Burns, came out in the first ship, the " Philip his wife and children as Scobie Mackenzie had. Laing," and was well known and much re- I could not call it the aspect of father to child : spected in the early days of the Otago Settle- it was more like brother to brother or sister ; ment. As Mr. Scobie Mackenzie and Mr. Arthur and it was one of the most astonishing things Burns, both ex-members of this House, hap- to me, and, I believe, to those who knew him, pened strangely enough to die on the same day, that attitude of his, particularly towards his it seemed to me only right that I should take children. Sir, he has gone, and I am quite sure advantage of this occasion to say a word in the House and country will grieve over the loss of a politician and literary man. I am quite memory of the late Mr. Burns. sure he was a man who had to a considerable to add to the remarks of the member for Bruce extent made his mark in New Zealand politics. would merely be to dim the picture-a picture He was a man who could enjoy life, he was a so admirably drawn by one who was for so man of deep feelings, he was a man of know- many years a close and intimate personal ledge ; and, Sir, I am pleased to say he was a friend. Speaking of the late Mr. Mackenzie man of reasonable fear. Sir, I will end what I have to say by quoting again from the same author, of whom he was so fond :- Death has set his mark and seal On all we are and all we feel, On all we know and all we fear. First our pleasures die-and then Our hopes, and then our fears-and when These are dead, the debt is due, Dust claims dust-and we die too. Mr. MILLAR (City of Dunedin) .- Sir, I would just like to say a word or two on the present occasion, as the late Scobie Mackenzie and myself were brother representatives for the City of Dunedin during last Parliament. Sir, by the death of Scobie Mackenzie, Dunedin has received a blow, and his loss will be felt from a public point of view. Sir, during the three years that we sat together here, although we https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 opposed each other. on almost every public question, the honourable gentleman was the soul of honour in every respect. He never at any time, although a strong party man, tried to further his party at the expense of the party which I represented, and upon all occasions he was what you might call strictly fair and impartial in all his actions. Of a genial dis- position, he was one who soon made friends with those with whom he came in contact, and I am confident I am expressing the opinion of my present colleagues when I express our heart- felt sympathy with Mrs. Mackenzie and family in the irreparable loss we have all sustained. Mr. J. W. THOMSON (Clutha) .- Sir, I agree with everything that has been said regarding the late Mr. Scobie Mackenzie, and I do not rise to refer to him at all. Mr. Mackenzie died last Sunday morning, and it is not a little curious that another ex-member of this House also died last Sunday morning. I refer to the late Mr. Arthur Burns, who was a member of this House many years ago. Mr. Burns was a man who took an active interest in public affairs. He was brought up to maritime pur- suits, and this led him to take a great interest in all matters relating to seafaring life. He, for instance, strongly advocated the erection of a lighthouse on the Snares, a work which has not yet been entered upon, but which will have to be undertaken some day or other. It was Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- I feel that as a member of this House, I indorse every word uttered by the honourable member for Bruce. In debate, whether important or un- important, he always added lightness, geniality, good-feeling, frankness, and every attribute that could emanate from a generous-hearted man. True, at times he was severe. He and I more than any other members, I think, during the time we were together in this House, and that was very many years, dealt dexterously and fearlessly in the sabre-cuts of Anglo-Saxon speech, but after every debate we were met with the cheery, jovial, good-natured joke which always turned the edge of anger. I feel that I add nothing to the delicacy of the picture drawn by the honourable member for Bruce, but I could not allow the occasion to pass without saying a few words in recollection of an esteemed and genial friend. He was one of the literary orna- ments of the House, and that literary quality is a feature which I say with some little feeling of regret is fast disappearing from the debates which take place in this Chamber. It may be that the members of the present day are of what may be called a more practical turn of mind ; but Mr. Scobie Mackenzie was one of that class of men who make you at once feel that you are in the society of a man of educa- tion, refinement, and culture. I am glad to feel that the widow and children of Mr. Mackenzie will recognise that his memory has been held in affectionate remembrance. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I had intended later on to have referred to the late Mr. Arthur Burns. It is a strange and sad coin- cidence that he and the late Mr. Mackenzie should have passed away on Sunday last ; and, as reference has already been made to this, I think now is an opportune time for saying, in regard to those who have taken their part in the past history of the colony-practically laying the foundation, a safe foundation, upon which the country has progressed-that when their end comes, although they have been for some years away from our political life, their services should not be forgotten. I am pleased that the honourable member for Clutha has 