Land Act, 1881." The opinion of the Crown Law Officers should be taken by the Govern- ment on the point, as to whether under that Act we should have to pay for certain works which were undertaken by the company and abandoned, such as the tunnel at Paikakariki, and other expensive works which are now abso- lutely useless. I did not expect that in the Budget there would be any reference made to the Hutt Railway-line, but that is a work of the greatest urgency. The cost of the work has re- cently been set down at $90,000, but I maintain that a very large amount of that money, if not the whole of it, will be covered by the reclaimed land along the line, which will be of a very valuable character indeed ; in fact, a very few acres of that land will make up the $90,000. There are permanent streams of water and all facilities for manufactories along the line, and there is no doubt the land will be greedily taken up for manufacturing and other purposes. Therefore the $90,000 spent would be well in- vested, and rents of the lands reclaimed would pay much more than the current rate of in- terest on that sum. There seems to me to be no good reason for delaying this urgent work. With reference to the Rimutaka deviation, it appears to me that the purchase of the Mana- watu Railway-line would obviate the necessity for that deviation ; but if the Government do not purchase the Manawatu line, then the Rimutaka deviation should be proceeded with. At present the enormous cost of running trains over the Rimutaka robs that line of a large amount of its earnings. Therefore, although the expenditure on the Rimutaka deviation https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 would be very costly, I think it ought to be proceeded with. While speaking on this ques- tion I would again urge the Government to be very careful, and examine every proposed route http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero carefully before adopting any particular route for the deviation, and so not make a similar mistake to that which was originally made. I sincerely hope that care will be taken and the best route be selected. With reference to the legislation passed last year, it has been said that several very bad Acts have been placed upon the statute-book. I am quite prepared to take my share of the responsi- bility for the passing of those Acts. I am quite prepared to admit that some of those Acts go rather beyond what was intended when they were passed. Take, for instance, the Workers' Compensation Act. A great deal of capital has been made out of that. It is said that the country people are going to suffer under that Act, and that they cannot move hand or foot without involving themselves in great liability. There is no doubt about it, that Act does want amending, and I think the amendment should be in the direction of bring- ing it more into line with the English Act of 1897. As to whether it should apply to agri- cultural and pastoral pursuits or not, it is in- structive to know that last year the English Parliament passed an Act specifically extending the application of their Act to agricultural and pastoral pursuits. My opinion is that it should Mr. Field the Act should be restricted, so that it should only apply to hazardous occupations. I do not see why a builder employing a carpenter, who runs the risk of falling from scaffolding, should be under any greater liability than a farmer \- who employs a man in the dangerous occupa- tion of bushfelling. As I have said, I think this Act should be amended on the lines of the English Act. I regret, Sir, that the time-limit prevents my dealing with a number of matters which I had intended to touch upon. Mr. BENNET (Tuapeka) .- I do not intend to detain the House very long, because I have not had an opportunity of preparing myself for this debate on account of having been very unwell during the last few days ; but, like many other honourable members, I would like to place upon record in Hansard my views upon cer- tain subjects dealt with in the Budget, so that my constituents may know that I am not neglecting them altogether. I shall not trouble the House with a long array of figures as a good many honourable members have done. In opening the debate the member for Hawke's Bay criticized the actions of the Government very mildly, considering his position as leader of the Opposition ; but, coming to members on this side of the House, I must say that the member for Riccarton denounced the Govern- ment in the most unmitigated terms. I was not quite sure when I heard him whether he was not right in practically saying that the country had gone to the dogs, or even lower than that. He was followed by the member for Nel- son City, who was also unsparing in his criticism of the Government. The member for Ashley and the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) followed on much the same lines. It is a re- markable thing that those honourable mem- bers have hardly made their appearance in the House since they made their speeches. This reminds me of the story of a Judge in America who was trying a case. He heard the argument of the lawyer who represented one of the parties, and then he started to give the decision upon the case, whereupon the counsel for the other side asked if the Judge was not going to hear the other side of the case, and if it was right to give judgment without hearing the other side. The Judge said, " I have heard one side, and I can decide the case now, but if I hear the other side I might not be able to decide the case at all." Most of those honour- able members have indicated that the adminis- tration of the Government has been bad for the last ten years. I may point this out : that last year the honourable member for Hawke's Bay made a short speech in criticizing the Budget, and he was followed by the Minister of Justice, and in a few minutes the debate on the Budget was over. I therefore came to the conclusion that our finances were in a good and sound position, and that everything was in order. If that was so last year, it is very strange that things should have so changed since then. If you believe the statements of members on the Opposition side of the House, our finances are not in a satisfactory position, but if you believe 