is convicted of an offence in the Courts, that conviction usually carries something in costs, and if members look now at the printed paper of the Privileges Committee they will find that it cost £15. The penalty of the House now is that the Star shall pay the cost of that printed paper; and now members can understand how the Government considered this case should bo met. That is how we intended it, and that is how it has been carried. If honourable members had been sincere and actually pre- pared to vote they would have supported this proposal. They supported the amendment moved by Mr. Lang, which imposed a fine of £10 on one offender and £5 on another, but when it comes to the proposal to impose a fine of £15 they vote against it. Sir, the whole thing has been a hollow sham. From the start to the finish of the debate an attempt has been made to flout the Government, and to flout myself, and tell the country that I am not able to lead the House. Sir, I do not want the sup- port of those honourable gentlemen. I would rather they went into the lobby against me, and let our own men who are conscientious in this respect, and some of whom have voted on that side, see where the reciprocity comes in. Where are the conscientious members opposite ? They say they are going to do one thing and they vote opposite, and I have no hesitation in aying they, by the last vote given, are shallow enough to think they will curry favour with the Dunedin Evening Star, and with the Press generally, but they will find themselves mis- taken. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) .- I have never lis- tened to a speech of which, if I had uttered it, I https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 should be so heartily ashamed as the statements made by the Premier. They are absolutely incorrect. The hollow sham has not been on this side of the House. The Premier's own http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero supporters have acted precisely as some on this side have acted. The Premier cannot accuse me of having wasted time ; he cannot accuse ine of having in any way supported a hollow sham. But, if that is the proper language to use, I say the hollow sham commenced in the position and on the seat occupied by the Right Hon. the Premier. There is where the hollow sham first appeared. He is its author. The Premier commenced yesterday morning with a motion which, when he found it was distaste- ful to some members of his own party-I detest the word "party "-he withdrew after wasting a whole day, and came down this morning with a resolution that is an evasion in language, though not in spirit, of what we have been asking for. Its spirit is in harmony with the amendment made yesterday by the honour- able member for Wellington City. I hope the Premier will not accuse me of wasting time by speaking : I am impelled to speak for a few minutes because of the strong language and utterly incorrect accusations hurled over at us by the Premier. I say I have a right to utter a few sentences in vindication of our action, and in refutation of the assertions made by the Premier. I conscientiously regret the waste of time that has taken place. I have been thoroughly pained and grieved at the broil that the Premier has thrown the House into, when this matter ought to have been decided after an hour and a half's discussion without heat or abuse. Who has delayed the House and wasted the time of the country ? The Pre- mier, who has made five half-hour speeches, and, in addition, the speech which he has just made-speeches of an explosive character, and which have been deeply irritating. The Pre- mier boasts of our leading the van of civilisa- tion, and I trust he will begin with practising well-civilised deportment, and that he will not continue a practice which is not gentlemanly, and which is not courteous. Mr. DEPUTY.SPEAKER .-- The words " not gentlemanly " must be withdrawn. Mr. MONK .- I withdraw any expression that I may have used improperly. The Pre- mier knows that I am not speaking with any intention to be rude. I only want-as the honourable member has said so much that is derogatory and utterly incorrect regarding members as a whole on this side-I only de- sire to assert my denial of the accuracy of those assertions, and I hope the Premier will be more polite and respectful to members who hold that he is wrong in the manner he has driven this House over this matter. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) .- I think the gentleman who has been the cause of a great deal of delay is the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), a gentleman whom I admire for many qualities ; but, from his statement this afternoon I feel inclined to wonder if he is one of the proprietors of the Dunedin Erening Star, and I think if he does not vote on this question it may be asked if he is pecuniarily interested in that paper. Standing Order No. 187 says, " No member is entitled to vote on any question in which he has a direct pecuniary interest "; and when the honourable member walks out when the division takes place it may show that he comes under that Standing Order. I trust there will be no further delay, and that we will now get on with the business. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin). - I cannot allow the statement of the Premier to go unchallenged- that the members on this side of the House are responsible for the delay that has taken place. Who has wasted the time this evening? How many members on this side of the House have spoken ? How much time have they occupied ? Sir, if there is one member more than another who is responsible for the waste of time that has taken place that member is the Premier. But the whole business in connection with this breach of privilege has been bungled from first to last. The matter was referred to a Com. mittee, and an attempt has been made to show that I was responsible to a certain extent in suggesting that it should be referred to a Com- mittee. Sir, I did suggest it, and in doing so I followed the precedent that had been set up in 1874, as recorded in the Journals and Hansard, and with good results. But in this instance the Committee set up failed in their duty. They came down with a report ; but what did they say? They reported that 