slight offence-we are going rather too far. There are boys of seventeen who are compara- tively men, and in the ordinary walks of life are earning their own living. I think this part . of the Bill will have to be altered. As I under- stand, the honourable gentleman who brought the Bill forward has done it with the idea of preventing children injuring their health by smoking. Why, then, is it confined to cigar- ettes? If we are going to prevent smoking, why does it not include pipes or cigars ? The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- They do not smoke pipes. The Hon. Mr. LOUISSON .- I beg to differ from the honourable gentleman. I say they do smoke pipes. I have frequently seen them ; I have seen small boys of ten or twelve smoking pipes in this country. This being so, I do not see why the Bill should not apply to all-round smoking. I should like to inform my honour- able friend Mr. Jenkinson that he might, if he kept his eyes about, see boys in the street of ten or twelve years pick up the end of a cigar and smoke it. These are matters, however, that can be discussed in Committee. There is no doubt the real object of the Bill is to prevent children of tender years smoking. There must be a certain limit of age, and whether that should be seventeen, or more or less, can be discussed in Committee. The principle of pre- venting children smoking is a good one. With regard to the argument that it is impossible to carry out an Act to prevent it, of course, it is impossible to prevent any offence. But that is no reason why we should not punish the offence, and if the effect of the Bill is to reduce https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 the practice very much we shall have achieved something good. We may not be able to abso- lutely prevent children smoking, but if we reduce the practice we shall have done a very great deal. The Hon. Mr. L. WALKER .- I shall sup- port the second reading of the Bill, although it will have to be altered in Committee, because, although the Act prevents any tobacconist sell- ing cigarettes to boys, it does not prevent him selling any amount of tobacco to make them with. In clause 2 the word "cigarettes " should be struck out, and "tobacco in any form " in- serted, in order to make it workable. As to boys of fifteen and sixteen not smoking pipes, that is all nonsense. I have boys of that age constantly ploughing for me, and at their dinner-time it is quite a pleasure to see them lying on the grass and smoking their pipes. Amendment negatived, and Bill read the second time. GAMING AND LOTTERIES BILL. The Hon. Mr. REEVES .- In bringing this Bill forward I desire to say a few words. Every one knows that gambling is one of those things that cannot be put down. It is found to exist in every English-speaking community. Conse- quently, if it cannot be put down it is only right to make certain regulations to safeguard the public. This is what the Bill aims at. Sec- tion 2 provides that "No lottery or sweep- stakes shall be conducted except pursuant to Hon. Mr. Louisson a license granted, in his discretion, by the Colonial Secretary in writing." It is further provided that the applicant for every such license shall pay a fee of £25 before it is issued. Subsection (3) of clause 2 is as follows : - " For the purpose of guaranteeing that the proposed lottery or sweepstakes shall be honestly conducted, every applicant for a license shall, before the issue thereof, deposit with the Public Trustee a bond, in the prescribed form, by some bank, assurance company, or responsible person, to be first approved of by the Public Trustee, in a sum equal to the total amount of such lottery or sweepstakes." This is done to conserve the rights of the public, and to prevent swindling going on. Sub- section (4) of clause 2 reads as follows : - "Each separate contribution or stake shall be five shillings, ten shillings, or twenty shil- lings ; and every ticket or receipt therefor shall be stamped, under ' The Stamp Act, 1882 " (which for such purpose shall be read with this Act), with an impressed stamp according to the following scale :- " Each five-shilling ticket or receipt, with a penny stamp ; " Each ten-shilling ticket or receipt, with a twopenny stamp : " Each twenty-shilling ticket or receipt, with a fourpenny stamp." Subsection (6) safeguards the public against. any loss by malpractice :- "Each license shall apply only to the one lottery or sweepstakes mentioned therein." The remaining clauses are :- "3. All license-fees and stamp- fees received under this Act shall be applied to such purposes of public charity or utility as the Governor in Council determines. "4. The Governor in Council may from time to time make regulations prescribing,- " (1.) The forms of licenses, bonds, and other documents under this Act : "(2.) The conditions subject to which every license shall be granted, issued, and held ; " (3.) The penalties, including, if he thinks fit so to prescribe, the forfeiture of the license, for the breach of any such regulation ; "(4.) All such other matters as he thinks necessary for the purposes of this Act." Now, Sir, I think we must all admit that gambling of some sort or another cannot be put a stop to, and that we have already legalised it in the form of the totalisator. I contend that we are only doing our duty to the public by bringing forward a Bill of this kind. I am quite convinced that if this Bill were in force a very large revenue would accrue. The pur- pose for which this revenue is to be devoted is a very good one. It is to be applied to such purposes of public charity or utility as the Governor in Council determines. I do not in- tend to occupy the time of the Council in speak- ing much longer on the second reading. I have no doubt some honourable members will have comments to make upon the Bill, some of 