styled by that name. I felt sorry, however, last night that he did not confine his abuse to the home-made article, and that he should have gone out of his way to make disparaging remarks about a very distinguished visitor who has recently been here. I refer to Mr. J. G. Woolley. Those who had the pleasure of meeting that gentleman in this country must have come to the conclusion that he was a gentleman in every sense of the word-a true Christian gentleman, and a citizen of the great American republic of which even that great republic might very well be proud. The whole gravamen of the offence this gentleman committed in the eyes of the honourable member for Parnell was that he made a speech at a breakfast given to him in Auckland in which he referred in terms of approval to the friendly relations now existing between the Maori people and the Europeans in this colony, and he contrasted it with the time when the Maoris served up fresh missionary for breakfast. Now, it was a very slight slip for a visitor to make, one who had just arrived and who had only been a day or two in the colony, and I have no doubt that the mistake was cor- rected at that particular time, and therefore no harm would be done. But it shows how hard up the opponents of that movement are when they would catch upon a little matter like this and try to make so much capital out of it as my honourable friend the member for Parnell did last night. We had an able address this after- noon from the honourable member for Wallace, and one remark which the honourable gentle- man made with regard to the reductions in the Customs duties that were made last year I expressly wish to refer to. The inference was that the benefit did not go to the con- sumer. Now, a similar statement to that was made in this House some time ago, and I took the trouble to write to one of the leading grocers in Auckland for a list of prices before and after the remission of the Customs duties ; and I also wrote to one of the leading grocers in Wellington, and I found that practically in every case the people were getting the full benefit of the remissions that were made last year. In the case of kerosene, which was referred to by the member for Wallace, those who know anything of the matter under- stand that the market during the past year has been somewhat disturbed, and that disturbance was a good deal caused by the way in which we reduced the duty last year. Several firms here who had received large shipments at the heavy duty were compelled to export their stock to Australia in order to get a rebate of the duty, there being a shortage in supplies over there. These shipments were retained, and not re- shipped here excepting at an advanced price. I do not wish to refer to that point longer, be- cause to many it is so clear that the law of com- petition necessarily secures to the consumer the benefit of every reduction that we make in the Customs duty of this country. I will not refer particularly to the speech of the honourable member who has just preceded me, Mr. Fowlds will be traversing some of the points raised by him. In a condition where parties in Parlia- ment are evenly divided, the orthodox thing for every member of the Government party is to go on the defensive, and make the most of the strong and good points in the interests of the party to which he belongs. But at present we have practically no Opposition in this House- at any rate, they are numerically very weak, and during the course of this debate they have for the most part lost their tongues. I am sure the country looks to every member of this House, whether he belongs to the Government party or opposes it, to look critically at the doings of the Government, and point out wherein they are going wrong, as well as com. mend them for what good they have done; and I hope I shall be able to do this in a friendly spirit, without bitterness or malice. And right here I want to join with those other members who have complained very strongly about the absence of certain reports which are abso- lutely necessary to a sensible and full discussion of the finance of the colony-reports, for ex- ample, of such important branches of the Government service as the Railways, Post and Telegraph, Land, and Mines, and particularly that paper known as B .- 1, showing in detail the expenditure and revenue of the colony. It is possible a reasonable excuse can be furnished for the failure of the supply of these depart- mental reports ; but, as five months have gone since the end of the financial year, there is no reason why B .- 1 should not be laid on the table of the House, and I say it is quite impossible for any one to rationally discuss the financial affairs of the colony in the absence of these papers. I look upon the Right Hon. the Pre- mier as a man of great ability, a man possessed with natural ability, with the advantage of an experience extending over a quarter of a century in this House, where he has been year after year familiar with the accounts of the colony ; he has also had ten years in the Cabinet, and this is the sixth Financial Statement he has presented to Parliament, and yet, with all that ability and with all those advantages, I do not believe the honourable gentleman himself could discuss in detail intelligently and without making mistakes the finances of the colony in the absence of the papers I have referred to. Then, if any one attempts to criticize them and falls into a mistake we shall have the Premier coming along to wind up the debate, and accuse us of being so ignorant that we are not fit to represent the people, or else that we had wilfully misrepresented the position of affairs, as he did the other night on a similar occasion. In addition to the supply of these reports, I say something ought to be done to simplify the way in which the accounts are presented. My colleague the senior member for Auckland City last session asked the Hon. the Premier a question on the subject, but got very little satisfaction. I have here in my hand a simplification of the ac- counts of the City of Auckland, arranged by Mr. Kayll, an accountant in that city, which 