construction of light lines and of narrow-gauge railways. I believe that if we have to wait until broad-gauge lines are constructed there are thousands of acres in many parts of the colony which will remain unproductive for many years to come. It is therefore necessary that we should have cheap lines constructed, so that many struggling farmers may be able to get their produce to market. It is not right to put people on the land and expect them to cultivate it, unless some means is provided to 5.0. enable them to get their produce to market and the seaports. New Zealand, to my mind, is, from its physical features, well adapted for both light lines and narrow-gauge railway- lines, which would offer many facilities to struggling farmers in the country districts, and, acting as feeders, would very much in- crease the traffic on the main lines. I am a strong believer in the narrow-gauge railways, especially through hilly country, and when it enables that country to be connected by line with a seaport town, so that the delay and cost of transhipment would be saved. In building narrow-gauge railways, we are adopting, to my mind, a temporary expedient for developing districts which would not be developed if we had to wait until railways on the broad-gauge system were constructed. Then, again, all the time that the development of these districts is going on with narrow-gauge railways there is a saving of interest on the construction and working of a broad-gauge line, because it is generally conceded that the latter costs about four times the amount of the former. And, in addition to that fact, there is also a saving in the additional cost required for haulage of the heavy rolling-stock. If we take a country with narrow-gauge railway system what do we find ? In Tasmania and other countries they have proved to be profitable concerns, and in India they return a profit of over 2 per cent. more than is returned by the ordinary railways. As regards the question of speed, we have only to take France, where there is a network of narrow-gauge railways, and we find that on a little 2 ft .- gauge line they carry 48-ton guns right round the walls of the city at a speed of twenty-eight miles per hour. I have to con- gratulate the Minister for Railways for his enterprise and boldness in reducing the railway- fares, a concession which has resulted in such a great saving to the people of this country. It is recognised, of course, and it often happens, that by the lowering of freights there is a cer- tain loss. But the loss is only temporary, because ultimately they have proved remunera- tive, when the object in developing the country has been attained. Among other lines which should be completed at an early date I would specially refer to the Seaward Bush Railway and the Orepuki Railway. They should, in my opinion, be pushed on with great vigour. Both these railways pass through a district which, so far as agriculture and production generally are concerned, is one of the most important in the colony. The Seaward Bush Railway, so far as it has gone, has proved to be a most remunerative line. Then, if we take the Orepuki line we Mr. Hanan find that it taps a splendid district, as regards its agricultural, timber, and mineral resources, and I believe that both those works will prove profitable undertakings so far as the State is concerned. I hope that every attention will be paid to them, and that they will be actively prosecuted. Closely connected with the subject of railways is that of coal-mines. Here in this colony we have a store of wealth which naturally belongs to us all, and which, I regret to say, is monopolized by a few individuals, and which is becoming exhausted as time goes on. The natural products of the colony should be utilised in ministering to the wants and comforts of the people. It is such minerals as coal, which is of so great benefit and service to mankind so far as practical utility is con- cerned, that promote domestic comfort. If the State can build railways, if it can work the railways with the people's money, if it owns the railways in the people's name, surely in the name of logic and common-sense there is every reason why it should own the coal-mines. There is, therefore, no logical distinction be- tween the State owning a railway and owning a coal-mine. If the State can run locomotives on the railway-lines as the pro- perty of the people, surely it can run the machinery in connection with working coal- mines ; and if the people have benefited by the railways being in the hands of the State, there is no reason why the people should not receive a great benefit by the coal-mines being worked under State control. Again, Sir, if the State can establish educational institutions and employ teachers, surely there is no reason what- ever why the State should not engage and employ miners. I cannot see any distinction or reason why a principle which has been so serviceable to the people in many directions should fail to be of utility in another. So far as the principle in connection with State coal- mines is concerned, we are only extending a principle which has been adopted in connection with many other of our State institutions, such as public education, post- and telegraph-offices, defence, and railways. If those public depart- ments are administered for the welfare of the people, I ask, Why cannot the State do the same and secure similar beneficial results in connection with coal-mines? Every day we know that coal is becoming scarcer and dearer. We know that it is an article of everyday use by the working-classes, and the increased price of coal now is a matter of great concern to them. Therefore it behoves the Government, if they are to consider the interests of the working-classes of this colony, to endeavour if possible to provide them with cheap fuel ; and I believe the action of the Government, should they open a State coal-mine, would be a step in the right direction. The tendency is for the State to get back what the State foolishly parted with, and we are paying dearly for it so far as our lands are concerned. Then, apart from that aspect of the question, there is the benefit which will accrue to the Railways Department, which is the greatest single pur- chaser of coal in the colony, if we establish a 