Motion negatived, and amendment agreed to. anxious to resume my duties, but my medical The Hon. Mr. RIGG moved the excision of adviser forbids me to leave the warm climate the word "seventeen," with a view to substi- tuting the word " fifteen " in lieu thereof. The Committee divided on the question, "That the word stand part of the clause." AYES, 11. Pinkerton Twomey Gourley Walker, W. C. Jennings Pitt Williams. Jones Reeves Ormond Smith, W. C. NOES, 8. Louisson Smith, A. L. Barnicoat Swanson Morris Bolt amongst us. Rigg Feldwick Majority for, 3. Word retained. The Hon. Mr. RIGG moved the excision of the word "ten," with a view to substituting the word " five " in lieu thereof. ment to move, and one which would commend The Committee divided on the question, "That the word stand part of the clause." AYES, 14. Morris Swanson Barnicoat amendment was to strike out all the words Ormond Twomey Bolt Walker, W. C. Pitt Jennings Reeves Williams. Jones Smith, W. C. Louisson NOES, 5. Smith, A. L. Pinkerton Feldwick Gourley Rigg Majority for, 9. Word retained. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 Bill reported. The Council adjourned at a quarter to ten o'clock p.m. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Wednesday, 25th September, 1901. First Reading +-Mr. Speaker-Supply. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READINGS. Education Boards Election Bill, Cornwall Park Duties Exemption Bill, New Zealand University Bill, Waimate Hospital District Bill. MR. SPEAKER. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I desire to read a letter from the Hon. the Speaker : -- "Jermyn Street, Auckland, 21st September, 1901. "Members of the House of Representatives. "I REGRET to say that I have been compelled He hoped there would be no prolonged debate. by my illness to absent myself for a longer time than I expected, and I must ask for leave be taken as a want of confidence motion. of absence for a short period longer. I am of Auckland at present. I hope, however, to be in my place again very shortly ; in the mean- time I must claim the indulgence of the House .- Yours faithfully, "G. MAURICE O'RORKE, Speaker, House of Representatives." Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) .- I move, That a fortnight's leave of absence be granted to Mr. Speaker on account of sickness ; and I am sure honourable members will agree with me in saying we hope Sir Maurice will soon be restored to his former state of health, and that we shall shortly have him back again Motion agreed to. SUPPLY. On the question, That the House do resolve itself into Committee of Supply, Mr. LAWRY (Parnell) said he had an amend- itself to the good-sense of the House, and which might have the effect, perhaps, of hurling the Government from the Treasury benches. His after " That," and insert the following : "with a view of shortening the session, and in order that during the session members may have the benefit of a more genial climate than Wellington, the next session of Parliament be held in the City or suburbs of Auckland." An Hon. MEMBER .- Sydenham. Mr. LAWRY said that Sydenham was out of the running altogether. Honourable members would recognise that there was no originality in an amendment of this nature. Session after session an honourable member who had represented Sydenham had moved that the seat of Government be changed to that locality, but he had not been successful in carrying the amendment. He had no desire in proposing this amendment to cast a single aspersion upon Wellington. They knew that Wellington must necessarily be the most important commercial centre of the colony, but they had all realised, during this session especially, that members had been suffering from the very bad climatic in- fluence of the city. He realised that the House and country knew that Auckland was the proper site for the seat of Government. The seat of Government had been unjustly taken from Auckland, and his object was to get restored to the people of Auckland what had been politically stolen from them. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) would not discuss the proposal, as the present time was not opportune to do so, but he hoped the honourable member who had moved the amendment, having given expression to his desire to have the meeting of Parliament held in Auckland, would be satisfied to take a division upon it and end it, because they wanted to get to the business of the estimates. Mr. MASSEY wished to know if this would Sir J. G. WARD. - No. 