we got them done in the right and proper way. than precept, and it would be better if the And I say it is a scandalous thing to borrow honourable gentleman practised and did not money in the English market, and tax the people preach so much. That is what I advise the to pay the interest on that money, and not get honourable gentleman to do. I understand, with a satisfactory result from it. We shall never all his talk, he has a very small family indeed. be able to get a satisfactory result until we Sir, I regret to say that I am suffering from a revert to the contract system. Every shilling severe attack of influenza, and had I obeyed my of public money borrowed and used for roads, doctor's order I should be in bed ; but I have bridges, and railways should be made to tell in always been accustomed to say something on the interests of the struggling settlers in the the financial debate, and, notwithstanding my back blocks and the taxpayers of the colony. I illness. I will endeavour to add my mite on this do not believe in keeping an army of six thou- occasion, and I feel satisfied I shall have the sand men, many of whom are determined to do consideration of members. Now, I think there as little as they can for the payment they re- is a good deal in what the honourable member ceive. It is quite wrong. If we had wisely for Pahiatua said about the Lands Department. utilised the money we have borrowed, and spent I think really that it would be an advan- it well in the past, and got our work done by tage to this country if the chief officials were contract, I am perfectly certain that we made a clean sweep of. They are behind the would have to-day many more hundreds of times ; it is impossible to infuse life or energy miles of roads and railways than we have at into them. I will, however, go fully into the the present time, and I say it is a sinful waste subject-matter, if my voice holds out, or time of public money to do nothing in the direction permits. With reference to the Department of I have indicated. We should do everything Roads and Bridges, I agree with the honour- possible to get the best results for our expendi- able gentleman that the Under-Secretary at the ture. If we were a people with sufficient head of this department is a very able engineer means that could take up our own loans, and and reliable man. The Hon. the Minister of the interest on them was paid amongst our own Lands is to be congratulated in having secured people, it would be all very well ; but, seeing such an efficient officer. He is a gentleman that the money has to be borrowed in the that I have known for years, and from my foreign markets of the world, and that the knowledge of him I am satisfied he will put interest has to be remitted to a distant coun- new life into this department. Every man in try, in the course of a few years this colony his department will be treated with considera- will be in a worse state than ever Ireland tion, so long as he does his work efficiently and was in. It is the absentee landlords that honestly, because he knows what a man is draw the money from that country, those who capable of doing. I would advise the men in spend their money in gambling on the Con- his department not to take the advice of tinent and other places, and this constant drain an honourable gentleman in another place- has been the curse of that unhappy country; namely, to do as little as they can, and to and so, when the money we have and are bor- get the most they can get for it. No one rowing shall have been spent, the payment of will notice a schemer more quickly or surely interest to the foreign money-lender will be than this gentleman. I refer, Sir, to Mr. drawing the life-blood out of this country, un- Wilson Hursthouse. He is a Taranaki man. less we have interest-earning assets and repro- He is undoubtedly the right man in the right ductive works ; but, in order to secure this, as place, and I am sure the Minister of Lands prudent men we should see that we get good himself has already recognised that. With value for our expenditure. We should continue reference to the small settlers that the honour- to borrow for roads, railways, and other public able gentleman who has just sat down spoke works ; but we should be very prudent, and see of, I am in full sympathy with what he said. that we get full value, because I admit it is the What they want are good roads and bridges. greatest economy to spend loan-money on pub- If we are to assist these people in the back lic works, if it is well and wisely spent. But it blocks, we should provide them with those is wilful waste to use a single penny for politi- necessaries, and give them the right to the cal purposes or patronage, or in order to secure freehold, and I am perfectly certain they will votes. By doing so we are bribing and corrupt- be able to work out their own salvation for ing the people, and wasting the moneys bor- themselves and their families. With reference rowed, which should not be wasted but econo- to the co-operative men, when these men were mically expended in developing the resources of got originally to work on the roads near their the country. own land, as proposed and carried out by the late Mr. Ballance, it was all very well, and labour ? the work done was satisfactory. But since they were taken from different parts of the coolie labour, and the honourable gentleman colony, principally from the large centres. and knows I would not; nor would I be a party knowing nothing of the work they were re- to a wilful waste for the sake of votes in order quired to do, the result has not proved satis- that I might be elected a member of this factory. I say this, and I am satisfied no House. There is no man in this House who one can contradict me, that we are paying would give good men higher wages than I at least from 33 to 50 per cent. more for would ; but I would expect a fair and honest these works than we should pay for them if day's work in return, as a private individual Mr. HOGG. - Would you import coolie Mr. McGUIRE .- No, I would not import 