the increase is not a very large one; it is all represented by £1,021, scattered over the whole department. And let me point out that when discussions have taken place a number of times in the House the whole tone from the members has been that the valuers were underpaid. Mr. TANNER .- Rather that they did not do their work properly. Mr. MILLS .- No, it was not that ; it was ad- mitted that the fees charged were too light, and it has been admitted that the valuers are doing a great amount of work. Most of them are on a fixed salary now, and they have to cover larger districts; they have much more work to do now than formerly, and, therefore, I think it must be satisfactory to honourable members to know that there has not been anything beyond what they were well entitled to added to these salaries. Sir, years ago, when I was at school, I recollect that when the schoolmaster wanted to inflict summary punishment, he called out the boy, and said, "Now, put out your hand ; " then, while the poor lad was waiting, he would give him a lecture, and finally wind up by saying, " You know, it hurts me far more than it does you," and then he would bring the cane down very heavily with a vicious stroke. Now, a few members of our party have been very much like that schoolmaster by act- ing as our candid friends, and one member told us in this House that those gentlemen who acted on Commissions were guilty of bribery and corruption. For instance, the member for Ashley told us-or he implied it by innuendo- that all those members who acted on Commis- sions were guilty of bribery and corruption ; https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 but surely the honourable member for Ashley ought not to be so caustic in his remarks when referring to those Commissions and the gentle- men who served on them; because, in my opinion, there is not one of those gentlemen http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero who acted on those Commissions but who at any time would have given their services in the interests of the colony, and they have done their best to elicit and bring forward infor- mation which it was most desirable for the colony to have. The small amount of remune- ration they received, in my opinion, was not worth talking about for the services they ren- dered, and I do not believe that there is one member in this House who would at any time take such a position if it could be said that he had done so for the purpose mentioned by the honourable member for Ashley; but probably " the grapes are sour." Then, the honourable gentleman said that there was increased taxa- tion, and he pointed out the increase in the land valuations made by the department. Well, I would ask the honourable gentleman, What does his complaint amount to ? Does he think for a moment that the men who are appointed as valuers have not a reputation to uphold ? They have to do their duty in order to retain their position : and how could they possibly stultify themselves by giving in false returns ? They would have to do that if they wished to meet the wishes of the honourable member for Ashley, and not make any return above a certain value. These men have a public duty Mr. Mills to perform, and they know it, and, what is more, they do perform it to the best of their ability. I am positive that not one of these men would for a moment do anything which would look as though they wanted to increase the burdens of any man in this colony wantonly. At any rate, I know that all the members in this House who believe in the single-tax, and others, will agree with me that we must rely on obtain- ing the bedrock values for our land throughout the colony. Another factor which has not been noticed by honourable members in their criti- cism of the increase of the expenditure is the number of new departments which have been created, but which were not created by the Government for their special benefit, but at the will of the House. They have been created because this House says, "We think it ad- visable you should make these changes " ; and therefore you cannot possibly open new de- partments, go on with your ordinary works, and not pay any one for it. You must have a staff, and you must have the departmental expenses growing steadily at the same time. There is another statement made with regard to what the national debt represents per head of the colony, and the way in which this statement is put is utterly fallacious. If there is anything in the statement that the increased indebtedness per head of the popula- tion in the colony shows the colony is going backwards, you must, to be fair, take off the assets on the other side first before dividing, which will considerably reduce the proportional indebtedness. It is just the same as in the case of a company. That company's assets may be worth $50,000, and their overdraft at the bank may be £20,000. That would only represent so much per head to those share- holders. But after a year or two, if half of them sold out to the others, probably they might have to increase their overdraft at the bank to £30,000. It does not necessarily make the remaining shareholders any poorer ; they may be very much richer for their transaction, and may quite legitimately have required the larger overdraft to meet the altered position they held in the firm. And similarly, in dealing with the colonial debt, if you say it represents so much per head, unless you show the increased value of the colony's assets, they are simply idle figures and not worth while wasting time over. Well, Sir, passing on, I have just a few words to say regarding my other department- that is, the Advances to Settlers-because that subject was pretty well threshed out not long since when discussing the Loan Bill ; but there was one item which seemed to give incessant worry to my honourable friend the member for the Bay of Plenty, and also to the member for Riccarton. The item was £155,000. which ap. pears as passing through the Public Trust Account. I knew there were a great many cross-entries represented in that item, but I could not tell immediately from the department the exact amount. I have since got the caleu- lation made, and this will show how it works out : For instance, a man borrows a sum of $200 from the department and goes on with his 