favour of the expenditure of the money re- quired, and I may tell members of this House that to-day there is in the department a plan, prepared during the last few months, showing the proposed double line of rail- way from Wellington to the Lower Hutt, showing the straightening of the line between Wellington and the Lower Hutt; and on that plan, which is numbered 10302, there is not only the proposed straightening of the line, but the proposed increase and proposcd enlarge- ment of the workshops at Petone, and the erec- tion of a new railway-station there. Honour- able members will pardon me referring to my particular constituency, but it is the only oppor- tunity one has for putting this matter fairly before honourable members. To my mind, no provincial jealousy should interfere in the grant by the Government of the country of a sum of money such as is required here, and which, it is admitted, would earn interest on the money expended. There is no doubt at all, in the opinion of practical men, this work could be done under £100,000; and I say this to honour- able members : that, according to an estimate which the Government have in their posses- sion now, the expense of a double line of rails from Wellington to the Lower Hutt and the straightening of that service is under £90,000. The land is acquired, a quicker service is got, wear-and-tear is lessened, a lot of the rolling - stock is saved, and, as I say, there is a quicker service. Not only is the city benefited, but the suburbs as well. If the Government adopt the scheme which at present is in their possession, and if they adopt the plan which their department has https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 already furnished them with, there is no reason why this work should not be completed in a very short period. The heads of the depart- ment will admit, and the Government will ad- http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero mit when challenged, that the expenditure of £90,000 on this work would be repaid. It is no answer to say that the Government have no money, and could not afford to put €90,000 into this work. If this work, as the Government have told me, is reproductive work, and no loss can be made on it, then it is the duty of the Government to find that money and to do that work. It is a public work. It is a main line. It is the only outlet from the capital city of the colony. And what right have the Government to deny to the people of the Suburbs that which they stole in days gone by ? An Hon. MEMBER .- Oh ! Mr. WILFORD .- There is no doubt about it. A Government stole it in days gone by. You look up the plans and the title deeds. Let honourable members go into the question of the first line of road which was laid from Welling- ton to the lower Hutt, and they will find that the railway at the present time is on that road. A Government took from the people of the Sub- urbs part of their road to make the railway, and I say it is the bounden duty of this Go- vernment to give it back to them. It is their right to do so. I would be wanting in my duty to my constituents, I would be wanting in my Mr. Wilford if I did not advocate on every possible oppor- tunity the advisability of straightening this line. We hear from the Government at different times suggestions about the introduction of the betterment principle. Well, Sir, here is a chance for the introduction of the betterment principle. Whose properties will be benefited by the extension of this line? Why, you will bring Petone and Lower Hutt as near to Wellington as Newtown is if this work is undertaken. I am given to understand that not only can a suitable line he laid for the price I have mentioned, but you can get a quick service of seventeen or eighteen minutes from here to the Lower Hutt, including stoppages, and this can be done with the present class of locomotives if this work be undertaken. Now, if, in the event of such a sum being placed on the estimates, it should not, from provincial jealousy or because some other honourable members have some work in their own districts which they desire to see carried out, be objected to ; all I can say is that, if any honourable member can make out a good case for a sum of money being expended in his district, which will be a public work. and which will be reproductive and will benefit his constituency, it is the duty of myself and of every other member to come to his assistance and get that sum of money placed on the esti- mates. Whether the Government will do this or not I do not know, but I say it is their duty, and the sooner they do it the better it will be for the whole of this Island. The honourable member for Hawke's Bay must back me' up. the honourable member for Pahiatua must back me up, the honourable member for Masterton and the honourable member for Wairarapa must back me up, the honourable members for Wellington City must back me up. I can depend upon them. They must do so. As to the honourable members for the Manawatu district, they may oppose my scheme. But if the Government take over the Manawatu Railway-line-and they are bound to do, as they will be forced to do it eventually for their own sakes, apart from the sake of the people of the district-then you will find that the spirit of provincial jealousy so far as the straightening of the Hutt Railway is con- cerned will be done away with altogether. Now, in regard to taking over the Manawatu Rail- way, it is a work which I believe the Premier was right in postponing for a time on account of the cost. I believe that money will be saved to the colony by postponing it until next year even. But I believe it should be done then. What is the position of the people living at Crofton and Khandallah suburbs ? They have to come in by the early morning train and go out by the late one. The service is impossible for any one who wishes to make his home in those suburbs unless he is ready at all times to walk into town. Is it not, therefore, the duty of the Government to look to this? In regard to the railways generally, I congratulate the Hon. the Minister for Railways upon the concessions ho has granted, and there is no doubt the conces- sions are not imaginary. They are real. One 