doar to members through ancient usage and habit. But still, that being admitted, the new library was a very creditable institution, and he thought it might also be admitted that it was fairly well managed. He agreed with the report that they had not got too much room inside the library for their own work, and that it would be a mistake to put other work inside there. Therefore, while he agreed with the report, he thought it was only fair to say that the Council was satisfied with the way in which the new management were conducting library matters. Motion agreed to. LAW AMENDMENT BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 4 .- " When a contract is proposed be- tween parties at a distance, the acceptance of the proposal shall be deemed null and void when the revocation of the acceptance has been communicated to the proposer before the acceptance, or at the same time with it." The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH moved the excision of this clause. The Committee divided on the question, "That the clause stand part of the Bill." # AYES, 15. Barnicoat Jones Taiaroa Tomoana Bolt Montgomery Morris Bowen Twomey. Walker, W. C. Feld wick Rigg Jenkinson Williams. Shrimski NOES, 14. Arkwright Louisson Scotland Smith, A. L. Gourley Ormond Pinkerton Harris Swanson Walker, L. Kelly, W. Pitt Reeves Kenny Majority for, 1. Amendment negatived, and clause agreed to. Clause 8 .- " In an action for damages for breach of promise of marriage, not more than five hundred and fifty pounds shall be recover- able as damages except where the plaintiff, being a woman, proves to the satisfaction of the Court or the jury (where there is a jury) that she has been seduced by the defendant." The Committee divided on the question, " That the clause stand part of the Bill." AYES, 7. Barnicoat Smith, A. L. Tomoana Walker, W. C. Bolt Taiaroa Feldwick NOES, 18. Bowen Kelly, W. Reeves Gourley Rigg Montgomery Harris Shrimski Morris Jenkinson Ormond Swanson Walker, L. Jennings Pinkerton Jones Pitt Williams. Majority against, 11. Clause struck out. Clause 9 .- " In any action or other proceed- ing for the administration of any estate, com- Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker menced after the passing of this Act, no Court or Judge shall have jurisdiction to order or allow payment of costs out of the estate to the party responsible for the commencement or continuance of such action unless the Court or Judge shall first certify that there was some necessity for the action being commenced or continued, and, if any costs are allowed, then only to the extent to which such continuance was necessary." The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH moved, That the clause be struck out. The Committee divided on the question, "That the clause be a clause of the Bill." AYES, 8. Jenkinson Barnicoat Rigg Bolt Jennings Swanson. Feldwick Jones NOES, 14. Ormond Taiaroa Bowen Walker, L. Pinkerton Gourley Walker, W. C. Pitt Harris Reeves Montgomery Williams. Smith, A. L. Morris Majority agains', 6. Amendment agreed to, and clause struck out. Bill reported. COUNTIES ACT AMENDMENT BILL. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN .- Sir, this is a short Bill to amend an error of omission in an Act passed in 1899. Some time ago what was the south branch of the Waimakariri, in Canterbury, broke through Stewart's Gully and cut off a portion of the Avon Road Board, and thereby threw it for all practical purposes into the Eyreton district. A Bill was passed in 1899 to give the Governor in Council, " on the request of the several local authorities hereinafter mentioned," power to amend the boundaries of the Avon district and the Eyreton district, and of the Counties of Selwyn and Ashley, so far as was necessary. But it was found afterwards that the " local authorities " should have been defined in the Bill, and that the rights of the Waimakariri River Board should have been specifically guarded. Section 3 of the Act of 1899 is amended by inserting, after the words " local authorities," the words " of the several road districts and counties," thus limiting the local authorities to these ; and, then, the 3rd clause of the Bill now before the Council pro- vides that nothing contained in the Act of 1899 shall be deemed to interfere with the jurisdiction of the South Waimakariri River Board. That is practically the whole Bill. As I said before, it is really to amend a slight error in the drafting of the Act of 1899. I beg to move the second reading of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. - I only wish to say that the Bill has been very properly ex- plained by the Hon. Mr. Bowen, and that it is only to give effect to previous legislation. Bill read the second time. 