Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) said he had felt great pleasure in knowing that for some time past there had been two nights in each week on which members knew they could get home at a reasonable hour ; but he admitted the difficulties in connection with morning sittings, which interfered very considerably with Com- mittee-work. In doing away with morning sittings, however, they should have a quid pro quo, and he would move an amendment to that effect. They were going the right way to break down their health by working to most unreasonable hours - indeed, frequently all night-while, as had been pointed out, they were preventing other people from working too long hours at ordinary employments. He ob- jected to the sort of compulsion that was brought to bear on members by all-night sittings at a time when they ought to have all their energies at command to deal with the estimates and other matters towards the end of the session. He agreed with the last speaker that the work of the Committees was frequently of considerable importance, and he would point out that the work of the House in the last part of the session was of double the importance of that during the earlier period, consequently requiring greater vigilance and attention by members. He would vote for the motion, with an amendment, and would move the addition of the following words : "That this House shall not continue to sit after midnight." Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) supported the 5.0. proposal of the Premier with regard to the afternoon sittings in preference to the morn- ing sittings. He also recognised that Commit- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 tee-work ought to be done, as it was of great im- portance to many. On several Committees of which he was a member he found it was impos- sible to overtake the work ; in fact, much of it http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero would probably have to stand over till another session if the present state of things was allowed to go on. He did not see that there would be any difficulty in getting through the work of Parliament between the hours of half- past two p.m. and midnight, instead of keeping members in the House for fourteen or fifteen hours at times, and sometimes all night. Many members, himself among the number, wished to be in the House all the time it was sitting ; but he could say for himself that he could not keep up the practice if he wished to preserve his health. He did not desire to see a debate strangled by the closure. He admitted that at times it was necessary to continue a debate for a considerable time, but to keep it going into the early hours of the morning was detrimental to one's health and not conducive to good work. He was used to getting his sleep at night, and in session-time he could not get into the habit of taking his sleep in the day-time. He did not think, if the motion of the member for Nelson City was carried, it would prevent the Premier from suspending the particular Standing Order when there was a necessity to do so, and continue the debate if the circum- stances warranted it. Personally, he would not be averse to seeing the closure put on many of our debates, but at the same time he was VOL. OXVIII .- 31. doubtful if it was suitable for a New Zealand Parliament, where every representative had a right to be heard. He trusted the Premier would be reasonable, and would try to meet members in this matter. He did not wish to reflect on Ministers, but it was understood that sometimes Ministers got a rest when the Bills before the House did not belong to their de- partments. That was a state of things that did not apply to individual members, who had to be in the House at all hours if they wished to do the business of the country. With other members of the House, he had been in the habit of doing that, and he wished to continue to do so ; but he would be compelled to give it up unless matters were so arranged that the work could be done without an undue strain on members. He would support the proposed amendment of the member for Nelson City, that the House should rise at midnight, except on the estimates. Surely this was a long enough day's work for members of the House. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) was sorry the Pre- mier had found it necessary to bring forward this resolution. He could congratulate the honourable gentleman on the success of the experiment he had tried this session of holding daylight sittings. He had never seen a House, after two months of work, better able to per- form its duties. A Parliament that could afford to have a vigorous debate on a breach-of-privi- lege question for two solid days and nights was, in his opinion, well able to perform the busi- ness of the country. Everybody knew that if good and effective legislation was to be per- formed the hours must be reasonable. In the past he had seen most mischievous legislation brought about through the pernicious system that permitted sittings after midnight, when there were often only a few members present, and some of them almost asleep. That was the time when members who wished to carry into effect legislation the reverse of beneficial to the country were able to secure their opportunity. The daylight sittings that mem- bers had enjoyed this session, instead of interfering with the work of the Committees, had really had little effect on it. What hap- pened with regard to the Local Government Committee? Had they not risen at twelve o'clock day after day, thus losing a full hour? Yet the work of the Committee was now, he believed, almost at an end. He was himself a member of two or three Committees, and up to the present their work had been easily disposed of. He was inclined to think that it could not be fairly urged that the Committee-work had been interfered with by the daylight sittings. The daylight sittings, he contended, had been a benefit to the members and to the country-to the country, because the reporters for the evening journals were in a position to supply at the earliest moment a good report of the pro- ceedings of the House. Then, in the daylight there were fewer gallery speeches and little talk- ing against time, and, as for unsatisfactory legislation, he was not aware that up to the present anything had been done this session which members or the country would have 