There can be no excuse for them saying the [ has been done with the money. And is there Budget is too short. Some of them say it is too long, and some of them say it contains too much ; others say there is not much in it. Well, all I can say is that among the members who made these speeches there must be great conflict of opinion. I say, unhesitatingly, that members have before this House a full, clear, and comprehensive statement of the finances of the colony. There can be no doubt on that point. In fact, I think it is more than usually clear, because the Premier has seen fit to go into even minor details, of which full informa- tion is given to the House. Therefore, when a complaint is made by members of the Opposi- tion that certain papers are not forthcoming, I wish it to be clearly understood by the country that the desired information is really contained in the Budget itself. As a matter of fact, the Budget bristles with facts and figures which, up to the present time, have not been contro- verted. So far as there not being sufficient ma- terial in the Budget for a member to build an hour's speech on, the fact is that if one devoted a whole day to it he could not possibly cover all the ground. It would take him two or three days to deal properly with such important matter as is contained in the Budget, and it behoves all members on both sides of the House to compliment the Hon. the Colonial Treasurer on being again able to show to the House and the country that there is such a large surplus, or balance, amounting to £532,564 for the year. I think, then, we have reason for joining hands and congratu- lating the honourable gentleman who has so successfully steered the ship of State in the last twelve months. When the leader of the Opposition-I cannot help but refer to the honourable member for Hawke's Bay as the leader of the Opposition-spoke he said the public debt had been enormously increased during the past year, but he gave us no facts or figures to prove his statement. Captain RUSSELL .- Oh, did I not ? Mr. MILLS. - No. The honourable gentle- man did not give the correct figures, but I will supply them. Sir, I intend to give the correct figures. First of all, what was the gross public debt for the past two years ? On the 31st March, 1900, it was £47,874,452; on the 31st March, 1901, it was £49,591,245, or an increase of £1,716,793. Now, it is a reasonable question for any one to ask, What has been done with this money? Well, Sir, I shall show honour- able members what has been done with it. It has been invested and administered to advan. tage-to the very best and material advantage of the colony. It is made up as follows : Loans to local bodies, £176,000 ; land for settlements, £219,000; New Zealand Consols, #17,902; aid to public works, $900,000; advances to settlers, £380,000 ; dairy industry, €1,781 ; accretions to sinking fund, $52,800; Government Insurance Department, $2,000; by conversion 3-per-cent. stock, £18,000 : showing a total of £1,767,483; less redemption $50,690, leaving the net total mentioned of $1,716,793. That is a very clear and straightforward statement as to what Mr. Mills any honourable member in the House who will dare to stand up and challenge any of the items, and say the money has not been properly spent? No, there is not one mem- ber who will do so. Then, in the matter of payment of interest, some honourable mem- bers say it has increased ; I say it has not. We paid £1,749,393 in 1899-1900, and £1,745,615 in 19000, or a reduction in interest ten years afterwards. after increasing our debt, of £3,778. Surely, Sir, that is good sound finance? If we go back further and compare the interest paid in 1890-91 with the amount of interest paid in 1900-namely, £1,745,615-it shows, after borrowing the £10,760,895 and laying it out to the best advantage, we are paying £112,637 less interest; and who can reason- ably object to that kind of business? Now, Sir, I have a table showing the increase of debt during the period 1891 to 1901. Some honour- able members do not like us dealing with only the present year ; they say you should go back. a certain number of years, and I think it is only reasonable and fair to do so when you wish to secure reliable results. Now, the gross public debt on the 31st of March, 1891, was £38,830,350, and the gross public debt on the 31st of March, 1901, was #49,591,245, an in- crease, extending over ten years, of $10,760,895. I have no doubt the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty will say, "What have you done with that money ? " Or perhaps he would not even ask that, he would say, " You have spent it ; you have wasted it." That is what he tells his constituents. Well, I am going to show the honourable gentleman it is no such thing. We have good valuable assets to show for every pound that has been expended, and a little to the good. Take the amounts, they are made up as follows : First, I will mention the interest- earning items. 'There is the amount for land for settlements, £2,075,566 ; that also includes Cheviot. The honourable member for Dun- edin City (Mr. Millar) seems to have lost sight of the fact of our having a Land for Settle- ments Fund ; I hope the honourable gentleman will realise that that is a valuable asset. Then we come to the advances to settlers, that account represents £2,380,000; loans to local bodies, £1,205,900. And where is the honour- able gentleman who will get up and say we have no right to lend money to local bodies? Not one on either side of the house will have the temerity to say that; they all acknowledge we are doing the right thing in reducing the interest paid by the local bodies for so many years past. Then, lands improvement, £500,000 ; Bank of New Zealand preferred shares, $500,000; New Zealand Consols, $459,389; district railways, $47,000 ; open lines, $625,000 ; the dairying industry, £1,781; making a sum of $7,794,636. These are all direct interest-earning, every item I have referred to. The non-direct interest- earning items for the present are : Purchase of Native lands, £649,700. Again, my honourable friend the senior member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) found fault with the Government about selling some of the Crown lands ; but he forgot 