increase been incurred ? It is very easily ex- plained. It arises from the fact that during the year 1890-91 the Under-Secretary's salary was charged against the Lands Department, and not as now against the Mines Department. Now, the other increase in that department arises from the fact that at that time we had only three Inspectors of Mines. Now we have six Inspectors of Mines, and we have additional salaried officers working for that department whose salaries were not charged against the de- partment at the period I have mentioned. I may say that none of them are too highly paid -in fact, most of them, in my opinion, are underpaid. The same remarks apply also in regard to the Geo- logical and Mineralogical Department, in which there has been a large saving from 1890-91 as compared with 1901-2 because of the abolition of that department as a separate office, the Geologist, Analyst, and others being brought under the Mines Department. This alteration, of course, contributed to the additional expendi- ture under the Mines vote. Now, in regard to the miscellaneous amounts, these vary, and must always vary, because there are charges which do not crop up every year. Forinstance, there is the cost of the Coal-mines and Rivers Commissions for one thing, and the examina- tions in London for another; and these are non-recurring votes. I think, therefore, I have fully explained the whole of the expenditure from the Consolidated Fund in regard to the Mines Department. Now, I would like, as the bell has rung, to say a word or two on some- thing that is rather important in regard to the Police Department. I will not take up the time of the House, but I wish to say that I can ac- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 count for every increase that is shown on the estimates. I also wish to say that in New Zealand the cost of the police is the lowest in the whole of the Australian Colonies. For in- stance, in New Zealand the cost per inhabitant is only 28. 101d. ; in Victoria, 48. 5}d. ; in New South Wales, 5s. 7}d .; in South Australia, 4s. 2jd. ; in Queensland, 68. 9}d. ; in Western Australia, 128. 0%d. ; and in Tasmania, 4s. 2d. Now, I just wish to say a word or two, as I have & few minutes to spare, in regard to the prisons. The question of the classification of prisoners has been frequently brought before the House, and to a certain extent, and as far as we have been able to do so, a system has been established. For instance, youthful prisoners are now kept entirely free from adult prisoners ; and, in addi- tion to this, the Government have made this new regulation : that prisoners may receive and write letters after they have been incarcerated for three months, as against eight months under the old régime. Then, in the matter of conversing with friends, a longer period of time has been allowed prisoners in the higher classes, the period having been extended from twenty minutes to thirty minutes. Another important change has been introduced-namely, tree-planting. Good work has already been done in that direction, no little amount of work having been done up to date in the out-planting of trees, and the time will come, I think, when the colony will have good results from the expenditure. I wish also to say a word on a subject that is not, perhaps, connected with the debate, although it is con- nected with my department. It is this: As Minister of Justice I often receive communica- tions and resolutions from societies and from individuals. I regard the writers of such com- munications as soft-hearted. They are inclined to allow the heart to rule their actions rather than the head ; they are swayed more by kindness of heart than by hardness of head. In these days there seems to be a sentimental feeling abroad which has this effect : if a criminal is ordered to be punished there is a wave of sympathy on his behalf; and really it appears to me that more sympathy is felt for the criminal than for those who suffer by the crime. This is a fact that has come forcibly home to me as the Minister in charge of the Department of Justice. It is a maudlin, soft-hearted sympathy that, I consider, should not be fostered among our people. Of course, the State does not take up any attitude of vengeance; it simply acts on behalf of the community in punishing criminals for the offences they have committed. Punishment is no doubt a deterrent, and its best effect should be the prevention of the committal of crime, and this should be kept in view, instead of too much attention being paid to this feeling of sympathy for persons who offend against the law. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Time is up. Mr. J. W. THOMSON (Clutha) .- Sir, in the speech we have just listened to, the Minister of Justice dealt with a number of subjects con- nected with his departments. He gave us a good deal of statistical information regarding the mining industry. I have no doubt the honourable gentleman was quite correct in all that he said regarding mining. Towards the close of his remarks he referred to another de- partment over which he presides-the Justice Department. He told us that in these two de- partments the proposed expenditure for the year did not much exceed the expenditure of last' year. I admit that these departments compare very favourably with some of the other depart- ments as far as expenditure is concerned. I notice that in the Mines Department the money proposed to be expended during the current year is only £6,000 more than that expended last year, and that in the Justice Department the proposed expenditure of the current year is only some £3,000 more than the actual expenditure of the past year. I have no fault to find with these departments. With the view of proving to us that the country is prosperous, the honourable gentleman also told us that now we never see any unemployed knocking about. Fortunately, the country is in what people believe to be a prosperous stato. People, therefore, who wish work can usually find it, and if any one cannot find work he applies to the Government and is put on the co-opera- tive works. That explains how it happens that we do not at present see any unem- 11.30. ployed persons. At the present time there are 5,627 persons who are employed on co-operative works. A large number of these have been taken on during the last year or two. 