NEW ZEALAND. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City) asked the Go- vernment, What steps they propose to take to put all foreign companies trading in New Zealand on an equal footing in regard to the payment of 1s. per £100 on the amount of their capital, and so remove the existing anomaly of some companies having their goods seized in payment while other companies are never asked for payment ? This was a very important mat- ter for all foreign companies trading in New Zealand. By the Stamp Act every company is liable to pay 1s. for every £100 of their share capital, and with some of the large houses doing business here this amounted to £200 or £300 per annum. The companies were liable for the total amount uncollected in past years from the date of the passing of the Act. He believed that only two or three companies had been called upon to pay this tax. During last session he had to intervene and plead with the Hon. the Colonial Secretary for the release of some samples of one of these firms which had been seized because they had not paid the tax. It was very unfair to put the tax upon two or three companies when all the other companies doing business in New Zealand got off without paying anything. He believed that if the department were to offer 10 per cent. on all moneys recovered it would be possible for a man to make £2,000 or £3,000 a year for the next few years in bringing to book companies trading in New Zealand who had been paying nothing. The whole thing was an undue hampering of the commercial interests of the colony ; but if one or two companies were compelled to pay https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 the tax it ought to be enforced all round. The Government were losing a large sum of money by not enforcing it, and at the same time they were doing an injustice in enforcing it on two http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero or three companies and letting the others escape. Mr. CARROLL (Commissioner of Stamps) said that, first of all, they did not intend to abolish the charge ; and, secondly, the Govern- ment were at one with the honourable gentle- man that this tax should be enforced all round. The difficulty was to get evidence in proof of companies escaping the liability. He agreed that it was unfair that only certain companies should have this fee exacted from them while others got off. They wanted to get at them all. If the honourable gentleman could put the department on the track of some of these com- panies that he had spoken of, he could assure him that the machinery would be immediately set into motion for the purpose of bringing them to book. MAORI HOSTELRY AT THE BLUFF. Mr. PARATA (Southern Maori) asked the Government, Whether they have considered the petition of the Maori residents of the Bluff, Stewart Island, and Ruapuke, praying that the Maori hostelry at the Bluff be repaired and renovated, as the said building is continually occupied by Maori visitors from Stewart Island and other kaingas in that vicinity ? Government had decided to establish a hostelry there for the benefit of the Natives on repre- sentations having been made that the building which had served that purpose in the past was dilapidated and unfit for human habitation. Since then they had found that the cost of the building they had agreed to put up was, ac- cording to the estimate, rather excessive. The honourable gentleman knew that the drain on the Civil List had been rather unusual during the past two years-the South Island had had its fair share, taking everything into considera. tion-and that they could not afford to be extravagant. Instead of the building costing £250 as had been thought, the estimate showed that it would cost £400. Mr. PARATA .- £200 will put it up. Mr. CARROLL said that they had agreed to give £250, and if the house could be built for that they would willingly give it. EMILY MARIA FULLOON. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked the Native Minister, Whether the Government in- tend to take any steps with respect to the petition of Emily Maria Fulloon, only child of the late James Fulloon, murdered by the Maoris in 1865, which has been recommended by the House of Representatives, and also by the Legislative Council, on several occasions ? The honourable gentleman, he thought, was fully acquainted with this case, which had been twice recommended by different Committees of this House ; and only last session the Committee of the Upper House reported as follows :- " Your Committee recommend that a full inquiry into the claims of the late James Fulloon to any of the confiscated lands mentioned by the petitioner be made by any one of the Com- missioners who formerly investigated the titles to land on the East Coast, and that suob inquiry be held as soon as the Government can arrange for its taking place." He hoped the Minister intended to carry out the inquiry recommended by the Committee of the Upper House. He believed exhaustive in- quiries were made by that Committee into the merits of the case, and that was the report which was eventually brought down. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) said several reports on this petition had come before the Government in the usual way, and the Govern- ment decided not to take any action on the information then before it. Personally, he thought this was a fair subject for inquiry, and he should ask the Government to reconsider the matter in so far as to having the claim investi- gated. As already indicated, in answer to & previous question, it was the Government's in- tention to get a report on certain classes of petitions of the Natives of the North Island by a competent man, and he should recommend this as one to be looked into. NATIVE AFFAIRS COMMITTEE'S RECOMMENDATIONS. Mr. KAIHAU (Western Maori) asked the Native Minister, Whether it is the intention of. 