point in regard to which I should like to see moneys. There are four points to be specially the machinery improved. If the gentlemen who sit on the Conciliation Boards got as much for composing industrial struggles as for foment- ing them, I venture to say there would be more conciliation and less irritation. It is surely a monstrous thing to put a Judge in the position of having the amount of his salary dependent on the length to which he protracts a lawsuit. That is surely lowering him to the level of a common police-court lawyer, and I think we can hardly take him lower. Surely that is a very undesirable thing, and that is a matter over which this Legislature has direct control, and in regard to which it can and, I think, should legislate without violating any principle whatsoever of these labour measures. But there was another measure passed last session, and not a labour measure-that far-reaching and disastrous Public Revenues Act-by which we have actually brought the President of the Arbitration Court, a Supreme Court Judge also, into a very false position, because he also is to a certain extent now paid by re- sults. If honourable members .will look at section 112 of the Industrial Conciliation Act of last session, subsections (8) and (9), they will see that the Governor is empowered to make regulations prescribing what travelling-expenses shall be payable to the members of the Arbitration Court, including the President, and also what fees shall be paid to the mem- bers of the Arbitration Court, excepting the President. The President's fees are excepted from the operation of the regulations by the subsection ; but, notwithstanding this, in or about March last regulations were gazetted fixing the fees and travelling-allowances to be paid to all the members of the Court, including the President. This shows what a far-reaching power this Public Revenues Act gives to enable the Ministry of the day to override the express enactments of a statute. Attention was first drawn to this point, as far as I know, by the late member for Christchurch City (Mr. Lewis), and I should like to cite to the House a paragraph in his letter to the Christchurch Press of the 30th March, in which he puts the case very concisely and admirably, as it seems to me. It is entitled "In the pay of the Premier," and shows how, under the Public Revenues Act, everybody, from the Supreme Court Judge, and even the Governor, downwards, is " in the pay of the Premier." He says,- "Item: The House by Act increased the Governor's salary by £2,000 a year. On the supplementary estimates appeared a vote for $1,000 on account of certain work at Govern- ment House, for which under the Act the Governor himself should pay. Item: The salary of the Speaker by Act is £600 a year. On the estimates there was an additional $200. Item : The Chairman of Committees likewise receives #200 by vote. Item : Mem- bers of Parliament vote themselves $40 a head. Item : A Judge, whose salary is $1,500 a year by Act, is to get two guineas a day additional, although a second Act specifically excludes him from the receipt of any such noted about these votes : (1) They can only ap- pear upon the estimates by the will of the Pre- mier ; (2) they can only be carried by a majority of the House; (3) there is no guarantee that the recipients will get a copper next year ; (4) they are all against the law. In previous years the Auditor-General would have rejected the vouchers. But by last session's Public Revenues Act any sum voted by the House must be paid, though it should contravene every law upon the statute-book. Add to these items the fact that the Premier recently handed to a Re- turning Officer #234, to which the Supreme Court had declared he was not entitled; and where do we find ourselves ? Why, face to face with the fact that Governor, Speaker, Chair- man of Committees, M.H.R.s, and Returning Officer all received last year sums of money in excess of their legal salary, while it depends solely upon the Premier's goodwill whether they or the Judge get any similar amounts next year.' Then follows a little further down the com- ment, "Again, we lead the world." Yes, we do lead the world in that respect ; but I trust, for the credit of the colony, we shall cease to lead it in that respect before very long. I have no hesitation in saying that a Judge who was placed in a similar position in respect of a private litigant to that which the President of the Arbitration Court occupied towards the Go- vernment would be disqualified from adjudi- cating upon any case that came before him concerning that person. Take, for example, a most important case the Arbitration Court had to decide a few weeks ago -perhaps the most important case it ever had to decide-the squabble between two branches of the Seamen's Union as to whether the Dunedin Union can register a branch here. That is simply a party squabble originating from the Wellington by-election of 1898, when the Wellington Union did not think it should make itself a part of the political machine in the manner that the honourable member for Ashburton and his instructor apparently regard as the normal thing for unions to do. The Wellington Union stuck out against that, and they have been at loggerheads ever since with the Dunedin Union, who have remained out - and - out partisans of the present Government. The question between the two unions which came before the Arbitration Court was, therefore, practically a litigation to which the Govern- ment was a party ; and the President of the Court was a Supreme Court Judge, whose pay-or, rather, part of whose pay-is de- pendent on a vote on the estimates that we shall be asked to pass this session, and cannot even be put except by favour of the Govern- ment. Now, the Supreme Court of this colony has hitherto been above suspicion, and I will undertake to say it stands so high that it still remains above suspicion, notwithstanding the false position in which one of the Judges has been put; but I say, also, it cannot long re- main above suspicion if that kind of legislation and administration be allowed to continue. I 