The total value of gold, silver, coal, and other minerals, including kauri-gum, produced up to end of 1900 was $76,104,981. As the value of gold and silver produced in 1891 was $440,213 in excess of that of 1898, it will be seen that the decreased production for 1000 (representing a value of $75,530) is not serious, and is accounted for by the cessation of operations at a few quartz mines, and tempo- rary suspension-due to development-work and alterations to plant, &c .- at others ; also to the ! of #99,787 (gold, £94,389 ; silver, £5,399). conditions (due principally to the recent dredg- Comparative Statement of Gold and Silver entered for Export during the First Half of the Years 1900 and 1901. Half-year ending 30th June, 1900. - Value. Amount. Oz .. Gold 179,303 694,859 . . Silver 15,907 144,782 .. The amended regulations made under " The Mining Act, 1898," now make provision for the gold returns being furnished to the department up to the 31st day of December in each year, and it is intended that in the future the Table (No. 2) shall show the export quantities and values for the calendar year instead of the financial year. This year the table has been compiled as hitherto, but an additional table (No. 3) shows the exports of gold for the nine https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 months ending the 31st December, 1900. # GOLD EXPORT. The quantity of gold entered for exportation through the Customs for the past financial year was 392,976 oz., valued at £1,516,482, the respective districts contributing as follows : Auckland, 166,049 oz. ; Marlborough, 247 oz. ; Nelson, 5,126 oz. ; West Coast, 85,779 oz. ; Canterbury, 22 oz. ; Otago and Southland, 135,753 oz. # GOLD-MINING. Quartz. This method of gold-mining is the only form carried on in the North Island, all gold of a payable character-so far as is yet known- being associated with quartz in situ. During the year a considerable amount of development- work has been done at several of the principal mines in the Upper Thames district, and it is confidently expected that, as a result of the liberal and apparently judicious manner in which capital has been expended, the returns from this portion of the goldfield will show a decided advance within the next year or two. There is an aspect of permanence in the works undertaken at Waihi, Waitekauri, and Kara- ngahake, which augurs well for the future of these places; and on the completion of the branch railway now being constructed from Pacroa to Waihi the mining industry will be ing boom) which prevailed during the year in regard to alluvial mining. The latest returns from the Customs (as set out in the following table of comparisons) go to show that the yield of precious metals is again ! increasing, the export value of gold and silver for the first six months of the present year being --- largely in excess not only of the corresponding period of last year, but actually of that of the first six months of the year 1899 to the extent Half-year ending 30th Increase for First Half of June, 1901. 1901. Amount. Amount. Value. Value. Oz. Oz. 3 4 217,478 38,775 844,888 150,029 226,267 81,485 24,725 8,818 materially benefited, and especially so in regard to the supply of fuel for the requirements of the mines. At the Lower Thames there is, unfortunately, nothing to report in the direction of the actual development of the deeper levels. Owing to financial reasons the sinking of the Thames- Hauraki shaft was suspended at the latter end of last year, and so far no satisfactory under. standing has been arrived at with a view to its being further deepened. It is most desirable, in the interests of the industry and of the dis- trict, that the existence or otherwise of payable reefs below what is regarded as an unproductive belt should be definitely proved. With the object of ascertaining the potentialities of the hitherto unproved ground below the foreshore and estuary, the Victoria Gold-mining Com- pany are now engaged in boring operations, and, in view of the importance of this work, assistance is being given to the company by the Government by the loan of its diamond boring plant and a subsidy of $1,000, at the rate of 10s. for every #1 sterling expended by the com- pany in these pioneer explorations. Operations at some mines at and near Coro- mandel have been suspended ; but development- works are in progress at the Hauraki Freeholds Mine, the Royal Oak of Hauraki, and the Kauri Freehold Gold Estates Company's mines at Opitonui. An amalgamation of the Mariposa and Kapai-Vermont Mines at Kuaotunu has been effected and operations resumed. The reefs at Gumtown (Mercury Bay), which were discovered a couple of years ago, look promis- ing, and the mine on Great Barrier Island has now reached the productive stage. In Marlborough quartz-mining on a small scale has been commenced at Top Valley Creek, and the indications met with there appear such as to offer inducement for further prospecting in the mountain-range 