The editor was the Rev. Mr. Fitchett, the dis- tinguished author of stimulating literature of the " Fights for the Flag " and " Deeds that Won the Empire" kind. There was not a more loyal or patriotic man in the whole of the Australasian Colonies. He understood long ago that the connection between the Australasian and the English publications had been severed ; and, from all he had seen of it since, he had not seen anything in it of a pro-Boer nature or character. To follow out the arguments that had been adduced to their logical conclusion, we must taboo such repu- table English publications as the Nineteenth Century, The Contemporary, and the West- min.ter Review, which contained articles of what would be called a pro-Boer nature. It had been even said that he himself was a pro-Boer. He was not a pro-Boer, but an anti-Jingo. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) said he had never dreamt of accusing the Premier of subsidising a pro-Boer paper. He had moved to strike out the item because in the article they had a lot of absolutely useless photographs, quite irrelevant to the subject-matter, that would be misleading to people outside the colony. If it had been a well written dis- passionate article, giving authentic informa tion, and not party political views, it would have been a different matter. If there was any justification at all for this unauthorised ex- penditure of £260, surely it would be that it would recoup the colony by making her attrac- tions better known to people of the Old Country. He objected to this article, thron upon the rubbish heap. as a means of getting New Zea- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 land better advertised. The article was not in accordance with fact; it showed party bias, and was calculated to mislead. If he had 11.0. had an opportunity he would have http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero voted against that other self-laudatory work which the Premier had imposed on the tax- pavers of the colony. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) said the item was not justified, and was unwarranted, and that would be his reason for voting against it. He did not himself believe that the Premier would have advertised in a paper if its editor had been suspected of any strong sympathy with the Boers ; but that side of the question should be dismissed. He was going to vote against it, because he did not believe that money should be spent in this way. It was not an article on the colony in the ordinary way -- there was too much party in it : it was simply advertising the Administration, and there was nothing to justify the expenditure of this money. He objected to public money being used for paying for advertisements of this character while hopeless widows, whose bread winners had been taken from them, were refused a compassionate allowance. It had been stated that the Government never inter- fered with freedom of speech or opinion in this colony ; but he would point out that, not very long ago, the Railway Review, published in Christchurch, which criticized the adminis- tration of the Railway Department, had re- ceived intimation from the then Minister for VOL. CXVIII .- 46. Railways that, if it did not cease its antagonism to the administrative authorities, it would be refused the list of preferments. Mr SEDDON thought the honourable gentle- man was under a misapprehension. Mr. ELL said he could produce evidence of it ; and he hoped they would not have such another case of gagging on the part of the Go- vernment. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) was going to vote for the striking out of the item on the general grounds stated by the member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson). The pro- Boer phase of the question had nothing to do with the matter. He did not believe that any member of the Ministry would knowingly give an adver- tisement to any paper opposed to the British Government, or in any way traitorous in its utterances. It seemed to him that where the Government had made a mistake was in getting a gentleman to write this article who had been out of New Zealand for fourteen or fifteen years, while there were in the colony itself very many gentlemen who could write more up-to- date articles concerning it. Either from finan- cial, political, or any other aspect, the subject could have been much better treated by some one in the colony. He thought the amend- ment ought to be in the direction of moving a reduction by £1, as an indication that they did not approve of what had been done in this par- ticular matter ; but, as the honourable gentle- man had moved it, he was bound to support it. Mr. Fitchett, theeditor of the Review of Reviews, was well known throughout the whole of Aus- tralasia as a whole-hearted Imperialist ; he had done a great deal for the Empire, and was loyal to our Empire in every way. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said the member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds) and the member for Lyttelton, Mr. Laurenson, had stated they originally intended to vote for Mr. Hutcheson's amendment, but that in conse- quence of the character of the speeches made by those supporting that amendment they had changed their intention, and now intended to vote the other way. Strange to say, he was following exactly the contrary course, so that it could never again be said that speech in that House had never altered a vote. The Premier had characterized those who had chosen to exercise an independent opinion and exercised their freedom of speech as having taken part in an impeachment of the Government. There- fore, to indulge in freedom of speech was to impeach the Government. What was the use of expressing an opinion as to the wisdom of spending this money on the R. view of R.rieus, seeing that the money was spent? If the honourable gentleman s desire was to advertise this country in England, why not have sent to England, not 10,000 copies of the Review of Reviews, but 10,000 copies of that pretty little brochure which has been so well produced by our own printing department, and edited by Mr. Loughnan, a publication which was a credit to the country? What had advertised the Colony of New Zealand throughout the world, and in England in particular, more than any. 