from those where the sad rites are being per- formed, should take the opportunity of marking our respect in some manner such as I have indicated. I now move, That this House do adjourn till half-past seven o'clock this evening. Motion agreed to. # RAILWAYS STATEMENT. [ For Returns and Tables referred to in this State- ment, see Appendix D .- 2.] The following is the Railways Statement laid upon the table by the Minister for Railways (Sir J. G. WARD) on the 4th September, 1901 :- Mr. Speaker, -In presenting my second Rail- ways Statement, I am very much gratified to have to announce that the year's operations of our railways have again been most satisfactory, and show a very large increase on the business of the preceding year, notwithstanding the fact that the latter was a record year. I purpose subdividing my remarks under six headings-viz., "General," "Earnings," " Working-expenses," " Expenditure for Addi- tions to Open Lines and Rolling-stock charge- able to Capital Account," " Midland Railway," and "Concluding Remarks and Forecast." # 1\. GENERAL. The mileage of line open for traffic at the end of the year under review was 2,212 miles, against 2,104 for the previous year. £1,727,236 The revenue for 1900-1901 was . Against revenue for 1899-1900 1,623,891 An increase of . . £103,345 .. The increases in revenue for the past six years are shown by the following figures :- Year ending 31st March- 1896, over year ending 31st March, 32,190 1895 1897, over year ending 31st March, 103,117 1896 1898, over year ending 31st March, 89,850 1897 1899, over year ending 31st March, 93,657 1898 1900, over year ending 31st March, 154,226 1899 1901, over year ending 31st March, 103,345 1900 .. A total increase of £576,385 .. The working-expenses for 1900-1901 have been 1,127,848 Against ditto for 1899-1900 1,052,358 . . £75,490 An increase of .. . The excess of earnings over working- expenses for 1900-1901 has been 599,389 Against ditto for 1899-1900 571,533 An increased net return ! £27,856 for the year of . . The capital cost of the lines open for traffic Mr. Seddon £17,207,328 for the year under review, and the interest earned thereon has increased from £3.42 per cent. last year to £3.48 per cent. for year ending 31st March, 1901. The interest earned on our lines thus compares very favour- ably with the interest earned on capital cost by the railways in the sister States-viz., Vic- toria 3.07, Queensland 2.67, South Australia 3.51, Tasmania 1.11, New South Wales 3.63, and Western Australia 5.81. (Vide Return No. 15.) The loss on the Kawakawa Section has in- creased from £171 in 1900 to $185 in 1901, while that on the Nelson Section has decreased from £1,648 in 1900 to £1,531 in 1901. The net earnings of the Whangarei, Kaihu, Auck- land, Wellington-Napier-New Plymouth, West- port, Westland, and Picton Sections have increased, and of Hurunui-Bluff Section de- creased. The following extensions were opened for traffic, viz. : Waiotu to Hukerenui, 1 mile 24 chains; Makarau to Tahekeroa, 3 miles 6 chains ; Ranfurly to Wedderburn, 8 miles 34 chains; Invercargill to junction of Sea- ward Bush line, 73 chains; Jackson to Otira, 11 miles 23 chains. (Vide Return No. 22.) The alterations to train services and separa- tion of goods and passenger trains on important lines, as announced in my last Statement, have proved satisfactory and beneficial to the travel- ling public. The journey-times of many of the trains have been materially reduced. I propose gradually extending the system of running separate goods and passenger trains as the business of the colony warrants. It should, however, be borne in mind that services of this description cost a very large sum annually, and can therefore only be granted in cases where the traffic is sufficiently large to pay the in- creased expense, and the convenience of a large section of the travelling community necessitates the separation of the services. I give promin- ence to this matter owing to the continued demands that are made for faster and improved train services on many of the lines in the colony which are already excellently served by the existing arrangements, and on which the traffic neither warrants nor would pay for the ad- ditional trains. To meet the large and growing passenger traffic, and to provide better facilities for the travelling public, it has been found necessary to run additional mixed trains. This increase has not been confined to any particular part of the colony, but has been general to the whole. The mileage run by the additional mixed trains which have been permanently added to the time-table has amounted to 42,686 miles for the year, at a cost of £10,493. The running of the express trains between Auckland and Rotorua has been improved, twenty-five minutes having been taken off the journey. Passengers from Auckland thus reach Rotorua at 4.15 p.m. in place of 4.45 p.m., and leave Rotorua for Auckland at 8.45 a.m. in place of 8.20 a.m. An hour and five minutes has been taken off 