the debate has dealt with the increased ex- penditure and the increase of the public debt. The main items of increased expenditure have been very clearly shown on page ix. of the Financial Statement, and it is a remarkable thing that not one of these financial critics - the member for Nelson City, the member for Ashley, or the member for Riccarton-has referred to that table on page ix. Had they done so they would have seen just where we are going, and that while the expenditure is increasing, the revenue is increasing in a still greater ratio. They say the expenditure is in- creasing in a greater ratio than the population ; but, then, so is the revenue. Take the revenue of the Rail . ay Department. Since the Govern- ment took that department over from the Com- missioners the revenue has increased enor- mously, but the population has not increased in the same ratio. And where the revenue in- creases you must expect an increase of the ex- penditure. The question is, How does it work out? Take the Post and Telegraph Department, for instance : In the Post and Telegraph Depart- ment the expenditure has increased by £155,079; but the revenue has also increased by £168,512. In the Stamps Department the increased ex- penditure is $4,266; but the increased revenue is $227,159. The increased expenditure in Cus- toms is $632, and the increased revenue £653,655. In the Lands Department the increased ex- penditure is £44,951, and the increased revenue $80,781. In the Railway Department the in- creased expenditure is $427,144, and the increase in earnings $605,535. The cost of administra- tion of the Tax Department has increased by £11,929, and the returns have increased £111,044. Now, I have no hesitation in saying that honourable members would not object to the expenditure increasing tenfold if they could also increase the revenue tenfold at the same ratio as has been done in the past. Then, you must take into account the increase in the num- ber of new departments. I venture to say that if it was proposed to abolish any one of these new departments a majority of the House would object to it. Therefore, when we know that with the largely increased revenue there is no cause for anxiety, and no cause to make alarming speeches, I say we may demand that the gentlemen who made those speeches should represent the position fairly to their constituents, return their trust, and let their constituents say whether or not they ap- prove of the course they have taken. Sir, another question that has been dealt with is that of the public debt. Some people have com- pared our public debt with that of the Old Country, and have referred to the smallness of the debt per head there as compared with the debt per head in this colony. But, Sir, these honourable members forget to take into account the undertakings this colony has on hand- undertakings that the Government of the Old Country does not deal with. Now, take the rail- ways in Great Britain. They are not owned by the State. In share capital and loan and deben- ture stock they have cost no less a sum than £1,444,009,878. This has been spent on rail- VOL. CXVIII .- 21. ways in the Old Country; and if you add that to the debt, which was in 1899 £635,640,965, you get a total of £2,079,650,843. Then, if you divide that sum by the population, estimated roundly at forty millions, it would make the debt per head in the Old Country £51 15s. But you have also to take into account what the Government do in this colony, but which is not done by the Government of the Old Country, but is intrusted to the local bodies. There are harbours, the lunatic asylums, the gaols, the school-buildings, and the police. It is true they get sums in aid, but the large proportion of the cost is borne by the local bodies them- selves. If you take the cost of these depart- ments and add it to the debt, and the cost of the railways, it will be found that the debt per head is greater than it is in this colony at the present time. And in dealing with our public debt it is only fair that we should exclude the commercial operations, such as the purchase of land for settlements. The money borrowed for that department, as shown in the Lands Statement this year, shows a profit of over £13,000, after paying interest and for all ex- penses. Then, Sir, Cheviot alone returned a profit of over £5,000. Now, these under- takings were not entered on by the Opposition when they were in power, and if you want to give a proper comparison between the debt at that time and at the present time you must leave out of the account these profit-earning commercial operations. What do you find if that is done? That the debt per head is less than it was in 1890. If you deduct the amount received for these commercial undertakings- advances to settlers, £2,380,000; land for settle- ments (including Cheviot), £2,075,566; and Consols, £459,3-9-you will reduce the debt by nearly five millions of money, showing that the increased debt, including that for loans to local bodies, purchase of Native lands, and similar items, during the last ten years is £6,361,031. Then, if you take the debt with those deductions and divide it by the number of the population to get the debt per head, whether the debt itself or the annual charge, you find there is a great saving to the actual taxpayers of the colony. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Time is up. Mr. HASELDEN (Patca). - Sir, I wish to make a personal explanation. The Minister for Public Works misrepresented and misquoted me. I do not wish to say he did so wilfully. Now, the honourable gentleman must have known I did not refer to Canada as a whole when I said the cost of government was £6,000. I said distinctly that the Province of Ontario, in Canada, contained a population of 1,650,000, and the cost of the government of Ontario was £6,000; and if the honourable gentleman had considered for a moment he would have re- membered that the population of Canada is over five millions, and therefore I could not have referred to Canada. If the honourable gentle- man would listen to the speeches of members in this House, instead of getting his information from the report in the Evening Post, in which the word " Ontario " was omitted, he would be 