what on earth has such a subject to do with the financial debate? If I were to go on the same lines I could say of the honourable gentle- man that here below he was an apostle of the earth, earthy. That is all I would say of the honourable gentleman. Now, Sir, I have some- thing to say with regard to the speech of the honourable member for Bruce ; but before doing so I would remark that, owing to the time-limit, I am afraid that my candid friends are going to escape. The honourable mem- ber for Bruce compiled a little table which I have had copied. He said " The total avail- able ways and means up to 31st March, 1901, was £2,339,749, and the appropriations from 1900-1901 were £2,196,365," and taking the one from the other it "leaves available on the 31st March only £143,384." Sir, I say-I wish I could use a stronger term-no more mis- leading, no more unfair statement could be made, because the honourable gentleman knows that in the one case he has taken the actual ways and means, in the other the appropriation. He has not taken the actual expenditure of last year. There was not, as stated, £143,000, but there was available, after deducting the actual ex- penditure from the ways and means, £1,032,238 on the 31st March last; and yet he would lead the country through this false table to believe that there was only £143,000, whilst there was considerably over a million available. And he, forsooth, aspires to be a Colonial Trea- surer ! He wishes to be put on these benches ! One who would mislead the country in that way deserves the highest censure possible upon him ; he should be mistrusted, denounced, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 and relegated to obscurity. You must to the £1,032,238 add $500,000, the amount out of surplus available for public works. Take from this the contingent liabilities, $1,292,096, and what do you find? Why, that after making due provision for the so-called liabilities you have £240,142. You have over £240,000 after providing for the liabilities. But he wanted the country to believe that we had incurred liabilities beyond what we could meet if the charges came to book, and that we had not sufficient ways and means left to meet the so-called liabilities. Well, I will admit, for the purpose of my argument, that they were to some extent liabilities, although they were not, and then, Sir, there would be over £240,000 left, in lieu of being unable to meet liabilities, as the honourable gentleman wished it to be inferred. He is only wrong again by half a million. How is he misleading the House ? He does not take into consideration the $500,000 we had of cash surplus last year. He ignores that altogether, and, for the purpose of misleading the country and honourable members, he makes that false and misleading statement by putting appropriations against ways and means, instead of being fair and placing actual expenditure against ways and means. However. Sir, I take now the cash in hand: In the Public Works Fund on the 31st March, $232,000 ; balance of loan, $800,000; transfer the $500,000 I have referred to, and that gives $1,532,000. Taking Mr. Seddon and deducting that from the #1,500,000, leaves £240,000. Sir, I want to go further than that. What are those liabilities ? As they appear they are simply misleading. They are not liabilities at all : more than one-half are com- mitments. Some of them may never be used at all, and some may take two years. Members may have seen in the Roads and Bridges Account items of liability. They could not understand it. Well, I will let them into the secret. When the Cabinet has authorised an expenditure, the Under Secretary for Lands sends out to the district survevor that the authority has been given, and that authority is put down as a liability. I tell the House and the country that what has been taken as liabilities, and which, for want of a better technical term, have been mentioned as lia- bilities, are not and never will be actual liabili ties at all. Then, another member told us that we had taken power or would be compelled to borrow £3,000,000. It has gone home to London that we had to borrow $3.000,000. and that we could not pay our way without it. That is a statement that has appeared in the London journals, and I say it injures the credit of the colony. We can go on with a million a year for public works. Then, Sir. the honourable member said we had borrowing powers up to five millions, and by the way he put it we must raise five millions. Mr. J. ALLEN .- No, I did not. Mr. SEDDON -Well, then, what did the honourable member mention it at all for ? We have had that power, and larger power than that, for years, and our annual increased indebtedness has been a little over a million for the last ten years, although since 1893 during all this time we have had borrowing powers of nearly five millions. Power is given to us by way of Treasury bills to meet emergencies, and, I ask. What has been the exercise of that power ? The exercise of that power has been only a million a year. I say this could only have been mentioned for the purpose of destroying or helping to destroy the credit of the colony. And it has gone Home now that we cannot do with less than three millions, and our loan will only be one million, as now proposed. I say, if members would only see the injury they are likely to do by these remarks, they would hesitate before making them ; and I implore them now not to injure our colony. I say, if honourable members opposite wish to get rid of me, if they really wish to get rid of this Government, let them do it without injuring their country. If, Sir, my stopping bere injured the credit of this colony, or re- tarded the progress and prosperity of New Zealand, the Governor could have my resigna- tion to-morrow. I shall not hold office on such a basis. I say we are fairly administering the affairs of this country, and if this is done to the injury of the colony it recoils upon those who do it. Then, Sir, we have had something about Commissions, and it has been said during this debate that there have been too many Commis- sions. I could mention one honourable gentie- 