simply flaunting the House. It states that a fine of £15 is to be inflicted as a penalty, but it does not say upon whom it is to be inflicted, and anybody with common-sense knows that a debt stated in that form is irrecoverable. It must be specific, stating who owes it. Then, I cannot vote against the motion of the Premier, because that would appear as if I was indifferent to the privileges of this House and did not care about them. The Premier has placed me in the position that I cannot exercise my right and do my duty in conserving the privileges of the House by voting for a motion which carries con- viction and common-sense with it. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) .- I do not intend to delay the House at this late stage of the discussion, and I will not for a moment endeavour to reopen any consideration of the merits of the question as to which I have had my say already. I may be, perhaps, allowed to express my own view, and the view, I believe, that is very generally shared by mem- bers of the House-that is, that if the original motion put before us yesterday morning had been a straight-out motion to fine this jour- nalist £15 for breach of the privileges of this House I believe the whole matter would have gone through without discussion in the course of half an hour. That is my opinion. I am not in a position at present to vote for the amendment that has been moved by the Minister for Public Works. The offences of which this journalist has been guilty towards the House are now three in number. First of all, then, there is the publication of matter which was not authorised to be published ; secondly, his contumacy in refusing to answer https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 certain questions that were put to him by the Committee appointed to investigate ; and, thirdly, that so-called letter of regret, which appears to me to be simply in the nature of further contumely-an aggravation of the prior offences. Now, the original motion that was before us was that we should accept what, in my opinion, and, I think, in the opinion of the majority of this House, is an aggravation of the offence as purging the offence ; as purging, in fact, both offences of which he had pre- viously been guilty. The amendment, how- ever, is not quite so absurd as that. The amendment still says we shall accept his expression of regret, but it proposes we shall accept the sum of $15 as well. If it had been £15 and costs it would have been probably a fancy figure that the journalist would have had to pay by this time, seeing that it has cost a day and a half of the time of this House to adjudicate upon the matter. Now, I wish to explain how it is I cannot accept the amendment as it stands. The motion as amended would run, "That this House accepts the expression of regret of the representative of that journal (the Star), and on payment of the sum of $15 this House resolves to proceed no further in the matter." Now, there are no less than five necessary ele- ments with regard to that payment which are absent from the form of amendment that the Minister for Public Works has moved. And the points are these : It does not say by whom Mr. Monk whom the payment is to be made ; it does not say for what the payment is to be made ; it does not say when the payment is to be made : and it does not say what will be the nature of the payment if it is made. Now, I will ask any member who has an eye to business as to whether these are not all essential elements in the resolution which is supposed to assert the dignity and privileges of this House in a sub- stantial and sensible fashion. Mr. FISHER .- Is the payment a condition precedent ? Mr. ATKINSON .- That is a point I am com- ing to presently. I would like to reserve my argument upon it in the meantime. As I see the Minister is now in his place, and he has often extricated us from a difficulty in Com- mittee by his suggestions as to the form of an amendment that is to be made when the House has agreed upon its substance. I would suggest to him that the draftsmanship of this amendment which we are now discussing might be pardoned if it had been moved extem- pore and impromptu, say, at a meeting of a foot- ball club, but I fail to understand how anything so loose, and therefore so futile, could be put before us for due consideration by a responsible authority. Now, what will be the nature of this payment that we ask for ?- for we do not insist upon it. We do not say that any person is liable to pay it ; we simply say that if it is paid we will not ask any more for " blood money." But what will be the nature of the payment? Now, in the case of the most recent "fusty, musty precedent " that has been re- ferred to, the case of Mr. William Watson. which was before this House on the 17th July. 1896, there was there a straight-out resolution carried, which was : - "This House adjudges the said William Watson guilty of a breach of the privileges of this House, and orders that he be fined in the sum of $500 sterling." Now, why do we not agree to a resolution on those lines, simply resolving that the pubh-her of this paper be fined in the sum of €15 sterling ? If that is not so, what will be the value-we have had a number of precedents quoted in this debate-what will be the value of this action as a precedent for the future? Nobody will be able to say for what the payment is to be made. As I have said, the original offence was doul led. and now it is trebled, and there is no specifica- tion of what part of the offence this $15 is supposed to cover. It is quite open for any- body to say, after all, it is only hush-money, of compensation, or liquidated damages in full settlement of any damage the dignity of this House has sustained. Is it desirable that the House should so lower its dignity as to take ap that position ? Is it desirable that the House in endeavouring to assert its dignity should put it down so low as that ? Now, the point who a the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) raised just now was as to whether or not the payment would not be a condi- tion precedent-a condition precedent to our abandoning further proceedings in the matter. 