taxation has been increased ? I cannot under- warning from his immediate predecessor. The honourable member spoke of the salaries paid stand those members who speak of the taxation to Ministers in Ontario and Canada; but the of this colony as having been increased. For honourable member only told half the story, several years there has not been any increase Ontario being only a province of Canada. in taxation. On the contrary, we have reduced Mr. HASELDEN. - I thought you knew taxation more than any other Government has ever done in this colony. Take the reductions that. Mr. HALL-JONES .- The honourable mem- that were made in 1995 and take the reductions ber referred to Ontario as if it were Canada. made last year, and put the two together, and In many cases there Ministers have residences, what do you find? At the present day we and no deduction is made from their salaries have given just about half a million, by the because they occupy Ministerial residences. concessions made through the Customs in the The amount of Ministers' salaries paid in two years I have referred to. And yet we Canada . including the Dominion Government hear members talking about the increase in and the Provinces Government-is no less taxation. The honourable member for Riccar- ton gave a most amusing instance. He took than $58,620. That is the actual payment for salaries alone. I am sure if the honourable one of the parliamentary papers-H .- 9, I think member had known the facts he would not - which gives the amount of taxation per head have made the statement he did. from the consumption of spirits, beer, wine, Mr. HASELDEN. - I referred to Ontario. and tobacco, et cetera, and he took a family of five, and endeavoured to show how hardly the Mr. HALL-JONES .- You also mentioned Canada. Ministers there receive larger salaries Customs duties upon those items pressed upon this household. He allowed so much for beer, than Ministers receive in New Zealand. The wine, and spirits to the wife and to the hus- honourable member and several other members band, including tobacco, and so much tea and also made reference to co-operative labourers. sugar to the children. But I ask, what has that He said that the men are earning too much- that labourers are earning from 10s. to $1 a to do with the question ? Spirits and beer and day. Now, let us take the work being done at tobacco are not a necessity. If one chooses Hunterville : I would like the honourable mem- to use these things they are at liberty to do so, ber to give one case where a labourer on that and they have to pay duty upon them. But work is earning #1 a day. it was on the actual necessaries of life Mr. HASELDEN .- I can do so. that the concessions were made last year, Mr. HALL-JONES .- I receive the returns totalling for part of the last financial year over £100,000. Where does the increase in of earnings every month, and I say that the average wage during the last two or three taxation come in there? In what year has months does not exceed 78. 6d. a day. taxation been increased ? But I will tell you An Hon. MEMBER .- What is the highest what has happened : The position of the colony has been so much improved by the earning Wage ? Mr. HALL-JONES .- 10s. 6d. to the very best power of the people being greater now than in men. In one gang you may have men of excel- the past that they have had more money to lent capacity, with strength and experience, spend, and, having more money to spend, they but you may have in another gang men who have purchased goods upon which the same have had no experience. As I have said before, rate of duty, perhaps, has been paid as in past I do not care if a man earns £1 a day so long as years. Consequently, the Customs revenue has the colony gets the value for that money. The gone up ; the gross results have been greater, but there has been no increase of taxation, men are paid according to the work they do. It The able man earns a although there has been an increase in the is payment by results. higher wage, and the less able man a smaller Customs revenue. Now, when the member for Patea suggested that we had increased the wage. I may state that there are not six thou- taxation to the extent of six millions I think sand men employed on these works ; there are from 5,300 to 5,400 men employed upon rail- that, as a sensible man, he did not mean what way- and road-work, and among that number he said. there are first-class men and inferior men. I to six millions. am glad to say that in one district the men subscribe amongst themselves and subsidise a able member's speech in Hansard, and I doctor to attend to any of them or their families venture to say he will find that I am correct. who may take ill. Then, upon another work Well, then, the honourable member also made the men subscribe to a fund 6d. each per week, an absurd statement with regard to the North to mect any cases of sickness that may arise Island Main Trunk Railway. He said Mr. among them. I am proud to think there are Rochfort surveyed the line eighteen years ago, men engaged on these works who thus make and that only twenty-three miles had been provision for a time of trouble. But it is the lazy man and the loafer who is always growling made since that time. and dissatisfied. Then, the member for Patea had been made from Marton. said that the revenue of this country has been increased by six millions ; or, in other words, that taxation to that amount has been taken member qualifies his statement now, of course, out of the pockets of the people. What did | he may be right, but the Hansard report will Mr. HASELDEN .- I said it had increased Mr. HALL JONES .- I shall see the honour- Mr. HASELDEN .- Twenty-three miles only Mr. HALL-JONES .- Well, if the honourable 