and especially the personal omnipotence of the head of the Government, is simply reverting to the primitive days of our race, with its benighted belief in the powers of the King and the " medicine man." There are certainly some tribes still living in such darkness, but it is an extraordinary thing to me to hear the advocates of Liberalism championing a theory which is nothing but a reversion to a very low state of intelligence. I have here a very competent authority on the subject, who, to take one example from his large store, says :- "The Banjars in West Africa ascribe to their king the power of causing rain or fine weather. So long as the weather is fine, they load him with presents of grain and cattle ; but if long drought or rain threatens to spoil the crops, they insult and beat him till the weather changes." In Mexico and elsewhere they even treated their king in such a case as our forefathers treated King Charles the First-they took off his head. Coming nearer home, take one of our new possessions, which is mentioned in the Budget under the head of " Greater New Zea- land," the Island of Niue or Savage Island, which the right honourable gentleman visited on his missionary tour. He then delivered an address which was of sufficient importance to be set out in Appendix C to this book of his, which I have already cited. A few words are worth quoting to illustrate the tenderness of his heart,- "Now, this island, I have said, is seldom visited by Europeans. In the first place, steamers never come here. They go to the other islands, but this island is passed by. That should be changed ; and not only so, but the name appears on our map as Savage Island, or Niue. It should be changed to 'The Island of Love.' When I return home I will recom- mend that a change be made." The propriety of the right honourable gentle- man delivering an address in that place will appear to honourable members after listening to a passage in Mr. Turner's well-known book on Samoa, page 304, words written with regard to this very island. You will see that the super- stitions of those islanders are, or were, practi- cally exactly the same as some of the super- stitions of some members of this Parliament to whom I have referred. Mr. Turner says :- " When I was there in 1845 they had no king. Of old they had kings, but as they were the high priests as well, and were supposed to cause the food to grow, the people got angry with them in times of scarcity, and killed them ; and as one after another was killed the end of it was that no one wished to be king." The monarchy was therefore extinct in that island-not yet "the Island of Love"-in Mr. Turner's time ; but what an opening it now offers for the Right Hon. the Premier. Note the combination of the kingship with the priest- hood, which would exactly suit him, and re- member that he is already the uncrowned king of that island, just as he is of the rest of the cannibal islands which we have annexed. And position-whether the name of that island is changed or not, as the right honourable gentle- man so benevolently suggests-if he would formally revive the extinct monarchy and go to make the sun shine and the crops grow on Savage Island. And if they did not grow ? Why, then he would fall a victim to precisely the same delusion that has kept him in power for so many years in this colony. But, speaking quite seriously, what is the difference between the superstition of those benighted islanders and that of members of this House who get up, one after the other, and quote from blue-books, and say that the present is the best of possible Governments because the sun still shines and our crops are still good ? Now, I will come to another part of the question. There was one remark made at Monday's banquet with which I am in thorough accord, and that is that, instead of undertaking any new experiments, our time would be much better spent in re- vising and recasting some of the legislation which we have already passed. Take, for in- stance, the Workers' Compensation for Acci- dent Act of last session. It is now working out in all sorts of unforeseen directions. I would like to see that Act properly considered by this House. An Hon. MEMBER .-- There has not been a single case heard under that Act. Mr. ATKINSON .- It has not been three months in force yet. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why should we revise it, then ? Mr. ATKINSON .- The law-courts are not the only places where you may learn the work- ing-out of social experiments. There are a great many other laboratories besides the law- courts in which we may see the working of these experiments. I cannot treat this matter at length, but let me point out two unforeseen directions in which the Act has worked. That Act was directly aimed to assist the workman, and yet its effect has been to help the hated middleman. For instance, if I employ a work- ing-man to effect some repairs in my house, and he breaks his neck, I am liable to the amount of £400 to his representatives; but if my bar- gain has been with his employer, then, even assuming that his relatives select me as their mark, I have an indemnity from his employers to the full extent of my liability, so that if I employ a contractor whom I know to be a sub- stantial man I am safe. That is an unforeseen direction in which that Act tells against the in- dependent workman who is his own employer. Another matter for which the labour repre- sentatives of this House are responsible is in regard to mortgages : a claim for compensation under the Act is made a first charge upon the land, even taking precedence of a previously registered mortgage. In my opinion, the most disastrous thing we put on the statute book last session, except what we did for the per- sonal advantage of ourselves and Ministers, was this particular provision. One labour member has complained recently of the case of a man who was going to get some money at 