Mr. SEDDON .- Hear, hear. The public de- manded it. Mr. J. W. THOMSON .- Then, there is the Tourist and Health Resorts Department, ex- pected to cost £16,000. Was that forced upon the Government ? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes; and it is to look after one of the most valuable assets we have got. Mr. J. W. THOMSON. - It may turn out well : I hope it will. Then we come to " Mis- cellaneous Services," in which are included the expenses of the Royal visit, and of that I shall say nothing. We were all gratified to have the Prince and Princess amongst us, and I am sure we do not grudge the money that their visit cost. Then, there is the Education De partment, the additional cost of which is esti- mated at $73,000. I suppose that was an absolute necessity, and I have no doubt we shall get good value for the money. In the Agricultural Department there is an increase of £17,000. This department is growing. In some respects I believe it has done and is doing good, but I am inclined to think that latterly the Government have been going rather too far. For instance, I understand the Go- vernment have been importing entire horses from the Old Country. Mr. SEDDON .- We got two of the best horses in England for nothing. Mr. J. W. THOMSON .- We never get any- thing for nothing ; we have always to pay for it some way or other. Now, with respect to these two horses- - Mr. SEDDON .- We sent them to Otago, but if you are not satisfied to have them there, the people of the North Island will be glad to have https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 them. Mr. J. W. THOMSON .- All right ; I am not to be frightened by the Minister from making any remarks I think proper. I shall not be re- sponsible, but the honourable gentleman will be. But, all joking apart, I think that business of this kind might well be left to the enter- prising men of the country. We have pursued this policy in the past, and with the best re- sults. A gentleman who was at Home lately, and who had attended many agricultural shows, told me that he had seen quite as good horses in New Zealand as he had seen in the Old Country. I am sure we are all pleased that this is so. The stock has been brought to its present state of perfection by private efforts, and I think it should be left to private efforts in the future. Mr. SEDDON .- An infusion of new blood does good. Mr. J. W. THOMSON .- That is quite true ; but we got an infusion of new blood in bygone years ; and if we leave this business in the hand of competent men we shall continue to get new blood. Then, there is the Defence De- partment. That is costing us too much. The sum put down for this year is €213,000. Of course we must be defended ; but I think our defence should be left chiefly to the English navy, and we should contribute our fair share of its cost. I am sure that a large proportion of this money is frivolously thrown away, and bridges. Then, there is the Lands and Survey. I notice that we propose to spend a less sum of money on lands and survey during the cur- rent year than we did last year. Mr. SEDDON. - We have taken from that the Roads Department, and have put it under a separate department. Mr. J. W. THOMSON .- If the honourable gentleman can explain it, so much the better. At all events, these are all increases, and they are increases during a year when we should have been specially on our guard to prevent expendi- ture that was not required. Then, there is the proposed public works expenditure. That is growing apace. The expenditure is now well on to two millions. That, I think, is altogether too much. My own opinion, as I have said, is this : that we might raise so much out of re- venue. That and, say, half a million of bor- rowed money would be enough. This depart- ment is growing, growing by hundreds of thou- sands each year. It is like all other businesses that are in a thriving way-a business to be in a thriving way must be growing. We are borrow- ing and spending too much. I once heard the Premier say that rather than be a party to the borrowing of two millions a year for public works he would resign his seat on the Treasury benches. I think I once heard him make a statement of that kind. Is he not in the fair way of having to borrow two millions a year to carry on public works ? Mr. SEDDON .- No. Mr. J. W. THOMSON .- He says, "No" ; but we have been moving in that direction for years past, and we are just on the margin of the two millions now. The Minister, will by- and-by be forced to borrow two millions to carry on the public works. A supporter of the Government said in this debate that he did not believe the Government would get the money. Those are his very words. We know the Government will have to pay sweetly for it if they get it. As that is so, we should be on our guard as much as possible against running into expenditure of this kind. Just think what would be the effect if we were forced to reduce our expenditure by one-fourth. As I have said, we have 5,600 men at present on the co-opera- tive works. The reduction of our expenditure by one-fourth would mean paying off upwards of a thousand of these men. And where would they go to ? They would go principally to our large towns - to Auckland, Welling- ton, Christchurch, and Dunedin. Would the honourable gentleman sitting on the Minis- terial benches then say, "Look, there is not a swagger to be seen ; see how prosperous the country is "? Would people say the country was prosperous when men were walking on the streets unemployed ? The Government should therefore be very much on their guard. I think the mistake the Government has made is that they have been going on as if the good times we were having were certain to continue. No doubt the country is fairly prosperous at present, but we all know that there is no country that is always prosperous; we have 