gression ": what does that mean? The idea of any journalist writing such a sentence in a weighty matter like this, and with the view of submitting it to the House! I suppose he meant it was not with any idea of transgress- ing. I fear that the gentleman in question has been consulting somebody who knows pro- bably more about parliamentary rules than he does about literary composition, and in doing that the person he consulted has dug a pit for him, and he has fallen in. But I do think that what the House ought to demand is not what is in the motion of the Premier at all. In the first place, I think the House ought to demand what Mr. Speaker always does de- mand from an offending member, a full apology without qualification for the offence that has been committed. Then, if the person refuses to give a full apology he must be punished - like I was last year. I refused to give a full apology, and the House very properly, from their point of view, awarded to me the punish- ment of having to enjoy myself outside instead of inside this Chamber for one night. An Hon. MEMBER .- With the phonograph. Mr. PIRANI .- With the graphophone; and I believe, as an honourable member says, I had a larger audience than Mr. Speaker had in here. I say that in this case the option ought to be given to the Press representative who has offended of giving a complete apology to the House, and if he does that, then probably the House would take a more lenient view of the case than if he refuses to give that complete apology. Now, the Minister of Mines this afternoon introduced a fresh topic into this discussion. The Minister of Mines gave us some particulars about the way the papers were "bundled up." as he said, in the Com- mittee-room, and he pointed out that one drawback in connection with that Committee- room was that the room was used by other Com- mittees, and that because there were no proper conveniences for the storage of papers it was possible for members of other Committees, or for other persons going into the Committee-room, to get at the evidence. Now, I took the trouble, with an expert, to measure the cabinet in which the papers are kept belonging to this Committee. The cabinet is 3 ft. 3 in. by 2 ft. 10 in. by 15 in., and we are asked to believe that the paper, 9 in. by 4 in., could not be kept in a cabinet of those dimensions ! Was ever such nonsense sub- mitted before to any House? As a matter of fact, this was the excuse urged before the Com- mittee by at least two witnesses : that there was not a proper place for the storage of the papers there; and the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) went pretty fully into this matter in his cross-examination. In cross- examining one witness the Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Fisher, asked the following questions :- " Mr. Fisher.] I understood you to say that you had a large number of books in the Com- mittee-room ?- Yes; two cases of books were brought up from Dunedin by Mr. Holsted, one of the witnesses, and a very large tin case, full | Mr. Pirani the Express Company. "Do you require the cases to hold your minute-book ?- The books that I refer to are those produced by witnesses. "But the minute-book ? - No, we do not require cases to hold that. "Could not the clerk take possession of the minute-book and the documents after the pro- ceedings of the Committee had terminated ?- He had possession of that book, and also the letter-book. " Did you not say that those books were left about in the room ?- No ; the clerk had charge of them. I referred to the books, exhibits in the evidence. " You say that copies of the minutes of evi- dence were left lying about ?- Yes ; I have seen them. " When the Committee was not sitting ?- Immediately after the rising of the Committee. " You say that minutes of evidence, if not the minute-book, were left lying loosely about after the Committee had finished its sittings? -Sometimes we finish our sittings after 1 o'clock, and the members hurry off to lunch. We do not care to stay and see about the books then. "I understood you to say that, after the business of the Committee was over, you have seen the evidence lying about on the table ?- Yes." Now, the Clerk in giving evidence also went into this question, and he to a great extent confirmed what the Chairman said. The Ciers also pointed out that he received the evidence on Friday, the 16th August, and that it did not come before the Committee until the 22nd August; therefore there was no oppor- tunity for this evidence to be found lying about the Committee-room until practically after the publication of the evidence in the Evening Star. Under these circumstances. I do not think there is very much in the conten- tion about papers lying about the Committee- room, especially in view of the fact that there is a cabinet of the dimensions I have stated, and with keys to lock it up, in which the evi- dence had been put. Now, the Premier, in the course of his speech, broke fresh ground. and in particular he laid very great stress upon what he considered improper language used by the member. for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson) in the course of his speech. I am not at liberty to refer to the words the Premier was compelled to withdraw. but I can say he passed a general reflection upon the language used in this House by the member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutchesoni. Well, if ever I have heard Satan reproving sin we have certainly got it in this case. " Political sneak," is the sort of language that the Premier uses in his tirades. "Political ferret." "political wasp," " political vipers," and so on : those are the choice specimens of language that the Premier has used towards members, and they are used by the very member of the House who wants to set an example to other members as to what language we should use in debate. 