mourning for the loss of its principal citizen, a man who by his many admirable qualities had endeared himself to the right - thinking people of the whole of Christendom, and who has been suddenly stricken down by the hand of a foul assassin, the British people feel what has happened, they feel the loss of a great and good man, they feel the dastardly crime that has been committed almost keenly as the American people themselves. And when we pass, Sir, unanimously, as we will, the resolution which has been moved by the Premier, it will be no empty form, but the sincerest possible expression of sympathy and sorrow from this Parliament and from the people of the country as a whole. Sir, the people of this colony have watched with anxiety during the last week when the life of the Pre- sident lay trembling in the balance-we watched with anxiety, and we hoped that his life would be spared for much future usefulness. But it was not to be. An inscrutable Providence had ruled otherwise. His time had come ; and we can only now look back with admiration upon the patience and courage with which he met his end. Sir, the great Republic of the United States has been blessed with many noble men as Presidents, but the name of William McKin- ley will be remembered not only by the people of America, but also by the people of the British Empire, to whom he has proved himself a true friend, as a brave man, a Christian gentleman, and a distinguished statesman. I second the motion. Resolution agreed to. THE LATE MR. M. J. S. MACKENZIE AND THE LATE MR. A. J. BURNS. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Mr. Speaker, I now rise to move the following resolution : "That this House desires to place on record its regret at the death of the late Mackay John Scobie Mackenzie, and appreciation of his services as a member of the House of Repre- sentatives, and tenders to Mrs. Mackenzie and the members of his family its sincere sympathy and condolence." Sir, I am sure that the members present will join with me in ex- pressing unfeigned regret at the death of our late comrade. When I look across to the place where he sat, and which will know him no more, and think that he was there only a short time ago, and that he had only arrived at mature manhood- that he has passed away- it makes me feel sad in the extreme ; and, as one who has had many a wordy tilt with him who has departed, I can only look back now and feel pleasure at the thought that, whatever may have been our differences of opinion, no personal feelings remained. He was a man possessed of considerable ability, and of great devotion to his district and to the colony ; and the great ability he possessed was placed unreservedly at the service of his fellow- colonists. I regret exceedingly that he has been called away. Whether as a member of Parlia- ment, or as a journalist, or a colonist we ap- Freciated the thoroughness with which he Mr. Massey his death. We all deplore that he should have been taken away, as I have said, in the prime of his manhood ; and so far as in our power lies we earnestly desire to assuage the grief of the bereaved ones, and tender to them our heartfelt sympathy and condolence. We shall miss the services of Mr. Scobie Mackenzie, as the colony has missed them for some time past. Sir, I shall ever recollect his good - natured banter as and his keen satire. However, even among those from whom he differed he was personally very much liked, and one and all in this House, I am sure, regretted to hear of his death, and will join with me in carrying this resolution, and tendering to his widow and family our heart- felt sympathy and condolence in the great and irreparable loss they have sustained. Sir, I move the motion. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce). - I suppose that Scobie Mackenzie was best known to us as a member of Parliament, and I do not suppose that any member of Parliament who was here when Scobie was in the House can forget those occasions on which he was wont to make what was considered at the time a great speech. He used to hit hard, but he always hit hard in the face. The Right Hon. the Premier said he used sarcasm. Perhaps he did. I rather think the word that expresses more adequately what he used is " raillery." He was humorous ; he was witty. His speeches told in the House : but where they did tell with most effect was on the public platform. Sir, though he did hit hard in the House, there was no man I ever came across who was so generous to his oppo- nents outside the House. I know that in our own counsels, in our own discussions pri- vately, and in our talks about individuals op- posed to us in politics, there never was a man who was more generous than he was, and it seemed only natural to him to pick out not that which was bad in his opponent, but that which was good, and invariably from Scobie Mackenzie in our talks came remarks most favourable to any man who was opposed to him. Sir, he was a literary man in two aspects. He was literary in the sense that he loved literature and loved reading for its own sake, and he got all the benefit that could be derived from reading. He read with care. . He collated what was worth collating of that which he did read, and I do not know that I can express more clearly what his attitude towards literature was than by quoting from one of his own favourite authors :- I have sent books and music there, and all Those instruments with which High Spirits call The future from its cradle, and the past Out of its grave, and make the present last In thought and joys which sleep, but cannot die. Folded within their own eternity. Sir, of his work as a literary man I will say nothing to-day ; I leave it for history to say of what value it may be. Sir, those who knew him other than in the House of Representatives knew him to be a man of character that was most invaluable. His social life and his home life formed a picture one could dwell upon with delight and joy. I know of no man, either 