better. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- Well, I wish to show that, though we had possibly the most damaging speech-I say the most damaging speech, on the surface of it-from the member for Riccarton, I, as a student, cannot follow him, because I say, in a political or Pick wickian sense, I do not believe him. His figures I do not believe. His deductions I do not believe, because his expressed views were the very oppo- site only a few months ago. Now, let us take the first point that strikes me. I say that he cannot belong to the Opposition, and to prove this I will quote from his speech delivered in Canterbury. This is what he says : - " Looking at the state of parties, there was first the old unchanging Conservative policy. Captain Russell had neither the force of character nor the clearness of thought that was necessary for a leader. On every previous occasion there had been a clearly defined issue ; but the present Opposition said, ' Put us into power and we will carry out your policy.' Had they not better trust the men who had not only formed their own policy, but had carried it out ?" Well, the gentleman who gives expression to those views, I suggest is not a member of the Opposition. Then we come to the next important party on those benches, the " left- wingers." Now, the member for Riccarton cannot belong to them, for he says this of them :- "He said it to their shame, the ' left wing' had joined the Conservatives in opposing every measure brought forward by the Government." https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 Mr. HUTCHESON .- What a falling-off is there. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- The honourable gentleman, I hope, does not think I am speaking disrespectfully of the "left wing" ; but I wish to show that, as a student, I cannot follow an inconsistent politician. I say the honourable member for Riccarton, again, cannot be a Government supporter, judging by his speech the other evening, because he endeavoured to demonstrate that, through the careless or the almost criminal neglect of the finances of this colony, we were practically on the verge of bankruptcy. And it has simply come to this : that that honourable gentleman is opposed to every one in this House, and stands alone. It is strange that the other evening he could abuse the party with which I am in some way connected, and yet, as I said a moment ago, when he wished to obtain a seat in this House his opinion of this Government was very dif- ferent indeed. And just here let us note, if our finances are so bad to-day, were they not equally as bad twelve or eighteen months ago ? An Hon. MEMBER .- No. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- Oh, they were not. Well, honourable members say " No"; but it has been stated by honourable members during this debate that our finances have been going from bad to worse, year after year, for the last seven, eight, or nine years. Well, if they were bad eighteen months or two years ago, on the eve and the honourable gentleman comes to this House and says we must turn out or turn back the Government in their extravagance and mal- administration of the finances of the colony. If that is correct, then that honourable member is in either one of two positions : he either deceived his constituents two years ago, or he is deceiving the House to-day. What did the honourable gentlemen state when he was woo- ing the votes of the people of his electorate ? I will quote once more from him, as I do not wish to put words into his mouth that he did not say. He said,- "The Government party was not without fault, but when such questions as poverty and higher education had to be faced, he would go with the party that would take up reforms, and if returned, he would vote with Mr. Seddon and the Liberal Government." Now, there is the opinion of the honourable member when asking that he should be returned to Parliament. But he went further. Sir, he has endeavoured to prove by his speech in this House that the Right Hon. the Colonial Treasurer is unfit to control the reins of Go- vernment and to have intrusted to his care the finances of this colony. I say that the honour- able member is the personification of incon- sistency. I regret that the rules of Parliament will not permit me to use a stronger word. Let me read what he said when asking his con- stituents to elect him to a seat in this House. This is what he said when opposing Mr. Rol- leston-certainly a consistent politician, and one whose name is writ large and favourably in the history of this country,- " He had been a Liberal all his life, and had no wish to be anything else, and he solicited their suffrages, not so much on account of him- self personally, but as a representative of that Liberal Government about which he had been speaking." To show the prosperity of the country Mr. Russell then quoted the increases between the ten years 1888 and 1898. It is unnecessary for me, even if I had the time, to quote the figures, but this is what he finishes up with,- "And for that prosperity the country was indebted to a Liberal Government-the present Government. With regard to the re-election of Mr. Seddon as Premier, his own opinion was that Mr. Seddon would continue Premier for a very long time, and he (Mr. Russell) would do his best to keep him there." Now look upon that picture, and look upon this. I say once more, are we to accept the inconsistencies, or believe the figures and deduc- tions of the honourable member for Riccarton ? We find that, eighteen months ago, according to him, the colony had never known such prosperity, and yet to-night it is practically bankrupt ; and his latest effort has been grasped with the greatest delight by the Conservative Press, and, figuratively speaking, he has been slapped on the back, as was the honourable member for Dunedin, in this evening's Post. "Damned with faint praise," but they can 