but directly the meeting was held it appeared | open to prosecution, Who would be likely to be as clear as noonday that he was perfectly right, and that his opponents were absolutely wrong. He knew as much of the matter as the honour- able member for Franklin did ; but he did not go about manufacturing grievances, and the result was that few complaints had been made to him. He had seldom seen the Returning Officer during the whole course of the election, but he had told him that his life was being pestered out of him by members of the Opposi- tion asking him to put bogus names on the roll. As the Colonial Treasurer had clearly put it, if this officer had violated the law there was a redress at law; but they had simply taken the opportunity to air their grievances on the floor of the House, knowing that the officer had no opportunity there of refuting the statements made. He believed it was not yet too late for an inquiry, if it could be shown that an inquiry was necessary, though for his part he did not believe there was any need for an inquiry. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) said that, as several of his colleagues for the City of Auckland had adversely criticized the Regis- trar, it was but right that he should say some- thing upon the question. In his opinion, the matter had been grossly exaggerated. The honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds) had said there ought to be an inquiry ; but there had been an inquiry, for he had held one himself. Some of his constituents had gone to him in trouble, and said they were not able to vote for him, because, although they were old residents, their names had been struck off the roll. As he sympathized with these people, he https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 went to Mr. King and made inquiries concern- ing them, as he was determined to bring the matter before the Government. His investiga- tion into the matter, however, showed that the mistake lay entirely with the people who had complained, for it was apparent that they had changed their residence and had not notified the Returning Officer of the fact, or neglected to take other necessary steps. He was himself one of the oldest residents in Auckland, and yet found that he was not on the roll, but when he investigated the matter he found that the Re- turning Officer had simply been carrying out the law of the land, and the consequence was that he had himself been struck off the roll. He did not say the Registrar never made a mistake ; any man might make mistakes. Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui) wished to draw attention to a matter which, apparently a very small one, was nevertheless one of real import- ance -namely, in regard to the pencils used at elections. His attention had been called to this matter over and over again, and he had been asked to make representations on the subject. Instead of blue or red soft pencils hard car- penters' pencils were used, with the result that the marks made were illegible. This might have important consequences in such an election as that at Patea, where a majority of only one occurred. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) said, in regard to what had been said as to the Registrar in ques- tion being a statutory officer, and therefore Mr. Lawry the prosecutor? Why had not Government appointed a Stipendiary Magistrate to hold an inquiry ? He undertook to say the rolls would speak for themselves without calling any wit- nesses, and he challenged the Minister to hold an inquiry. Seven hundred and two who had voted were struck off the roll, the larger ma- jority being persons who never changed their residence, and they were reinstated on the supplementary roll after nomination-day. If this officer were retained in office there would be trouble at the next general election, as his very name stank in the nostrils of the people of Auckland. Mr. CARNCROSS (Taieri) did not know who this officer was, nor did he hold any brief for him, but this accident of voters being struck off the roll although they had voted occurred all over the colony, and it occurred in this way : The Sub-Returning Officers, in ticking off the names after an election, merely made a tick against the name, instead of drawing the pencil right through the name; and when the whole roll came before the Returning Officer for re- vision there was often a doubt as to which name the mark was opposite. There was no intention to do wrong in the matter. The Re- turning Officers should be instructed to do as the law provided-to draw the pencil through the name, instead of making a tick against it. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) pointed out that, though in Wellington they had admittedly the most careful, conscientious officer in the colony, against whom no political bias could be imputed, the same mistake occurred here. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) would be obliged if the Colonial Secretary would give details of the vote of £100 for "contingencies." It had been promised to the House that the details would be given of all these votes. Sir J. G. WARD said the amount was chiefly for rents for the offices of the Registrars. In- stead of " contingencies " being voted in a large sum, the items were now divided up among the different departments, and this was one of them. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) wished to point out that the explanation of the member for Taieri could not account for one single case of the seven hundred to which the member for Eden had referred. The explanation was this : If they had half a dozen John Joneses on the roll, and three did not vote, there was a chance that any of the three who did vote might have the tick attributed to them instead of to the defaulters. The result might be that three John Joneses who did vote would get notice that they did not vote, and that their names were struck off. There would, however, only be three persons who would get the notice, although not the right three; and that at once cut away the possibility of the explanation given by the member for Taieri. The totals given by the member for Eden were that 1,196 ought to have been struck off and 1,898 were actually struck off ; so that it could not be said that this was the ordinary cause of mistakes, as between persons of similar name, or adjacent 