not tell us that the cost of assembling troops, et cetera, for the reception of the Duke and Duchess of York at Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, and Dunedin only came to £20,000. On this basis there were eleven thousand troops assembled in Christchurch at a cost of only some £3,000 or £4,000. Mr. PIRANI .- The Government say so. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- Yes, the Govern- ment say so, and this is why I am pointing it out. I am perfectly sure that when the honourable members sitting on the Ministerial benches reply they will explain this matter. It seems to me that something has been omitted, something overlooked. An Hon. MENBER .- You are no longer the student now. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- We live and learn, and I suppose I am learning. On the question of the income-tax, I wish to say that if we use that as a test we can safely ascertain the pro- gress of the colony. It is well known that the income-tax is levied on all incomes over £300 per annum. There are exemptions for bad debts, expenses incurred, et cetera. The average income of all bread-winners of the colony at the present time is £94, and the higher average we get the higher the prosperity it indicates. During the last seven years the increase of the earnings of the bread-winners of both sexes and all ages and occupations has been £3, and since 1891-since this much maligned Government came into power-we find that the income liable to taxation has been more than doubled. As a student in finance, I use this as an illustra- tion, and it strikes me that it is a barometer that cannot mislead. I hold that we are jus- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 tified in accepting the reading of this barometer as a true indication of the prosperity of the colony. I venture to suggest that there is no country in the world that can show such a record as the doubling of the earnings of the bread-winners in ten years. Mr. MILLAR .- How much of that is in the Civil Service. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .-- I am not prepared to say. I did hope that I would have been able to deal with a question that did not come directly, but indirectly, into the Financial State- ment, and that is the immense liquid assets we have, and which have been referred to by honourable members during the course of this debate. I refer to the lands purchased for land for settlements, securities on advances to settlers, and the land purchased from the Natives. As great importance and value must be placed upon the latter as on the other two. It will hardly be credited that the Government, since they came into power, have purchased two millions and a half acres of land from the Natives at the enormous average price of 5s. 6d. per acre. To my certain knowledge thousands of acres of that land was worth $3 in the open market. Mr. PIRANI .- You are wrong. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER. - The honourable member says that I am wrong, but I say that his remark demonstrates that I am right. That that land was bought at a price much under its real value is undeniable. Seeing that the Go- vernment have purchased two millions and a half acres of land at 50 per cent. under its value, I say that the colony has in it a very sound liquid asset. The honourable gentleman says that these figures are wrong, but I assert that they are correct. I find that since 1891 there were purchased from the Natives 2,551,236 acres, at a cost of £678,868. That averages 5s. 6d. per acre. Well, now, I say that the time has arrived when the Government should purchase no more land. They have long ago purchased quite enough for their requirements, and it is time the general public had an op- portunity of acquiring some of the land the Government have had a monopoly of. The Government should, I say, instead of taking the pre-emptive right in 1894, have de- pended on the Native Lands Acquisition Act of 1893, under which every acre of land which was purchased had to go before a competent tribunal to inquire whether the price was a fair one, and whether the Natives had sufficient land left. Now, owing to the legislation of last session, we find that the whole of the Native land question and everything connected with it is tied up. It is disastrous, I say, to the colony, and more especially to the North Island ; it is disastrous to the Natives in every sense. They cannot sell or lease an acre of land to pay their debts, or provide for their urgent wants ; and why ? Because the Government brought down in the dying hours of last session a measure which displayed an entire absence of intellectual digestion, and which was not approved of by the Native Affairs Committee. It was certainly, at a special meeting, approved of by a majority of one, but it should never have been passed ; and, now that it has been passed, it has been found by the Government and by their Law Officers to be absolutely unworkable ; and, I say, instead of endeavouring to amend that measure this session, we should wipe it off the statute-book, and let us have in its place some common-sense and beneficial legislation. As my hour has now passed, I must defer my comments upon this most important subject to some future occasion. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- Give me the avowed, the erect, the manly foe, Him I can meet-perhaps inay turn his blow ; But of all plagues, good Heaven, thy wrath can send, Save, save, oh ! save me from the candid friend. So said George Canning in his " New Morality " very many years ago. And so say all of us in this House to-day. One can respect the con- sistent opposition of a pronounced opponent, but we cannot understand the action of a friend who turns and rends us without a moment's notice. This is not honest. It cannot even be called candid, in the true sense. Sir, we have been wounded in the house of our friends. Four speeches delivered during the present debate by members of our own party have been distinctly opposed to the Government. I do not say there was any spirit of animosity manifested in the speech of the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar). I do not say there was any spirit of animosity 