Russell, G. W. Herries McNab Tanner. Meredith Hornsby Millar Hutcheson Tellers. Monk Lang Pirani Collins Lethbridge Graham. Rhodes Massey NOES, 23. Symes Kaihau Barclay Thompson, R. Lawry Carncross McGowan Ward Carroll Mckenzie, R. Wilford Colvin Willis. Napier Field O'Meara Tellers. Hall-Jones Allen, E. G. Palmer Heke Fraser, A.L. D. Houston Seddon PAIR. Against. For. Fraser, W. Duncan Majority for, 2. Motion agreed to. Progress reported. The House adjourned at a quarter past two o'clock a.m. LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Wednesday, 18th September, 1901. First Readings-Second Reading-Third Reading -Napier Maori Club Reserve-Physical Drill in Public and Native Schools-Cigarette-smoking by Youths Prohibition Bill-Gaming and Lot- teries Bill Law - Amendment Bill-The late President Mckinley. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero FIRST READINGS. Arbitration Court President Validation Bill, Education Boards Election Bill. SECOND READING. Arbitration Court President Validation Bill. THIRD READING. Arbitration Court President Validation Bill. NAPIER MAORI CLUB RESERVE. The Hon. Mr. TOMOANA asked the Minister of Education, Whether the Government will ascertain by what authority Section No. 555, Town of Napier, has been sold, this section having been provided by the Government as a site for a Maori club? He was under the im- pression that the land could not be sold, but he had now heard that the section had been sold. Many years ago the Natives asked the Govern- ment to let them have a site for a building which the Natives could use when attending the sittings of the Native Land Court in Napier, and the Government had given them that piece of land. He had been so convinced at the time that this was a reserve for the Natives that he himself had erected a building on it for the use of his people, and had paid £340 for it out his own pocket. He was accom- panied by Captain Hill, a tenant of his, when he paid the money. Karaitiana, his fellow. chief, was absent on the West Coast attending the Court dealing with the purchase of the Manawatu Block, and when Karaitiana re- turned he (Tomoana) had paid the money. He had never been aware who was appointed trus- tee for the section ; all he knew was that it was to be a permanent reserve as a site for a Maori club. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER asked in what year the honourable gentleman had spent the money. The Hon. Mr. TOMOANA could not give the exact date, but it was the year when the Mana- watu Block was before the Court, when the late Sir William Fox was acting on behalf of the Government. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said he had asked the question because he wanted as far as possible to get the proper history of the section. . By referring to the statute-book of 1877 the honourable member would see that this block was specially dealt with amongst other sections. The Act was a local one, authorising the Go- vernor to complete certain unfulfilled engage- ments relating to land, and for that purpose to issue Crown grants in certain cases. The Act provided :- "The contracts, promises, or engagements severally enumerated in the Schedule to this Act are hereby ratified and confirmed, and it shall be lawful for the Governor to do all things that may be necessary for or towards the fulfilment or completion of any of the aforesaid contracts, promises, or engagements respectively ; and every Crown grant made and issued in any such case shall be deemed to be legally made and issued." The Schedule stated as follows :- " Promises to Natives -(2.) Karaitiana Taka- moana : The promise of a grant to him in- alienably of Section 555, in the Town of Napier, containing } acre." He did not know whether the honourable gentleman was in Parliament in those days and knew what was going on. At all events, appa- rently in the year 1877-that was ten years after the date on which his honourable friend said that he had advanced the money for building the Maori club - the section was in- alienably conveyed to Karaitiana in consequence of a promise that had been given to him. That was done under the authority of the Act which he had just quoted. On his death his son succeeded to his father's interest in the section, and in 1896 or 1897 it was sold to raise funds to pay his debts. He had tried to find a connection between this section and the erection of a Maori club. Unfortunately, the office stated that some of the early files of Native Office records relating to this grant could not now be found; but there was no doubt that the section had been dealt with under the Act he had quoted, but the depart- ment had no documents to connect in any shape or form this section with the erection of a Maori club. If the honourable gentleman 