adopted. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why should not every member speak as well as you ? Mr. FISHER .- The Premier has been long enough in Parliament to understand what is at the bottom of this matter. There have been cases in the history of this Parliament in which the honourable gentleman has taken a very prominent part, and this case differs in no way from other cases in which the honourable gentleman himself, as the head of the Govern- ment, has led the House. This case, I take leave to say, is the most flagrant breach of the privileges of the House that could possibly happen. Every member understands exactly what has taken place. Delay is unnecessary to enable members to understand the question at issue, and how it ought to be determined. There appears to be a general acquiescence in the suggestion of the leader of the Government that this matter should be postponed. That, I think, is a pity. But, even if the House neglects its pressing and primary duty, I hope, at any rate, that it will fix upon a definite day, and a definite time for the discussion of the question. If the object of delay is that members of the House other than members of the Committee shall have time to become fully informed of the full nature of the report, and of the evidence upon which it is founded, then all that can be done between now and the next meeting of the House. Mr. SEDDON .- I fixed it for next Tuesday, when I will move it. Mr. FISHER .- Will you make it the first order of the day ? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes, certainly. Mr. FISHER. - Very well, that meets my objections to some extent, but I now say that the report of the Committee ought to have been in the possession of the House nearly a week ago. To my mind no reason has been disclosed why the report should not have been presented to the House a week ago. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is the fault of the Committee. Mr. FISHER .- The member for Bruce need not believe that I am under any misapprehen- sion in regard to what I am saying, for I under- stand the meaning of every syllable I utter. Will the honourable gentleman accept my as- surance ? An Hon. MEMBER .- Certainly. Mr. FISHER. - That delay having taken place, I think it time the House moved in the matter, because I believe in striking the iron while it is hot. J think the House, if it is endowed with a proper sense of its duties and its rights and privileges, ought to move without delay in a matter of this kind. When the question of privilege was first mooted in the House in this case, I said that no good purpose could be served by proceeding to extremes. have often said that in this House; but the members of the Committee, and I am sure the House as a whole had no conception of the extent of the off ince committed in this par- ticular case. It differs from all other cases Mr. Fisher before the House: I do not wish to go into the full facts of the case at this stage, but I am prepared to prove, whatever views may be held by honourable members in regard to previous questions of privilege, that this case stands alone in the history of this Parliament and that it has no equal in its defiant offensiveness. That is why I speak so strongly. If the House agrees to the postponement, I hope it will at least insist upon its being discussed at the next sitting of the House. The honourable gentle- man should certainly be held to his promise. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- Sir, I would like to point out this : that printing the evidence or reading the evidence will not alter two facts, and they are the only facts that this House has any right to deal with at the present juncture. The first is that a breach of privilege has been committed : that has already been decided by the House, and nothing can alter that phase of the question. The second fact is that a witness in possession of material evidence has refused to disclose that evidence. That is plain, and the reading or the printing of the evidence will make no difference in that matter. Mr. SEDDON .- That ought to be brought up as a separate matter. the same as in Mr. Watson's case. Mr. PIRANI .- I am glad the Premier has said that, because that was just the attitude taken on the Committee by the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), and myself, and opposed by the Postmaster-General, the Acting- Speaker, and the Chairman of the Committee (Major Steward). I am very glad the Premier and I do agree sometimes. I moved that mo- tion, and it was rejected by three to two. I think the action of the witness ought to have been kept separate altogether from the report of the Committee, and I took very good care that the voting on that was recorded in the minutes of the Committee. Therefore, I say it is only a waste of time to adjourn the matter for the printing of the evidence. If the Pre- mier had stated what his real reason was, there would not have been a word of objection by the House. His real reason is, I suppose, that this matter shall not delay the conclusion of the financial debate. But the Premier has not given us that as his reason; and he has given an extraneous reason altogether-the printing of the evidence. Now, personally. I do not think any good would be done by print- ing the evidence : the evidence practicaily amounts to nothing. But there is another matter that I think ought to be dealt with after the offence itself-or the presumed offence-has been dealt with, and that is the question as to what attitude the House will take up in regard to matters of this sort in the future. Mr. SEDDON .- That is an amendment of the Standing Orders. Mr. PIRANI. - That is so. But my remedy I would be that the evidence taken before Select Committees, where such Committees think proper, should be laid before the House day by day. That would do away altogether with a good many grievances that are complained of. 