He did not attempt to screen himself, nor there shall be power given to the Chairman of the leave it to some one else to be blamed. To Committee, subject to review by the Commit- prevent that happening Mr. Cohen took it tee itself, to enable a precis of what has tran- upon himself to straightforwardly inform the spired at the Committee to be given out to the Committee that he had obtained the evidence Press. Both these courses are open, either of himself, and that he had transmitted it to the them being more satisfactory than the position Dunedin Evening Star. Then, when the next we are in at the present time ; and as a guide in question was put, as to whether he would tell this respect we have the procedure of the House the Committee who it was that had connived of Commons-the Mother of Parliaments. It at his obtaining the evidence, he said, " No ; cannot be said that the House of Commons I cannot do that with honour." I personally does not jealously guard its privileges ; but, no appreciate the course he took, and so must doubt, something must have been going on every honourable man. It is in accordance in the House of Commons similar to what has been going on in our House for years, and with the profession and its highest attributes that, in respect to information received in a ultimately they had to take the course that we confidential manner, the name of the person shall be compelled to take. Very well ; if we giving that information shall never be disclosed. did that it would be unfair in the interim to Well, if any argument is based upon that re- penalise the person or party that really called fusal, and we are asked to punish because of our attention to the matter in such a way that that refusal, although we must come to the we had to amend our Standing Orders. And conclusion that there has been a breach of our as members' minds are, in my opinion, made Standing Orders, members of this House, in my up as to amending the Standing Orders in the direction indicated, I think our most dignified opinion, will say that all honourable men would do as Mr. Cohen did. Then, are you to punish and proper course is to carry this resolution and so end the matter. Good has come out of a person because he has acted honourably and in accordance with the highest attributes of his this breach of the Standing Orders, and as Mr. Cohen has not been one to defy honourable profession ? Where there has been a breach of members or the House, or to wilfully evade the your Standing Orders you must do so; but that Standing Orders, but has merely done this from necessity has been removed altogether by the course that was taken by Mr. Cohen. Had he a sense of journalistic duty, I think we ought to take the course we are now taking. Mr. persisted in allowing matters to remain as they Cohen has been one of the fairest journalistic were we should have had to impose a nominal penalty, because there had been, first, the ob- representatives we have in the Press gallery. He has always been fair to members on both sides, taining, and, secondly, the refusal to give the and has fulfilled his duties in a most creditable evidence, which, of course, would have involved the giving-away of the second party. Now, under manner ; nor has he in the past transgressed in a matter of this sort more than any of the others. these circumstances, I think I have-I hope I have, at all events-by logical argument, shown Under all the circumstances, therefore, and to the House that the course we are going to take after carefully considering what may be said in regard to looking upon this as a precedent, the is the proper one. I shall deem it my duty, as leader of the House, to ask the House to amend Government came to the conclusion that the its Standing Orders, and to give a discretion to the best way out of the difficulty would be to take Committees - with the exception, of course, of the course I am now taking, and I submit it to those Committees that are dealing with matters members, feeling assured that a large majority will approve of it. And, what is more, I feel of a delicate or necessarily private character. In the ordinary business-work of the Commit- assured it will give general satisfaction from one end of the colony to the other, more tees our Standing Orders want to be amended, especially the proposal. in the interest of the ought to be amended, and will be amended, so that we can take away from honourable mem- public and public business, to amend our Standing Orders, so that members can obtain hers that which is repugnant in many cases to information which, in my opinion, they are their feelings. The position in which they justly entitled to. I move the resolution, Sir. are placed must be repugnant to members who many a time are asked by representatives of the Press of their own district to give information is put, Sir, I should like to say one or two words about it. I think the House looks to about petitions or matters affecting those parti- the leader of the House to defend the privileges cular districts. If they refuse to disclose that of the House ; but I regret to say, although I information to the Press representative, then to do not like to say it, that in this instance some extent they suffer for it. If; on the other the leader of the House has not defended the hand, they give it, they commit a breach of privileges of the House. The House has de- the Standing Orders, and we are putting declared already that this was a breach of the Press representatives in a somewhat false privilege, and the case is not on all-fours with position, because they have to give something any case that the Premier has quoted, and for to those members of the Committee in return. this reason : that in no case that the Premier Such a condition of things as that requires to has quoted has the House previously declared be altered and removed, and it will be for the that a breach of privilege has been committed. House to decide whether they will allow Com- mittee proceedings to be open to the Press, the Committee having the power at any time Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- Before the motion Mr. SEDDON. - Oh, yes. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Not until after the Com- 