which were not so placed, and there were hundreds of names struck off which should have been allowed to remain. He would give one instance: Here was a man who gave his name, and who said,- "I signed a claim. Mr. King witnessed same. Finding I was not on main roll, I called at Mr. King's office. He said he had no time to talk to me. I then filled in another form. This was witnessed by a Mr. Mason. I then received a letter from Mr. King, and answered it by return of post. Still I was not on the roll. I went to the Magistrate's Court, also to Mr. Tole, Crown Prosecutor, but could get no redress. I tried all I knew, but could not get my vote." Even now, two years after the election, they could find men who would go before & Magis- trate and give evidence such as he had already quoted. All they asked for was an inquiry. The people of Auckland had lost confidence in Mr. John King, and nothing would satisfy them except to see him removed from the posi- tion he held or a full inquiry into the circum- stances. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) was afraid the honourable member would find that there were people in his district who tried to get on the Auckland roll who were not entitled to do so, and that was one of the things the officer in question appeared to be blamed for. Last session he (Sir J. G. Ward) made this statement : that "he would endeavour to have such trouble as had arisen in the past remedied in the future, and he would undertake to have any direct complaints concerning this par- ticular case investigated." In the recess Mr. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 Fowlds sent in the following telegram :- " I am asked by those who lodged complaint against Registrar of Electors to inquire when the promised inquiry will take place. They are http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero getting impatient, and wondering whether they will be compelled themselves to take the matter into Court .- GEORGE FOWLDS." He replied to that on the 12th November, from Wellington :- " Re electoral roll for Auckland- City, Par- nell, Manukau, and Eden : I have given direc- tions for an official examination to be made into the whole of the rejected applications for enrolment. As soon as this has been made, and a report furnished to me, I shall decide what course to adopt. - J. G. WARD." When in Auckland he made the following statement at a public meeting :- " Coming to the question of electoral reform, he believed that there were some greatly in- terested in this reform in Auckland. (A voice : ' You are a long time getting that inquiry.') The Government had to do to all men that which was just and right. In the House of Representatives the condition of affairs at the last general election had been referred to, and it had been decided that an inquiry should be held. The whole of the papers were sent to Wellington, to be looked over by the ap- pointed officers. In the City of Auckland the total rejections had been 4,921. He would read them one or two of the reports of the police officers in connection with the claims investi- gated -- they had all been investigated so far. From those reports, the Government were not prepared to do an injustice to a statutory officer, but they were prepared to remove every obstacle and give every one an oppor- tunity to take proceedings against that officer. The Government found that there had been an attempt to put Chinamen on the roll, and large numbers of dead men; men who had never been in the colony, and men stated to be living in certain streets who did not live there at all. And the police reports backed that up. So far as the responsible officer was concerned, so far as the Government could judge, it had taken place all over the colony. There were a certain number of people who ought to have been on the rolls, and who were left off. But it ap- peared from the correspondence that the officer in question was doing his duty, and that only, in refusing to allow them to go on the roll. (Here Mr. Ward read a couple of police reports relative to bogus claims.) All he could say was that the whole of the correspondence was there, available for those who wished to go into the matter, and the Government would give them every facility in taking proceedings. But they had no right, no matter who the man might be, to make a general charge. If they had a charge, let them make it specifically, and take proceedings against the officer concerned. (Hear, hear, and applause.)" An Hon. MEMBER .- They were all 4.0. Government supporters. Sir J. G. WARD said, That was not the case. On that occasion there were a number of very strong supporters of the Opposition pre- sent ; and one of them, particularly, was so amazed at the way the meeting had backed him up that he retired immediately afterwards. He wanted to tell the House what further had occurred. A deputation had waited upon him, and he had told them that no objection would be raised to proceedings on the ground of time. An Hon. MEMBER .-- That would not have been allowed by the Magistrate. Sir J. G. WARD said, Surely, if both sides agreed that the point should not be raised, the case could proceed. While this officer was being ruthlessly condemned, it transpired that he had had to take proceedings against two gentlemen who were canvassing for a particular organization in Auckland, and in both cases he was successful. Those cases were reported at great length in the local papers. Mr. FOWLDS asked, What about the charges referred to in my telegram ? Sir J. G. WARD replied that there was no charge whatever made in the telegram. The people had been given an opportunity of taking the matter into Court and had failed to do so. Mr. LAWRY (Parnell) said that this was simply a political squabble. The honourable gentleman who was in charge of the estimates had made it perfectly clear. Before his address to the electors of Auckland, at the meeting alluded to, the honourable gentleman was going to be scorched by the friends of the Opposition ; 