extent of £10,000, and an income of £300, to entirely escape taxation, while it taxes another person - a widow- with only £3,000, and an income of only £140, to the extent of £12 10s. is surely an inequitable system of taxation, and one that should not get the support of those who, we are given to understand, are the liberal and intelligent members of this House. But, then, as the honourable member for Auckland City ( Mr. Fowlds) stated in Auckland, on the Opposition side of the House there are many better Liberals than are to be found on the Government side, and, when that is so, we can understand that these doctrines which they declare to be Liberal in many instances meet with his approval, and do not meet with his disapproval, as is also the case with many other honourable members in this House. And then the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds) says that there is something like a million per annum spent on public works every year, every penny of which goes to enrich the privileged few of the country districts, and is robbed from that section of the public who have no lands. And then the honourable mem- ber analyses the position, and says there are 367,000 people who have an interest in land and 407,000 who are landless and are not interested in land at all ; and he points out that the 367,000 - owning, he said, ninety-six million pounds' worth of property-only pay $294,000 under the land-tax. He, of course, ignores what these men may own, and he conceives that the amount paid to the Customs will bring their contri- bution to something like £430.000. That is the honourable gentleman's contention, and he then maintains they ought to pay a million https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 and three-quarters more taxation than they are now doing. How he arrived at that conclusion is beyond my comprehension. I have analysed his figures, and have not been able to trace it. The honourable member goes on to contend that these 407,000 who have no interest in land contribute no less than £2,700,000. Why, Sir, the honourable gentleman's figures are entirely fallacious ; he has jumped to con- clusions ; he has never analysed the situation, and is about as much at sea as the honourable member for Lyttelton when he talks about land - values, and wishes to insist upon an enormous system of taxation being levied upon them. Then we come to the question of land- settlement, and we understand that something like #2,000,000 have been spent in that direc- tion. Now, Sir, I have always held, in con- nection with the money expended on the settlement of lands, that there should be a proportion of the cost of that property paid by the people who go in for their occupation, so as to secure a safe margin to the Govern- ment on the investment. The Government ask for some margin in connection with the advances to settlers, and if they ask that, why should they not also ask that a margin of security should be afforded the State in connection with the property so settled. The Government ought to give the settlers this chance, and enable people when they take up lands under these conditions,-if they have the money and are willing,-to pay off a portion of the cost. Of course, it is no use now to refer to the question of the freehold, but yet one wonders why a man who has £1,000, and has taken up a thousand pounds' worth of land under that system, should not be permitted to invest that #1,000 in the estate, and thus save himself the trouble of finding an investment in another form for it-of course, providing a limit a man may hold. In con- nection with the values of the estates, very great presure is frequently put upon the officers of the department by irresponsible members to induce them to purchase the estates at a higher rate. Now, I am glad to know that such excellent men as Mr. McGowan and Mr. McKerrow are at the head of the Land Pur- chase Department. They are men who, I think, can be trusted to insist upon what they think is a just limit, and they are, I am glad to say, strong enough to withstand that pressure. They have, too, the best men in Parliament with them in this matter, be- cause one must realise, as many of us 8.30. have realised, unfortunately, although I am no pessimist, that the land-values of this colony are hardly likely to be maintained. Land - values have been forced up in many instances to such a degree that people are pay- ing as much as £25 an acre for land that is being used for dairying purposes. Why, Sir, that money must in many cases be extracted from the bone and sinew of the children whose labour has to be utilised in order to make the industry pay. I think people should insist on children having their proper amount of rest, and that every benefit which their youth entitles them to should be extended to them. I say, therefore, the running-up of the values of your land beyond their true value is wrong. Will it pay to employ labour ? Hon. MEMBERS .- NO. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Well, then, the in- dustry is on unsound lines, and values of land too high. If it will not afford to pay labour I say it is not on a sound basis, and the value of your lands has gone up to too high a rate. I have it here, on the authority of a very competent man, who declares there are thousands of acres fit for dairying, of equal quality, which are nearer to a market than this land, which may be bought for £10 an acre, while land as good is sold in New Zealand at $25 an acre. This opens up a very large question, and it is one that ought to be thoroughly discussed, because if too high prices are paid for the land that you require for settlement, and if a depression occurs in your prices, then those unfortunate people who spent their money in buildings and in improving their farms will be placed in a position in which they will be unable to main- tain themselves on their allotments; and, therefore, I think the Government should be exceedingly careful not to pay the full or current rates for land that they intend to settle people on. We have, of course, honourable members in this House who declare in the freest manner possible that this country has nothing whatever to fear from either North or South 