because of his family bereavements, and to the honourable member for Franklin, the give his children the benefit of a milder honourable member for Nelson City, the honour- climate. Placing his family before every- able member for Ashley, the honourable member for Riccarton, and Mr. Millar, the member for thing else, he decided to leave this colony ; and he went away with great regret so far Dunedin City, have all complained of this. But as the Government is concerned. To show who is responsible for the increase ? Every one how utterly wrong the honourable member for of those gentlemen. The member for Bruce Bruce is, I may say the Government was pre- voted for the increase of the departments, and pared to and did offer Mr. Hudson a better there is not a single one of those who now com- salary to remain in New Zealand than he now plain who did not support the increases. I will receives in Tasmania. But, Sir, the honour- put on record the departments that have been able gentleman had hardly uttered the words started and that have caused the increase. We when we find him immediately afterwards call- have started the Public Health Department, ing attention to the fact that we were increas- the Industries and Commerce Department, the ing the salaries upon the estimates, and saying Tourist Department, and the Old-age Pensions that those increases were improper. And other Department. Then, there is the School for the members of this House have done the same Blind, Technical Instruction, and the Labour thing. Now, one word about these increases Department, the South African contingents, upon the estimates. Those honourable mem- and the Valuation Department, and, with per- bers have been endeavouring to make the haps an exception here and there, all those country believe that the Government have now complaining have supported the creation been increasing the salaries of the higher of these departments. officials, and my friend the honourable mem- Mr. J. ALLEN .- No, they did not. ber for Wairarapa, who feels very earnest about Sir J. G. WARD .- The honourable member this, and is, I am sure, very sincere about the for Bruce may have been an exception, but even matter, went so far as to say that when the he supported the creation of the large majority House is in Committee upon these estimates he of the departments. But I should like to point would move to reduce every item in order to save out to the House that, independent of the non- expense. Sir, when I tell honourable members recurring expenditure, there is not one of these that outside the classified departments of the departments but is conferring immense benefit service - which, of course, work automatically upon the colony, and some of them are paying under the law that governs them-the total the colony very handsomely indeed. Then, honourable members who make that statement increases to heads of departments, which point very unfairly- as some have done-to he so much deplores, amounts to only $250 for the whole lot, how much expense the very large increase upon the consolidated is he going to save by moving that these estimates, which we are all anxious to keep down. The Government is as anxious to keep increases be struck off? Now, as to the that down as any one else can possibly be ; but increases of salaries, let me tell the House while they point to the increase on the con- that the bulk of them are to . men receiv- ing under $300 per annum. There are 802 of solidated estimates, and tell you that it has gone up by £1,220,000, they do not tell them-men who have received £5, £10, or £20 increases. Those men have to support their you that at the same time, and for the very same period, although we reduced taxation wives and families. They are from their sur- roundings compelled to maintain their positions last year by #350,000, the consolidated re- properly. Honourable members must be aware venue has increased by £1,660,000. And that that the cost of living is greater now, and it has is what they ought to do. I say our revenue is been so for some time past. Rents are higher, now #440,000 more than our expenditure on the consolidated estimates, and which, had we not the cost of meat and the cost of coal have gone up, and yet when these men who have to sup- given away £350,000 last year, would have been port their wives and families, and the majority $700,000 greater than our expenditure this of whom are receiving a mere pittance when year. I say it is wonderful. Does not that it is proposed to show them some slight con- clearly point to the fact that the growth of sideration for their past services, we find that trade, the development of the interior of our the honourable member and other honourable country, and the material changes that have taken place, though they have rendered neces- members are going to move that their salaries sary an increase in the consolidated estimates, be reduced in Committee. have caused more than a corresponding increase increases when the cost of living goes down ? in the consolidated revenue, and shows extra- And let ordinary progress and advancement ? me here say that some of those honourable live. If you are not going to recognise your members-the honourable member for Bruce- employés at all, if you are not going to give lamented the fact that Mr. Hudson, our highly them any increases at all, you cannot expect to get the same good results from their work as valued railway officer, had been allowed to go you would by treating them as men and giving away from this colony because he was not them a fair remuneration for the services they properly paid. Now, the honourable member render to the country. We have a Civil Ser- in making that statement made a statement vice in this country of which we ought to be that was contrary to fact: he went away proud, and, because some honourable members on account of private family trials which VOL. CXVIII .- 11 An Hon. MEMBER .-- Will you take off the Sir J. G. WARD. - Sir, let us live and let 