times by soft sophistry, sometimes by harsh or does not is a matter of indifference to me at and unkind words said to us on this side of the present, at any rate. Now, Sir, the Right Hon. House. Yes, there are many ways of calling the Premier accused this side of the House of a the party together, but the whip is there all breach of faith and a violation of conditions. the same, and the scourge of it comes and What breach of faith, may I ask ? What affects some. I do not know whether it will violation of conditions ? I do not know affect the lot to-day, but what matters that to whether we have been put upon our faith. us on this side ? We have no party. We have I do not know whether the right honourable no leader. We have been acting in this matter gentleman meant that some members on this as we individually thought it was right to act, side of the House, who are members of the and we have been doing it well, as the honour- Goldfields and Mines Committee, have com- able member for Franklin says. The Premier mitted a breach of faith before the Committee in giving evidence. I do not know of any knows it, and that is the reason he has put his party under the lash. breach of faith on this side of the House, and Mr. SEDDON .- I do not want to have a I can assure the Premier that he will never false sense of security. have to deal with such a breach of faith, be- Mr. J. ALLEN -" A false sense of security ! " cause we are all honourable men and do not As if his whole political life depended on his commit breaches of faith ; we leave that to the carrying a motion with regard to privilege. Premier. What violation has there been of He thinks that is a matter about which he conditions, and what are the conditions im- should have security. What nonsense! The posed on us? The only conditions we have or idea of the leader of the House having a sense could have imposed upon us are the conditions of security on a question of privilege-a ques- imposed by our own Standing Orders and by tion on which he ought to be leading the House you, Sir, and we have not violated any con- and protecting the privileges of the House ! ditions of the Standing Orders. Somebody else Sir, he is not the man he was, and honourable has, and that is the trouble we are dealing with members see it and know it. And the country now. But we cannot get that rectified, and is beginning to realise that he is not the man why? Because the Premier will not act as he he was, and that he cannot lead the House as has acted in previous cases, and do what is the he used to. It is recognised too that he has right and honourable thing in this case. Now, on his right side one who is too many for him, Sir, I come to a portion of the Premier's speech which I think, on second thoughts, he will although he is smaller than the Premier. He sits there and whispers a word into his ear, and regret, and I feel sure the House will regret- the word he whispered to-day was, " We must that part of his speech in which, no doubt, with the object of defending a supporter, he did what not fine the Erening Star. That paper is my strong supporter. I must not have that paper in he so often does-he tried to blacken somebody any way injured by any fine or vote of this House, else's character. Now, Sir, I do not know not even though I have to call all the battalions whether Mr. Cook is guilty or not guilty of to my aid." And the battalions were called to what is urged against him in regard to mining his aid, and the party whip was made to play, companies in Dunedin. I may say this as a and, Sir, they will now vote as their leader member of the Committee without committing a breach of the privileges of the Committee : desires them to vote. Now, the Premier told us that the evidence that was adduced on the first he never misjudged the case. Then, why did day was not the whole of the evidence, and that he shift his ground ? Mr. ATKINSON .- Scientific adjustment. anybody that formed an opinion on the evi- Mr. J. ALLEN .- You may call it scientific dence of the first two days would undoubtedly form an incorrect opinion. Now, the Premier adjustment if you like, but I call it mis- wished to lead the House to believe that he judgment. An Hon. MEMBER .- Climbing down. formed an opinion on the first two days' evi- Mr. J. ALLEN .- Yes; that is another way dence. of putting it. If he did not misjudge the case, why did he not see through the original resolu- tion ? But he misjudged the case, and there- that ; and I ask honourable members whether, fore he climbed down and altered the resolution, in speaking in the first part of his speech, deal- and put up his colleague to move another reso- ing with Mr. Cook, they did not think the Premier had read Mr. Cook's evidence and Mr. lution, about which the House is being care- Easton's evidence of the first two days. I did ; fully kept in the dark, for what reason I do I think undoubtedly he led us to believe that. not know. Mr. SEDDON .- Ask Mr. Pirani. But now, Sir, we know from his own confession Mr. J. ALLEN .- Now, the right honourable that he has never even read it at all, and, when he had to confess what the evidence was he had gentleman wishes me to ask Mr. Pirani. I am read, it was not this evidence in the Evening not going to ask Mr. Pirani. Mr. Pirani has Star at all, but the evidence that was adduced told us that he was not there. Mr. SEDDON .-- He says he knows. before the Privileges Committee. And upon that evidence, which has no more to do with Mr. J. ALLEN .-- I have no doubt he is cor- Mr. Cook and his mining company than this bit rect if he says so. I am not ready to say, as of paper, the Premier has made a statement the Premier says, that there is not a tittle of about Mr. Cook, and in order to try and connect truth in what he says, because I do not know that that is parliamentary. Whether he does us with the black sheep he says, "The mem- Mr. SEDDON .- No. Mr. J. ALLEN .- He wished us to believe 