conferring with the representatives of friendly , details, but believed that if a conference was societies' conferences as to the desirability of amending "The Friendly Societies Act, 1882," and amendments ; also, to consider in what way the usefulness of these excellent societies can be further extended ? He would ask the Council to bear with him for a few minutes while he pointed out the great good that had been done in New Zealand by friendly societies in various ways. From a return issued from the Regis- trar's office, and placed on the table of the Council a few weeks ago, he found there were 38,202 members of friendly societies throughout New Zealand ; that 7,569 cases of sickness were dealt with during the year ending 1899; that $35.117 was paid during the year for medical attendance ; and that £39,687 had been paid away in sick-pay to members. The amount paid away as funeral donations was £8,187. The sick and funeral funds amounted to the great sum of £673.590. The local management funds stood at .£54,659. The average rate of interest at which the funds were invested was 5-2 per cent. As compared with Australia, it must be highly gratifying to those connected with friendly societies throughout the colony to see the relative positions occupied by the sister societies. The New Zealand lodge funds amounted to £19 1s. 1d. per member ; Victoria, to £13 8s. 5d. ; South Australia, €11 2s. 9d. ; New South Wales, €8 12s. 7d. ; Queensland, #7 12s. 8d. These figures showed a gratifying position for the friendly societies of New Zea- land, and it had been brought about to a great extent owing to the advocacy by the Registrar's Office of the placing the societies on a sound actuarial basis. It might be asked, In what https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 direction should the Friendly Societies Act be amended, and in what way could the usefulness of these societies be extended ? He had had the pleasure of being present at a conference of friendly societies the other evening. There were present at that conference representa tives of all the societies in Wellington, and he had been pleased indeed to find that in Wellington, as well as in Auckland and Taranaki, all the societies met together in friendly conference to decide on what was for the good of members and the better ad- vancement of the objects of the friendly-society movements. The Hibernians, the Protestant Alliance, the Rechabites, the Manchester Unity of Odd Fellows, and the Foresters and Druids all met together to discuss matters on a common platform. This proved that the usefulness of friendly societies might be still further ex- tended, because the machinery was already at hand for moving in a progressive manner for the benefit of members and also of the com- munity generally. It had been pointed out that the Friendly Societies Act embraced at the present time a number of societies that had no bearing in any way similar to those of the Odd Fellows, Druids, Foresters, and others. These societies, in his opinion, should properly come under. the Unclassified Societies Act. There were also other matters that should be taken into account in regard to the amend- ment of the Act. He was not going into full set up it would be proved by those represent- ing the societies from various parts of New Zealand that various matters could be adduced that would show an amendment of the Act was necessary. He would give one instance. The friendly societies' dispensary in Welling- ton, which was a sort of co-operative dispensary, could not be registered under the Act owing to the fact that the machinery provided simply for dealing with one society. One society might register, but a combination of societies could not do so. He would also like to see the Regis- trar of Societies empowered, after a sufficient notice had been given to societies to conform to the graduated scale of contributions, and if they failed to conform to that scale, to cancel the certificate of registration. It was admitted by all members of friendly societies who had gone into the matter that the graduated scale of contribu- tions was sound from an actuarial point of view. Now, there were one or two other matters he wished to refer to. He thought the stamp duty that was paid by these societies in regard to purely friendly society-matters should also be taken into consideration, and that the imposi- tion of stamp duty should be removed. They might also extend the usefulness and benefits of these societies in this direction : that the circu- lars that were issued and sent to members in connection with friendly societies' business -- should have the same privilege as was granted in England. There no postage was imposed upon circulars in regard to friendly societies' matters. He would leave the matter in the hands of the Minister, trusting the Government would see its way clear-if not this session perhaps next ses- sion-to set up a Committee as suggested in his question. The Hon. Mr. W. KELLY moved, That the debate be adjourned. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said there was no debate. He accepted the statement of the Hon. Mr. Jennings, who had extended his privilege in asking this question to excess, by introducing so much debatable matter. He was not prepared to debate this question, but he quite admitted that from the honourable gentle- man's point of view, and also from the point of view of the general good of the community, these friendly societies should be encouraged in every way. But he did not think it was time yet that Parliament should set up a joint Select Committee to invite suggestions or to consider suggestions as regarded their constitution. The honourable gentleman spoke as if he were conscious that these bodies were on good terms with each other, as they ought to be, and were perfectly prepared to confer among themselves on these subjects. Well, let them confer among themselves. Let them bring up proposals and submit them to the Government, and he was prepared to say the Government would give them every consideration ; and if the societies could make out a good case for altering the present law, or doing anything to encourage them, the Government would be only too glad. But he did not think the matter was now ripe for Parliament to set up a Select Committee, 