out who were the persons responsible therefor. We came down with such information as we were able to obtain. We had the admission of one person, Mr. Albert Cohen, and we had also the admission of the publisher ; but we were unable to find the other party. We then left the House to say what it would be proper in the circumstances to do. I may say for myself that my own opinion was, in the first instance, that we should make some recommendation, but when we referred to the order of reference it was found that that was beyond the scope of our powers. At any rate, that was the opinion of the Committee. There was therefore no failure of duty, so far as I am aware, on our part. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu). - Members on this side of the House are charged with having gone into the "Noes" lobby with the view of currying favour with the Press. Sir, I, at any rate, showed yesterday, and so also did other members around me here, what our feelings were in this matter. We went then into the lobby and voted for the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher). I went into the lobby just now and voted against the amendment because I disapprove, not so much of the amendment itself as of the whole of this motion. I will vote against it at every stage, I care not what amendments are put into it. The motion is simply a sham-nay, worse than a sham. It does not meet the case before us at all. I will have no part or parcel in it, and will record my vote with the "Noes " as often as amendments are moved, whether I believe in the amend- ments or not. It is the motion that I wish to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 vote against, and I will vote against that, how- ever it may be amended now, as the really objectionable part cannot now be excluded. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) .- I do not intend to add to the flood of foolish talk we have had over this breach of privilege. Per- sonally, I do not think it a very important matter. However, I think it was a breach of privilege. But I got up to enter my protest against the waste of time, the useless, senseless waste of time, and the unwarrantable, reck- less public expenditure there has been in con- nection with it. When these Standing Orders were being passed, the closure was very nearly inserted in Standing Order No. 94 in the ori- ginal copies, and if anything at all persuaded me that the closure ought to be inserted, and would be valuable in our Standing Orders, it was the. flood of parliamentary verbiage forced on us in the debate on this very ques- tion. At that time, -it was the first month I was in this House,-the members of the Opposition used to appeal to the young mem- bers of this side of the House to protect the rights of the minority. I voted with them in almost every division to amend the Standing Orders in 1894. And what is the result ? They are using these very Standing Orders now to waste the time that should be given carefully and intelligently to the business of the country. I accuse the members of the Opposition distinctly and emphatically of being entirely responsible for this useless dis- cussion. The position remains, that at the time I refer to, when I and other young mem- bers assisted the Opposition, and the leader of the Opposition appealed to us on every occa- sion-the member for Franklin, Mr. Massey, was here then, and the member for Wakatipu, and several other honourable gentlemen who are on that side still-we believed what they urged then; but I maintain now that if the closure was in our Standing Orders this dis- cussion would not have lasted two hours, instead of two days. It would have maintained the privileges and respectability of the House if it had Got lasted more than ten minutes, and the dignity of Parliament would certainly have been conserved. I am not here like the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), who says he speaks for himself and nobody else. I am here to speak for my con- stituents and for the taxpayers of the country, to whom I owe a duty and responsibility, and on behalf of my constituents and the general taxpayer I protest against the whole proceed- ings as a scandalous waste of their hard-earned savings. Now, I have a word to say to the Government. On the last division we saw that the members of the Government were divided amongst themselves, and I tell them when they are divided amongst themselves they are bound to very soon fall. In order to protest against their action in this matter 1 intend to vote for this amendment, because I agree with the honourable member for Christchurch City that the proposal should be put straightfor- wardly, and that there should be some name mentioned in the motion as amended. How- ever, my principal reason for voting for it is the attitude taken up by the Government in the last division. If they are not consistent amongst themselves, how can they expect their faithful followers to be consistent ? They have some of the best followers they ever had in this House, but they trespass on their good inten- tions and compel them to rebel. I am not surprised at the rebellion of the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher). I think it was quite warranted under such extraordinary cir- cumstances, and I say distinctly and fearlessly that I consider he deserves credit for his at. titude. I hope when we are amending the Standing Orders next session-or, rather, in the new Parliament, because no Government will attempt to amend them except in a new Parliament, the old members know too much about them to agree to what any Government would consider flexible or pliable Standing Orders-we shall see that the closure is pro- vided for. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) .- I am very much obliged to the last speaker for the suggestion he has made, and which he in- tended, of course, to refer to me. But I think the honourable member might just as well have said it in plain English, and I should have thought more of him if he had. I say there is no division of opinion amongst the Government in this matter. Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- You voted in opposite lobbies. 