ploved. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- Yes, they are all employed, but they are paid out of borrowed money. We have now scraped in every possible corner for money, and if we cannot get any more money at a reasonable rate to pay them with, and if half of them are thrown out of employment, what will, I ask, be the posi- tion of your labour laws then ? I desire also to say that the expenditure under the public-works estimates, apart from the general estimates, amounts now to nearly $2,000,000 sterling. Will any one say that the colony can go on borrowing to spend money at that rate? It is impossible to do so. We have borrowed some up to 4} per cent., and we are lending to settlers at 4} per cent., and how are we to do that ? The Hon. Mr. Bolt says that money is not going out of the colony. I have never been one of those indulging in that saying, but I will say now that there are nearly two millions of money gone out of this colony within the year. The process of lending and this legislation has compelled some loan com- panies to start winding up, and they are with- drawing and sending their money out of the country, and it has gone out, at all events, to the extent of £1,750,000 this last year. Will any one in this Council say that that will not affect the conditions of the colony? Are we as prosperous now as we were at the time of the Vogel loans, when we were then spending at the rate of two millions of money a year ? Was not the boom then greater than it is now ? And when we continue to spend money as now, the country will be prosperous as long as we can borrow the money and spend it. Then, Sir, a good deal of reference has been made by my friend to the Arbitration Act. One is very anxious to keep that Act on the statute-book, but I think it is being pressed too far, and if the friends of those people pressing it too far would advise them to ease down a bit until they see how matters are going on, then we might be able to keep that Act, which should be a benefit to the people of the colony ; but, Sir, it is being pressed and worked by the Arbitration Court in a way that is above the head of the Parlia- ment of New Zealand. Will any one say who has studied the matter at all that it is a correct thing in a painters' dispute that only one apprentice to three journeymen should be allowed, so that when an award is given a man should be in the position that he cannot take his two sons into his own workshop and teach them his trade, so that they might fol- low him? That is one instance ; but there are a great many instances. What I have always objected to is to limit the people of this colony to learn the trade they wish to learn. I think no industry will be prosperous if we have not the people in the colony to do whatever we have to do, and if we have to bring them in from other colonies. That is not a con- dition we should have. We should not bave to send away for our boots ; we should be able to manufacture what we want here, and be able to do it. My honourable friend said the country was going to the dogs. Sir, it would take a great deal to drive this country to the dogs. This is a very prolific country, and it would take a lot of bad government to kill it, and I think it will survive however bad the government might be, and it will come out of it all right. Now, my honourable friend brought in the question of wool. I am sorry to say I have no wool, and he said that if wool was down, frozen mutton was up. Now, un- fortunately, they are both down. I do not be- lieve, myself, that wool ever was as low as it is at the present time. Frozen mutton, with the competition from the Argentine, is getting low, I am sorry to say, also. But, Sir, even though wool is down and mutton is up, the one does not counterbalance the other, for the number of fat sheep forms only a small pro- portion of the sheep of the colony, while wool comes off the whole. Well, then, Sir, the Workers' Compensation for Accidents Act has been brought into this discussion also, and it was said that it was only the English Act. Sir, that Act only applied to risky trades, which naturally should stand the risk of the accident. I have always felt, myself, that the principle of that Act was a very taking principle, and if you could educate the people up to it and get them to insure it would be all right ; but you have to get the farming class educated up to a certain pitch before they will think of insuring. I see in a report in the paper where, through an accident to one of his men, a man's all has been taken. I do not think that it does any harm to get into such a discussion as this. It opens up the question and gets it ventilated, and it mav do a great deal of good. I never had any difficulty in dealing with workmen themselves. I have found them, as a rule, very reasonable. It is only some of the leaders that are unreasonable, and endeavour to sow mischief and get as much as they possibly can for the men. I do not say it is wrong for the men to get a fair amount. I think the working-men are entitled to get their fair share of what is made, and, so far as I am concerned, I have always endeavoured to give it to them. Sir, I would advise my honourable friend either to withdraw this Bill now or get the amendment withdrawn, and get the Bill put in order, so that we may know what we are doing, instead of sending away to another place a Bill in a position which is not creditable to this Council, and which will enable the people of the colony to look down on the Council, in- stead of what we should be-a good revising House, as we formerly were. We have never sent a Bill away in a condition that we were ashamed of, and that is what we would be doing if we sent this Bill away in its present condition. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- I have not so far taken any part in the debate, for really, like other honourable gentlemen, I have not a clear idea of what the Bill is like, and I think, with the honourable gentleman who has just spoken, that it would be as well to review it again. It 