been growing year after year, and yet we have cluded or not. The discussion simply went in this old song about capital being driven out of the direction of considering whether a particu- the colony still being brought before us. lar interpretation clause should be struck out An Hon. MEMBER .- So it is. or not ; and it is quite an open question at the The Hon. Mr. BOLT. - I would like the present time whether the banks are included in honourable gentleman to give an instance of the Bill or not. I am very uncertain on the capital being driven away, and of an industry point, as I think also are other honourable being destroyed as a result of this legislation. members. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS. - What about the tanning business in Dunedin ? The Hon. Mr. BOLT .- If there had been no member says "They are not," so I will call at- labour laws on the statute-book I suppose we tention to the clause affecting offices, which would have been able to find a case in which has the heading " Closing-hour for offices." I some man had been driven to the wall ; but would ask, where is a banking business carried because there are such isolated cases that is no on? I think that clerks carry on general reason why the legislation as a whole should be banking business in the offices of the bank, charged as being the cause. In countries where and if the premises in which bank clerks carry there is no labour legislation at all people some- on their business are not offices, then I do not times have, very properly, to go to the wall, know what are. Then, further on, it speaks of because they force themselves in where there is the case of a ledger-keeper. Now, I think that no room for them, or they fail because they a ledger-keeper is generally recognised in com- have not sufficient knowledge or appliances to mercial circles as being essentially a banking successfully carry on their trade. I say, Sir, it official. There are certainly ledger-keepers in is not to be wondered at that people fail in such other commercial institutions, but I think that cases ; but to quote one case in this country, the ledger-keeper proper is always recognised which has had eight years' experience of labour as a bank official. There is also reference to legislation, accompanied with great prosperity, clerks, et cetera. All of this leads me to the does not prove anything against that legislation. opinion that banks are not excluded at the The only fault that I have to find with this Bill present time. I think there is a misunder- is that it is not consistent with itself. standing on that point which ought to have The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- It will be revised been cleared up before the Bill left the Committee. At the present time the Bill in another place. The Hon. Mr. BOLT .- It will certainly have is simply a conglomeration of various clauses, without our really knowing what is included to be revised. We have struck out the defini- tion of offices, while several clauses of the Bill and what is not. We find the interpreta- refer to offices as defined by this Act. It simply tion clause struck out, while no consequential amounts to this : that in order to make the Bill amendments are made. I am not going to take up the position of abusing the labour consistent with itself we shall have to strike legislation of this colony, because I think that out the whole clause relating to offices. The Committee of the Whole struck out the defini- up to the present time it has had a most bene- tion referred to, while the other clauses re- ficial effect. But we can have too much of a good thing. We are all very fond of having a lating to offices have been left in the Bill. The Hon. Mr. LOUISSON .- I think there pocket full of sovereigns, but I doubt whether is some misunderstanding with regard to the we should like to pay 25s. apiece for them. You can pay dearly for very good things, and the way this Bill has come out of Committee, very gentleman who initiated the labour legis- for I, with certain other members of this lation of this colony, the Hon. W. P. Reeves, Council, was under the impression, when we and also the present Premier and others, have went into Committee, that if we proceeded with the Bill and skipped the interpretation already recognised-in fact, they recognised it long ago-that we might go too far in this direc- clauses it would be for the purpose of deciding whether banks and warehouses should be in- tion. Before leaving the colony Mr. Reeves cluded or not. Now, Sir, we got the Bill sounded a warning note with regard to the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act. through Committee up to that point, with the interpretation clause in which the word He told the workers that they had a very " banking " is mentioned struck out. valuable institution in that enactment, but he The Hon. Mr. JONES .- It is only suggested. at the same time warned them not to ride it to death-not to make too much use of it. The Hon. Mr. LOUISSON .- I have my idea And the Hon. the Premier, the other day, in as to what the suggestion is, and the honour- reply to a deputation with regard to labour able gentleman can have his. The Hon. Mr. matters, made similar allusions, showing that Bolt has just said that we struck out the bank he also was of opinion that very good legislation clanse. might be spoilt by being overdone. Now, Sir, I The Hon. Mr. BOLT .- The definition. contend that the present Bill is not required. The Hon. Mr. LOUISSON. - Very well, the It will have a very mischievous effect, and it definition ; but it seems to me that we do not creates a certain amount of unrest and in- know where we are -we do not know at the security amongst the people of this colony, both present time whether banks are included or not. employers and employés. The Hon. Mr. Bolt It was an understanding that when we came to spoke just now about not knowing of a single the interpretation clause we should discuss the An Hon. MEMBER .- They are not. The Hon. Mr. LOUISSON .- An honourable 