country districts for years, and if people had to wait to get a permit from a Stipendiary Magis- trate they would simply be put in the hands cinated would fall victims to that hideous of the Registrar to be fined. He moved the motion. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said he did not rise to object to the printing of the return, but he was not prepared to take all the honour- able gentleman's assumptions as facts or all his deductions as sound logic. He was afraid that some day we should find the evil results of this gradual relaxation of the restrictions which had been so profitable in the past, and the country would awake some day to find itself face to face with a terrible epidemic, an epi- demic that would be all the more severe because had not had it; but we did not know the it would come into contact with a population whose constitutions had grown up without the slightest physical acquaintance with the influ- ence of the germs that were likely to make serious assault. He only said these few words because he felt them to be true, and almost certainly they would prove to be true in the future. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY said he did not object to the motion, but he could not allow the statement made by the proposer to pass without a few remarks in regard to the danger to the public health that would arise from people were only guessing at the causes and a relaxation of vaccination. This was a very serious matter. Now, it had been urged that, if a person had conscientious objections to it, therefore his child should not be vac- cinated. He did not know whether the father of a child was the sole guardian of the child. He thought the State had an equal, if not a greater, right to protect the life of a child than the parent. Some people were utterly in- capable of taking proper care of children, and it was therefore the duty of the State to step in when necessity required it. Some man might have great conscientious objections to paying his debts, and many other objections of that sort. The State then stepped in for the pur- pose of making his property liable. A great many people, not only in this country but in heretofore u. dreamt-of. It appeared to him other countries, have very conscientious objec- tions to working for a living. They wanted to clamour had been raised against vaccina- live on the community, and a great many suc- ceeded, but they were punished for it. With did not look very far or very thoughtfully reference to the danger of tampering with pre- into the problems around them, and who had cautionary measures, he would point to the case seen mischief done by bad vaccine and by bad which occurred in Glasgow recently. A small-pox vaccination, were led to attack the whole epidemic visited a certain quarter of Glasgow system, . but how intelligent men like his at the beginning of the year, and, fortunately, honourable friend, who were ranging themselves prompt and most vigorous action was taken by against it, could do so he could not for the life the authorities to stamp it out. There were of him understand He had not heard the about eighteen hundred or two thousand cases honourable member say anything which, to his of small-pox, and about two hundred and fifty mind, would justify this crusade to put & stop people died, and it cost the citizens of Glasgow $45,000 to stamp out that epidemic in a small throughout the world, and to throw away a quarter of the city ; and if it had spread over proved remedy without taking any other safe- the whole city the expense would have been guard. He thought they ought all to insist on something enormous, and the loss of life appal- every possible means being taken to prevent ling. Well, these were some of the risks we under- careless vaccination. That arm-to-arm vaccina- took in freeing our people from the compulsion tion was often dangerous there was no doubt. to vaccinate their children. As the Hon. the But steps were being taken everywhere to Minister of Education said, if a small-pox epi- population would suffer severely, and, in addi- tion, those amongst us who had not been vac- disease. He thought this Council should be careful and not encourage this system of re- laxation, and thus expose the public to the risk of frightful disaster. The Hon. Mr. REEVES would like to say a few words on this subject. He thought it would be a most pernicious thing if compulsory vaccination was abolished. We knew very well that the fact of vaccination having been in existence had to a great extent saved many other parts of the world from an epidemic of small-pox. Fortunately, in New Zealand we day when it might come, and why should not every parent be compelled to have his child vaccinated to avoid that danger ? He said it would be a most pernicious thing if we were to abolish vaccination. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN said he thought it was rather curious that it was just about the time we were on the eve of understanding why vaccination had been a great success in the world that this crusade against it had taken place. When the great preventive of small- pox was introduced into England by Dr. Jenner results of illnesses ; but it was found that vac- cination put a stop absolutely to the plague that was devastating all civilised countries, and especially the seaport towns of the East. Now, thanks to vaccination, these great seaports were no longer breeding small-pox for our sailors to disseminate from one end of the world to the other, and we knew as a fact that a great boon had been conferred on the world. Now we were on the eve of understanding the reasons for the immunity which three genera- tions had enjoyed, reasons which we did not know before. The whole science of medicine had been revolutionised, and the doctors were busy investigating the whole life-history of microbes of different kinds, and finding out how one counteracted the other in a manner very unfortunate that at this time a great tion. He could understand how people who to a system which had proved so beneficent 