gories, or either. There are amounts which cannot be included, and which cannot be con- sidered as debts because they are not liabilities. It is customary for the Cabinet to meet in October in each year ; they propose certain expenditure, and send it to the various depart- ments. The money may be voted for three different years before it is expended, and if it is voted for three different years before it is expended, is it going to be totalled as "debts " for the three years? What is the distinction between "debts " and "liabilities"? The words of the member for Nelson City in connection with this matter are as follows. He said, "The Treasurer shows a credit balance of £232,515, and he gives his esti- mate for the current year without any refer- ence to the debts owing." Then, in referring to the Minister for Public Works, he says, "He makes his ways and means to be £2,532,515, then estimates there will be an expenditure of £1,950,000, and a balance re- maining at the end of the year of £532,515." Does the honourable member know the dif- ference between "liability " and "debt "? If he does, he most skilfully conceals the fact, because nobody who reads the speech of the honourable member or who heard his speech could think for a moment that the honourable member understood the distinction. Now, let us look at a table of some of the outstanding liabilities of the colony-let us consider a table prepared from the estimates, and from the statements in the Budget, and what do we find? We find under ( lass I. an amount of £191,309 15s. 1d. which is debited-if I might https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 use that word for the time being-to the Minis- ter for Public Works and the Minister for Rail- ways. We add to that " Railways, additions to open lines, £400,686 3s. 11d. " : total, £591,995 19s. That I will admit is debt. The next item we come to is under the head of " Minister of Lands," "Roads and bridges, proposed ex- penditure, £398,166 158. 3d." ; under " Mines." "Roads on goldfields, £49,221 9s. 2d.": or a total of £447,388 4s. 5d. That is a liability. The next item is, " Commissioner of Electric Telegraphs, Instruments, &c., $26,989." That is a debt. Then, "Minister for Public Works," " Public buildings, £73,375." That is a lia- bility. Then, " Minister for Public Works," " Lighthouses. £10,313 16s. 7d." That is a lia- bility. Then, "Minister of Defence," " Contin- gent defence, £140,000." That is also a lia- bility. Is there not a marked distinction, in the criticism of financial proposals, between the words "debt " and "liability "? And must not that distinction be always made by any one who honestly intends to criticize, without having any feeling hostile to the Ad- ministration ? I can well understand that, for the purpose of hostile criticism, with a desire of making the finance of the party in power appear blacker than it really is, for political purposes, the whole of those sums of money may be treated as debts, and not as liabilities, for the purpose of show- ing the state of the country. But I say it is Mr. Wilford that the whole of those sums are debts, as it was said by the honourable member for Nel- son City they were. Sir, I extract from that table those amounts I put down as liabilities in- stead of debts, and what do I find ? Taking the totals-#447,388 4s. 5d., £73,375, £10,313 16s. 7d., and £140,000 - we find that £671,077 11s. is the sum that actually and honestly comes under the de"nition of " liability," and is not properly described as "debt." Take, for instance, our estimate in regard to co-operative labourers. If we have eight thousand labourers, and pay them $3 a week, say, for the sake of argument, we have £24,000 per week to find. We multiply $24,000 by four, taking it roughly that there are four weeks to the month, and we get $96,000. Then we multiply £96,000 by 12 in order to estimate the proposed expenditure in the way of wages for the 8,000 for the year, and, multiplying £96,000 by 12, we get over ¥1,000,000 sterling, which is the estimated ex- penditure to the co-operative labourers. Would that be accounted a debt, as far as the finances of the colony are concerned ? Would it even be accounted a liability? It is only the pro- posed expenditure for the 8,000 men employed for the twelve months. Is it a debt or a lia- bility? It may become either, but it is not necessarily one or the other. Therefore we find, if we criticize the matter, and if we come to the question of whether it is a debt or a liability, that no less than £671,077 11s. should be treated as a liability out of a total of £1,292,095 12s., and should be deducted there- from. Mr. HALL-JONES .- It is more than that. Mr. WILFORD .- It may be more than that. The honourable member may be in possession of other items that may be treated as liabilities, and which the ordinary observer cannot under- stand ; but I am satisfied to point out that out of a total of £1,292,000, a sum of £671,000 can be treated as liability and not as debt. Take the item of £140,000 which is put down for con- tingent defence, under the head of " Minister of Defence." Is that a debt? The Government propose to expend £140,000. Is that a debt? Is the colony likely or in a position to be called on to pay, or is it probable the colony may have to repudiate ? Where is the debt ; where is the liability in regard to that £140,000? It is simply a proposed expenditure. If honour- able members, in criticizing from their side of the House, twist facts and figures to show such results as I have pointed out, it is disingenuous on their part, to say the least of it. I do not consider it is necessary for me to say more in re- gard to those particular figures, but it is always necessary, when criticism of the Government party comes from a member of the Government party, that those figures should be fully sus- tained before they are put forth to the world. They should also be carefully criticized, because it naturally follows that when a member of the Government or a member of the Government party criticizes in a hostile manner the finances of the party he is supposed to belong to, the world outside considers there must be something 