have been grinding the life-blood out of the | no matter what pressure, may be brought people in those parts. And yet the people who do this profess to be anxious to push on the construction of railways in the Province of Auckland. Then, not satisfied with sending that joint letter secretly to the Minister for Public Works, the representatives of the timber company have joined together and have sent hired men around the country for weeks col- lecting signatures to petitions to send down here to try and influence the Government to stop that work. Now, how many of those signatures are from settlers? I have taken the trouble to go through a number of the petitions, and I could not recognise a dozen names of settlers. Most of them were bush hands. And those who are helping to prop up these mono- polies, these rings and trusts, are trying to block the progress of the whole district so that they may continue to make money out of the people. The whole thing is a public scandal, and I hope the Government will do their Sir, there is no duty in the matter. other district in the colony that I know of where the settlers are being more cruelly used than they have been in that part of the colony. There is no place in the colony where the settlers are being placed so hopelessly at the mercy of the shipping and timber rings as they are in that part of the colony. They are unable to help themselves. The whole thing is run by trusts; and now these people, who have been crushing the life-blood out of the people of the district for the last twenty-five years, are afraid that the settlers will be enabled to get their produce to market -they are frightened to see the port of Whangarei thrown open so that there will be competition. I have never known anything so cruel in the whole history of the colony. Unless something is http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero done to develop the resources and assist the settlers in that part of the country, the settlers may as well pack up and go, and then, when the forests are worked out, you will have a perfect waste, and no settlers will be there. And all this is happening in spite of the fact that the rail ^ ay-line there is one of the best paying in the colony. There is not another railway in the colony giving the same returns &s the Whangarei-Kawakawa Railway is giving. I say, in the interests of the whole colony, and of the North of Auckland in particular, it is ab- solutely necessary that that connection between Grahamstown and Kawakawa shall be com- pleted as soon as possible. The whole pro- sperity of that part of the colony depends upon it ; and I regret to find that any section of people, no matter how small they may be, would dare to come to this House and endeavour to influence the Minister, or try to influence the Minister, against doing his duty in that part of the colony. Sir, I have very little more to say about this matter. I regret having had to refer to this at all, but it is so serious a matter that it means life or death to the settlers of Marsden. It is a matter which means pro- sperity or the reverse to the whole of that part of the colony, and I trust the Government will do its duty, and, no matter what influences, to bear upon Ministers, that they will see the necessity of connecting those two districts at as early a date as possible. Sir, I am not selfish in this matter; I do not ask for any favour for my own electorate. I say, " Connect the two ports and give us free access to the markets of the world." Unless you do that, I say, it will involve the ruin of the settlers in that part of the district. There is no place north of Auckland, or in the Province of Auckland, that is making more rapid progress than Whangarei, but unless you give access to the markets, unless you will relieve the settlers from this ring that is grind- ing the life out of them, it is impossible for them to prosper. I hope the Government will see that no ring, that no system of plotting and scheming, that no trust or combination shall prevent them from assisting that part of the colony. I am pleased to say that we are able to see a ray of hope for that. I am pleased to see that the City of Auckland has at last recognised that the trade of that part of the colony is of some value to that city, and I appeal to the city members, as men having the interests of the whole province, and not only of the province but of the whole colony, at heart, to do everything they can to see that not only is the Central line completed, but that the Helensville line is pushed forward, and that the connection is made between Grahamstown and Kawakawa. I wish to see these works progress, because I hold it is impossible for this colony to prosper if we crush out these back districts-the country must sink or swim together. And when we have the timber ring and the shipping ring approaching surrepti- tiously the Minister, and endeavouring by peti- tion or letter to endeavour to get the Govern- ment to shunt anything that would tend to the development of its resources, in order that thay may get every penny they can out of the people -- An Hon. MEMBER .- Who are " they "? Mr. R. THOMPSON .- I say the timber and the shipping rings. I say the representatives of those rings addressed a joint letter to the Minister; and if the honourable gentleman likes he can apply to the Minister for Public Works for particulars. Nothing more disgrace- ful than that has occurred, and yet the ring- leader of these men openly professes to wish to see the development of the resources north of Auckland. He professes that openly, whilst secretly he has done everything he can to block the progress of the district. Mr. KAIHAU (Western Maori) .- Sir, I desire to make 'a few remarks upon the Financial Statement now before the House. The debate upon this question, I think, has now been before the House for somewhere about three weeks, and a great many different opinions have been advanced by honourable members who up to the present have spoken upon it. However, I recognise that this is a question which particularly necessitates the careful at- tention and consideration of members. Sir, I look upon the Financial Statement of the 