valuable factor in the prosperity of this colony, and every new development and fresh growth of the company means more employment for our people and brings more wealth to our colony. The annual expenditure of this company ex- ceeds one million of money, and the vessels consume over a quarter-million tons of coal. They employ nearly three thousand men, and the wives and families of these men are nearly all living in the colony. We know that the company has vessels suitable for this trade, but if they could not be spared they would very soon get others. The company is building large and powerful steamers at the present time. We know that the troopship " Monowai " went to South Africa with a living freight of brave young fellows, and she did her work well. I am not at all in the confidence of the com- pany, but I say it is a company with the com- mand of money, and I think that it would be prepared to provide any service that the Government might require, and on conditions favourable to all concerned. It was mentioned the other night that some of the Home-Aus- tralian liners might be induced to call here in connection with our postal service. Well, I do not think it would do this country much good to be visited by the Home-Australian vessels. They would not leave any money here. Their stay would be only a few hours. I question if we could offer sufficient inducements for them to come here at all. But in the event of & line being established in connection with a Vancouver service-and I think it would be a step in the right direction for the Govern- ment to have a fast mail-service to Sydney, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 and to connect with the Vancouver service- I hope if such a line is established the claims of the Union Steamship Company will be re- cognised, and negotiations will be entered into http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero with that company before going elsewhere. I should say a few words about the Defence Department, but my time is too limited. will, however, refer for a minute to the subject of rifle clubs. To my mind, the regulations in connection with these clubs were framed with We no intention of encouraging rifle clubs. have evidence that the Commandant is opposed to the formation of rifle clubs, and he has been forced into making some sort of regulations which are really worse than nothing at all. With liberal facilities for the formation and support of rifle clubs, they would, I believe, form What do our strongest defence in this colony. the conditions say ? -- "Ex- Volunteers resident within "a radius of five miles of the headquarters of a Volunteer corps, and having had not less than three years' service, or Volunteers after having served for three years in the Volunteer Force, will, on discharge from the Volunteer Force, be allowed to enroll themselves in any recognised Govern- ment rifle club in the colony, provided no man so enrolled is less than thirty years of age." What absurdity ! If a man has had three years' training as a Volunteer before he is al- lowed to join he is a good shot, or he ought to be. There would be no object in his joining to learn Mr. E. G. Allen previous experience in being eligible for joining a rifle club. It is a ridiculous condition. In regard to the age, there is no fault to be found with that, for if you allowed very young men to join rifle clubs they might be drafted away from the Volunteer corps. Then, clause 15 says,- " Each member of a rifle club enrolled under paragraph 3 will be allowed an annual Govern- ment grant of ammunition of a hundred rounds, which must be used for practice or for club matches, and a record of the scores made by cach member must be duly registered. ' This is quite inadequate. One of the objects is to encourage shooting, and how can a person get sufficient practice on such a small amount of ammunition ? Of course, he can buy more, but there are many who cannot afford to buy ammunition ; and, if they are not allowed sufficient ammunition for practice purposes, it means that the end in view in establishing rifle clubs will be defeated. In concluding my remarks, I want to say a few words about- the forests. The New Zealand forests have not- received the attention they deserve. The subject is a very important one, and Governments in the past have done nothing practical in the matter, although this Government is giving a little more attention to the subject than any of their predecessors did. New Zealand is very liberally supplied with forest timber, and that fact is apt to make people careless about its conservation. The principal aim in this, as in all new countries, is to settle people on the land, whether that land is open land or forest land : and in many cases the settlers' axe and fire destroy immense quantities of valuable timber. In the recent exhaustive " Report of the Royal Commission on Forests," submitted to the Victorian Government, the Commis- sioners point out that it is the duty of Governments to reserve all forest lands. New Zealand has, according to the report, about I twenty million acres of forest land ; but only about one million of this large amount is re- served, and that is principally reserved for climatic purposes-at the heads of creeks and valleys and rivers, as homes for native birds- and not for the sake of its timber. It appears to me, Sir, that the question is worthy of con- sideration whether we should not institute a Department of Forests in this colony. We find that our kauri timber is fast disappearing, and no steps are being taken to afforest the lands that are being denuded of that timber. In 1899 we exported 50,000,000 ft. of timber, nearly one-half of which was kauri, and the value of it was £200,000. We imported in the same year 8.000,000 ft. of timber, of the value of $103.000, principally hardwood. Now, this country is getting very little revenue from its forests-not nearly as much as it ought -- and I believe that if the matter were pro- perly managed, and we had a Forests Depart- ment, we would get a very much greater revenue from our forests than we are getting at the present time. Why not grow our own hardwood ? We know that in fifty years, if we 