Most schools in that had proper flagstaffs. my district have erected the necessary flagstaffs, land. Hitherto the farmers have not been able but, I would ask, Where are the flags that the Government promised to supply ? legislation has been forced upon them by unions Mr. HALL-JONES .- Did they apply for them ? Mr. LANG .- They have applied for them over and over again, and I believe that only a few not. In the electorate I have the honour to dozens have been sent out to the different Educa- tion Boards in the colony, but nothing like enough to go round. And I hear-I do not know whether my information is correct-that these flags are so small that they will look very By joining in a body they have been able to get insignificant at the top of the substantial flag- staffs these schools have erected. I believe they will look something like a small handkerchief. Mr. HALL-JONES .- The delay has occurred with the contractors. Mr. LANG .- One year's delay is a very long while. However, I will pass on now to another matter in the Statement, and that is referred to under the heading of " Our boys at the front : Returned troopers." The Premier makes a laboured excuse why the men did not receive their pay when they returned. He says, " There is no real foundation for this statement what- ever "-whatever he may mean by that. After- wards he admits there has been delay, but he lays the blame with the Imperial authorities. pay the utmost attention to their wants, be- But my object is not so much to draw attention to that as it is to the manner in which troopers have been .-- I was almost going to say deceived, so far as receiving billets is concerned. The Premier undoubtedly led them to believe that more members will be returned to this House they would all receive billets when they returned more directly representing agricultural interests. from South Africa. I regret to say that there are so few in the Mr. HALL-JONES .- No. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 Mr. LANG .- That was the impression the Premier conveyed, whether he meant it or not ; member for Franklin who, when speaking of but. even supposing he only promised that he are twenty-nine members for the South Island, would give them the first show, I will show how they are treated in this respect. I have cer- tainly heard that one or two of the returned members of contingents have been somewhat fastidious, and they have wished to pick and choose what billets they should get. I think that farmer or the small farming class, and I hope is wrong, but a great many re urned troopers are ready and willing to accept the first billets makes fresh appointments to the Upper House. offered to them, and this is the way they have been treated : They are told to send in an appli- This heading sounds very well, but it is rather cation, and when the application is sent in they vague. It is something like the heading one are told their names are on the list, and that when a vacancy occurs and their turn comes they sometimes sees to cablegrams. One sees some- will be further communicated with. Then they thing in the heading that is very sensational, are afterwards told that if they do not hear but when what follows is read one finds that within a given date they should renew their there is not very much in it. What does the applications annually. Now, do they expect troopers to wait year after year before they get these appointments? It is far better to tell the Premier intends sending a trade expert to South Africa. If this expert does nothing them straight out whether they can give them more than the trade experts in the past have work or not; and, if they cannot give them done, the farmer will have little to thank the billets, I am sure the men would be willing to Government for in this respect. Then, with go and look for work elsewhere. But they reference to the reduction of the mortgage-tax, should not be kept hanging on, expecting to get a billet day by day, and, as the department the Premier, in his Budget, says,- say in their own memorandum, " Applications considerable time the interest on mortgages has should be renewed annually." Now, Sir, I want to say a word in reference to the Farmers' steadily decreased. During the past ten years Union has been formed throughout New Zea- to unite, and, in consequence of that, injurious that represent industries of far smaller im- portance compared with agriculture, and simply because one body has united and the other has represent -- the Waikato-the farmers have been uniting in the way of forming farmers' clubs, and, so far as their own private business is concerned, they have greatly advanced it. certain business concessions which they endea- voured to obtain years and years before, but could not do so because they were not united. I venture to say that the farmers now will make their wants felt and their importance recognised. The Premier says that the Farmers' Union is a political organization, and so the Premier, and the member for Masterton, and the member for Geraldine went up to Pahiatua to form a non-party union. Just fancy a non- party union being formed by the Premier and the member for Masterton and the member for Geraldine! The Premier in the first case tried to burst up the Farmers' Union-there is no doubt about that. But now I think he will cause there is no man who is more willing to listen to the wants of settlers than the Premier, provided they are backed up by sufficient votes. I venture to say that at the next elections present House considering the importance of the agricultural industry. I think it was the . the Upper House, pointed out that there against only eighteen from the North; but I would like to point out that in the members of the Upper House we have only eight or nine who represent agricultural interests, and out of that eight or nine only about half represent the the Premier will bear this in mind when he "Help to farmers and producers : Cool-storage." Premier say in reference to this? The only thing we can glean from this paragraph is that " In my last Budget I stated that ' for some 