\- both members and pressmen that has led, breach of privilege, and I trust that the explana- as has been stated by the member for Wel- tion given will be accepted by your honourable lington City (Mr. Fisher), to the wholesale House. Reiterating that it has not been my breaches of the Standing Orders that now go on, wish to set Parliament at defiance,-Believe "A. E. COHEN, and there has been no wrapping-up or disguising me, &c., " Parliamentary Reporter, Dunedin Star. the fact. Evidence, as in this case, has been taken holus-bolus and printed in the newspapers, " The Speaker, House of Representatives." which was a breach of the Standing Orders and of Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Mr. Speaker, I feel sure that every member of the House will the privileges of this House. Very well, as I have be pleased that Mr. Cohen has taken the course said, it is only a question of degree. Of course, you must deal with it in its degree. If for the that he has done in sending the letter that has same degree or a lesser degree in giving publi- just been read, and therein expressing his regret at having committed a breach of the privileges cation to what transpires on these Committees, members in this House have sat in their places of the House. Sir, it is my intention to move silent and consenting parties, and have allowed the following resolution : "That in the matter that to go on without demur, then they must of the breach of privilege that has arisen through not deal too harshly with the representative of the publicity of the evidence given before the the journal who has erred, as in this case ; and I Goldfields and Mines Committee in respect to the promotion aud flotation of certain dredging say, in respect to it, he has acted honourably, and has, at all events, taken the course to-day of claims by Mr. Cook, by the Dunedin Erening writing to the Speaker, and through the Speaker St., the House accepts as satisfactory the ex- to the members of this House, informing us as pression of regret of the representative of that to the ground of this matter, and that the real journal, and this House resolves to proceed no groundwork was, as stated by him, the great further in the matter." Now, Sir, the first question that will naturally be asked is, Is there importance to the people of the colony, and more particularly to those interested in the any precedent for what I am now proposing ? I say, Sir, that we have several precedents, and one which is more closely in touch than any was going to say the wickedness, but I would other is that of the Ward-Chapman case. say that they have suffered through the want of Mr. FISHER .- This case itself is unpre- honesty and integrity of many connected with cedented. Mr. SEDDON .- It is only a question of the promotion and flotation of these companies. degree. But, at all events, in this case and the Ward-Chapman case it was a member of the do with the course I am now taking. You must Committee who conveyed to another gentleman take into consideration what the object of the the evidence and what had transpired in the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 offending journal was. Was that object to set Committee, and that had been sent to the this House at defiance, or was it in the interests journal that was complained of. It was a Nelson paper ; and Mr. Luckie and Mr. Ward, of the people and as a duty that the Press, or this particular journal, did what it has done? the same as Mr. Cohen, expressed regret, and the House received the expression of regret, be judge of that ? and resolved to proceed no further in the matter. I do not know that this case is ex. and honourable members cannot gainsay it, actly on all-fours with that one. That was that the information was in the best interests of on the 7th August, 1874. Now, what has the colony, and especially Otago and the West led to this? Will members answer conscien- tiously that question ? If they do they must Coast. admit that in respect to the proceedings of a very large number of Committees they fre- come in ? quently tell reporters of the newspapers what put themselves in order before they begin to transpires on those Committees. order other people. It cannot be denied that it An Hon. MEMBER .- They always do. was in the best interests of the people of the Hon. MEMBERS .- No, no. colony. I know personally that there has been, Mr. SEDDON .- Well, I will say there are in respect to this flotation and promotion of a large number of members who do-I will not dredging companies, absolute dishonesty, and say the whole of them ; and if the gentlemen there have been convictions, which are now in the Press Gallery violated their honour those on record in the Supreme Court, and the men members who violate the Standing Orders are in gaol at the present time who have been would have to sit dumb. It has been the guilty of this "salting" and floating of dredging practice of members to convey such in- claims and the misleading of the investors. formation with respect to the proceedings of Then, Sir, I come to another question that Committees. That has been allowed to go on, members must answer, and it is this: Has and to grow, and it has no become recognised by the Press that they have a right to this tion ? As Mr. Cohen has mentioned in his information ; at all events, they have en- letter, where it might have injured an indi- deavoured to get the information, and the vidual the journal took steps to prevent that information has gone into columns of news- being done; and as they have given both sides papers throughout the colony. It has been that dredging industry, and those who have 11.0. suffered, and are suffering, through-I Mr. FISHER .- What has that to do with it ? Mr. SEDDON .- I say that has everything to An Hon. MI.MBER .- Should not the House Mr. SEDDON .- I say there can be no doubt, Mr HUTCHESON .- Where does the House Mr. SEDDON .- I say that members should there been any unfairness in this publica- 