could not resist the temptation of referring to | able paucity of these scintillations of intellect which so please members and delight the gal- Canning's well-known lines, which are surely suitable to the Premier, as applied to Mr. leries. Last year there were a good many cau- cuses early in the session, but then we had Fisher himself. But what I wanted to say was much more important matters than this one this : the Right Hon. the Premier said he never climbs down. Sir, he has climbed down already under discussion, such, for example, as raising Ministers' salaries. Now, when the Govern- in connection with this very matter. Yesterday ment are brought face to face with a position the honourable gentleman moved a resolution that is the result of their own incompetence in in this House to the effect that the House not understanding the temper of the House, accepts as satisfactory the expression of regret a caucus is called together, and members are of the representative of the Dunedin Star. whipped into line. Ministers had not the tact To-day the Minister of Mines moves that the to get the amendments to the motion of the words " as satisfactory " shall be eliminated from the resolution. Therefore the explana- Premier moved by private members. They tion of the Dunedin Star man is not satis- were moved by his colleagues. And so when the Minister for Railways to-day told the factory ; and does the Right Hon. the Premier deny that that amendment of his member for Wellington City that his tactics had been out-generalled by the Right Hon. the colleague's has been moved with his con- Premier the honourable gentleman spoke what sent ? Why, Sir, the honourable gentleman again speaks of the amendment now before was quite correct. the House as " the amendment of the Minister for Public Works." Can anybody suppose who Premier. knows the right honourable gentleman and his colleague the Minister for Public Works, that Minister for Railways said that in tactics the the Hon. Mr. Hall-Jones would move an amend- member for Wellington City had been out- ment to the motion of the Right Hon the Pre- generalled by the Premier. That was correct. mier unless he had the Premier's full consent ? The member for Wellington City must know, as I venture to say that within twenty-four hours an old parliamentary hand, that whenever the in regard to two very important points in this Premier gets into trouble he first of all climbs matter the Premier has climbed down. His down, and then he calls a caucus of the party so position is that of the coon up the tree, as to let him fall easily. So far as the letter who says, " Don't shoot ; I'll come down." Now, is concerned which has been referred to to-day, the Premier referred to the amendment of I have read it carefully, and beyond the ex- the honourable member for Wellington City pression quoted by the Premier in the closing (Mr. Fisher). The chief point of difference be- paragraph, I cannot see the slightest indication tween the amendment of Mr. Fisher and that of any regret. It is not a regret for a breach of now before the House was this : that, in the first the privileges of the House. It is a regret that place Mr. Fisher fixed exactly the persons who in the reporter's bona fide endeavour to do were to pay the fine. His amendment stated something for his paper he has infringed the that £50 was to be paid by one person, and £25 privileges of this House, and there is a great by another ; two persons were mentioned, and deal of distinction to be drawn between the the responsibility, therefore, of collecting the two. He also says that it has not been his wish money by his amendment if it had been passed to set Parliament at defiance, and yet, while he would have been placed upon the Executive says that, in another part he says,- officers of this House. From whom is the fine of #15, now to be levied according to this amend- certain irregularities by Mr. Easton, and im- ment, to be collected ? mediate publication of these charges was deemed Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable by my editor an act of common justice to that member is now speaking on an amendment witness." which is not before the Chair. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I have no wish to traverse your ruling, and I shall respect your before his editor a statement of the position, ruling in the matter, but really the discussion and presumably the editor understood that the as initiated by the Premier's last speech is so publication would be a breach of privilege, and very wide that I trust I may be excused if I ordered that the matter was to be forwarded for have fallen into the mistake of referring to publication. But the tone of the letter right some question not included in his speech. through is, as already described, an insult Now, a good deal has been said about this and a defiance to the House. He says he caucus held by the party. I should like to admits that a breach of privilege was com- mitted by the premature publication of the point out this is the first caucus held this evidence, and suggests an alteration in "our year. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- That has been practice." pointed out already. practice," the practice of the newspapers or the Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - It is necessary to practice of the High Court of Parliament ? I have never heard of a more impudent letter point it out again, because my friend the mem- ber for Waihemo does not always point out being sent to a Parliament, and I take leave to doubt, if the usual Speaker had been in the things for the first time. If the honourable chair, whether he would have allowed this letter gentleman had to confine his speeches to mat- ters strictly original there would be a consider. to have been laid before the House. Mr. SEDDON .- He never mentioned the Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Oh, yes, he did. The "One witness, J. Holsted, was accused of It is quite evident that the reporter placed Does he mean by that phrase, " our 