ways, and therefore the non-users should be called upon to share in the cost of the railways. Sir, the figures connected with the railways disclose the fact that the railway system is rapidly assuming large proportions, and that the skill in their management is keeping pace with their growth. Last year the revenue was over £1,700,000, and the number of employés within seven of eight thousand. The Minister has grappled very successfully with the rolling- stock question. We do not hear the com- plaints in regard to the want of rolling-stock that we have heard in previous years. I hope that in future it will not be necessary 12.30. to send out of the colony for rolling- stock. I hope we shall be able to make it locally and keep the money in the colony, and give employment to our own artisans. While on this question I would like to congratulate the Minister on his proposed scheme of super- annuation for railway employés, and also on his amended Classification Act. The country Stationmasters are very much underpaid. There are scores of men getting from £140 to £160 a year holding responsible positions as country Stationmasters; they are acting as Postmasters in charge of money-order business ; their hours are very long, and there is some dis- satisfaction amongst these officers on account of the long hours they have to work and the small wages they receive. Then, again, there are the Stationmasters at the second-class seaport stations. We will take Timaru or Oamaru as instances. In each of these places the Station- master has the whole responsibility. There is a large shipping business, passenger traffic, and goods traffic, and one man has to superintend all that work. The Stationmaster in the principal centres has an abundance of assist- ance. There is a goods agent and Traffic In- spector, and the Stationmaster has nothing to do but look after trains and the passenger traffic of the station. The Minister is to be congratulated on the great concessions he has made to the producers. In respect to the carriage of lime free, a great benefit has been conferred on the farmers. I am sorry to say that the farmers in my district have not taken as much advantage of that concession as I think they might have done. The issuing of workers' tickets has been a great success, and is very highly appreciated. I think the system of granting cheap tickets to workers should be extended to working-girls travelling after eight a.m. I am aware that it is liable to abuse, but if a girl presents a certificate from her employer to the effect that she is a bona fide worker I think the concession might be ex- tended to her. If that safeguard were taken by the department there would be no fear of abuses creeping in. It is very gratifying to notice that the Budget proposals contemplate carrying on a moderately vigorous public-works policy. The completion of our main trunk lines is very desirable, and I do not think that this House wishes any stoppage in the progress of those lines. Next to the completion of the trunk lines is the duplication of some of the suburban VOL. CXVIII .- 8. . Bay line. Members will understand that all the northern traffic joins the Port Chalmers- Dunedin Railway at Sawyers' Bay, and con- sequently both the port traffic and the country traffic is carried over a single tortuous line, a line which is quite inadequate to cope with the traffic. The dangers and delays at the crossings are very annoying and very incon- venient. There is a great want of a better service on that important line. The complaints about the line do not consist solely of incon- convenience to the travelling public, but settle- ment in the district is very much retarded for the want of better railway facilities. We have miles of foreshore alongside the line eminently adapted for settlement, but people will not settle there in large numbers, because the fares are high and the trains slow and infrequent. What is wanted is a duplication and straighton- ing of the line, and if this were done the revenue would no doubt be very much increased. The Minister has recognised the necessity for the work ; he has said that he will do it, but it has not yet been commenced. I should like to get some assurance that the work will be com- menced at an early date. What did our old friend the late James Macandrew say? He said, " When you have got your Otago Central line completed, and the line doubled between Port Chalmers and Dunedin, you will have a a Broomielaw from Dunedin to Port Chalmers." I notice that the subject of steam communica- tion with South Africa is referred to in the Bud- get, and I think it is a matter for congratulation that the Government is endeavouring to find fresh markets for our produce. It is to be hoped that they will succeed in establishing line to South Africa, because I think tha country would make a very valuable outlet fo our produce. I, however, disapprove of the State purchasing and owning ships. We have already coming here the steamers of five steam- ship companies, and, if we go into competition with those steamers, I think we shall run our- selves into great financial difficulties. Well, that is my opinion. Some honourable gentle- men say "No, no," but the profits these steamers are making are not sufficiently great to justify one thinking that this colony could compete successfully. But, Sir, I do say that instead of purchasing large steamers the Go- vernment should subsidise a line of steamers very liberally, principally to enable direct steamers to compete in South Africa with the Australian shipping companies. We know that Australia is a week's sailing nearer South Africa than New Zealand is, and unless some sub- sidy is given our vessels are not likely to compete successfully with the Australian vessels. I trust that the Government, in the event of establishing this line, will offer terms that will induce our enterprising Union Steamship Com- pany to take up that running. The Union Steamship Company has claims upon this country that no other company has. It is essentially one of our own institutions. It has grown with the prosperity of this country, and among its employés will be found some of our 