trip commutation tickets. The popularity of the workers' 2s. weekly tickets for suburban lines and the ready manner in which the workers have availed themselves of the opportunity afforded for travelling at cheap rates between the large cities and their suburbs is a matter for congratulation. It amply demonstrates the wisdom of the provision made, and also the fact that the workers them- selves fully recognise the importance and advan- tages of living outside of the crowded area of the cities, and are prepared to reside in the suburbs provided that facilities are afforded them for travelling to and from their homes and work at a cheap rate and by a convenient train service. An average of 7,793 men were employed on the railways, as compared with 7,236 for the previous year. (Vide Return No. 26.) Of the 2,662 casual labourers employed in the Traffic Branch, and insured against accident at a cost of $541, charged to working-expenses, seventy-nine were injured and received com- pensation during the year. One hundred and seventeen members of the permanent staff resigned, thirty-seven died, thirty-eight were retired, thirty-three were dis- missed, and 631 engaged. Six appeals against decisions of the depart- ment were heard by the Railway Appeal Boards during the year ; five were dismissed and one upheld. The total number of appeals against decisions of the department heard by the Appeal Boards since the passing of "The Go- vernment Railways Department Classification Act, 1896," has been thirty-one, of which six https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 were upheld and twenty-five dismissed. The number of appeals in connection with the classification since the Act was passed in 1896 has been fifty-seven, of which ten were / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero upheld and forty-seven dismissed. Substantial concessions in regard to wages and hours of labour have been made to the rail- way staff during the year. The cost of the special allowance of wages (6d. per day) to labourers and others in receipt of 6s. 6d. per day, and for tradesmen and other workshop employés, amounts for the year to $20,951. During the year the sum of £4,253 has been paid as compensation and compassionate allow- ances to members retired from the service and the relatives of deceased members of the service. Six members of the Second Division were promoted to the First Division during the year. The First Division now comprises 1,226 members, of whom 645 have obtained certifi- cates of proficiency in telegraphy, and 566 pro- ficiency in postal work. During the two years ending 31st March, 1901, seven caretakers have been placed in charge of flag-stations. The total number of such stations at which caretakers are employed is now 101. On the 9th April, 1900, an accident of a serious nature resulted from neglect of train- men in charge of a heavy stock train to put down the brakes before train commenced to trucks left the road and were wrecked, guard's assistant being severely injured, and a large number of sheep killed. On the 2nd February, 1901, an accident occurred at Port Chalmers, resulting in injury to five persons who were waiting in the cars of a train standing at the platform, when a goods train from Dunedin ran into the station, against the signals, and collided with the train standing at the plat- form. # 2\. EARNINGS. The gross revenue for the year amounted to £1,727,236, and the net revenue to $599.359, increases over the previous year of $103,345 and $27,856 respectively. The gross revenue has exceeded the estimate by #167,236. In view of the fact that the traffic for the year 1900 was of an exceptional character, the result of the operations for the year under review is eminently satisfactory, more especially when the sweeping character of the reductions in passenger-fares and the large concessions made on other items of traffic are taken into con- sideration. The receipts per train-mile have decreased from 7s. 9d. for 1899-1900 to Ts. 5}d. for 1900- 1901. 775,309 more ordinary passengers were carried during the year under review than for the pre- vious year, the increased revenue derived there- from being £28,259. Season-ticket revenue has also increased by £1,697, and the number of season tickets issued by 19,586. The increased revenue from passenger traffic, therefore, repre- sents an average fare of 8.75d. per head for the 775,309 additional passengers carried, and of 1s. 8%d. per ticket for the increased number of season tickets issued. Ordinary passengers have increased by 14 per cent. during the year, and the revenue derived therefrom by 6 per cent. Holiday, school, and factory excursion traffic still continues to give satisfactory results, the traffic from these sources giving an increased revenue of £7,261 for the year. Coaching traffic, including mails, gave a revenue of $72,712, an increase of $4,224. The increased goods traffic represents 211,813 tons. Of the traffic grouped "under this head wool alone shows a decrease, all other items showing substantial increases. In view of the fact that the grain traffic for 1899-1900 gave the phe- nomenal increase of 343,962 tons as compared with that for 1898-99, the further increase of 8,538 tons for 1900-1901 is very remarkable, the increase in grain traffic for 1901 as com- pared with 1899 being 84 per cent. Live-stock traffic shows increases in cattle, calves, and pigs, and a decrease of 111,596 head in sheep. The total revenue derived from goods and live-stock traffic was £1,109,548, an increase of $69,166 over the receipts for the preceding year. # 3\. EXPENDITURE. The expenditure for working was £1,127,843. equal to 65.30 per cent. of revenue, an increase 