is tantamount to what I say. Honourable members will note what I have referred to already in dealing with his evidence, but I have not referred to it in connection with the memorandum : there is no expression, either in Mr. Cohen's evidence or in his memorandum, that he did not know precisely that he was committing a breach of the Standing Orders when he sent this report along ; that he did not . know precisely that he was committing a breach of the privileges of this House. There is no suggestion of it in the memorandum nor in the evidence. And yet, surely, when he comes here and throws himself on the mercy and leniency of the House, he should at least be able to put himself in such a position, or at least to say, " I took the risk, but I won't do it again." There is no suggestion in the memorandum that he will not do it again ; he is not so silly as to make such a profession ; he knows by this time that he would be a great fool if he tied himself up by any pledges to a House that holds its dignity so cheap as it is manifest this House does. An American moralist says the worst thing about repentance is that you may not do it again. Mr. Cohen's repentance is not of this embarrassing character. He sort of repents by proxy ; he asks the House to repent for him ; he says, "You repent of your Standing Order and repeal it, in order that there shall be plain sailing for me and other Press correspondents." He goes so far as to say that he is satisfied that he obtained his information in the present case in an honour- able manner, but he says the effect of our Standing Order is that "members of the Press Gallery have to accept information in a manner not altogether to their liking." It will be entirely to his liking if we repeal the Standing Order! Instead of repenting he is here to preach repentance on the part of the House, http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero and his regret is simply that the Standing Order, as it at present stands, puts a journalist to that inconvenience that it compels him to break it in order to supply his paper with desirable copy. I should not go so far, in spite of what I have said, as the honour- able member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) in what he said as to the contemptuous nature of the memorandum. Of course, Mr. Fisher is a junior member, and can afford to indulge in more unmeasured language than I can. But I do not suppose for a moment that Mr. Cohen intended to tlout the House in the memorandum. But I do say there is an amount of superfluous and tactless matter which aggravates the offence in the memorandum he has submitted. There is an impertinent lecture-impertinent in the true sense of the word in that it is out of place- in what should be a letter of apology, a lecture on the Standing Orders, and nosign of penitence whatever. He should send a letter of apology ; he sends us a lecture instead, and what are we to do ? The Premier moves practically that we shall pass a vote of thanks to Mr. Cohen, of the Star, on account of the breach of privilege he has committed, and the publication, as explained in the memorandum he has favoured us with- that is the only motion before us now. And I Mr. Atkinson say we shall be simply holding the dignity of the House up to contempt and ridicule if this be done. Let us give a straight-out vote of thanks to Mr. Cohen, and let all the Standing Orders he reduced to waste paper rather than have the half- and-half motion the Premier asks us to accept. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) .- I think that the last gentleman who spoke might have done a good deal had he set himself out to reduce the amount of bitterness imported into this debate. and I regret that he did not take the opportunity of doing so. I have listened carefully, and I can but think that the wording of the resolution first brought down before the House was unfortu- nate. I believe that if that resolution had con- tained any proposal to impose a fine of even £10 the House would have passed it, and we should have been done with this business. I am not going to blame any person, for I think there has been too much of that sort of thing already. Let us discuss the question in a fair and im- partial manner. In trying to ascertain where J mistake has been committed, we should, in the main, go back to the action of the Privilege- Committee. There is no one in whose hands the Committee could have been better left than in the hands of the Chairman, but I think the Committee took the wrong course in bringing down the motion they did. When we asked the Committee to bring down evidence with regard to this question, I do not for a moment suppose that any honourable member thought that the Committee would go so far as to ask any person to disclose secrets. I do not think that the House thought that the Com- mittee would report any person who refused to disclose evidence that no honourable member could himself disclose. When it was found that the reporter declined to give the source of his information, the Committee ought to have taken a different course from the one it took. An Hon. MEMBER .-- What course would you suggest ? Mr. McNAB -I will tell the honourable member. A question similar to this cropped ur in 1898, when the House referred to a special Committee the matter of increasing the steam- ship communication between this port and Lyttelton. One of the witnesses on the: occasion was Mr. James Mills, and in order to get information to report to the House as to the possibility of the Government establishu.s steamship communication between those two ports, we considered it our duty to ask a quas- tion as to the number of passengers traw donny on the Union Company's vessels betwe, r. Lyttelton and Wellington. The questions put to Mr. Mills were as follows :- " ! he Chairman.] Can you tell us the num- ber of passengers carried during the war le- tween Wellington and Lyttelton by all your boats, including the intercolonial? - I can, and am glad to give the Committee all the in- formation 1 am able to do. but I prefer it should not be published. "Of course, we do not want to publish, as it were, trade secrets; we do not want to show your hands to possible competitors : but we want to know for our own guidance ?-- 