President may make a good recovery will be pleasing to the family of Mr. William McKinley, and that it may be another proof that the great English-speaking people throughout the world sympathize with them in their tribulation. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton). - Sir, with the leader of the House and the member for Hawke's Bay, I join in the sympathy that has been expressed with the American people and for the President of the United States and his family. I also join with them in abhorrence of the crime of the would-be assassinator. There is, however, one point to which I wish to draw attention, and I think that in these young countries there is one aspect of the matter that we should recognise, and it is this : Anarchy, and these murderous doctrines, so far as the rulers of countries are concerned, only appear to breed and find their natural habitat in countries where colossal wealth exists side by side with the extremest poverty. I do not wish to labour the point, Sir, but I respect- fully submit that the anarchist doctrines are, I will not say the natural outcome, but they are the possible result of the enormous and colossal fortunes that are built up in America, more than any other country in the world, and which are, I believe, largely built up at the ex- pense of the rights of the people. So far as con- cerns the wealth of the Goulds, the Vanderbilts, the Carnegies, and men of that stamp, it is im- possible that such huge fortunes could be built up with due respect to the rights of the masses of the people. I believe that in these younger and freer countries anarchy is unknown, and the reason it is unknown is that here our social https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 economy is placed on a broader basis, and wealth is more generally diffused than in the United States ; and, whilst in these colonies there is no possibility of such vast fortunes http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero being built up as in America, there need be no fear that there will be any footing for anarchist doctrines such as we find elsewhere. I merely wished to point this out, and I trust, as a New- Zealander, that the time will never come when there will be such vast fortunes in this colony as have been built up in the United States ; indeed, such is impossible whilst public senti- ment continues as at present ; for I believe, when these huge fortunes do exist, the not un- natural outcome will be social agitation of a violent character, which will tend in the direc- tion of anarchy and its destructive doctrines. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) .- Sir, I do not intend to speak in connection with the resolution which has been proposed and seconded by the two leaders of the House. But, Sir, I should not like it to go forth that even in connection with such a motion as this there are any members who have feelings similar to those of the honourable member who has just spoken which would lead them to suggest that any- thing in connection with the question of labour and capital in the United States could be regarded in any way as a justification in any sense whatever -- Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .-- No justification. Sir J. G. WARD .- Or is a legitimate cause for Captain Russell trines to advocate the most cowardly methods to destroy the life or the lives of rulers or the heads of great countries, who have themselves really nothing to do with the conditions under which the wealth has been obtained by the men whom the honourable gentleman referred to. The social system may be wrong, but it will never be righted by the anarchists' methods of murder and assassination. Who could, for in- stance, justify the diabolical crime that recently was committed when the King of Italy was sent to his long rest? Who can justify the crime that was committed by these cowardly people when the Empress of Austria was stricken down ? Who can justify the crime when the Czar of Russia was struck at by the brutal assassin ? Who can justify the intended crime of assassina- tion only some months ago levelled at the present King of the Empire to which we belong ? I venture to say that the conditions of life in those countries will never be ameliorated by the efforts of anarchists, or those misguided people who take the view that they can obtain the redress of their grievances by resorting to these indefensible practices. By murdering the heads of countries they excite loathing and opposition from many who would gladly help to improve the social structure for the better- ment of the masses. It creates in the mind of every right-thinking person a fearful, loathsome feeling towards any society, or any member of it, that in secret will select men-aye, and even women-for the purpose of their dastardly methods of bringing about by murder, and usually of the most cold-blooded character. a better social condition of affairs or a better political condition of affairs in those countries. I say such methods will never bring them I rose for the purpose of saying success. that, while the great troubles between capital and labour in those countries require re- dress, as we all realise, and rightly so, yet I should not like it for one moment to be supposed that in this young and fair country of ours any of us believe the method adopted by these violent and misguided men in the attempted assassination of President Mckinley. or in any of the other cases to which I have re- ferred, can in the slightest possible degree help them to obtain the condition of affairs they strive for. I think every person in this country will re-echo the sentiments expressed by the Premier and the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, and a feeling of the deepest sympathy with President Mckinley and his wife must be in the breast of every person in this country. Like the American nation, we all rejoice to know that in every civilised country the people are animated by feelings in the one direction, condemnatory of the cowardly min who attempted the assassination of the Ame- rican President ; and I am perfectly certain tha that sort of thing will be put down, even if i has to be put down in the way that was in dicated by the honourable member for Hawie's Bay. The conspirators who meet behind the scenes, and never come out into the open, are just as guilty, and have as much right to 