now refers to the division-list ; that does not in the least imply that there is a division of opinion with the Government, because there is not. I am responsible for my own actions, and I intend to be responsible for my own actions. What is the position in this matter ? The Op- position have for days been finding fault with the Government because our resolution did not impose a fine. As the result of a combina- tion between the Opposition and some of our party we finally did propose a fine. Now, when they have got our men to agree, they turn round in a body and say at the last moment they will vote against it. They declared the dignity of the House could not be upheld unless there was a penalty imposed. And we come here and find-what ? That, after all the protestations, after all the speeches, after all the maligning of members on this side of the House, the member who moved the resolution originally to impose a fine now absents himself from the House alto- gether ; and the whole of the Opposition say they are going to vote against a fine too. And I, for one, in sheer disgust, and to put on record my dissent from the course they have taken, and to show my utter contempt for such tactics, voted against a fine being imposed too. As soon as I heard the declaration that they were going to reverse their attitude I held the view-though I may have been wrong in it- that we ought to have gone over in a body and voted against the amendment. That is the course I myself believe we should have taken. No honourable member can say that I have upon any occasion done anything which as a member of this House I ought not to do, and I say, as a matter of tactics, while at the same time upholding the dignity of this House, when it came to the crucial test as to inflicting a fine it would have been the best course to do as I have now suggested ; and had there been time, and our party could have been apprised, I feel sure they would have recognised that the course taken both by the mover of the fine and the Opposition completely absolved them from any previously arranged action. As for myself, I have not asked any section of the Press at any time to support me. I care no more about the adverse criticism of the Press than any other member of the House, and probably a great deal less. I believe in fair-play, and that I am always ready to contend for. I have never done or suggested to be done anything in the Press for personal promotion or preferment in the political world of New Zealand ; and I do say that if honourable members' perceptions had been keen, after the abstention of the honour- able member who moved for a fine from voting, and that the Opposition supported the same course, they would have seen that --- Mr. F SHER .- I refused to be dragged at your heels. Sir J. G. WARD .-- I have not asked the honourable member to be dragged at my heels, and I am certainly not going to be dragged at his. He has every right to do as he thinks proper, and I have no doubt that he will con- honourable member for Motueka attempts to cast any reflection upon me, because on the spur of the moment I took a course that I think our whole party should have taken-though I do not complain in any way because only a few of them did so-I say it is my business to at once defend myself. If honourable members with whom I am associated think I have done any- thing that is not right or proper, let them say so at a proper time and place and I am quite ready to take the consequences. I do not ob- ject to criticism or difference of opinion, but I am not going to accept innuendoes from any honourable member as to my course of action without expressing my opinion. I put on record my belief that we could, without having done anything discreditable in any way what- ever, have gone in the direction which I did, and which I believe to have been the right one, and that we should have gone over in a body, and by so doing have hoist the Opposition with their own petard. By so doing we would have placed them in a position altogether inconsis- tent with their utterances and professed sin- cerity, and we would have given effect to our original proposal. That was the only object I had, and I have made this statement in con- sequence of the remarks made by the 12.0. honcurable member for Motueka. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- By way of explanation, I wish to say that I announced when I last spoke to the House that I would not vote on the amendment to impose a fine of £15. I gave at the time' my reason, which was this : that I myself proposed an amend- ment imposing a fine upon the offending per- son. That amendment was negatived by the Government and their supporters. Having negatived my proposal to impose a fine on the offending party, I decline to vote a second time on the proposal at their dictation. That is my position, and I take it as perfectly intelligible to any one who wishes to understand it. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston). - There would have been no occasion to continue this debate had it not been for the Premier's attempt to misrepresent the actions of those members who voted against the last amendment. The Premier says that the last amendment was the same as Mr. Fisher's amendment, except for the amount. Why, what nonsense! The amend- ment of Mr. Fisher's was to strike out the whole of the words of the motion, including the ac- ceptance of the expression of regret contained in the letter of the representative of the Dun- edin Evening Star. That was the whole point from the very commencement of this debate -- the letter of the representative of the Dunedin Star being accepted as an expression of regret. There is no genuine expression of regret in it from top to stern, except regret that he was caught ; but, as for regret for the publication. there is nothing of the kind in the letter. And that was - from the commencement of the speech of the member for Bruce-the opposi- tion to the Premier's motion from this side of the House. We never for one moment supported a fine without qualification, and I stated before 