MINISTERS' TRAVELLING - ALLOW- ANCES. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) asked the Colonial Treasurer, Under what authority the amount of £77 10s. has been paid to the Right Hon. R. J. Seddon for visit to Cook Islands, under the heading of travelling allowances and expenses, when the Ministers' Salaries and Allowances Act confines such allowances to those incurred while travelling within the colony on public business ? He would like to point out that, including this $77 10s., expenditure to the extent of £582 had been incurred, according to the estimates, in connection with the trip to Cook Islands, apart altogether from the working- expenses of the steamer, some £1,100. He did not see any authority for this specific allowance to the Premier, and would like to know from the Premier under what authority the payment had been made. Mr. SEDDON (Colonial Treasurer) said he knew the honourable member intended by this question to give him (Mr. Seddon) an oppor- tunity of putting himself right. It had been suggested in the question asked, " Had he (Mr. Seddon) received $4,000 a year." Another member inserted in a table that last year he had received £1,600 as salary and £485 as allowances and expenses. These statements were absolutely devoid of foundation in fact. In the first place, he had only received £1,375 16s. 1d. as salary last year. That was all he had received - not £1,600, and certainly not £4,000. And what was more, and what he complained of particularly, was the gross ignor- ance of members ; either that, or else they maliciously desired to put a false statement before the country. In B .- 3, the very paper that would be found on the table, they would find set forth the full amount paid to every Minister ; and, when members would put it about and state it in the House that it was a larger amount, he could only come to the con- clusion that they did it wilfully and mali- ciously. In B .- 3 it would be found he had only received as salary last year £1,375 16s. 1d. As regarded the allowances, all that he re- ceived under that head last year was £485 5s., and of that amount he had got a return, which was laid on the table of the House, showing that the allowances received by him when travelling in the colony were only #259 10s. That was all he received. Then, there was in addition to that an amount of £225, the allow- ance for his trip to Australia to represent this colony at the Commonwealth celebration. Now, he said the House intended that he should represent the colony at the Commonwealth celebration. It was understood last session that he should do so, and when he went to \- represent the colony on such an occasion all he simply received or claimed in the way of allowance was $225 15s. He therefore said that, if they put that £225 15s. to the amount that he received by way of allowance, $259 10s., they would have everything-$485 5s. ; and he said it was grossly unfair for a member of the 1 House in this respect to state to the House, or put on the records of the House, that he (Mr. Seddon) cost the colony for salary last year £1,600, when he only drew £1,375 16s. 1d., and that he drew £485 5s. for allowances, not distinguishing that £225 of that amount was for his representation of this colony at the Commonwealth celebration. However, taking the whole lot together, lock, stock, and barrel, all that he received last year was £1,861 1s. 1d. That was all, including allowances and salary -under $2,000. Now, the allowance for the trip that he made to the Cook Islands was £52 10s., and the expenses were £15. For the inauguration of the Commonwealth £225 15s., and the expenses £25, so that they got #240 15s. as his total expenses whilst representing the colony in Australia. Whilst it was annoying to have these misrepresentations, he asked honourable members, What good turn did it serve? Here was the return showing how much he got ; and, surely, when members had this return, and had B .- 3, he might ask, Why continue to compile tables and put in figures as to the cost which were incorrect and mislead- ing? It had been stated he had received ±200 house allowance last year. He had not re- ceived twopence as house allowance last year. It was to him incomprehensible, and more particularly when it came from gentlemen who said they were friends of the Premier. He was accused of having received house allowance last year ; he had never received twopence of house allowance last year. Mr. PIRANI said the question he had put. on the Order Paper, and to which he wanted a reply, was, "Under what authority the amount of $77 10s. has been paid to the Right Hon. R. J. Seddon for visit to Cook Islands, under the heading of travelling allowances and expenses, when the Ministers' Salaries and Allowances Act confines such allowance to those incurred while travelling within the colony on public business ? " Mr. SEDDON said the honourable member was in error regarding the case, and, at any rate, his interpretation as to the $52 not being payable was wrong. LIQUOR LICENSES IN KING-COUNTRY. Mr. LAWRY (Parnell) asked the Govern- ment, Whether it is likely that people residing in the southern districts of New Zealand are possessed of correct information as to the de- sirability or otherwise of issuing licenses autho- rising the sale of alcoholic liquor in the King- country (Rohe-potae) ? In asking this question he might point out that a very large number of petitions had been presented to the House this session on the above question. Now, the bulk of these petitions-nearly the whole of them- asked the Government to enforce, so far as the King-country was concerned, clause 33 of the Alcoholic Liquors Sales Control Act of 1895. It appeared to him that the signatures to all these petitions had been obtained under false pre- tences, because the particular clause of the Act that he referred to-namely, clause 33-could only apply where a poll had been taken. Now, any person with a knowledge of the course of events, and who knew anything about the 