I would remind the House that if a fall in land values should take place it can only be detrimental to the lands under control of the Assets Realisation Board, and I do think that a greater amount of land ought to have been disposed of by that Board up to the present time than there has been. I hardly like to make the suggestion, but it appears to me that that Board, including as it does the Premier, is a paid Board, and that when all these lands have been disposed of the pay will cease. I would not for a moment suggest that they are neglecting to dispose of these lands because it is profitable to hold these positions on the Assets Realisation Board, but I do say that the time for high land-values is slipping by. The Board was set up for the express purpose of realising that estate with all convenient rapidity, and up to the present time but a quarter of the total value of the estate has been realised. I think it is necessary that the attention of Parliament should be called to this matter, and that the Board should be compelled to put more activity and energy into their work. Besides, we have to remember that the debentures issued against those properties which were taken over by the Board mature in 1904, and that there is not much time between now and then. These, Sir, are the only matters to which I wish to draw the attention of the House ; but before I sit down there is just one other point to which I would make passing reference. The Hon. the Minister for Public Works brought under our notice the present attitude of Par- liament towards the labour proposals now before Parliament ; and, generally speaking, a cry has gone forth that, so far as the labour proposals are concerned, the Government should move slowly. The Minister for Public Works, when replying to criticism of the nature I have just expressed, said he felt quite sure that when the Factories Bill came down to this House, which it would before long, the very members who had spoken adversely to the labour legislation would be found voting for the third reading. Now, Sir, I just want to point out-and I have tolerably good reason for knowing what I am saying-that nearly the whole of the adverse criticism of the labour proposals of the Govern- ment this session have not resulted from any measure at the present time on the statute- book, nor from any proposal of the Labour Bills Committee. Sir, nearly every objection raised, and the objections have become pretty current - there have been more influential witnesses giving evidence before the Labour Bills Committee than in any previous year, to my knowledge-are almost entirely and exclu- sively against new proposals to the Act. Sir, as that measure left the Labour Bills Commit- tee last year it was a good and workable con- solidated measure, but it has now been sent to the Committee with new clauses got from Goodness knows where, and suggested by Good- ness knows whom, but probably suggested by some idealist who has failed to put them in such a practical form that they can ever be in- Mr. Collins in the form in which it left the Labour Bills Committee last year no employer in the colony could take exception to it. No reasonable employer would take exception to it, and no employé would tako exception to it. Sir, I do not say that there is any particular reason to "go slow." All we want is to act wisely. If we act wisely you may go as quickly as you like ; but I do think, if the Government would only take the opinion of those who were sent to this House for the purpose of embodying their ideas in the legislation of the colony, that when a Bill is submitted to a Com- mittee, and the Committee work at it conscientiously from week to week, the Go- vernment should then remit it to the House. instead of embodying in it matters suggested to them by theorists and idealists who do not understand the practical working of such a measure, we could then rely on it that any Bill of this kind submitted to Parliament would not raise hostile comment or feeling from either employers on the one hand, or the workers on the other. As I have said, I have no desire to make a long speech, but there were two or three points to which I did think it necessary that attention shall be called. Some members would apparently like us to believe that the country is rapidly galloping to disaster and ruin. 1 am sure honourable members must feel pleased to know that there is no foundation for such dismal forebodings and fear, but that the colony is, and is likely to continue, in a thoroughly satisfactory position so far as its prosperity and progress are concerned. Mr. HARDY (Selwyn) .- I would like to say a few words about the Financial Statement. but I feel a certain amount of diffidence in speaking after two of what we may term the orators of the House. They placed before the House fairly and clearly the state of affairs as they see it. But, Sir, I do not care much about figures, as I am sure the House must be weary of the continued repetition of them. But I will deal with the Budget generally, feeling sure that the country has been aroused by the candid criticism of the independent members of the Liberal party, as well as by the trenchant criticism of the members on this side of the House. I wish to say that the public debt is increasing at almost an alarming rate, our local bodies' debts are also increasing. and I am perfectly sure that the private del'ts of the people are almost larger than they can bear. Figures are curious things, and in the hands of clever men they are often responsible for strange conclusions. On the one hand, the Premier tries to bolster up his Statement with certain comparisons, and the independent members of his own party, full of loyalty to Liberal principles, and desirous of honestly representing their constituents, place an en- tirely different view of the situation before the House. The member for Ashley says, after a severe criticism of the Budget, " I move, as a candid friend of the Government, that the estimates be reduced by $50,000." Then. the member for Nelson City spoke in no measured 