therefore passed the transfer. "I find that on the 9th March, 1901, the auditor to the company signed the balance- sheet for the period ended 28th February, 1901, as correct. Where is this $25 shown ?- The auditor did not take any objection to that. Of necessity we could not charge it to two men- you and Choyce as well-and it was therefore rendered to you. You received a notice of the second call being struck, and that showed arrears of first call £25. " I do not hold myself responsible for the first call. Choyce has to pay the $25 ?- You bought the shares at 2s. " There had been a call due from Choyce on the 10th August, and I did not purchase till the 29th August ?- I cannot say when you pur- chased, but the transfer will show. '2s. paid ' is marked on the transfer-that is, application and allotment. The transfer is dated the 23rd August. It is just an ordinary transfer for 250 shares. Mr. Easton must have been aware, for one thing, that only 2s. had been paid, because the transfer had to come into the office to be marked. " Mr. Easton : I was not aware on the 29th August that a call had been struck on the 10th ?- No: as a matter of fact, we had no knowledge of your existence in the matter. The transfer was passed on the 17th September. " The directors were aware when they passed that transfer that there was $25 owing by Mr. Choyce ? - It was owing by you, because you distinctly had the transfer marked '2s. only paid.' " I do not accept any responsibility in respect https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 to that $25-in fact, I might tell the Committee that I am advised that by taking an action in the Supreme Court I can get my name removed from the register. Mr. Choyce is liable. This $25 is not shown in the balance-sheet as paid ?- No ; it is shown on the debit side of the register, amongst the outstanding calls. When the balance-sheet was passed we relied on Mr. Easton for payment, as he held the shares when the balance-sheet was passed by the auditor. "Mr. Easton: The amount I paid was $25 2s., though the consideration shown is only $12 10s. " Witness : I may add, though it has really no bearing on the question, that the transfer would certainly have been hung up if it had not been that Mr. Easton was already known to the directors as being a man of standing, and that he was not likely to repudiate liability. " Are you aware that the balance-sheet shows that up to the 28th February £479 4s. 9d. of the shareholders' money had been spent ?- Yes. " You are also aware that up to that date no dredge had been ordered ?- That is so. " Do you know that the share register shows that on the 15th July of this year there was £12 10s. owing as application-money on shares, £4) allotment, and £836 due on first and second I do not know that it is fair to put it in that calls ?- Yes : I will not dispute that, because on the 29th February it is shown that there Were £1,206 in calls in arrear. " Included in these sums you will find, from the share register, that $50 was owing from Mrs. Cook ?- No; two calls-£100 owing. " And £90 from Mr. Cook ?- No; £65. "Are you aware that Mr. Cook's late partner -one of the firm that brought this company into existence-owed $125 on the 15th July of this year ?- Yes, that is so. " Can you remember that during the short period I had the pleasure of being a director of this celebrated Tucker Flat Company I de- clined to pass a transfer of 250 shares which Mr. Cook had taken over by bill from a Mr. L. S. Benjamin ?- I can remember your de- clining to pass a transfer. " At the time I declined to pass the transfer there was $25 owing by Mr. Benjamin. "Mr. Easton here remarked that he had de- clined to pass the transfer, and, as already explained, he lost his seat on the Board in con- sequence, Mr. Cook's other nominee, Howes, taking his place. According to the share register £25 was owing at the time. "Now, Mr. Holsted, that $25 was still owing on the 15th July ?- Yes; the second call is owing by practically all the shareholders. " Mr. Benjamin gave me to understand that on the 15th July the bill was dishonoured. You are aware, Mr. Holsted, that when Mr. Howes became a director the transfer from Mr. Benjamin to Mr. Cook was put through with the $25 owing ? - Yes, that is so. "Mr. Cook has not paid this €25 yet ?- No ; that will make his liability $90-$65 and £25. "That is, admitting that $25 owing by Ben- jamin is due from Mr. Cook ?- Yes, that is The $25 was debited to Mr. Cook, who so. took over the liability. " Was Choyce relieved of liability according to the books ?- I do not think so ; it is a question of law. "Are you aware that in the Tucker Flat Company there are 250 contributing shares on which up to date no application- or allotment- money has been paid ?- Yes, that is so. You refer to Kneebone's shares. " Are you aware that on the whole of those shares Cook and Gray received 2 per cent. brokerage ?-- Yes ; that was included in the brokerage charges, I think. " So they have received brokerage on shares that exist only on paper ?- That is hardly correct : Mr. Kneebone exists, at all events. " Were you sending Cook and Gray monthly or quarterly statements remitting the broker- age ?- No; the brokerage would be paid into Cook and Gray's account. " You paid it into Cook and Gray's account ? -Yes. " Were Cook and Gray aware that they were obtaining brokerage on shares on which nothing had been paid ?- They must of necessity have been aware of it, seeing that they were the brokers. "They were aware that they were making a . profit out of that which cost them nothing ?- way. Of course, they sold the shares, and I presume the position would be that, if at a 