Sir, I consider that this is one of the best and under that Act, for it is absolutely the only most humane Acts that have ever been placed labour law that this House has passed that is of any benefit to the farm labourers of the on the statute-book, and no country representa- colony. From my place in this House I fought tive need be afraid to go to his farming con- to have the farmers included, for I thought it stituency and say, "I supported that Bill"; right that they should be. In fact, I think and every farmer who has his heart in the myself that every class in the community right place will approve of such support. If should come under that Act. It is, I think, his heart is not in the right place, if he has no love for his fellow-men, then he is not worth the best Act in the shape of labour legis- considering. All sorts of people will get the lation that we have placed on the statute- book. There is no necessity whatever for the farmers to be afraid of the operation of this Act, and when it is more fully explained to them, and when they find its true bearings, you will find them as much in favour of it as any one belonging to the labour organizations of this city. I shall not have the slightest hesitation in going on to the platform in my electorate in refuting the denunciations of this Act. and upholding the inclusion of the farm labourers. I know that a strong effort is being made to set the farmers against it, but I think it will prove futile. I believe that it is a libel on the humanity of farmers to hold the idea I that they should be excluded from the Act. would ask, What will be the effect of the opera- tion of the Act, so far as the farmers are con- cerned ; and how do the farmers stand at present ? Take the case of a farmer who has a man engaged in harrowing: the horses run away, the man is knocked down, and the harrow is drawn over him, with the result that he is killed. Accidents like that frequently happen, and I will guarantee that there is no farmer in my district who in such circum- stances would not put his hand into his pocket to the extent of £10, and, in addition to this, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 get subscriptions for the widow and children of the man so killed. Mr. HASELDEN .- Under the Act he would have to pay out £400. Mr. CARNCROSS .- I wish the honourable gentleman would let me finish my remarks. I say that under the existing state of things no farmer would hesitate for a moment to put his hands into his pockets to the extent of £10, and get subscriptions to assist the widow and children of the man so killed. But what will the position be if this Act was made to apply to them ? It will work in this way : it will cost for insurance of farm hands 10s. per cent. per If the farmer has a wages bill amount- annum. ing to £300 per annum-and very few small farmers pay out to that extent-he will have to pay only 30s. to insure every man in his em- ploy all the year round, and he will know there will be no necessity to go round with a charity list and beg for the widow and orphans. " He says to himself, "I have insured my men. If any one of them is killed, his widow and family will get £400 or $500 from the in- surance office, and the responsibility is re- moved from my mind." Is that not better than the present system ? And honourable members must not forget that I have quoted the present rate of 10s. per cent. per annum ? I am not the son of a prophet, nor a prophet after a very short time the farmers will be able ! show you that the farmer has nothing at all to myself, but I am going to predict this : that benefit of this Act, and what has been said is a mere bogey to frighten people. The member for Patea is one of those frightened with the bogeys. I can tell by the interjection he made just now that his heart is in his boots in con- nection with this Act. He is not doing his farming constituency justice if he thinks there is one man amongst them who will grudge to pay a few shillings to see his men insured. I do not believe there is one farmer in the whole of Patea who will not say, "I shall be pleased to avail myself of this Act, and in the case of accident or death I shall not be responsible for any further demands." An Hon. MEMBER .- Do you know that on bush farms the cost is £3 per cent. ? Mr. CARNCROSS .- The rates are higher in some industries. They are higher in coal- mines, where the risk is great, of course ; but these rates are lower already by competition with the Ocean Company, and no doubt in a short time they will be levelled to such an extent that they will not be objected to by any one at all. Mr. HASELDEN .- They are still liable to actions at common law. Mr. CARNCROSS .- This protects them against actions at common law. Mr. HASELDEN .- No. Mr. CARNCROSS .- You tempt me to waste time to make a quotation from the Act, but I will not do it. The Act does cover actions at common law. However, I refer the honourable member to the Act, and if he finds he is wrong he should openly apologize to this House. I find the rate quoted for bakers is only 6s. per £100. So, if a man has a wages-sheet of £300 it will cost him 18s. a year to insure his men. Mr. MASSEY .- What is that you are quoting from ? Mr. CARNCROSS .- The Government rates ; and I believe in some instances you can get them lower from the Ocean. Mr. HASELDEN .- I paid £1 10s. to the Ocean last month. Mr. CARNCROSS .- Then you paid too much. You should be patriotic and stick to the Go- vernment. Hairdressers, 4s. per $100-that is not a dangerous trade. There is a good deal of risk attached to blacksmithing, but the fixed rate for that trade is only 15s. per €100, so that if a blacksmith has a wages-sheet of $300 he will only have to pay £2 5s. per annum to in- sure all his men. Then we have bootmakers 5s. per £100, drapers 3s. per £100, and grocers 6s. per 100. I could go on multiplying this list, but I will only make these few quotations to 