under the control of the Education Depart- ment. That, I contend, would lead to uni- formity of inspection, of examination, and the equitable assignment of marks for efficiency towards the raising of the rank of teachers' certificates. What obtains at present is that the reports of Inspectors according to the dis- tricts in which they are engaged vary con- siderably. We find, for example, an Inspector in one locality endeavouring to foist his own particular fads on the teachers in that educa- tion district ; and, perhaps, the very notions and methods that he is assiduously endea- vouring to introduce in that district are being condemned by an Inspector in another part of the colony. With regard to examinations and the assignment of marks for teachers' certifi- cates, we find in Wanganui that the leading educational luminaries recommend the reduc- tion of certificates or disrating of teachers as well as their promotion, and, seeing the Inspec- tor has the power of increasing a teachers' status, he therefore should also have the privi- lege of reducing it, as occasion may require. That is to say, if a teacher reaches the top of the educational ladder and gets an Al certificate and afterwards, in the opinion of the Inspector, he may not be so efficient as previously, that Inspector should have the power of reduc- ing him from A1 to A2. We had, again, a system in Otago, which prevailed till quite recently, under which the Inspectors declined to assign sufficient marks to an assistant teacher to enable him to get to grade Al or Bi, et cetera, as the case may be, unless he / https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1. 32106019788253 had some experience in managing a country school, and exhibited some powers of organiza- The tion as the headmaster of the school. result of the present unsatisfactory condition of affairs is that in some education districts, such as Auckland or the West Coast, teachers climb the educational ladder a great deal faster than those of Otago or Canterbury do, and, as certificates go a long way in the estimation of School Committees and Education Boards when filling vacancies, those teachers are handicapped according to the whims of the Inspectors. At the Conference held at the beginning of the present year, the Inspectors also carried a re- solution in favour of centralisation. As they are the eyes, the executive officers, and often the guides of the Boards, it would be to their own advantage, and the advantage of the cause of education generally, were they free to act, to report, or make recommendations untram- melled by the Boards under which now they serve, and whose wrath or displeasure they dare not incur. If they were under the depart- ment, an incident that recently happened in Wellington would not have been possible. We find that an Inspector under the Wellington Education Board gave evidence before the Teachers' Salaries Commission that condemned the Board's action in appointing teachers in some instances, and consequently irritated the members of that body. An inquiry has been instituted by the Board, and the result, 1 dare say, will be the dismissal of Inspector Lee. Mr. Gilfedder Mr. GILFEDDER .- Well, Sir, if the In- spectors were placed under the control of the Education Department they would be free to give evidence without being liable to dismissal. With regard to the administration of the Edu- cation Boards in connection with the mainten- ance and building funds, I would point out that in the past some of the Boards have transferred sums from the maintenance fund for the pur- pose of erecting and repairing buildings. Other Boards and educationists generally deprecate this custom. Up to the present it has been followed in Hawke's Bay, and in years past also by other Boards. They supplemented their building fund from the maintenance fund, with the result that there has been so much less for teachers' salaries. No matter what has taken place to bring about a deficiency of funds, we find the scale of salaries has invari- ably been altered to the detriment of the teachers. Again, under the Wellington Board teachers are not in every instance paid accord- ing to the scale of the Board-in some cases they are paid more than the Board's regu- lations allow. In adopting a new scale of salaries the Board often passes a resolution to the effect that reductions will not take place until new teachers have been appointed. So long as the old teachers remain no change is made, but when new teachers relieve them they are liable to receive the diminished salary. Cases have occurred in the Wellington District where the attendance has gone down so much that a serious reduction in salaries would be the inevitable consequence, but the Education Board, being at a loss to find suitable positions in other places for those who are admitted to be good teachers, have passed resolutions allowing them to retain their old salaries for a specified time ; consequently, they are not paid accord- ing to scale or on the average attendance. In some districts-in Marlborough, for example- they engage what is known there as " sewing- mistresses," who are generally young lady pupil-teachers, and who get #1 a month, or #12 a year. They are in reality engaged in ordinary school-work for twenty-five hours per week, and very often they do not teach sewing at all, especially if there is a mistress in the school. The explanation of the Board is this : that by their rules and according to their finances they cannot appoint a pupil-teacher in a case of that sort, but they can appoint what is called a " sewing - mistress"; but there is an under- standing that she will perform the duties of a pupil-teacher, though she gets none of the training or instruction or the salary that a pupil-teacher would ordinarily get. Conse- quently, we find many customs and many prac- tices in vogue in different parts of the colony, and I consider that we have not a national system of education. What we require is a unification of the system, and so strengthen the connecting.link between the primary and secondary schools. The brighter pupils in the primary schools should by liberal scholar- ships, bursaries, and exhibitions be enabled to prosecute their studies in the secondary schools, 