my intention to have taken any part in this debate, and, owing to a slight difficulty in my utterance, I hope honourable members will bear with me in the few remarks I intend to make if I am not able to raise my voice sufficiently to make myself heard throughout the Chamber. I would like to congratulate the honourable member who last spoke upon the able speech which he made from his standpoint. There is one point, however, upon which I beg to differ from him. He blamed the Premier and the Native Minister for not allowing Mahuta to come down to Auckand to meet the Royal visitors. I say, if the Premier or Native Minister had consented to such a course as that they would have been unworthy of the position which they occupy in this colony. There is a trust imposed on the Native Minister on behalf of the Natives of New Zealand, and if Mahuta had been allowed to act as suggested it would have been casting an insult upon all the rest of the Natives in New Zealand. The first Natives who asked this to be granted were the loyal Natives of the Bay of Islands, who asked that the first meeting of the Duke with the Natives should be at the historic place where the Treaty of Waitangi was signed. That was refused, and the Natives felt very much aggrieved ; but at the same time they were willing to fall in with whatever arrangements the Government might make for receiving the Royal visitors. I am sorry to say that I saw in the paper in Auckland an attempt to make an attack on the Government for political purposes out of this. An Hon. MEMBER .- Nothing of the kind. Mr. HOUSTON .- I will give the names. I https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 am not ashamed to make this statement. They were Mr. Mitchelson, Mr. Hobbs, Mr. Graham, and Mr. Sinclair. These are the men who got up an agitation against the Government for http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero political purposes, and I say the Government would have been failing in their duty to have allowed this to take place. Mahuta is called the Maori King. Had he been the King of the Maoris it would have been a different thing ; but he is not the King of the Maoris, but he is the Maori King, representing only a small section of the Maori people. Another reason why I have got up is to say a few words with reference to some remarks made by my honourable friend the member for Marsden. I indorse a great deal of what that honour- able member said in the first part of his speech. I think that the people of Auckland have been to blame to a certain extent for the delay in con- nection with the railway from Wellington to Auckland. I congratulate them on having been awakened to a sense of their duty, as is evidenced by the numerous petitions that are now being daily presented to this House praying for the completion of the railway. I am prepared to say, without fear of contradic- tion, that it is the North of Auckland that bas made the City of Auckland, and, had it not been for the North of Auckland, Auckland City would only have taken third place to-day in the cities of the colony. We have a poor country there, but that poor country has contributed other part, no matter what area, and it is now that they are awakening to a sense of their duty and are measuring out a small mede of jus- tice to the northern part of the colony. Now I come, Sir, to the concluding remarks of the honourable gentleman, and these I cannot alto- gether agree with. I quite agree with him that the connection between Whangarei and Kawa- kawa should be completed. Honourable mem- bers have seen that he and I, representing adjoin- ing constituencies, have been presenting counter petitions to this House. There must be some reason for it. In 1891, when the subject was first spoken of by himself and myself to the then Minister for Public Works, the now Premier, it was agreed that the extension of this line should be made. The Minister for Public Works then said that if Auckland would forego the loop line to Penrose this line would be extended from Kamo to Hikurangi. When it became known to my constituents they objected to the railway being extended to Hikurangi, and said that they should commence at Kamo at the one end and at Kawakawa at the other. and make three miles both ways, and that then the Government would be more than ever inclined to continue the connection. The Minister re- fused. I then wired to my constituents to call a public meeting. That was done, and they unanimously agreed to allow the extension to go on from Kamo to Hikurangi. I informed the Minister of the result of that meeting. and I said that on one condition would I agree to it, and that was that the connection should be completed to Kawakawa before any work was undertaken south of Whangarei. He promised me he would do so. I asked him to give it me in writing. He asked me if 1 doubted his word. I said I had no reason to doubt it, but I wanted to be able to show my constituents what the arrangement was when I went back. He asked me if I would be satis- fied if he put it in the Public Works Statement. I said, "Perfectly." I will read from that Statement of 1891 :-- "In reference to the construction of the line from Kamo to Kawakawa, the Government thinks that the time has come to take action in this matter. We therefore propose to pro- vide this year for the extension of the line from Kamo to Hikurangi, and to devote to this pur- pose the money at present allocated to the doubling of the Auckland-Penrose line. We do not, however, propose to extend the line from Whangarei to Grahamstown. Any further ex- tension of the railway that may be decided upon in the future should be in the direction of Kawakawa, with the view of connecting the Kamo and Kawakawa Railways, and so com- municating with deep water at Opua." This was uttered by Mr. Seddon, then Minis. ter for Public Works. I have faith in the Premier now-then Minister for Public Works -that he will carry out this promise. He has never yet shaken my faith in him up to the present time, and I hope, though I may not be long in the House, I shall not have to leave the House saying that the Premier had 