(Mr. Fisher), said that what the House ought ment in the direction moved by the member for to do was to agree that a penalty be inflicted. Wellington City. He may have had it in his Mr. J. ALLEN .- The Premier is misrepre- mind at the time. senting me; I did not say that. Mr. SEDDON .- That is not a point of order. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Yes, it is a point of order. before the member for Bruce spoke ; it may The honourable member is misrepresenting have been written after, but my recollection is that it was written afterwards, because when me. Mr. SEDDON .- That is not a point of order. his motion was submitted to the Chair it was Mr. J. ALLEN .- The Premier is putting absolutely unintelligible. words in my mouth which I did not say. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - If the Premier is misrepresenting the honourable member, he himself said so, and I do not want any other may state so at the conclusion of his speech. authority than the honourable member. The Mr. SEDDON .- We on this side sit here and honourable gentleman must now admit that listen to honourable members opposite. We he wrote it after the speech of the member for have just listened to a speech by the member Bruce. for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), which was heated in the extreme-and we do not interrupt. We listened to the honourable member with able member's denial. patience. The member for Bruce did make the suggestion that some one should move accept it. Sir, as I have said, the honourable an amendment-I may not have used exactly the words of the honourable gentleman-I member spoke with heat ; and he must see now have no desire to misrepresent him-but I do that he is doing something worse than that say that he suggested that there should be an because he seems to be losing his temper, and whoever loses his temper in a debate must go amendment proposed to my resolution as then submitted to the House; and the honourable to the wall. I say, in reply to the honourable member, almost in language akin to that used member's statement that there was a climbing- by the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) down on the part of the Government, that the stated that the House could not uphold its resolution first proposed by me was in the direc- tion of showing that the House had asserted its dignity unless we altered the terms of my resolution. And then I said to the member for position, because it had previously said that a Bruce, "Why do you not move it ? " And his breach of privilege had been committed ; and, as memorable words were, "You do not catch the House had so asserted its position by that declaration, I say that the fact of that resolu- me." He was not to be caught, but from what has transpired the member caught is the mem- tion having been passed was a punishment in ber for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), and then itself on any newspaper that claimed respect- the member for Wellington City stands up- ability. The mere fact of having a breach of Mr. FISHER .- Nothing of the kind. privilege recorded against it is in itself a Mr. SEDDON .- I did not interrupt the punishment to any journal. That is well re- honourable member, and I trust he will not cognised, and some of the leading journals at Home will do anything almost rather than interrupt me. Mr. FISHER .-- The honourable member has place themselves in such a position ; and I dare to say that in this colony there are but got the wrong man to deal with if he thinks he few journals, not even the offending journal, can deal with me in that way. that will wilfully place themselves in that Mr. SEDDON .-- There is not a man in this position. My own opinion is that the of- House, in this colony, or in the world-and fence was committed in an unguarded mo- that is a big word to use-who can stop me ment, and that the zeal to obtain information from expressing my thoughts, and no man can for the public outran the discretion of those prevent me from giving my convictions. If who managed that journal. I chose to take a honourable members cannot sit and listen to more favourable view of the position than the one another's opinions in fair debate- if the honourable gentleman, in the resolution I honourable member for Wellington City can- moved ; and now, in the resolution proposed by not do this, then he has no right to attack the Minister for Public Works, there is no other honourable members. He attacked the climbing down on the part of the Government. Government. He said it was a " climb down " Where there is a generally expressed wish on on the part of the Government; but the honour- the part of members of the House, and where able member knows very well that I am not the resolution of the Government in a case made of the material that "climbs down." does not seem to give pleasure or to carry with Honourable members who think that on an it the general support of members, the leader occasion of this kind, where the honour and of the House is not climbing down if he endea- dignity of Parliament is involved, the Govern- vours to give effect to the will of the large ma- ment, or myself as leader of the House, will do jority of the members of the House. Sir, I anything inconsistent with the honour and dig- repeat that the motion now before the Chair, nity of the House are making a grave mistake. as proposed by the Minister for Public Works, I say, Sir, whether the honourable member is, in effect, giving that which the majority of thinks so or not, that the suggestion came first the members of the House desire, and no one from the Opposition benches to move an amend- VOL. CXVIII .- 29. Mr. FISHER .- It was written. Mr. SEDDON. - It may have been written Mr. FISHER .- Ask the Speaker if that is so. Mr. SEDDON. - The honourable member Mr. FISHER .- No. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, I accept the honour- Mr. FISHER .- I do not ask you to. Mr. SEDDON .- Whether you do or not, I 