we are causing the Dunedin Star to be tele- to occupy any more time, and I have only one graphed about all over the world. Of course, there is not the slightest doubt that the noble we propose to inflict, or the fine that the mem- action of the Premier and his high Imperial sentiments have caused New Zealand to be kept in the fore-front of the British colonies. I do not care who denies that ; that is certainly a fact. Mr. FISHER .- What would Lord Salisbury say of this ? Mr. WITHEFORD .- If Lord Salisbury knew that for two days the New Zealand Parliament was occupied discussing a small matter like this, he would cable to his friend, Mr. George Fisher, and say he believed the Parliament ought to attend to the business of the country, to establish its industries, to carry on its rail- ways, to look after its finance, and in every way to look after the interests of the people : because Mr. Balfour, who leads the House of Commons in England, said exactly the same thing on the 31st July, when a breach of privilege of a more onerous and serious char- acter than this was before the House of Com- mons. Rather than stop the business of the Parliament of the British Empire, it was de- cided that the publisher and printer of the Daily Mail should not be brought before the bar of the House at all. Mr. FISHER .- Mr. Chamberlain disowned what Mr. Balfour said. Mr. WITHEFORD .- I have seen the paper containing Mr. Balfour's statement; and in this House Sir Joseph Ward has stated something about the case, and you can always rely on what Sir Joseph Ward says. Now, I stand up https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1. 32106019788253 for my friend Captain Russell and the members of the Opposition, and I intended to gratify Captain Russell when he came from Hawke's Bay to-day by moving that the Premier be fined £50. An Hon. MEMBER .- What for ? Mr. WITHEFORD .- In connection with this . case, and just to please you people on the Oppo- sition side. You want to shed somebody's blood or to cut off somebody's head in connec- tion with this matter. I heard one honourable gentleman say, " We want a scapegoat, and I don't care who it is." Well, suppose we make the Premier the scapegoat ? That is why I pro- posed to initiate this resolution. But I hear from Mr. Deputy-Speaker that, as I seconded the resolution proposed by the Premer, I shall not be able to propose one myself. Mr. PIRANI. - Offer yourself up as a sacri- fice. Mr. WITHEFORD .- I was going to propose that the member for Palmerston should pro- pose this in my place as I am not able to do it : that is, to impose a fine of $50 on the Pre- mier, and then you will all be satisfied. I do not know why the time of the House has been wasted in this manner. I have been listening to you members on the other side of the House, and every speech bears the impress of the highest intelligence. But what puzzles me is, why you are keeping up this debate when you know perfectly well you are keeping back the business of the country. Now, I am not going more word to say. Considering that the fine ber for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) proposes to inflict, only amounts to 30s. a head if cut up amongst the members of this House, it is not much per man considering that the cost to the country of this debate must mean £10 or £20 per hour. That is to say, we are putting the coun- try to an expense of £10 or £20 an hour in order to fine the proprietor of this paper at the rate of 30s. a head. Let us vote on this ques- tion, and get it done with. The House divided on the question, "That the words proposed to be omitted-namely, ' expression of regret,' stand part of the ques- tion." AYES, 35. Allen, E. G. Hornsby O'Meara Houston Arnold Palmer Kaihau Parata Bennet Buddo Seddon Laurenson Carroll Steward Lawry Ward Colvin McGowan Field Mackenzie, T. Wilford Fowlds Willis Mckenzie, R. Witheford. Fraser, A. L. D. McNab Hall Millar Tellers. Hall-Jones Carncross Mills Hogg Napier :.... Stevens. NOES, 21. Smith, G. J. Atkinson Massey Bollard McLachlan Symes Meredith Collins Tanner Thomson, J. W. Monk Ell Pirani Hardy Tellers. Haselden . Russell, G. W. Lang Russell, W. R. Rhodes. Hutcheson Lethbridge PAIRS. For. Against. Herries Duncan Morrison Allen, J. Smith, E. M. McGuire. Majority for, 14. Amendment negatived, and words retained. The House divided on the question, "That the words 'upon payment of the sum of £15' be inserted after the word 'that' and before ' this House.' " AYES, 34. Russell, G. W. Allen, E. G. Hogg Seddon Arnold Hornsby Smith, G. J. Bennet Houston Buddo Laurenson Steward Tanner Carroll McGowan Mackenzie, T. Wilford Collins Willis Colvin McKenzie, R. Witheford. Ell McNab Field Millar Tellers. Fowlds Mills Carncross Napier Hall Hall-Jones Parata Stevens. NOES, 19. Lawry Hardy Atkinson Lethbridge Fraser, A. L. D. Hutcheson Massey Fraser, W. Lang 