do not think it is right that men should be placed in that position. We have all classes of labour interested in the handling of perishable goods, and they are in a great state of unrest and excitement as to what will be the next move. This sort of thing cannot last. I said just now that I had no objection to unions, nor have I, and I am pleased to see that at last we have got a farmers' union. Now, it is 11.30. a well-known fact that the farmer is the most long-suffering man in the community. He bears almost anything ; he is imposed upon right and left, and yet he tries to struggle along and pay his rent. But there is an old proverb that the last straw breaks the camel's back, and it has come to that with the farmer. I assure the Premier, as I told him earlier in the ses- sion, that if he does not look out they will, metaphorically speaking, bring him to his knees. In the labour unions in the colony, when there is a question as to the rates of wages and when they want more wages, they say, "Take it out of the farmer." He is a long-suffering individual, and he stands it all. I saw by the paper some time ago that the fellmongers were before the Conciliation Board or Arbitration Court in Canterbury. One worker belonging to the union, when he was asked the question as to how the fellmongers were to pay more wages when they could not afford it, said, "Give the farmers less for their skins and hides"; and another suggested as a means of keeping work in the colony that 3d. a pound export duty should be placed on wool. Why, that means complete confiscation nowadays. That was a suggestion made by a prominent member of one of our trades-unions. So we have it all round. If you want increased wages take it out of the farmer. The middleman will tell you that he cannot afford to pay more on account of the competition between them, which is such that he cannot get it out of the consumer, and the only man to get it out of is the farmer. Well, it is about time that the farmers started a union, and, as far as I am concerned, I will do my level best to encourage it all over the colony. It has been said by the Premier that the Farmers' Union is a ramifica- tion of the National Association. It is nothing of the sort. It is a genuine union of farmers, independent of any political movement whatever, determined to see justice done to themselves in a moderate way. Goodness knows it is time they did make a move, when we find they are so badly treated by other members of the com- munity. Now, another instance of how the labour unions run matters in regard to the labour laws and powers given them by the pre- sent Government : The steamship - owners in Auckland were cited some time ago before the Arbitration Court. A prominent agitator of the Seamen's Union had gone to Auckland with the express purpose of telling them how badly off they were. The men were not grumbling about the steamship - owners, and were not complaining about their wages not being high enough ; but this agitator went about among them telling them that they were not sufficiently Mr. Bollard brought before the Conciliation Board. Among other companies brought before the Board was the Northern Steamship Company. That, Sir, is a company who for a long time have not been paying more than 3 per cent. in divi- dends, but lately they had been giving more. This man was asked the question how the companies were to pay the wages he wanted if there were no dividends? His answer was, "The men must have good wages even if there are no dividends." How long, may I ask, will a number of capitalists put their money into a steamship company, when, after they have been working ten years and are only getting 3 per cent., somebody comes along and wants to confiscate their dividend. They would have to close down, and the men would be out of employment. That will be the result if they insist upon making things more stringent year after year. Last year we spent about a month in revising and perfecting a Factories Bill. Instead of bringing it forward again this year, the Minister of Labour has brought a different Bill altogether, of a very drastic character. Perhaps it will be as well before I sit down to give another word of warning to the Govern- ment : unless they indicate "Slow" on the dial, as the Premier says, in regard to labour laws they will find themselves hoist by their own petard. Mr. CARNCROSS (Taieri) .- In commencing my few remarks I feel that I must first make one or two references to the speech we have just had the pleasure of listening to. The honourable gentleman who has just resumed his seat indulged, as some of the other speakers have done, in playing with a few figures. I think there is scarcely anything more danger- ous to play with than figures. It takes a long study to become acquainted with them and to handle them with anything like confidence, and it appears to me the largest amount of confidence is shown by those who know least about them. There have been many figures quoted, and I feel satisfied that before the end of the debate those figures will be scattered to the four winds of heaven, and the gentlemen who used them will be sorry that they ever endeavoured to pass in this House as financiers. Mr. BOLLARD .- They are not my figures, they are the Government's. Mr. CARNCROSS .- I hope the honourable gentleman's guilty conscience is not pricking him. Coming to his figures, just by way of specimen, he was reckoning up the assets of the colony and in his reckoning he valued the railways at £15,000,000. Mr. BOLLARD .- £16,000,000. Mr. CARNCROSS .- Well, I will give him the benefit of the odd million, and say he valued them at £16,000,000. Now, our railways cost us £17,000,000, and if they were put in the market to-morrow I believe that Jay Gould would offer £30,000,000 without a wink, and would make millions out of the bargain after- wards. Is it necessary to go any further into the honourable gentleman's figures? That is one specimen, and you may judge of the whole of 