attention to the fact that there were in- | it. He agreed that something should be done creases provided on the estimates for the doctor, the matron, and attendants at Rotorua, whereas there were no increases provided for the manager and caretaker at Hanmer. See. ing the great increase of visitors at Hanmer of late, and the difficulty there was in procuring accommodation during the summer months, he thought the Minister might make inquiries as to whether the circumstances did not warrant increases being given to the officials of Hanmer the same as at Rotorua. Mr. RHODES (Ellesmere) asked whether it was the intention of the department to replace the vote for the guide at Mount Cook Hermitage, which this year had disappeared from the esti- mates. A guide was necessary for all except expert mountaineers who wished to make ex- peditions in the locality. He would also like to know whether the Hermitage had proved profitable to the Government. He did not be- lieve that Mount Cook would ever become a popular resort until the journey could be made from Fairlie Creek to Mount Cook in one day. Sir J. G. WARD said, in reply to the honour- able member for Geraldine, that the circum- stances of Rotorua and Hanmer had to be taken into consideration. There was a great deal in what the honourable member said, and as soon as he had had that branch of the depart- ment a sufficient time he would deal personally with these matters. It was not intended to dis- continue the services of the guide at Mount Cook, and provision was being made for his continu- ance. He could not at the moment state what the profit or loss was on the Hermitage, but he might say that Mount Cook was looked upon as a spot of great interest to the country, and the Government would do all in their power to make it as get-at-able as possible. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) did not http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero think the Government had ever done justice to our mineral waters, nor had they hitherto secured a sufficiently high quality of man to take charge of these valuable springs. The Government had pursued a penurious policy, and had limited the Agent-General to too small a sum to attract any one from the spas of Europe, whither the Agent-General went in search of a man to come out to New Zea- land. He was glad the honourable gentle- man was now in charge of this department, for attract tourist traffic, and he was in full sym- he was sure he would instil into it some business enterprise and acumen, and would not grudge the price that would have to be paid to get a first-class man to come and bring these waters into notice. He believed that so far no proper analysis of these waters had been made, and unless that were provided the people of baths, double the charge was made to visitors Britain would not take notice of them. Even when samples of water were sent down to Wellington for analysis certain chemical changes took place in transit, and there had never been a fair test of the properties of those waters. He believed the honourable gentleman had pro- mised to authorise a sum of $1,000 to secure the services of a first-class man. Sir J. G. WARD .- Yes. Mr. T. MACKENZIE was very glad to hear I sale price against a retail one. in the way of providing specially cheap fares, both by rail and steamer, for the benefit of those people who were absolutely without money, and who required treatment for skin diseases and rheumatism. In connection with the tourist traffic, he thought some money should be expended upon the introduction of game into the country, and more money should be spent on opening up tracks between the east and west coasts, so that greater facilities might be extended to those people who wished to traverse the country. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) said the great draw- back to the tourist traffic at the present time was the want of accommodation. From Wa- nganui, via Wanganui River, to Tokaanu there was not a single licensed house to put up at, simply because the people could not get a license ; and unless a tourist resort could be licensed they could not expect people to visit those places. He noticed that in some out- of - the - way places subsidies were granted to doctors, but in the back blocks of his district they had been unable to get a subsidy for a doctor. He trusted the Government would make provision on the supplementary esti- mates for subsidising a doctor, at any rate, at Wangamomona, where the settlers were quite willing to subscribe $1 for $1 for any subsidy that might be granted to enable the settlers to get a permanent resident doctor. Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera) thought 8.0. sufficient was not done to advertise the country. If properly advertised much good could be done, for we had scenery which was equal to that of Italy and Switzerland com- bined : a mountain, the most picturesque in the world - Mount Egmont: the burning mountain Tongariro; the New Zealand Rhine -the Wanganui River-and other attractions. It would be no small advantage to the country for tourists to see the beautiful land round Taranaki. As the New Zealand summer was the winter at Home, this was an additional ad- vantage. If the advantages of the country were made known it would prove most attractive, and there would be tourists in all parts of this country, who would leave golden streams behind them. He would advise the Minister in charge of the estimates to do everything he could to pathy with what was being done at the present time, though he did not think enough was done to make known in the Old Country the good points of this beautiful land. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said his attention had been called to the fact that, at the Rotorua that was made to residents for the use of the baths. He thought the charge should be the same, and failed to see any reason for a reduc- tion to residents. Sir J. G. WARD said the reason for the dif- ferentiation was that residents bathed all the year round, while visitors bathed only for a few weeks or months. It was a case of a whole. 