on oath they all say they did not supply the in- formation. An Hon. MEMBER .- It was not on oath. Mr. FISHER .-- Each witness was warned that his evidence carried with it all the re- sponsibility of an oath, and each and all said, under the responsibility imposed on them by the Chairman of the Privileges Committee, that he did not supply the shorthand-writer's report of the evidence taken to the representa- tive of the Dunedin Evening Star, nor did he know how it was supplied. Now, except the Premier, every member of the Goldfields and Mines Committee has denied all knowledge of how the report got into the possession of the representative of the Dunedin Evening Star. And yet the honourable gentleman wonders that we laugh at the levity resulting from the remark of the Chairman of the Privileges Committee. But, apart from the jocular view, does it not appear that the Committee - at all events, I will speak for the minority of the Committee-had the correct view of the subject when they said it is impossible on oath or otherwise to obtain from these witnesses any clue as to who it was who surreptitiously supplied the Committee's short- hand-writer's report to the representative of the Dunedin Star? Then, Sir, I put to you a question I am sure you will not be able to answer: Who is to blame? Who supplied that report to the Dunedin Star? We cannot find out by putting the members of the Com- mittee under a responsibility which is tanta- mount to putting them on oath. We are satisfied as to the truthfulness and the honesty of the evidence of certain other persons ex- amined by the Committee ; and yet we have one witness, a recalcitrant witness, who says, "I have the name of the person who supplied me with your shorthand report, and I refuse to tell you who it was." We may have the conscious- ness, as I have the consciousness, of who it was who supplied the report, but we have not the absolute proof requisite to satisfy all the mem- bers of this House. Therefore I say that this House is justified in resorting to the extreme course of taking any step, of proceeding to any extreme, to compel that witness to disclose the name of that dishonourable person, whoever he may be, who supplied the shorthand report of the evidence to the Dunedin Star. It is not as if a member of a Committee had supplied a précis of the proceedings, an abstract, to a reporter of a newspaper. That is the distinc- tion I draw, and why I describe this as the most flagrant case that ever came under the notice of this Parliament. This is not a précis or epi- tome supplied by a member of a Committee. It is the actual shorthand-writer's report, paid for by Parliament, paid for by the people of this country ; and what right has that report, which is the property of the Crown-the pro- perty of the people - to be supplied in a surrep- titious manner to any one newspaper to the exclusion of all the rest ? That is the point I ask the House to consider, and it is the point, I think, that ought to decide the whole question. Mr. Fisher the honourable gentleman has introduced so much debatable matter. I also regret that he should have cast a reflection upon a member of the Goldfields and Mines Committee. If he and other members of the Committee were of the opinion he holds-namely, that a member of the Committee had given the evidence to Mr. Cohen-it was their duty to put that in the report. Sir, I disagree entirely with such an opinion. I think it was not a member of the Committee at all; and I do not think it is fair to any member of the Goldfields and Mines Committee that this aspersion should be hung over them, or that any one of them should be looked on as a dishonourable person, and that such an insinuation should come from a mem- ber of the Committee. It is not just to the members of the Goldfields Committee. An Hon. MEMBER .- You are going to hang it over till Tuesday. Mr. SEDDON .- It would be much better to hang it over for a longer time than that, if you could remove that impression. I may say that one of the gentlemen who gave evidence dis- tinctly told me that one of his grievances was that the Press would not give publication to what he wished in reference to this matter, and he was bringing the matter before the Committee and the House so as to get his statements into the Press of the colony. When one of the witnesses has told me that, it might be inferred that he was just as likely to have connived at the Press getting the information as any one of the members of the Committee. I believe in fair-play. The promoters of the petition desired to get this matter into the papers, and it has got into the papers. It may not have been given by any member of the Committee or by a witness, but it may have been put in such a way that it could be ob- tained and used. The only persons who had an opportunity of seeing the evidence were the witnesses and the members of the Committee. I do not wish to pass a reflection upon any one, but I am not going to sit here and hear the members of that Committee reflected upon -the whole Committee-because until it is proved who gave the information, it has been suggested, they are all to be held as being dis- honourable. An Hon. MEMBER .- Under suspicion. Mr. SEDDON .-. " Under suspicion." I do not think that is right. I shall now reply to a part of the speech of the member for Palmers- ton. I know Mr. Albert Cohen, and he told the Committee deliberately-without any feeling - that he would not disclose the source of his infor- mation. I know him to be an honourable man, and a journalist who takes a pride in his profes- sion, and it is one of the tenets of all honourable journalists that they will not disclose the source of information received in any way. Then, I saw there was no doubt as to the position which would arise. You might bring him to the bar of the House, you might put him in the tower. and you will find yourselves ultimately just in the same position as when you began. I have known journalists brought up for contempt of 