get an imaginary notion into their heads that | in salary which we offered him, but because he our finances are dislocated, the first thing they do is to make a set at the unfortunate Civil servants and reduce their salaries to a paltry pittance. Take the salaries of the higher officers. Mr. ATKINSON .- Start on Ministers. Sir J. G. WARD .- The honourable gentle- man can start anywhere he likes. He knows perfectly well Ministers are indifferent to any- thing of the kind. ' We endeavour to do our duty. We give the country value for the money received, and most of us could make a great deal more outside if we had never come on to the Treasury benches. As to my honour- able friend Mr. Atkinson, he makes so much at his business that I feel sure he would never take a seat on the Ministerial benches, even if he had an opportunity of doing so. There are 880 increases on the whole of the estimates, and of those the great bulk is represented by the 802 who receive under £300 per annum. Some of the increases are to men receiving £75 a year, £100 a year, £150 a year, but none of them to those receiving over $300 a year. Now, with regard to the higher salaries, what is paid to the principal officers of the Railway service outside the colony :- General Manager or Commissioner. Chief Mechanical Chief Engineer. Engineer. Colony. Mileage. £ 12,801 Queensland .. 1,000 1,5001,400 1,200 New South 2,777 2,5001,060 / http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero 1,200 1,100 1,500\| Wales 1,500 Victoria 1,100\|1,000 3,186 3,500 1,250 South Aus. 900 1,875 1,5001,100 tralia Western Aus- 1,500 1,000 1,355 800 tralia Cape Colony 1,4001,000\* 900 1,000 1,990 700 New Zealand 700 2,306 1,000 \* And £200 construction allowance. The late General Manager of the Tasmanian Government railways is now receiving £2,250 per annum as general manager of the Chillagoe Railway and Copper-mines Company, Queens- land ; and the Victorian Commissioner recently left Victoria to take up a position as general manager of the Midland Railway Company, England, at a salary of $5,000 per annum. In this country during the last six months some of the best officers of the Railway Department have had higher salaries offered to them by other countries than they are getting in New Zealand, and yet we expect them to stay here. In one case one officer who was offered a higher salary to leave our country agreed to stay here, not merely because of a slight increase Sir J. G. Ward was born and trained in the colony, was brought up in the Railway service of the colony, and was attached to it. He stayed here rather than accept a higher salary out- side the colony in another Railway service. Then, take the Postal service. In New Zealand positions which cost £1,750 for the three prin- cipal officers cost in Victoria £2,660, and in New South Wales £2,720. Then, in the Money- order Branch in New Zealand what we pay $500 per year for costs Victoria £1,100, and New South Wales £1,350. Then, again, another officer in the Postal service in this colony re- ceives £400, whilst in a similar position in Vic- toria and New South Wales the salary is £550. Our men are not inferior to any of those in the other colonies, and yet we treat them as though they were. The Government recognise that if we want to keep our officers we must give them reasonable salaries in order to do so. Those honourable members seem to think the Govern- ment give increases without considering all the circumstances. The Government do nothing of the kind. Our desire is to see these officers paid fairly, not excessively, and that for the ser- vices they render to the State they should have fair remuneration. We do not want to see our best officers leaving our service and going to other places if we can keep them here by Manager. treating them in a fair and reasonable way. Chief Traffic The honourable member for Bruce said that two millions and a half of our loans are not quoted on the London Stock Exchange. The honourable member is saying what is absolutely incorrect. There is not a single loan of this country that is not quotable on the London Stock Exchange. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I say I am right. . . Sir J. G. WARD .- The honourable member ought to disclose the source of his information if he thinks he is right. I may say that I make this statement officially as from the Treasury : that the whole of our loans are quotable on the London Stock Exchange. What possible reason 600 could there be for not quoting our loans ? Our stock stands as high relatively as the stock of 900 any other country, and there is no reason why we should not disclose to the British public that our loans are there for them to invest in in 700 the ordinary way. Then, the honourable mem- ber made other charges against the Govern- ment. The gravamen of his charges was that we have the power under statute to borrow certain moneys under the Government Ad- vances to Settlers Act, also for the acqui- sition of private estates, for the dairy industry, and for other purposes. Does the honour- able member mean to tell me that this country is going to allow these departments to languish and die for want of money ? He might just as well pray that the moon shall be brought down as suppose that the people of New Zealand are going to stop these valu- able institutions, which have been created entirely for the benefit of the people. And the honourable member for Riccarton said that the speech of the honourable member for Bruce was the most brilliant financial speech ever heard in 