The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- Sir, I fail to see how any so-called expert can tell the value of a mine. Take, for instance, a quartz-reenng mine. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is not quartz-mining I refer to. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- The Bill will refer to any gold-mining. You cannot pass an Act to deal with only a portion of mining. It is impossible for even a Government expert to tell what is in a reef unless by sinking or driving. I agree that some provision should be made to deal with company promoters. From the little bitter experience I have had in con- nection with gold - mining ventures, I believe there are honest men in Mount Cook Gaol com- pared with some company promoters. I know of instances where claims have been floated. The promoters have the result of assays put in the prospectus, showing something like 80 oz. to the ton. They get a small bit of quartz, hardly the size of a pea, and have an assay of that small piece. This is put forward as show- ing the great value and prospect of the mine. The public are hoodwinked, and the shares are taken up eagerly. I have felt for some years past that some legislation should be adopted dealing with the floating of wild-cat companies. The Hon. Mr. Lee Smith referred to the ques- tion of liquidators. It is a monstrous thing, not only in connection with gold-mining, but also with other companies, that the select clique who generally run these affairs will appoint a liquidator who is "in the swim," and he will get a nice plum for winding up the affairs. 1 hope the Hon. Mr. Lee Smith will be successful with his crusade against dishonesty. I will support him to the fullest extent. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. - With other honourable members, Sir, I do not see how it is possible to put the question of the floating of gold-mining areas upon the shoulders of a Government expert. It is quite impossible. I think that any one who has had any knowledge of gold-mining dis- tricts must know that; and, also, when you have got the Government gold-mining ex- pert's opinion, what is it worth ? It is no better, in a sense, than the opinion of any other expert-that is, if the other expert is an honest man. Of course, I am very desirous of seeing this Bill made as useful as possible ; at the same time I am rather afraid that there is a tendency in the minds of some honourable members to deal with it rather from the point of view of a panic. I have lived through several periods of boom and collapse in New Zealand in these matters, and I do not know that the history of any one of them is very different from the others. You will always find the clever manipulator of companies that are worth virtually nothing, and the honest but innocent investor being let in. How many times has that happened in New Zealand, and how many times is that likely to happen ? If it is diffi- cult to make people more virtuous by Act of Parliament, I am quite certain that it is impossible to make them wise by the same process. An Hon. MEMBER. - It will prevent rascality. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. - Rascality, of course, should always be prevented, and, if found out, should be punished. However, I deprecate dealing with this question from the point of view of panic. It is a measure that, as was pointed out by the Hon. Colonel Pitt, should not be regarded as dealing with mining companies only. One honourable gentleman said it should deal only with dredging com- panies. Well, I say this : let us improve our company law where possible. The Bill was originally intended to bring the law up to the standard of the present law at Home. I do not think we should try to do impossibilities, or read into the Bill provisions that cannot have any useful or practical result. Motion agreed to. Bill committed and progress reported. The Council adjourned at five minutes to five o'clock p.m. # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Tuesday, 10th September, 1901. President Mckinley : Attempted Assassination- Breach of Privilege. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half-past ten o'clock. PRAYERS. PRESIDENT MCKINLEY : ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATION. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, I desire to announce to the House, and I am sure the announcement will be received with pleasure by every honourable member, that the con- dition of the victim of a fell and dastardly deed, President Mckinley, is improving. I know that we one and all cannot but feel deep sympathy with the nation, with the sufferer, and with Mrs. Mckinley on this deplorable event, this foul blow struck at a great man ; and later on it is my intention to ask the House to pass a resolution of sympathy with President and Mrs. Mckinley. I may also say that when the sad intelligence reached the colony I immediately requested His Excellency the ' Governor, through the Under-Secretary of State, to convey the sympathy of this colony to the sufferer. BREACH OF PRIVILEGE. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - Before calling on the orders of the day fixed for Tuesday I may state I have received a letter from Mr. Albert F. Cohen. It is my intention to read the letter to the House. It is as follows : - " Press Gallery, Wellington, 10th September, 1901. "SIR,-I wish to address your honourable House, through you, in respect to a matter which is to engage its attention to-day. "The House has already decided that the publication of certain evidence given before its 