House, and he comes in here after ten o'clock at night and presumes to tell me I am all wrong in my figures. Now, I presume to tell him that he knows nothing about the subject of which I am speaking. Sir, leaving out the balance brought forward last year, and the $500,000 paid to the Public Works Fund, the receipts and expenditure would stand thus: The actual revenue, including the accretions to sinking fund, was $5,906,916 ; the expenditure was $5,479,703 ; the actual balance therefore, as shown in the Statement, is $427.213. But there is not one word in the Statement to show that at the time that balance was made up there were liabilities against it of #206,828. That is the amount of unpaid accounts owing by the Consolidated Fund on the 31st March. The details of these will never be printed and made public. But on the table of the House at the present moment there are the details of every account, and if members will look into those returns they will see that they give the details of these unpaid accounts. Yet the Premier says on the first page of his Statement, " The revenue received last year exceeded my most sanguine expectations. Notwithstanding the remissions . for, after meeting all current obligations, there was a balance on the credit side amounting to £532,564." After meet- ing all current obligations. Now. are not debts that are owing and unpaid on the 31st March current obligations-are they not included in current obligations? They ought to be, Sir. Unfortunately for the Treasurer's balance we did have $206,828 of unpaid accounts, and, deducting that amount from the figures as https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 stated by the Treasurer, it leaves only $220,385, to which we add £105,000 balance remaining of what was brought forward last year, and that gives us a total of $325,736. That http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero is the total balance if we had paid our liabilities. Let me just put it in another way, which will be understood by honourable mem- bers who follow me. The balance as shown in the Financial Statement is $532,564. It is proposed to transfer $500,000 to the Public Works Fund Account. If we do that it leaves $32,564 as the balance remaining in the account, with a liability of unpaid accounts of $206,828 on the 31st March. Subtract one from the other and there remains a deficiency of £174,264. That is the real position. Now, where is that deficiency to come from ? It can only come Now, with reference to from future taxation. the Public Works Account : as stated in the Treasurer's Statement, at the beginning of the year this account began with a credit balance of €139,749. We raised by loan $900,000. We received into that fund by transfer from the Consolidated Fund Account $500,000, and by other special receipts €1,787. The total revenue was #1,141,563, and we paid away during the year in public works, including £1,460 for raising loans and $50 "unauthorised expendi- ture," the sum of $1,309,021. That left a balance as shown in the Statement of #232,515. There is no indication in the Statement to show the fact that at the very moment we had this Mr. Graham unpaid accounts against the Public Works Fund to the extent of £1,292.096. So that instead of a balance, if we had paid the debts owing on the 31st March, we should have had a debit balance of over a million of money. But the Treasurer shows a credit balance of #232 515, and he gives his estimate for the current year without any reference to the debts owing. He has also power to raise $800,000, the balance of the loan of last session, and he proposes to transfer an- other $500,000 from the Consolidated Fund, and also to borrow another million of money by a fresh loan. He makes his ways and means appear to be £2,532,515; then estimates there will be an expenditure of £1,950,000, and a balance remaining at the end of the year of £532,515. If the honourable gentleman had paid his debts, how could he possibly have this position ? Mr. HALL-JONES .- They are not debts. Mr. GRAHAM. - "They are not debts !" What are they but debts ? Look at the table. I ask the Minister to look at the table, and he will find every account in detail from typewriters to charwomen's wages, and the salaries of almost every department unpaid-salaries for the month of March. Are those not debts owing on the 31st March ? What are they ? If you owe me my salary on the 31st March, surely that is a debt owing to me. Mr. HALL-JONES .- You are dealing with the Public Works Fund now. Mr. GRAHAM .- Of course I am. I told the House I was speaking of the Public Works Fund, and they are the accounts in the Public Works Fund that were unpaid. Does the honourable gentleman not understand that ? I would ask him to pay attention. The real posi- tion on the 31st March would be this : The cash balance appearing to the credit of the account was $232,000. The balance of loan authorised - that is, the amount they may borrow by loan authorised last session-was $800,000. They owed £1,292,096, which would leave a deficiency of £259,581. I heard an honourable member who spoke the other night state that it was £260,000, and there is no doubt about the deficiency if you paid your debts. Their estimate of ways and means for the cur- rent year provides-that $500,000 is to be transferred from the Consolidated Fund, and a new loan of one million is to be raised ; so that then we should have cash to credit of the account £1,500,000, less the amount it cost to raise the loan. And on the other side of the account we should have the deficiency as shown of #259,581, which would leave an available balance of ways and means of £1,240,419, and that is all. The Treasurer, however, brings forward a statement showing that we should have ways and means of £2,500,000 and over, and after he had spent $1,950,000 he would have $582,000 left ; instead of which he would only have £1,240,419 in all. With reference to the public debt, one honourable member who spoke the other night gave the increase for the last ten years, and the Premier suggested that he should give the increase for 