people to take up land in suitable areas, so | that they could do a little gold-mining in the winter time, they would be able to live on their farms in the spring and summer. It would be a great benefit to the whole com- munity if the Government would look into this matter and enact a new land-law in the direc- tion I have indicated. While dealing with this subject, I might just take the opportunity to point out that there are the Matakitaki and Maruia Valleys in which there are from twenty to thirty thousand acres of good arable land. There are hot springs there, and this land ought to be a good asset of the colony. It would take about $5,000 to open up each of these valleys, and a thousand people or more could then be settled in them, and a vast amount of gold-mining and dredging could be carried on. It would be profitable for the colony to have that land opened up. I trust this matter will receive the attention of the Government. Now, Sir, I have always felt that the rents and charges imposed upon poor people when they go upon the land are too high, and I agree with the Colonial Treasurer when he states in his Budget that,- " The settlement of the people on the land is of paramount importance. What we have done, are doing, and must do is to extend our opera- tions and increase the number of our settlers ; and to those going on to the back blocks and the bush lands easy terms must be given by way of relieving the tenants from payment of rent for the first few years, and also by way of in- sisting on improvement conditions being com- plied with ; at the same time affording relief https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 from rent until the tenant is enabled to get his head above water and to pay his way from the produce of the land itself." The man who takes up land on the West Coast is put to a good deal of expense in order to bring his holding into cultivation. I have known as much as £4 10s. an acre paid to get bush felled, and it costs now to any person taking up land there from £1 10s. to £2 an acre to fell the bush and burn it off. I say that the man who does that ought to get the land for nothing. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is dear even then. Mr. COLVIN .- Yes, it is dear even then. I think that our liberal land-laws ought to be made even more liberal, so as to suit the varying circumstances of different places in New Zea- land. I thoroughly agree with the Government in their proposal to establish a State coal-mine. I believe the coal industry is the soundest and best in this country, and I shall gladly support any movement to the end foreshadowed by the Premier. Some people do not think it is right for the State to compete with private enter- prise. Now, so far as coal-mining is concerned, I do not agree with that opinion. I believe the State has a right to interfere; and as to coal- mining and coal-carrying, both by land and sea, I may say that the Government are now carriers by land, and why not, therefore, also make arrangements to carry it by sea. The establishment of a State coal-mine will really be an act of economy on the part of the Government. The Railway Department require about 100,000 tons of coal a year, and I can point out to the Government a place where, within eight months, by spending from £15,000 to £20,000, they can get from 70,000 to 100,000 tons of coal a year; in fact, where they can get that amount within eight months. Suppose they make a profit of 1s. per ton on 100,000 tons. That means £5,000; but I think they can make a profit of 3s. or 4s. a ton. Therefore, I say, it would be a good in- vestment for the colony, and it will largely assist in the development of our mineral resources. The coal area I speak of is known in the Cardiff Mine as the "cave " area. There is supposed to be from 1,000,000 to 1,500,000 tons of coal in that area, and 100,000 tons per annum could be taken out of it for fifteen or sixteen years. Therefore, I say that would be a good invest- ment for the Government. The coalfields in the Westport district are all in the hands of the Government, with the exception of 4,000 or 5,000 acres held by the Westport Coal Company. That company have done much for the advance- ment and benefit of the Buller district, and I was glad to see that they had paid a dividend of 7ª per cent. last year, and I anticipate that they will pay this year from 10 to 15 per cent. It is a . very good company, and nobody is more pleased than I am to see the shareholders receiving good returns for their outlay. The company have spent, in the work of opening up and developing their mine, about a quarter of a million of money, and they well deserve to get good returns. They have spent in wages £869,328, and in royalties and freights and taxes to the Government #455,015, to local carriers £628,635, new works £221,015, repairs ₺23,214, stores, et cetera, $75,335. I say that that com- pany has proved of benefit to the people at large and deserves to get good returns. I would like to ask, If the company is improving its position, what are the miners doing ? The Arbi- tration Court fixed the rate of pay two years ago on the selling-rate of coal at that time. Coal has gone up during the last twelve months 4s. a ton, but the wages of the miners have not gone up. I say the Arbitration Court ought to be in a position, as soon as the price of coal goes up, to give the miners a fair share of the increased profits. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about when it goes down in price ? Mr. COLVIN. - That can also be regulated, because the employer has always the right, if the mine is not paying, to close the mine. An Hon. MEMBER .- What do they get now ? Mr. COLVIN .- They get from 1s. 9d. to 2s. a ton, and that means $3 or £3 10s. per week. Hon. MEMBERS .- It is not enough for such work. Mr. COLVIN .- I think it would be only fair that, as the profits of the company increase, some system such as they have in England should be adopted. There they have a system of co-operative work, under which companies, 