into their own hands, and issued notes to the extent of two millions of their own paper. That being so, I will conclude these remarks by moving, That, in the opinion of this House, the Government should introduce a Bill for the purpose of establishing a State bank of issue, or an issue department of the Colonial Treasury. Sir, I do this because I believe it is in the interest of the country that we should face this question. I believe we have gone often enough to the London market ; and, after all, we have resources enough in our own powers to develop this country. In spite of the fact that our expenditure is increasing to such a large extent, where the largest amount of expenditure has been noted - namely, in the railways, an increase of $500,000 odd -- that increase has been the means of bringing in 37 per cent. more revenue than was the case before. I have also pointed out that in another large department of State - the Post and Tele- graph Department -- the increased expenditure has caused a much larger increase in revenue. What do these facts show us ? They show that if we are only true to ourselves-and this country is only now on the verge of being developed - and if we go on developing it and settling people on the lands of the coun- try, we would have no chance of the present prosperous times breaking down. Not only so, but, while we realise that the prosperous times cannot always remain at the high level of the last few years, I believe there is not the slightest danger of our going back to the bad times that existed in this colony ten years ago, when by maladministration the colony drifted into a state approaching national bank- ruptcy. I see no signs of that maladminis- tration on the part of the present occu- pants of the Government benches. 1 realise http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero that they have their faults, but they do not belong to that troop of " dismal Jimmies " who continually predict evil to this country. They. at all events, are people hopeful for the best, and they believe in the country, and also in themselves. They are not that type of people who are continually calling out that the country is going to the dogs, and who not only do not believe in the country, but have also lost faith in themselves. I believe that this is what is the matter with the present Opposi- tion, and I only hope they will stir themselves up, and give us on the Government side of the House a hand to send the country along at the pace we wish to see the country travelling at. I believe, if we do this, that the prosperity we have gone through during the past few years will be only the beginning of a greater and more enduring prosperity. I believe that. although much has been done in the past in the way of developing the country, there is still much country to be taken possession of. Much more work is yet to be done, and if we are only true to ourselves we will make this country really great and prosperous, and a country worthy of the aspirations of her noblest Sons. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce). - May I ask how the Mr. Laurenson amendment to a motion to go into Supply is usually taken as a serious thing. Does the honourable gentleman intend to treat it as a want of confidence ? Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) .-- I regret it is not possible for the Government to accept the amendment, as the time has not arrived for the practical consideration of such a proposal. I do not, however, feel sufficiently nervous to take it as a want of confidence. The House divided on the question, " That the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the question.' AYES, 35. Monk Allen, E. G. Herries Parata Allen, J. Hornsby Bennet Rhodes Houston Russell, G. W. Bollard Lang Buddo Smith, G. J. Lawry Lethbridge Collins Steward Gilfedder Thomson, J. W. Massey McGowan Graham Ward McGuire Willis. Hall McNab Hall-Jones Tellers. Hardy Meredith Carneross Haselden Thompson, R. Mills NOES, 10. Tellers. O'Meara Barclay Pirani Ell Hanan Fowlds. Symes Laurenson . Tanner Millar Majority for, 25. Amendment negatived. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) .- Sir, in saying a few words in connection with the matter now before the House -- namely, the financial state of the colony-I regret that the Right Hon. the Colonial Treasurer is not in his place. I bad not intended to say anything until he was present, as perhaps it is possible that his views on the financial position of the colony and mine are somewhat different. However, I have been constrained to go into the matter just now. Sir. one of the last paragraphs of the Financial Statement is as follows :-- " I advise, and that in good faith, that at the present time the good steamer 'Finance' should be steadied, and that 'Slow.' and not . Full speed ahead,' should be the order on the dial." Now, as one who has been somewhat accustomed to navigation, I know that when one sees the indicator placed at "Slow " one naturally comes to the conclusion that there is some danger ahead. The question, then, is. What is the danger ahead ? When the indi- cator is placed at "Slow " there is generally a reason for it - that the captain cannot see his way clearly ahead, or that he anticipates some danger ahead, or that he has run short of fuel. In this case, it strikes me, there is a little of the three, but principally of the last. The good ship " Finance " has been so long accustomed to have her bunkers filled up with fresh fael that it has become natural for her captain to expect that he has only to go to the same port to 