Even our late venerated Queen, when the feebleness of approaching dissolution was stealing over her life, invited the invalids of the colonial contingents to come be fore her, and she personally thanked them for the services they had rendered to the Empire, and she praised them for it. By these matters I merely wish to remind the House that they are forming for us, so to speak, a new link betwixt the colonies and the Mother-country. What it will come to I can- . not tell ; but I have this feeling, Mr. Speaker : that the ultimate fruit and crowning reward of this movement will be to draw closer the re- lationships between the colonies and the Mother - country. No doubt, close as these relations now are, to be enduring, to be ever. lasting, they will have to be drawn still closer than they are at present ; and I believe that the Mother-country and the colonies will yet meet together, and they will settle what are to be the permanent arrangements that shall be maintained between the parent State and her colonies. It is now an admitted axiom that in the contrivances of policies for the British colonies contribution to revenue or taxation must be followed by representation ; and as the colonies have donated large sums of money, to say nothing about the priceless treasure of human life, they must eventually be re- presented in matters of world-wide moment to their welfare. And I make no claim to any special foresight in auguring that ere long a great Imperial Council will be formed, meeting biennially or every few years in order to discuss and determine affairs of Imperial interest. And the foremost men of the Old Country will be there, grouped beneath the folds of the great flag of our race ; and representatives of all the self-governing colonies will be there, seated beneath the flags of their respective countries; and the prize which the best citizens of New Zealand will covet, and the blue ribbon in the gift of her electors, will be to represent her in that august assembly, canopied by the blue flag that waves over this building-the blue flag with the badge of the Southern Cross. I must say a word or two now with regard to the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds). It seems to be a misfortune to the rural populations, right up from the time of Solon to the present day, that there should always be some representatives of urban communities knowing least about the interests of agriculturists, who will assume a divine mission to know more about their busi- ness than they know themselves. Well, Sir, when he was speaking I ejaculated my desire for more information and more light. There was a perfect jumble of figures, but not the information I required. As I heard him enu- merate millions of acres and millions of pounds I thought to myself, " Does he know anything about the large amount of value there is in land on which 1 per cent. is not obtained over and above the cost of working the homestead ?" And as I listened to the honourable gentleman's freedom of speech, and his unhesitating confi- Mr. Monk with the evidence of medical experts, who as- sert that coruscated liberty of diction and very serious mental derangement may be closely associated. Now, Sir, just for a moment or two-it will be said to be pessimism, of course -let me talk about the possibilities that may happen. No, it is not pessimism. We are only giving expression to that which presents itself to our perceptive faculties; and if what we think of and feel as a possibility that may happen to us does not come about we are no poorer, but if it does we are surely in a better position to cushion the touch of depression and minimise its evil effects. It is only right that we should think of the possibilities which are eventuating in other countries. If honour- able members who talk about pessimism would think about Canada, and consider what rapid strides she is making in butter-manufacture -more than we are making ourselves-they might alter their tone. Do they think of the Province of Winnipeg, which has an area of 106,000 square miles, a few more than we have in New Zealand, but with a great deal more fertile land-land so fertile that it produces crops of 50 per cent. more to the acre than ours, rich as it is. And there is only a population of sixty-hve thousand in that province. You may tell me her climate is rigorous. It has certainly more rigour than ours, but there are a great many at- tractions in it, and I tell you, Mr. Speaker, I would sooner place myself in the most rigor- ous climate and be free than I would be a slave environed by beauty, as the trend is here. Then, Sir, is not Russia to be noted ? Russia has one little patch, compared with her vast ex- tent of nine million acres, of black soil, and she is crowding it with Danish experts. Two mil- lion pounds worth of butter was produced there last year, and she expects four million pounds' worth this year ; and if the butter production of the population of Russia, who work for wages we would not dream of enduring, realises her expec- tations it will be a gospel of blessing and happi- ness to them. They are bringing their butter even from Siberia, claiming that its resources are limitless; and I tell you that this pro- duction of butter in Russia will be something to be reckoned with. Then, Australia will increase her production. Then, too, little Hol- land has just started the undertaking of re- claiming 500,000 acres from the Zuyder Zce, and when she reclaims it you may depend that she will not State-nationalise it, but will sell it immediately to freeholders ; and all that area of land will be converted into smiling home- steads, and that will be something that we will have to compete with. Then, there is our own expert, Mr. Reynolds, who has helped so much to develop the butter industry of New Zealand ; he has left us and gone to the Argentine, be- cause he thinks he can do better there. He certainly will help them to develop their dairv- ing industry. This is not pessimism, Sir, but a warning to honourable gentlemen to act as the prudent, thrifty statesmen we need for a country like ours should act. I should like 