appeal to their constituents and say they had been compelled to do so, because now an oppor- tunity was granted them in a free vote to say that it had continued long enough. Of course, it would be contended that as he was a resident of Wellington it was easy for him to argue in this way. He was not unmindful of the interests of those who came from a distance, and he felt their position was very hard indeed ; but, nevertheless, he believed that this would have an effect quite contrary to that assumed by the Premier, and that it would expedite the business if they kept reasonable hours, and approached the matter with a desire to have the business done. He would certainly support the amendment of the honourable member for Nelson City. Probably, if relief were not granted, and if they were compelled either to neglect their duties or to remain for twenty- four hours at a time in the Chamber, they would adopt the practice of the honourable gentleman and husband their strength by standing by for these occasions. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) thought the last honourable gentleman who had spoken should have stuck more closely to the matter they had been discussing, and not have wandered away to deal with other subjects. He did not, how- ever, propose to deal with the honourable gentleman's speech, but to refer to some re- marks made by the honourable member for Palmerston. That honourable gentleman was usually so accurate that one felt a pleasure on finding three or four statements made, one after the other, by that honourable gentleman each of which was inaccurate. The honourable member had said that when he was at a meet- ing of a Committee that morning there were only three members present besides himself and the Chairman. Subsequently it was pointed http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero out that there were five members besides him- self; but he said there were three members present, and that three formed a quorum. When the honourable gentleman was present there had also been present Messrs. Lang, Bennet, Stevens, Herries, and McNab, and it took five to form a quorum, and not three as the honourable gentleman had stated. Then, with regard to the late hours of sitting, he had brought his Hansard proof-the honourable member might just give him his attention for a moment. Mr. PIRANI .- Oh, I know what is going on. Mr. McNAB said if that was the courtesy the honourable member extended to other members when adressing him there were other matters he (Mr. McNab) would find it more profitable to refer to. The Minister for Railways referred to some very important matters in connection with the procedure of the House, and, as he knew the honourable gentleman was very much interested in the question of saving time in the House, he thought he had got a very good opportunity of introducing some very impor- tant reforms in the procedure of the House. He had himself heard the honourable member refer to a new system of members recording their votes in the House in divisions, whereby, through a system of electric communication 1 with the Chair, each member would be able to record his vote from his place in the House without going to the trouble of going out of the Chamber and then coming in again, by which process so much time was wasted. In looking through the divisions of the House from 1896 to 1900, he found there were no less than 1,245 divisions in the House, and, judging from his experience, he should say they lost five minutes in each of these divisions. The result was there were thirteen working days during that time that were absolutely wasted owing to their system of taking the divisions. He therefore hoped the honourable gentleman would push on with and introduce to the House the im- proved system to which he had referred. Al- though the honourable member prided himself upon being in the forefront in regard to tele- graphic matters in this House, yet in other Chambers he knew that in the various parts of the lobbies and libraries and other places it was possible without going into the Chamber itself to find out who at the moment was speaking, and the honourable gentleman might very readily arrange for similar conveniences to be afforded to members in this building. It would save a good deal of time, and contribute largely to the proper working of the House. In regard to this question of fixing a time at which the House should rise, no matter what business was on, he thought that would be a fatal mistake. So long as they had a fixed time at which they must rise, no matter what business was on. it was the simplest thing in the world to stonewall the clock, and two or three members could keep a debate rolling on until the time was reached for the House to adjourn. Then, there was another question not referred to by honour- able members, and that was that very often when a debate was interrupted by this fixed hour for rising, if it were allowed to go on for ten minutes longer it would come to its con- clusion. The financial debate on Friday night was a case in point. If it had been allowed to go on for an hour or three-quarters of an hour longer it would have ended then, because every person knew that the debate was just on the eve of closing, and it was only because they were compelled to rise at half-past ten that some members of the House kept the ball rolling until they knew the House was to rise. The result was that a great many other members now wanted to speak, and if the debate started at half-past ten this evening it would be im- possible to conclude it before midnight. That was one of the many evils in connection with the system of fixing a time at which the House must rise. Then, the short time at the disposal of Committees had been referred to by many mem- bers, and he would only point out how unfair it was to the clerks of their Committees. At the present time all the Committees had to meet on two days of the week. The result was that every one of these Committees was hard-pushed during that time, and the clerks of the 9.0. Committees were equally hard-pushed, while for the remaining days of the week they had very little for them to do. While, as he said, he hailed with pleasure the motion when 