had long ago expressed his desire to take no in- crease from the small salaries, but was opposed simply to the increases on large salaries. They had been told that eight hundred men had re- ceived increases amounting to $10,000; that was but an increase of $12 10s. on the average, while the average increase on the higher sala- ries was $38. Was that a fair proportion of in- crease ? Then it was said that this officer in Australia received $750 per annum ; but they should also remember that the taxation per head from Customs in Victoria was £1 19s. ; in New South Wales, £1 13s. ; and in New Zealand, $2 17s ; and yet the expenditure was yearly going up. If the population was keep- ing pace with the expenditure they might be able to do it. Mr. SEDDON (Colonial Treasurer) said, No estimates that had ever been brought down to the House had received so much consideration as these had. The increases they contained were due to the abnormal circumstances that had arisen this year. So far as this parti- cular increase was concerned, he would point out that this officer had been in the department for twenty-nine years, and he had seen juniors in other departments given increases by statute while his salary remained the same. No officer in the service had been so backward in pushing his claims for an increase. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said that there was no particular point attempted to be made against this officer. The point was, that cer- tain members had decided to divide the House on every increase to a head of a department. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 They would do this, because the Premier was very fond afterwards of telling members that they were responsible for the increases, be- cause they allowed the estimates to go through without opposition. This particular increase was not so bad as a number of others he could point to. He thought the whole trouble in connection with increases was that the Govern- ment had not tackled the question of the classi- fication of the whole service. Mr. J. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) did not propose to vote for the reduction of any officer's salary, because if he did he might be doing an injustice, and because the responsi- bility for the finances rested with the Premier. The Premier had assured the House that the very greatest care had been exercised in the preparation of these estimates, and, that being so, they must assume that the Ministry saw their way clear to grant these increases. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) said he intended to vote against the whole of these increases where the salary was anything like this amount. He thought $475 was a very good salary for any officer in the big buildings. He did not think the colony was in a position to stand these large salaries. If the heads of departments were in- creased why should not also those who were in subordinate positions be increased proportion- ately ? Unless the increases were to be all round he would oppose them. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) pointed out that under the 1891-92 estimates the total vote for | it was $73,676, whilst the present vote was #185,428. That was sufficient justification for the alarm that was felt by members that the interest of the country was at stake, and to raise their voices against the increases. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) said that the honourable gentleman was hardly honest in his criticism, for it should be remembered that the total vote included the Public Health, the Industries and Commerce, and Tourist De- partments, which did not exist in 1892. With other members, however, he recognised that Parliament was responsible to the public for the expenditure of public money, and, there- fore, he would join with the others in protest- ing against this continuous increase of the higher salaries. The Committee divided on the question, "That the item ' Under-Secretary, £500,' be re- duced by £25." AYES, 19. Monk Arnold Haselden Herries Russell, G. W. Bennet Buddo Hogg Tanner. Collins Hornsby Ell Lethbridge Tellers. Millar Fowlds Massey Meredith Graham Pirani. NOES, 32. Allen, E. G. Houston Palmer Hutcheson Parata Atkinson Rhodes Bollard Kaihau Carroll Seddon Lang Symes Colvin Lawry Thompson, R. Field McGowan Fraser, A. L. D. McGuire Ward Willis. Mckenzie, R. Fraser, W. McNab Tellers. Hall-Jones Napier . Hardy Carncross Witheford. Heke O'Meara Majority against, 13. Amendment negatived. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) moved, That the item "Shorthand and Type-writer (also Private Secretary, £25), £325," be reduced by £25. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) asked if this officer was previously in the Industries Department. Sir J. G. WARD .- No. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) thought they should have more information about this and other increases. If the Minister made out a good case he was willing to support him ; but he did not think the time was opportune for going in for a system of all-round increases. Sir J. G. WARD said this officer (Mr. Andrews) was a Private Secretary, and he also frequently acted as Clerk of the Executive Council, and, as he had also duties thrown upon him quite outside his secretarial work, he was sure mem- bers did not expect an officer to perform duties of an unusual character without recompensing him. The £25 he got as Private Secretary was additional to the £320. Mr. SEDDON said, If this officer were paid overtime he would be entitled to receive about £1,000 a year. 