thing beyond what the world knew, namely, that Mr. Stead was the editor of the English Review of Reviews. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL asked what more the honourable gentleman wanted than that this man Stead was the English editor of the Australasian paper Review of Reviews. He would also find page by page and letter by letter the reprints from the English issue of that magazine, and to say that Stead was not interested in this magazine was childish on the part of the Premier. When the Boer war started they were obliged to form themselves into a company for the purpose of trying to disassociate themselves from the ignominy and contempt attaching to the name of W. T. Stead for his connection with the pro-Boer party at Home. With regard to the Rev. Mr. Berry, who wrote this article, he had been away from the country for some eleven or twelve years, and the consequence was that he had had to obtain everything for his article from books or information sent to him. There were hundreds of men who could have written a better article than Mr. Berry. The Govern- ment had not been wise in incurring this lia- bility to pay the concern £260, when they might, by looking at the entry before the contract was entered into, have seen the name of Stead, and have said, as hundreds upon hundreds of other clients had done, that while that man was con- nected with this periodical they would have nothing to do with it. One of the leading news- vendors in the City of Christchurch had told him that, owing to Stead's connection with the Review of Reviews, its circulation had gone down https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 almost to nothing. He thought he had shown clearly that, at the time of this publication, Mr. W. T. Stead was clearly the English editor of the Australasian edition of the Review of Reviews. Mr. SEDDON said the honourable member had proved what he (Mr. Seddon) had asserted- that a new proprietorship had been formed, and that the journal would be conducted as originally, with the Rev. Mr. Fitchett as editor. What the honourable member had done had been to exactly prove his (Mr. Seddon's) con- tention -- namely, that Mr. Stead had at some time something to do with the Australasian Review of Reviews. He might have been con- nected with it at starting as a shareholder, but things were now changed. An Hon. MEMBER .- He is one still. Mr. SEDDON said the honourable member made that assertion without any proof. It was like many statements that were made in the House by honourable members, it had no foundation. There was no proof whatever that Mr. Stead owned a single share in this property. The public statement of the Rev. Mr. Fitchett was to the effect that the Australasian Review of Reviews and the English Review of Reviews were under two proprietaries. That statement had been published. The Rev. Mr. Fitchett was a truthful man, and he accepted his word when he said that an alteration had taken place. He could only say that, from the date he referred cern, distinct and apart altogether from the Home Review of Reviews. That fact had been publicly notified ; and it was also known positively that a company was formed, and he took it that at that time whatever interest there had been in the property in the Mother- country was taken away by the Australian pro- prietary, and that it was now an Australian- owned journal, edited by one of ourselves-the Rev. Mr. Fitchett. He could say that he had noted the writings of this Review of Rer ews. and there had been nothing in it of the cha- racter that had been denounced by the honour- able member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) and by the honourable member for Riccarton. He challenged them to show anything in it upon this question which would not uphold what had been done by the Parliament and approved by the people of New Zealand. It may have been that there was cause for the separation ; that the Rev. Mr. Fitchett and the Australian proprietors would not have anything to do with the Home Review of Reviews so long as certain views were advocated in it respecting the South African war; that the partners bad disagreed, and that consequently there had been a dissolution and a new proprietary formed : but why, in that case, should they blame the new proprietors and denounce them when they had gone on new lines that were in accord with what the members in this House had them- selves approved? That surely was not reason- able. The debate upon the question had come as a surprise upon him ; he had not heard a single word from any member previously on this subject, nor had he seen a single comment of this character in any newspaper in the colony. He could only take this as an example of what they would do in order to found an argument with which to attack the Government. That this was so could readily be seen. Who had raised the question, and who had taken it up ? Who found fault with this expenditure? Was it not those who had carped at everything ? Had not he criticized everything very freely and very adversely this session ? But to de- nounce him (Mr. Seddon) as disloyal because he was a member of the Government that had agreed to give this advertisement to the Review of Reviews was most extraordinary. That was the impeachment, and when that was so it was to be seen that honourable members were very easily disposed to impeach him. An Hon. MEMBER .- No. Mr. SEDDON said the Government was im- peached because it had given an advertisement to a paper that was at one time partially owned by a gentleman who, it was said, was a pro. Boer ; and, being so, was a traitor. Surely on such an occasion there was no necessity for heat or strong words. The Review of Reviews was well written and widely circulated, and. 10 far as the Australian edition of it was con- cerned, the charges that had been made by the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisheri, aud by the member for Waihemo, Mr. T. Macken- zie, did not lie against the editor Mr. Fitchett. or the proprietary. They surely ought not to 