before honourable members but for the attack the privileges of the House, and so deserves its made on myself by the honourable gentleman disapprobation of what has been done. If the House lets off Mr. Cohen without some punish- who has just spoken. He has repeated a state- ment which I contradicted at the time it was ment being inflicted on him for refusing to made by the Premier, more than ten years ago. reply to questions-being the representative of I will again make a statement of the case. a wealthy paper, the punishment, as has been There had been a caucus meeting, and im- remarked, would be of no consequence to the mediately it was over I went on a matter of Star-it would be establishing a precedent, and business to see the then Premier, Sir Harry a poor man coming before a Committee of Atkinson, and the Right Hon. the present the House, whose evidence might be of great Premier happened to be at the door of Sir importance, and who refuses to give that evi- Harry's room when I came out. He after- dence, might appeal to the precedent which it wards charged me in the House with reveal- is now by some proposed to establish. ing the secret arrangements that had been made at a caucus meeting. I denied it at the of privilege is a punishment in itself. time, and the honourable gentleman might as well accuse me now of divulging something that charges against the Premier, but I do not think took place at some caucus meeting because. they have given him much concern ; and I am he met me coming out of a Minister's room. I sure it would be a matter of personal con- denied the accusation at the time; and the gratulation on the part of Mr. Cohen, and it honourable gentleman was not present ; only would be looked upon as an achievement by the rest of the members of the profession for him the Premier was there on that occasion waiting to get this information. There is a direct in the lobby of the Government offices to inter- parity between this case and that of Mr. view Sir Harry Atkinson. Sir J. G. WARD .- I accept the honourable Watson, who refused to answer questions put gentleman's assurance at once, so far as I am to him by the Banking Committee. It was for that he was punished ; and this House will be concerned. But I can assure him I was also along with Mr. Seddon in and outside the acting wrongly if it allows any one who acts similar to the way Mr. Cohen has done to Cabinet-room on the occasion in question. escape without some expression of disapproval Mr. MONK .- I do not remember him being from the House. Then, again, I agree with there, but if the Postmaster says that he was I the Premier that we should not have the accept it. While I am on my feet I will just rule that now exists, under which the public make one remark in addition to what I have Press are refused information given before said. I think it is not creditable for honour- Committees - excepting, of course, information able gentlemen to retain in their memories which a Committee says, by resolution, shall matters they know were refuted at the time, not be divulged. The Hon. the Postmaster- and to repeat them, when they know there is no foundation in fact for the statements General has mentioned the case of the late https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 member for Patea. The feeling of the House they are making. I should like to give an ex- was that that honourable gentleman, instead of pression of my opinion on the matter before the doing wrong, was doing his duty, for he only House, and to say I regret that so much time gave to the House information which the has been wasted over it. I should certainly excuse a representative of any public journal Premier had withheld; and at the present time the Public Accounts Committee is not for collecting all the information he can, so long as he acquires it in an honourable and fair getting information that they ought to get. manner. But I think it is objectionable for the representatives of the Press to become questions that are asked, to which we do not possessed of public documents, excepting in a get replies. I maintain that there is certain proper manner. Then, there is another very information we ought to have from the Public serious feature in regard to what is now being discussed, and that is that every member of the Accounts Committee that we do not get. It was for this reason that the late member for Committee has a stigma cast upon him. As Patea got off as lightly as he did. Some every member of the Committee has made the honourable gentlemen felt that a breach of the statement that he did not place the papers in privileges of the House had taken place, but at the hands of the journalist who copied them, it the same time they felt that that honourable is evident that somebody must be guilty of the most atrocious misstatement of fact ; and gentleman was not deserving of any severe punishment, and this was shown by their the stigina rests on the whole of the members action in walking out of the House ; they of that Committee, and that is a very un- virtually excused or exonerated him. I will pleasant feeling. I feel it to be unpleasant, refer to one of the many cases in the Mother- and until it is known who the gentleman is it is country that occur from day to day of the a very unpleasant position to be in. And this proceedings of Parliamentary Committees being brings me to the fact that Mr. Cohen is aware reported. A few years ago a very important who the guilty person is, and was pressed by Committee was set up to investigate the the Committee to divulge the means by which particulars of the Jameson raid. The evi- he obtained the information, and refused to do dence given before that Committee was of such so. I do not blame him for this ; but I should an important character that it might have blame the House if it did not inflict some affected the relationship existing between Great punishment on any gentleman who trifles with Mr. SEDDON .- To have it declared a breach Mr. MONK,-Well, Sir, I have made many An Hon. MEMBER. - How do you know ? Mr. MONK .- Because there are certain 