which we should be in a hurry. The Bill may affect interests seriously, and may interfere with the simplification of the land-tenure of the colony. I thought last year it was not such a Bill as ought to be brought forward by a private member. It is now taken up by the Govern- ment. But, at the same time, I do not think there is any reason why the opinion of an officer who has had to deal specially with this question ought not to be laid before the Com- mittee and the Council. I shall move, there- fore, after the second reading, That the Bill be referred to the Joint Statutes Revision Com- mittee, specially with the view of taking the opinion of the Registrar-General on the sub- ject. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I do not wish the Council to be asked to pass the Bill without having an opportunity of getting the evidence of experts and authorities on its merits; but I think it would be more appro- priate to send it to our own Statutes Revision Committee-not the Joint Committee-because the other House has already expressed its opinion by passing the Bill. Bill read the second time. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN .- Sir, I move now, That the Bill be referred to the Statutes Revision Committee, with the view of getting the evidence of the Registrar of Lands on the subject. Motion agreed to. ' PROMISSORY OATHS BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, this is a Bill which it has been found necessary to in- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788253 troduce. It deals with two questions : Firstly, there is the question of the position ef Justices of the Peace. When a Justice receives a new commission owing to the cancellation of an old commission, and his name appears in a new one, the question is, Should he take a new oath of office? Hitherto the practice has been that he does not take a new oath, and I believe that, the practice having been continued in good faith, and nothing to the contrary being ex- pressed anywhere, the oath has either been not deemed necessary, or is unnecessary from a strictly legal point of view. But, as the ques- tion has cropped up, and as it is desirable to place these matters in a perfectly distinct and intelligible form, it is thought desirable to absolutely state that it is not necessary for & Justice . of the Peace, on his name ap- pearing in a new Commission, to take a fresh oath of office. Then, the third clause of the Bill refers to the matter of taking fresh oaths of allegiance to the Sovereign for the time being, in the event of a demise in the Crown. Unfortunately this year, on the first day of this session, Parliament was obliged to be asked to take that oath of allegiance. There is no law to say it had to be done. The Governor ex- pressed his opinion that it was desirable and expedient, and it was following in the footsteps of the Mother Parliament in the Old Country, and of other Parliaments throughout the British dominions. It is thought desirable, though, that the question should be so expressed in a l day until, at any rate, next week, and he would statute, and therefore it is that clause 3 ap- pears in the measure. I beg to move the second reading of the Bill. Bill read the second time. The Council adjourned at twenty minutes past three o'clock p.m. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Tuesday, 24th September, 1901. Serjeant-at-Arms-Wednesday Sittings-Supply. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. # SERJEANT-AT-ARMS. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) asked the Premier, What steps the Government intend to take with regard to the appointment of Serjeant-at- Arms ? He understood that Mr. Speaker was unavoidably absent ; but he felt sure members would like to know what steps the Government proposed to take with regard to the matter. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) might say that this matter was under consideration. Perhaps eco- nomy might be practised in this case. He did not see why they should pay £200, probably for a month's work. It was just possible they might study economy. At all events, until he had an opportunity of consulting Mr. Speaker, the Government would take no action. Mr. T. MACKENZIE asked if the appoint- ment of Serjeant-at-Arms was not in the hands of the Speaker ? Mr. SEDDON said the appointment was with the Government. The recommendation was with Mr. Speaker. That was the position. He might say that communications between Mr. Speaker and the Premier had been passing relative to this question. WEDNESDAY SITTINGS. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, That for the remainder of the session Government business take precedence on Wednesdays. He felt sure that this motion would be received with acclamation by honourable members. Hon. MEMBERS. - Oh, no. Mr. SEDDON said, The fact was they had now arrived at that period of the session when it was not unreasonable that the Government should take Wednesdays for Government busi- The Government were not going to ness. unduly press business : they had come to the conclusion that patience was a virtue, as mem- bers seemed inclined to stop there till Christ- mas. And it might also be said that the Government-unless they took Wednesdays- desired to prolong the business of the session. As an earnest that the Government did not wish to prolong the session unduly, he moved this resolution. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) hoped the Pre- mier would not take away private members' 