is a letter, dated 16th July, from one of the most intelligent and capable gentlemen engaged in local government in Canterbury - and we have many such gentlemen in Canterbury. He writes :- "It is a pity that Road Boards were not invited to attend at the same time as County Councils. The latter's representatives will have first say, and probably Road Boards will be forgotten altogether. It will be a great mistake if Road Boards are abolished, as I think it would be impossible for road districts to be controlled by County Councils." No doubt the gentleman in writing these words was under a misapprehension. The various members who constituted the County Councils Conference belonged to a kind of association, to a meeting of which the Pre- mier probably had no right to invite the re- presentatives of Road Boards, and on which the representatives of Road Boards would have had no locus standi if they had presented them- selves. But, all the same, the difficulty re- mains; and when the position was explained to this gentleman, he writes to this effect on the 26th July, some seven days ago :- "I have convened a conference of all Road Boards in the County of Selwyn for the 31st instant, to consider the Bill, and to urge that representatives may meet in Wellington." As it was impossible for the Road Boards to gather their representatives together to con- sider the proposed Bill until they were apprised of the position, they appear to have been unfor- tunate enough to assume that their represen- tatives would be allowed to meet with the County Councils Conference, which was a mistaken idea. But as soon as they were seized of the fact they commenced moving in the South in the direction of having a separate and independent conference of Road Board representatives only. It is impossible for a conference summoned for the 31st instant to be in a position to forward any recommenda- tion or objection or approval of the Bill at so early a date as the 2nd August, and I would ask the Premier not to unduly attempt to press the passage of the Bill through the special Committee appointed to deal with it, but to allow a reasonable time to elapse, in order that representations from those bodies may reach the House and the Government. In spite of the fact that the County Councils Conference has adjourned, and all its members have sought their respective homes, members of the House, except through the fragmentary reports which have appeared in the newspapers, are not ap- prised of their work or their sentiments with regard to the Bill. No report has been laid be- fore us. It was urged early in the session, and promised by the Premier, that the Bill should not be dealt with until the Conference had been held. Of course, members held the reasonable assumption of the meaning of such a promise was that the passage of the Bill would be de- laved till the members of this House were seized of the recommendations which might come from the Conference. As that has not Mr. Tanner make a promise which may be kept in the letter, but which is being broken in the spirit unless the House gets time to know the objections which constitute a formidable proportion of the list of resolutions passed at the Conference. I do not wish in the least degree to oppose the passage of the Bill; I am heartily with the Premier in getting our local government put on a more satisfactory footing than it has been in the past ; but I hope nothing in the form of a surprise will be sprung on local authorities, and that they will be made well aware of what is proposed to be done before the Bill is actually passed into law. We have had several instances during the past year of the manner in which local authorities have been expressing surprise at some of the legisla- tion of last year ; and, though if we waited to pass a Bill until every one knew exactly what we were doing we should never pass any Bill at all, that is no reason why the Premier should not give reasonable facilities for these particular local bodies to be apprised of the proposals that have been laid before the House. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) .- It was mentioned in the preceding discussion that when this Bill was referred to the Committee the Committee should sit on Monday. I hope that in voting on the matter it will be understood that that is to be so. An Hon. MEMBER .- It has not been men- tioned. Mr. McNAB .- I am glad that is not the un- derstanding : because members might run away with the idea that that arrangement had been come to, and when the Committee is sum- moned the unfortunate Chairman would have to bear the brunt of any mistake. I hope there is no understanding that the Committee is to be called together on Monday. Mr. SEDDON. -- Oh, ves. Mr. McNAB .- If the honourable gentleman thinks that is so. it will be as well to have the matter definitely settled, so that we may know what is going to be done, 12.0. as you are aware the Committees now do not sit except on Wednesdays and Thursdays. On Tuesdays and on Fridays the House is occupied during the forenoon, and unless there is some distinet understanding given now with regard to the wish of the Com- mittee tomeet on a certain day they will not ba summoned until Wednesday morning at half- past ten. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) .- I only wish to say a few words to indorse the remarks of the honourable member for Avon, when the honourable gentleman asked that the Road Boards might have representation : and I ask that Town Boards might also have repre- sentation on the Committee. We had a kind of promise from the Premier to that effect, and I took it upon myself to write to the Chairman of the Town Board within my dis- trict, and also to the Chairmen of the Road Boards, with the exception of one, and that Chairman is the Chairman of the County Council also, and I knew that he would be 