' and desired to refer to the matter that there is a prevailing opinion that something is behind this Bill ; and I submit that members ought to be apprised of the terms of the contract-they ought to know every clause of it. To the sticitor in charge of the Bill who accompanied Mr. Hatcheson, I pointed out that one of the danses, the only one I have seen in the con- trici, would bave been better embodied in the Bill. As I said before I am no lawyer, and there may be nothing in it, but it struck me that the Corporation could acquire the estate without taking a vote of the ratepayers, because they are only to pay interest upon the capital sum at 23 per cent. That being so, my inclina- tion is to support the adjournment. I think the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson), might agree to that, and we could have the contract laid upon the table and printed at the Goverment Printing Office. It would then be a public document, and if printed and circulated amongst members it will be seen what the contract is, and the Bill can then be dealt with next week. There need be no objection to the delay, because two months can elapse after the close of the session before the Corporation need come to a decision to take the property. I am not clear on the mitter. This is the first I have heard of any influence at work to prevent the Bill passing : but I have heard of some influence being brought to bear to secure its passing, though I absolve the member in charge of the Bill from any connection with the influences I have heard https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 of. For these reasons I think it would be well for honorable members to have the opportunity of knowing not only what is in the Bill, but also of knowing what the contract is under which the estate is to be acquired. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City). - I wish to say a word upon the question of the adjourn- ment. It is surely a most extraordinary motion, and has been supported by most extraordinary arguments. The proposal is that the debate shall be adjourned for one week. Why? Be- cause certain members -certain local members who are opposed to the Bill - want during that week to pick up sufficient information to oppose the Bill, though during all the months and years the matter has been under discussion in the City of Wellington they have been unable apparently to acquire sufficient information for that purpose. I am sorry the honourable mom- ber for Christchurch City (Mir. Collins) has left, but I will undertake to say that any argument that may be advanced now for adjourning this Bill for a week would apply equally to adjourn- ing any other local Bill for six months. Sup- posing the Bill affected the City of Christ- church, what would be gained by adjourning it for a week, or for six weeks? The honourable member wants members to see how dirty the streets are, and from that to obtain a means of judicially determining this question. Mr. HALL-JONES .- That is apart from the question. Mr. ATKINSON. -- That was an argument ment. Of course, he has not yet spoken upon the Bill itself. Now, it appears to me that, according to the views of honcurable mem- bors-including, I regret to say, one honourable member for the City of Wellington and one for the constituency next the City-every city and locality in this colony is competent to manage its own affairs except the City of Wellington. Why, actually the member for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins), who is a firm believer in democracy, said that as the local authorities were divided with regard to the Bill, therefore this House should take a week to think over it-to think over the matter of giving the right to take a poll of the citizens. This matter has been one of publie discussion for years, and there was not a single candidate at the last municipal election but was asked about it, and expressed an opinion about it. In fact, there were some who expressed two opinions about it during the same cam- paign. That will show that it was really a burning question. I admit that the Minis- ter for Public Works has put something more like a case for the adjournment, and it is clear that it is not merely for the sake of hostility to the Bill. As far as the ques- tion of the contract is concerned, 1 simply turn upon him the argument which I used previously against the honourable member for Christchurch City ( Mr. Collins). This is only an empowering Bill. It empowers the City Coun- cil to make terms, and it empowers the citizens to say whether the terms made by the Council are to be approved. If the city is competent to manage its own affairs, I fail to see why it shall not be competent to make this contract. That is my answer to the Hon. the Minister for Public Works. Mr. HALL-JONES .- We ought to have the contract before us. Mr. ATKINSON .-- The Minister is candid in his attitude to the Bill : it is quite a fair atti- tude ; but I would suggest that this Parliament, if it chose, might appoint Commissioners to ad- minister the affairs of any city, and it would have precedent for it in the State of Pennsyl- vania. Because there the Mayers of four of the second-class cities, about the size of Wellington, did not give satisfaction to the powers that be -.- because they were of the wrong " colour "-" the Parliament of that State pissed a special Act dismissing those Mayors during their terms of office, and empowering the Governor to ap- point Mayors of the right " colour " to adminis- ter the affairs of those cities for the remainder of the term. This Parliament is quite capable of doing that, although I do not think it is anxious to do it ; but I would point out to the Minister that, unless we are going to adopt that attitude-if there is nothing immoral in the Bill, if it is simply an empowering Bill-we ought to pass it. But if the Parliament thinks it is more competent to administer the affairs of the city let it do so. Of course, I know that the Minister would not go the length I have sug- gested, but I put it to him that, that being so, 