know ? Sir, I understood that this is what took place : The evidence was taken by a shorthand writer appointed by the Goldfields and Mines Committee. He is a Parliamentary Committee reporter. The evidence was handed round, I understand, among the members of the Com- mittee-about twelve in number. I understand also that, as usual, the evidence was handed to the witnesses, three in number, and it is the evidence of these witnesses that has been pub- lished in the Dunedin Star. I understand also that a most unusual course was adopted in the case of one witness. He was allowed to have the whole of the evidence of all the witnesses ; and I think I am justified in saying that to this particular witness we may very well trace the leakage. I do not believe in bringing people before the bar of the House, as no good ever comes of it, but I think that if the Chairman of the Com- mittee, or the members of the Committee as a whole, have any well-formed belief as to the name of the culprit who furnished the infor- mation to the newspaper reference of some kind ought to be made to him. It is very clear that all persons connected with the Committee ought not to be blamed for the guilty act of one person. It seems to me it was an unwise proceeding on the part of the members of the Committee to allow one witness to have in his possession the whole of the evidence. He was entitled to have only his own evidence; and it appears to me it was through that want of care in intrusting this one witness with the whole that the breach of privilege has arisen. How- ever, nothing is likely to come of it. A breach of privilege has been committed, and, if the House affirms it, I suppose the usual caution will be given to the members of the Committee not to do it again. Of course, it will not be done again, till the next time. Mr. TANNER (Avon) .- Sir, I would like to say half a dozen words with regard to the un- satisfactory nature of these cases, and of the decisions arrived at. We are about to be in- volved in the declaration that a breach 3.30. of privilege has been committed. have been a member of this House for ten years, during which time at least a dozen cases of this kind have occurred, and no doubt a good many others have transpired which have not been brought before the House. Let me call attention to the position in which members of these Committees are placed. An inquiry takes place; evidence is taken down in short- hand, which is subsequently printed, and which, by our Standing Orders, ought not to be divulged to the world till the report of the Committee has been placed on the table of this House. Notwithstanding this, evidence does leak out repeatedly. Sometimes members wish to know what is being done before a particular Committee, and they can often obtain informa- tion more accurately in the columns of the newspapers than from any source that may be available to them as members of this House, assuming that they are not members of the Committee in question. Evidence can only get into the possession of about three the Committee before whom it is given; second, the witnesses, who do not necessarily know the whole of the evidence, for, un- less some special circumstance takes place by which any particular witness can get possession of the evidence-and this is very unusual -I think witnesses can be excluded from the cate- gory of those through whom the information leaks to the public ; and third, the evidence is in the custody of certain officials, and finally it goes to the printers at the Printing Office. I do not attempt to blame any persons whatever, but a member of a Committee stands in daily danger of losing his reputation as a truth-telling man, and as a man of integrity. As for the motion before the House, to the effect that & breach of privilege has been committed, that is just as much brutum fulmen as anything heard before. What consequences does such a declaration carry. Before the week is over the newspapers of the colony will be laughing at the House for declaring that a breach of privilege has been committed. If the declaration carries absolutely no consequences- An Hon. MEMBER .- You do not know that. Mr. TANNER .- I have never seen any con- sequences as a result of such a breach, and I have known a good many cases. I would therefore ask, if, under the circumstances, it is worth while to have any Standing Orders st all. It seems to me nonsensical that we should have piled up a mass of rules and regulations which are supposed to be observed, but very few of which are observed as they stand. They are deliberately set aside in this House, and outside the House the conduct of members is imitated. The whole thing in this way be- comes a perfect farce. Of course, I cannot use words to reflect on the House itself ; but I have no doubt that, during the next few days, many of the newspapers will do their best to belittle the resolution if carried. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- Sir, I think we were bound to raise this question, for the reason that if evidence of this kind is pub- lished it may be altogether one-sided. In this I case it is to a certain extent one-sided, although the whole of the evidence taken on a particular day was published. This was, however, altered by subsequent evidence. It is therefore not fair to give evidence that is ex parte, and the question of privilege ought for this reason to be raised. The honourable member who has just preceded me says that no consequences will follow. I understand the course usually followed in such cases, if the House carries a motion affirming that a breach of privilege has been committed, then, according to previous rulings of Speakers, the publisher of the paper shall be called to the bar of the House, in order that he may give whatever explanation he can. Then comes the point, as to what action the House will take. I cannot say, of course, what action the House may take. He may be able to give such explanation that we may consider it unwise to take any further action. If, on the other hand, his explanation is unsatis- factory, then, I take it, the acting leader of 