What I am Shire Councils and Road Boards. telling you is a fact. I have witnessed it with my own eyes. I have seen vineyards torn up simply because the taxes were increased pro- portionate to the way the owners improved their property. I do not want to see that here. Our best settlers are paying an undue amount to local bodies now, and the time has come to release them from their unequal burdens. If it is the proper thing to remove this impost from labour, the State ought to step in and do it. It is only doing the right thing if it removes a draw- back to improvements. I do not think I need say more ; I hope that I have said quite suffi- cient to convince honourable members who are open to conviction that a Bill of this character should be passed. Mr. MORRISON .- The Bill is not wanted. Mr. HOGG .- "The Bill is not wanted," the honourable member for Caversham says. I am astonished to hear him say so. If anything is keeping back the suburbs of Dunedin it is the fact that this rating on the unimproved system has not been brought into operation. There is one thing I wish to point out to honourable members, and it ought to be conclusive, and that is that the system of rating on unim- proved values, or the removing of rates and taxes from labour and the products of labour, is the necessary corollary to our present system of . Government taxation, under which the land- tax and income-tax has taken the place of a property tax. Mr. TANNER (Avon) .- I rise to a matter of personal explanation. I wish to protest against the gross way in which the member for Master- ton has misrepresented my words. I stated clearly enough at the commencement of my speech that I had supported the principle of the Act five years ago, that I supported it now, and that I should support this Bill ; but I asked for consideration for those tenants who paid rates on land which they did not own. I did not use the words that were thrust into my mouth by the honourable member for Masterton, and I can only account for his statements by the sup- position that he was asleep when I spoke. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) .- Sir, I de- sire briefly to say a few words in connection with this Bill, even at the risk of being called "a hide-bound Tory." The honourable member who has just sat down has, perhaps, raised the argument which is in favour of this Bill to my mind, and that is with regard to the man who owns a practically vacant section. But he says that he is surprised at any member representing labour who does not desire this system of taxation. I admit that the honour- able member knows something about the country, and if he desires this Bill for the country, and will confine its working to the country, I am willing to accept it. But, if it is to apply to the centres of population, I am going to be as strong an opponent of it as any honourable member in this House. In my own particular district we have twelve local bodies, and not one of those local bodies have ever prise nine boroughs, the Dunedin City Council, the Taieri County Council, and the Peninsula Road Board. Between them there is a popula- tion of something like seventy-four thousand. To hear some honourable members talk, one would think that that part of the colony was a barren waste, but if they will take the trouble to look up the statistics they will find that the unimproved value of the lands in these places is £2,975,533, whilst the value of the im- provements is £3,691,385, the two combined amounting to six millions and a half of money. Now, Sir, if the taxation is going to be taken off the capital value, as at the present time, and placed on the whole of the unimproved value, then the taxation is to be on the unimproved value of nearly seven millions. Now, let me point out some of the things that have taken place in my own district, and the argument will apply to other large centres. Some years ago, owing to the high rates in town, the workmen were forced out into the suburbs, where there was vacant land, and there they put up buildings according to their means, and which suit them at the present time. But since that time, owing to the increase of wealth among the people of Dunedin, there has been a migration of people of a more fashionable class going on steadily to those suburbs, people able to build eight, nine, and ten-roomed houses, and these have been built in the suburbs side by side with those that were erected by the working-men ; and in the suburbs you will find more of that class of house than you will the cottages of the men who went out there originally. Now, the labourers who went to these outlying dis- tricts said nothing of the hardship of walking two or three miles to their homes, before a large population went to their particular dis- tricts, and now they are to be taxed to the ex- tent of four times the amount of taxation they pay at the present time. Hon. MEMBERS .- Oh, no. Mr. MILLAR .- You can make nothing else of it. If their revenue is $3,000 per annum now on the capital or annual value, whichever they assess on, then under any system of taxa- tion they have to get that sum in. If you take the taxation off the improvements and place it on the unimproved value, then the unimproved value must bring in that sum of $3,000. The honourable gentleman also mentioned the ques- tion of the unearned increment. In what way does the local body get any benefit from the unearned increment? He also spoke about fixity of tenure. Will that affect the land- value? If they fix a low valuation the taxa- tion must be high, and if they make a high one the taxation is low. They must get in a certain amount of revenue. Therefore until I see some stronger argument in favour of making it compulsory I shall support the pre- sent system. It is my opinion that, in this as in other matters, the people will demand the rating on unimproved value when the time is ripe for it; but to say that, because thirty- three bodies have carried a poll to have rating 