The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK moved, That, with a view to the prevention of the dissemination of malarial fever and measles about the colony through the medium of returned South African troopers and their clothing, it is necessary that precautionary measures be taken. That a Select Committee, to be designated " the Public Health Committee," be appointed, with power to call for persons and papers, and to report within one month ; the Committee also to have power to sit and confer with any similar Committee ap- pointed by the House of Representatives. The Committee to consist of the following members : the Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker, C.M.G., the Hon. Mr. Williams, the Hon. Mr. T. Kelly, the Hon. Mr. Pinkerton, the Hon. Colonel Pitt, the Hon. Mr. Twomey, and the mover. He had had this motion on the Order Paper for some days, and in putting it there had had no desire to create any- thing in the nature of a scare. There was no need for that, but the hard fact remained that measles, at any rate, had visited this colony, undoubtedly through the medium of the returned troopers. In his opinion, the returned troopers should not have been allowed from under military control so quickly as they had been. He had every sympathy with the kindness on the part of the authorities that had permitted these men to rush to the bosoms of their families, to their mothers, wives, sisters, and sweethearts, as quickly as possible. But he thought that that kindness was the cause of the neglect of due precautions. Honourable gentlemen would notice that in the motion he had mentioned malarial fever as being probably introduced. For that he had indirect but very good au- thority. The opinion of a very prominent medical man was that enteric fever, as it was called-which was really typhoid combined with dysentery-lurked in these men, and would break out and spread among the population of New Zealand in a mild form of plague as soon as the summer came round ; and, at any rate, there was no doubt about measles being propagated in this way. He had the authority of a member of the House of Representatives for stating that the public State school at Stratford has been closed in consequence of an outbreak of measles. The attendance fell off from five hundred to 180. Many returned contingenters from South Africa were located there, and had been feted by the inhabitants on their return. As regarded the measles, to say the least of it, it was a very in- convenient thing to have it spreading through a family, and it was very undesirable that it should spread in a school. As to the amount of mischief it might do, honourable gentlemen would have seen a cablegram in the previous day's paper to the effect that there were 91,940 white and 24,547 coloured people in refugee camps in South Africa. During July the deaths among the whites numbered 1,412, and This most of these were due to measles. justified him in saying that due care ought to be taken. Whether he had been too strong in the motion-whether he had used \\ to prevent or allay measles, which was now the resolution so that a debate might take place on the subject. He did not know that there was so much danger from the men them- selves, but he did think the State might have seen that the men's clothing was taken and fumigated and washed, or-which would per- haps have been preferable-destroyed, and new clothing served out. He felt certain that what he had said, and what other members might say, would receive due consideration from the Minister of Public Health whether the resolu- tion was adopted or not. In regard to the name of the Hon. Mr. Williams, he had placed that on the Committee on account of his well- known interest in the Maori race. If an epi- demic of measles broke out among the Natives they knew its ravages were very serious, and they knew what it had done at one time in New Zealand, and at other times in Samoa and in Fiji. This he considered to be a matter of very great gravity. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON seconded the He was convinced his honourable motion. friend wished to do no injustice to the returned troopers, but only to protect them from spread- ing illness amongst the people. It would be satisfactory to the wives, sisters, and sweet- hearts of troopers to know that they returned amongst them free from illness. This was the view the honourable gentleman took, and he hoped it would be the view held generally by the Council. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER hoped the honourable gentleman would be satisfied with having ventilated the question. It was true there was a serious amount of risk in the matters he had mentioned ; but, now that he had drawn attention to it, the Health Depart- ment would take the matter into consideration, and take every reasonable step that could be devised to minimise the evils of allowing per- sons to travel through the colony with unfumi- gated clothing or bedding. He would ask the honourable gentleman to be content with having moved the motion, and to withdraw it. The Hon. Mr. JONES hoped the honourable gentleman would not be satisfied with having ventilated the matter, because he thought more than ventilation was necessary. Under the circumstances, an expression of opinion from the Council was desirable. This was one of those things at which people were rather too much inclined to scoff ; but it was really a very serious thing indeed when measles made its appearance amongst children and assumed a malignant type. The Hon. the Minister had told them that, the matter having been venti- lated, the Health Department would take care to see that the evil did not spread. But why did not the Health Department take the matter up before? He had read somewhere-he thought it was in one of the papers-an ex- pression of opinion that the department had been exceedingly supine over the matter, and that they ought to have given directions as to what treatment should be adopted in order 