question was, What were they going to do ? The man had asked that the Government should give him employment. Well, they had no employment for him, and said that he must go back to his duty in South Africa. The man said he preferred to stay here rather than to leave for South Africa ; but the arrangement had been that he should go back. He was an Imperial soldier, and the Government could not do anything in his case. Nothing more than had been done could be done. GOVERNMENT LIFE INSURANCE. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) asked the Government, Whether the Government Life Insurance Department can see their way to charge interest on the lowest scale where a bor- rower has borrowed £100 or over, though on separate policies? He desired to ask the ques- tion in view of these facts : When a person borrowed £100 or over £100 from the Govern- ment Life Insurance Department on his policy he was charged 5 per cent. interest ; but if a borrower had two policies and borrowed say £60 on one policy and $50 on another, making a total of £110, he was charged 6 per cent. Well, it seemed to him that it would be only right to charge the smaller rate of 5 per cent., whether the amount was in one policy or spread over two policies, so long as it was over the £100. It seemed unfair that the rate should be 6 per cent. instead of 5 per cent., simply because the amount was in two policies. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said it had always https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 been the practice of the department to treat loans on separate policies belonging to one policyholder in exactly the same way as if they were held by different individuals, for the fol- lowing reason : Each policy, being a distinct con- tract, must have a definite and proper (that is, within the surrender value) portion of the loan allocated to it. The position was not the same as, for instance, where the loan was granted on mortgage of land where several securities were involved. In the latter case only one account would be kept, but in the case of the policies a separate account had to be kept for each policy. The necessity for this arose mainly from the fact that the premiums on one policy might be allowed to fall into arrear and the arrears eventually exhaust the surrender value, and the policy lapsed, while the other remained in force. They had to debit the charges of any policy against the surrender value of that policy alone. Any other practice would lead to con- fusion and misunderstanding. They were in a different position from an outsider taking a mortgage over several policies. They were under a legal obligation to keep the policy in force so long as the surrender value of the policy-less the loan and interest thereon and the arrears of premium-was sufficient to pay a quarter's premium. Therefore, although on the first blush it would appear to be quite rea- sonable to put the policies together for the pay- ment of interest, as the honourable member had suggested, yet it would be seen by what the department said that it was otherwise, and that it might bring about confusion. Mr. Seddon Mr. BARCLAY confessed that he did not see it. CRIMINAL ASSAULTS ON WOMEN AND CHILDREN. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) asked the Government, Whether they will, in view of the deplorable increase of criminal assaults on women and children, as reported by Commis- sioner Tunbridge and Lieut .- Colonel Hume, amend the Criminal Code Act in the direction of increasing the severity of punishment ? The protection of women and girls from criminal assaults was a most serious matter, and of the utmost importance, and he ventured to think that, as the Premier had as much at heart as any other member of the House the prevention of these infamous crimes, he would agree with him (Mr. Mackenzie) that they ought to apply the lash more severely to this class of criminal than was the case at the present time. The fact was that every now and again the public were shocked by some dreadful crime being perpetrated on defenceless children or women, and if, as a people, we were going to enjoy the reputation of a very high civilisation, it was incumbent upon us to stop these outrages, and it could be done, and thus protect our children, girls, and women in such a manner as to show the world we knew what to do with the brutes and scoundrels who committed these assaults. He would like to see these fellows lashed within an inch of their life, and if that were done more frequently than the Judges now did, these crimes would be seldom attempted. He had noticed with intense indignation that some of the Judges did not apply the lash at all, and some very sparingly. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) deplored the fact that our criminal records should show that there was an increase in the direction indicated by the honourable member, and to that extent our fair fame was sullied. These crimes needed to be stamped out, and that punishment should be accorded which would prevent them went without saying. But he believed our present law gave sufficient power to deal with them. It was a question for those who administer the law. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- You should not give them the option. Mr. SEDDON thought they must leave it to those intrusted with the carrying-out of the law and imposing the penalties. He hoped the fact that the matter had been drawn attention to by these officers, and by the honourable member, and also by the Press of the colony, would have its effect. He did not think further legislation on the subject was required, as there was sufficient power at the present time. COLONIAL-MADE SADDLERY FOR NEW ZEALAND TROOPS. Mr. FIELD (Otaki), for Mr. Witheford (Auckland City), asked the Government, If they will issue instructions that in future only colonial-made saddlery shall be supplied to the New Zealand troops ? 