successfully and with the fullest safeguards the | from the time I made the announcement as to State must take over the currency. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - I must again interpose; the honourable gentleman is again going outside the subject. Mr. ELL. - I have concluded. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) .- I am not going to detain the House. I merely wish to say that I regret the question raised by the honourable member for Christchurch City has been ruled outside the four corners of the debate, because his speech 'was of a very interesting and important character, and I myself am largely in accord with what he says. Sir, it seems to me a monstrous thing that we should have to pile up our debt in the way we do, until it has reached over forty-nine millions. It seems to me extraordinary that we should hardly be able to build a mile of rail- way in this colony without the permission of a number of gentlemen in London. regard this question of the issue by the State of its own notes as one of very great moment, and I trust that on another more opportune occasion the whole subject will be fully dis- cussed during the session. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I must say this Bill has had a very chequered career. There are only about four members in the House who would have the courage of their opinions and vote openly against it. I can name them : the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, the honourable member for Waitemata, the honourable member for Patea, and the honour- able member for the Bay of Plenty. Mr. HERRIES .- No; I am going to vote for it. Mr. SEDDON. - I thought you were object- ing to voting at all. I can only now mention three. Yet the business of the country has been delayed for four days over a Bill there are not four members against. It proves most conclusively that, whilst the pressure from the people forces members to support the measure, if they dared or acted according to their own selfish convictions they would do their best to prevent its going on the statute-book. Now, I would much prefer that members 1.30. opposed to the measure, like the new member for Patea, told me so, as he did. That honourable member said he was not in love with it, and that he would certainly vote against it. I would rather have that than that members should delude their constituents. They get elected by telling their constituents that they will vote for measures like this, and when they come here they do their best to prevent the necessary moneys being raised. Amongst those I allude to is the honourable member for Riccarton. I do not wish to be drawn into a false position, and as I do not desire to keep the House very long I will briefly refer to some of the arguments against the Bill in its present stage. The member for Hawke's Bay (Captain Russell), when speaking after me, said the only reason why moneys had not been advanced was that the moneys had been lent to other departmen's. I say, Sir, that not a single shilling of the moneys raised under this Act Mr. Ell the £76,000 has gone anywhere except to the settlers of this country ; and all this fuss, and all this pretended stir, over the £200,000 was made for one or two things: those responsible for it are either dull of intellect, or are so incapable of grasping finance that, in my opinion, they are absolutely incapable of being intelligent representatives of the people. I say the matter was put as plainly as tongue could put it, that there was £760,000 of the old loan untouched ; that there was advanced sums of £140,000, £60,000, and £30,000 on short- dated debentures, but at different periods. As I said before, I now repeat, that on the 31st March last there was #760,000 of the old loan un- touched; but short-dated debentures are always issued against moneys that cannot be raised by way of loan. It was not advisable to raise £760.000, and, to get the moneys for settlers short-dated debentures were issued, and the I bank advanced the amount. Therefore, an advance was made to the department so that it could lend it to the settlers. If I were to speak on this subject until to - morrow 1 could not alter the situation. As to the suggestion that the money was to help other de partments, I would like honourable members to examine their Statement. Could they show where that had been done ? As they could not do so, they could only come to one conclusion, and that was that the statement certified to as being correct by the Controller and Auditor- General was in reality false. If it is false, then that gentleman was not fit to be in his position. On the other hand, the Superintendent of the department had no right to be in his position if he places before us statements that are certified to as correct but which are incorrect. Consequently, this nonsensical talk about the moneys being raised to advance to other de- partments simply emanated from the brain of those who would like that to be really the case. so that they might have an opportunity of injuring the Advances to Settlers Office. It has been said that there has been a discre- pancy. The amount of loan unraised and at the command of the administration of the department stood at £760.000. He de- liberately told the House that about £140.000 and £90,000 had been the amount tem- porarily advanced. Advanced from what ? From the Bank of New Zealand, on short- dated debentures, to the department. Then, I come to the member for Riccarton. He says that if half a million was granted we should have sufficient money to carry on with for over two years. How the honourable member can for a moment keep on repeating that statement I cannot understand. I have said-and I give it to him again and to the House -that, on the average lending, we should have of loan-moneys less than $100,000 on 31st March last. If. therefore, as he says, we had been lending it &t the rate of £600,000 a year, and we have only the half-million that is granted, according to his showing, then you would have only £100.000: then what is to fill up the interregnum between that and the meeting of Parliament ? 