place a sum of money on the supplementary estimates, and the House could decide whether a team should go. He believed in encouraging rifle associations, and that the colony should be represented, but he must leave it for the House to determine. He might say to the honourable member that he had rung up the department about the Opaki Rifle Club, and could now say that that was one of the clubs that had sent in no return. ENCOURAGING POPULATION. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) asked the Pre- mier, If he will introduce a measure granting relief, either by a monetary or a land grant, to parents who have six children or more, and so encourage the increase of population in our colony ? He hoped the Government would re- cognise the necessity of doing something in this matter. If honourable members would refer to the Budget, at page 10 they would find a para- graph stating that the population of the colony from 1891 to 1896 had actually decreased by 7,366 persons, which affected the prosperity of the colony. In his own district there were many struggling settlers who had large families, and the men were desirous of getting on to the land, but who, owing to the peculiarity of the present ballot system, were unable to do so. He thought if the Government would intro- duce a measure giving those who had six children and over an opportunity of settling on the land, they would be doing a good work for the colony. If honourable members would refer to the cost of immigration, they would find that from the inception of the immigration scheme it had cost this colony £2,147,718 16s. 4d. Now, if the Government would give a grant of land of a hundred or two hundred acres to those men who have families of six and over the cost would be infinitesimal compared with the cost of immigration. If it was impossible to do what he urged in the way of a land grant, he would suggest that the Government should propose a monetary grant to be paid every year to parents of such families as he had described. He thought that some consideration should be given to these people, and, as the matter was important, he hoped the Government would give it atten- tion. The legislation proposed by the Premier would not have the desired effect, and a private member could not introduce a measure inter- fering with the revenue of the Crown without the permission of the Government. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the honourable member had failed in the main essential. It was for him to have proved that the giving of monetary aid or land would have the effect of causing an increase in the population. If a monetary grant or a piece of land would change the position, he thought they should have more families. He did not know why the honourable member had fixed the arbitrary number at six. He had no doubt that the honourable member was fully conversant with the game of under and over seven, and he did not understand why he had fixed the number at six. Personally, he had always believed that there was luck in odd Mr. Seddon not think they should cast a slight on the colony. A family of six was nothing. If the honourable member had said a dozen he could have understood him, because it was a struggle for the head of the family to maintain such a large number. But he certainly would not offer a premium in the case of a family of six. An Hon. MEMBER .- Six is above the aver- age. Mr. SEDDON said that, of course, showed that the people who had only six children did not appreciate the joy of a large family. There was nothing created so much happiness as hav- ing a large family around one. He believed there were cases where they might render some assistance. When he wanted to give preference to married men under the Land for Settlements Bill objection was taken to that by some mem- bers. Those members were inconsistent, be- cause one day they refused to give preference to married men taking up land, and the next day they asked that a premium should be given in the case of a family of six children. He could not accede to the request. Mr. O'MEARA said he made no objection to preference being given to married men, and he could not understand the Premier making such a statement. Mr. SEDDON said, When the Land for Settle- ments Bill was brought in it contained a pro- vision that preference should be given to married men to go on the land. He understood the honourable member was one of those who ob- jected to that. If he had done the honourable member an injustice he regretted it. If mem- bers had changed their minds he might probably reintroduce the provision. Mr. O'MEARA said the Premier had made an inaccurate statement with respect to him (Mr. O'Meara), and he expected the honourable gentleman to withdraw it. Mr. SEDDON said he would be most happy. He was very glad to find that the honourable member was converted. RETURNED TROOPERS. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) asked the Minister of Defence, What is the cause of the delay in payment to returned troopers of money due to them for services in South Africa ? Since placing this question on the Order Paper the matter had been dealt with in the Budget. It was, however, a subject of considerable im- portance. He had received a number of com- munications from young men who had returned from South Africa some six weeks ago, and they had not yet received what money was due to them. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) could only repeat that the Government had done all that was possible in this matter. As soon as certificates were issued the money was paid. The Government had advanced and were ad- vancing money to the men pending their accounts being made up. The departmental reply was as follows :- "The Fourth and Fifth Contingents, which are under Imperial pay, are having their ac- 