member has asked when the Railways and the Lands Reports will be laid on the table. In doing that the honourable member is doing what any member has a right to do, particularly in view of the fact that the financial debate is about to commence. I can assure the honour- able gentleman that neither the Railways Report nor the Lands Report has been detained through any want of attention on the part of the Go- vernment. On the contrary, both reports are being prepared as rapidly as possible, and we hope within the next week to have the reports ready, and as soon as they are ready they will be laid upon the table of the House. It is not possible for the Government to do impossibili- I am ties in connection with these reports. anxious that the Railways Report should be placed on the table of the House. I should like it to have been there before now, but it has been found impossible to get it ready sooner. The same is the case with regard to the Lands Report. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why ? Sir J. G. WARD .- The pressure of work has been very great, and, as I have said, the depart- ments cannot do impossibilities. As far as the Railways Report is concerned, it is nearly ready, and as soon as it is available to be placed on the table of the House that will be done, for we wish honourable members to have the fullest information regarding the working railways for their guidance during the course of the debate. I rose chiefly for the purpose of saying that these reports are not being kept back, and that anything the Government can do to hurry them on will be done ; more than that I cannot promise. I would like to point out to the House that, for fully a month before Parlia- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero ment met here, many of the responsible railway officials were away from Wellington in connec- tion with the visit of the Duke and Duchess of York. Honourable members may not think so, but I can assure them that it was the case : they had to be all over the colony, and away from the seat of Government. An Hon. MEMBER .- What were they doing ? Sir J. G. WARD .- They were doing their duty, as the honourable member knows per- fectly well. Take the Railways Department, for instance. The honourable member knows per- fectly well that the head of the Railways De- partment had to accompany the whole of the Royal trains, and that the permanent officer in charge of the construction branch of the de- dartment had to specially devote himself to this important branch. Then, the head of the Locomotive Department was also upon all the trains in the colony, and I say that those ser- vices took these officials out of Wellington for quite a month before the meeting of Parlia- ment. An Hon. MEMBER .- Fourteen days. Sir J. G. WARD .- Surely the honourable member will see that these officials had to make arrangements before the arrival of the Royal party. Many of the arrangements had to be made previously, and the responsibility devolved upon them to be ahead of the tour, looking to different things that were required ; and all this took them away from Wellington, and so a certain amount of delay occurred, and was quite unavoidable. That was responsible to some extent for the initial delays in connec- tion with the reports asked for by the honour- able member. An Hon. MEMBER .- Does that apply to the Lands Report ? Sir J. G. WARD .- No; it applies specially to the Railways Report ; but the Lands Report, I understand, is about ready, and both reports will be laid upon the table of the House during the course of the financial debate, if we can get them. An Hon. MEMBER .-- If ? Sir J. G. WARD .- We will do our best to get them, and cannot do more, and the honour- able member could not do more either. Then, with regard to the other matter raised by the honourable member for the Waikato, and also the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty -- the non-dealing with petitions that are re- commended by the Petitions Committee-I should have thought the experience of those honourable members would have led them to realise that these petitions never are dealt with by any Government until preparations for the supplementary estimates are being made. Well, the desire of the Government is to do what is right and just both to petitioners and to the colony in the matter of petitions ; and there is undeniably a great deal of careful analysis and care required in dealing with petitions, which care the Government has to exercise in the interests of the country. With respect to some of the petitions sent by Committees, I am sorry to say the desire is apparently to do what they consider very generous actions, and in some cases the Government has to be a buffer for the purpose of standing between the petitioner and the country. It is the Govern- ment that is held responsible. With Commit- tees there is a disposition occasionally, when a pathetic case comes before them, to pass the claims to the Government with a strong recom- mendation, suggesting that many hundreds or thousands of pounds should be given. Then the duty devolves upon the Government of going through the claim in a colder and a calmer way for the purpose of ascertaining what is the actual position, and to see whether the claim is a legitimate one for which the colony is justly responsible, and, if so, to decide upon the amount that should be placed upon the supplementary estimates. I have now before my mind one or two cases where, I am sure, if the members who formed the Committees had had the responsibility of the Administra- tion of the day, and if such recommendations came to them, they could not conscientiously, in accordance with what they deem to be right, give effect to them, and ask the country to provide the money in order to make what in reality would be a present of the taxpayers' money to people who have been unfortunate. Where the line has to be drawn is between what one may term the responsibility of the country in some cases to pay large sums to people who have been unfortunate ; and if one 