comes a bankrupt, I think the same right to apply to the Court for investigation of interest- charges should be presented as in other cases. Then, I think the clause which makes it com- pulsory for the money-lender to supply a copy of any document relating to a loan or any security therefor, is also a very useful provision. I should like to see a clause in this Bill providing that the money-lender should, in auy document relating to a transaction, state the real annual rate of interest to be charged. In Canada they have a clause in one of their Acts which makes it compulsory that the money- lender shall set forth the annual rate of in- terest ; and the reason for it is this : A person may go to a money-lender and ask him to lend money. He says, "Yes, I will," and the in- terest is 5 per cent. But when the instrument is drawn up, the ignorant or careless borrower finds that he is charged 5 per cent. for a week or a month, and that the annual rate is over 5 per cent. And therefore I say it is desirable, in the interests of the careless and indolent borrowers, that a sum should be fixed in every transaction as the annual rate to be allowed. There should be a clause inserted preventing any one from charging a borrower, in addition to interest, a sum of money for obtaining the money for the borrower from such money-lender. I agree with the penal clause as put in the Bill, but to put other penal clauses in the Bill would, I think, be a step in the wrong direction, because where you provide penalties it simply https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 means that you are increasing the price of the loan. Moreover, many of the usury laws which have been passed in other countries have proved of little effect, because of the fact that they imposed penalties upon the lender. I may say that last session I urged the Premier to bring in a Usury Prevention Bill, and he promised to do so. I regret to say that this Bill is not satisfactory. We want to strike effectively at usurious interest. It is our duty as law-makers to prevent a money- lender taking grossly unreasonable advantages out of all proportion to the benefit he confers on the borrower. We find that in many coun- tries Acts have been passed to limit the amount of interest. In India the limit is fixed at 12 per cent. ; in Prussia, at 12 per cent. ; in Hun- gary, at 8 per cent .; in many of the United States the rate has been fixed at 6 per cent. In Germany they have usury laws, but no rate of interest is fixed at all; that is left to the Judge to determine ; and if the Hon. the Minister will read the reports in connection with the usury law in Germany he will find that the usury laws in that country do not work satis- factorily, and that one of the main reasons given for that is that the rate of interest is not fixed. Another reason of the failure of the Act in Ger- many is that the Judges who have to administer the law are not, as a rule, conversant with the trade and business to appreciate the real nature of the transactions, into the usurious character of which they have to inquire. I think, as the Bill stands, the Hon. the Minister will agree with me that it is a complete nullity unless he strikes out the latter part of the clause which says, "or any business not having for its primary object the lending of money, in the course of which and for the purposes whereof he lends money." As 1 pointed out, the clause as it stands can be completely evaded by a man combining the business of money-lending with some other business, and make that other busi- ness his primary object. Consequently, a com- mission agent, or a lawyer, or an accountant might lend money ad libitum, and could charge what rates of interest he liked. Then, as re- gards the money-lender, there are various systems of money-lending. A man who backs How is this Bill a bill is a money-lender. going to deal with him ? 1 think the Bill should be so amended that, if the rate of in- terest is more than 10 per cent., the borrower, if he wishes, should be entitled to have the transactions openly investigated, and the Court should say, having regard to the circumstances, whether the charge is fair and reasonable. Of course, it must be remembered that an amount that would be usurious in one case might not be usurious in another. It is obvious, there- fore, that you cannot possibly fix definitely a definition that would apply to all cases. The money-lender would be bound to get his prin- cipal and at least 10 per cent. He might get 50 per cent. if the Court thought it justifiable, having regard to the risk and other circum- stances. I can now, Sir, only repeat my con- tention that this Bill will be a nullity unless something is done in the direction of making amendments of the nature I have indicated. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton). - I think this Bill is a fair attempt to grapple with a very difficult subject ; and, although the last speaker -Mr. Hanan-has pointed out that there are certain things in clause 2 that we must see would have such an effect that a man engaged in money-lending would escape the working of the Act, at the same time I think the clause can be altered so as to embrace all these people. I have in my mind's eye the case of a money- lender. pure and simple, who calls himself a banker, and who is a pure-bred extortionist and sharp, yet under clause 2 he would escape the provisions of this Act as a banker, if you please. The last speaker, I think, said that what is wanted is an Act that will define the legal rato of interest as 10 per cent., and that it would be unlawful to charge anything above that. Mr. HANAN .- No, not unlawful. What I did say was that, if over 10 per cent. was being charged, the borrower should have the oppor- tunity of having the transaction investigated by the Court, which would say what would be fair. Mr. LAURENSON .- Well, of course, that is a very different thing. What I want to point out is that even if you defined a certain rate as legal the money-lender could always get through that clause. For instance, I know of a money- lender who carries on business in this way : He agrees to give a man a loan of $100 for twelve months on bills renewable every three months, with interest at 10 per cent. per annum. On receiving an indorsed promissory note for three months, the money-lender hands the 