honourable gentleman was speaking on that subject that he would have examined more closely into some of the details of the land-for- settlements policy for the year. I am going to touch on only one point, and I will ask the honourable gentleman's consideration of it. We passed a law last year, or the year before, permitting the Government to buy land for workmen's homes, and under that law the Government have purchased land for work- men's homes. I will refer to one purchase near Wellington. It is in the Hutt Valley. It is called Epuni. It is three or four miles away from a railway-station. It is not a convenient place for workmen's homes. It has been pur- chased at a price of £90 per acre. The value of the land for taxation purposes is $55. The real value of the land is $65, and the Government have paid $90 an acre for it. It was put up for settlement purposes. I think there were forty-three allotments, and up to a little time ago only sixteen of them had been taken up. I do not want to return to the question of bribery, but I should like to know the history of this Epuni Settlement. I should like to know whether any member of the House has been interested in that settlement. . I have my sus- picions, and I think that this transaction re- quires inquiring into, just as did Pomahaka. that is to be the class of land acquired for work- men's homes I am sorry for the scheme. I understood that land for workmen's homes was to be bought so near to the railway that it would be convenient for the men going to and from their work. This property is not suitable for workmen's homes; and if the honourable mem- ber for Masterton were here just now I would ask him what he had to say about the Epuni Settlement when speaking at the Land Board meeting the other day. If the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) had examined closely the land -settlement scheme of last year he would not have been so strong in his praises of it. He spoke of the Whakatane leases of the Assets Board. At first I wondered who it was that was speaking so strongly on this point. Why, he should approach his leader, the Premier, for that honourable gentleman is the member of the Assets Board. Why does the honourable member not lay his grievances before him? I will now return to the Financial Statement. The honourable member for Hawke's Bay referred to the re- marks that the Premier is reported to have made to the deputation that came from the West Coast. I believe he did make those re- marks. I believe it, Sir, not only because of the reports of the newspapers, but because the whole Financial Statement bears out ex- actly what the Premier said. Let me quote a few words of the Financial Statement with regard to the position of the Consolidated Fund Account. On page ii., when dealing with the question of prudence and economy-and here I would remark that all through the Statement there is a cry for prudence and a cry for economy, both in connection with the Consoli- dated Fund and the Public Works Fund. I VOL. CXVII .- 41. for instance, the Treasurer says there is an "absolute necessity for prudence and economy ;" and on the same page he adds, " there should be a jealously guarded expenditure, for a re- stricted population can only bear a limited and reasonable impost of taxation." And, again : " the national expenditure should be cut down to the lowest limit consistent with efficiency, after providing for the necessary requirements." And on page iii. he says :- "If ever the time arrives when increased taxation is required to meet the ordinary ex- penditure, so surely will reductions in salaries eventuate. To avoid the contingency, and the injustice which arose in the past, it is well for those having responsibility to do their utmost to keep down expenditure.' On page xvii., "The estimates have been kept down to the lowest limit "; on page xviii. he says, "I have no desire to be pessimistic, but one cannot be too cautious while framing the estimates for the year." Then, he says, on page xxiv., "With care and economy, it is rea- sonable to expect that there will be a fair surplus next year." Sir, the answer to these hollow shams-for they are hollow shams-is to be found on page xvii. of the Financial State- ment, where we find that the Right Hon. the If Premier, as Treasurer, says this : "There is a proposed increase over last year's expenditure of $284,111." And the significance of this increase does not come out till we begin to examine somewhat into the details. And then what does one find? I have no time to deal with last year's increases, but, over and above last year's increases, there are these which are in the estimates for this coming year. An in- crease of $73,609 in the payment of interest; and the honourable gentleman who has just sat down said that the bulk of these loans which have been raised have been for revenue pro- ducing purposes, and that they earn enough interest to pay for the interest upon the loan. Is that true, in face of the fact that upon this year's estimates $73,000 is set down for in- creased interest on loan-moneys ? Mr. HALL-JONES .- Where is the interest ? It is being earned, and it is the interest- earning investments which pay for this interest. Mr. NAPIER .- It is credited on the other side, which amounts to the same thing. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Oh, no; he is absolutely wrong. He knows no more about it than does the book before him. The interest earned by the revenue producing departments, such as that for advances to settlers and the land for settle- ments, and the interest payable on account of the loans for these purposes, is apart from these accounts, and does not appear on either side. Honourable members will find this interest deducted from the general interest charges on page 6 of the estimates. Then, Sir, with regard to the old-age pensions, we find an increase of some £18,000 but I will have something to say about old-age pensions later on. I could go through a whole list of these increases-new departments formed -Industries and Commerce, Tourists ; visit of their Royal Highnesses; 