people living in one of the suburbs on the other side of these Gardens support the trams going through the Gardens for the only reason - and I was astonished when I heard it- that they can get into town one or two minutes earlier than by any other way. Well, Sir, what an argument to bring forward: that because they can get into town one or two minutes earlier they are to destroy the heritage of the people. Sir, I understand that the solicitor who drafted this Bill is coming up to-morrow, and I hope the honourable gentleman who is in charge of the Bill, after consultation with him, will prepare this clause, which I say must be inserted in the Bill to protect these Gardens before I can accept the Bill. I believe the honourable gentle- man is in sympathy with what I am suggesting, and if he can get the solicitor, who no doubt represents the Corporation, to agree to the clause, I believe he will himself be only too glad to adopt it. I understand now that the Corpora- tion have rescinded the resolution, which is evidence that there is no absolute necessity for the tramways to go through the Gardens. I have been in other places where there have been trams, and I know of no single instance where a loop line exists at all. except in Vienna. and there there is a circular tram all round the city, and it is for an entirely different pur- pose than this particular tram that is to run up Castle Street. I know of another case where the trams run to the Gardens-and much larger Gardens than are affected by this Bill but they stopped dead at the Gardens, be- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 cause the people would not have them in the Gardens. And I think the people of Dunedin, if they were made properly alive to the situa- tion, would not allow these trams to run through these Gardens at all. One gentleman proposed that not only should the trams go through the Gardens, but that a 66 ft. road should be made as well. Sir, what would the condition of the Gardens be then? It is all very well for those who have their own places of recreation, but it is a very different matter for those who have only small back-vards, and who seek such places as these Gardens for their recreation and for their health and enjoyment. Sir, I believe that those who had to fight these battles before, - and I may say I had to fight some of them before,-will succeed. I recol- let the day when those who for sordid motives -- it is always sordid motives which influence these things -- wanted to utilise the whole of the Triangle in Dunedin for building purposes. And I recollect when Sir Robert Stout and myself and others stood upon the public platform to fight that question. We had a strong meeting with us, and the result of the agitation was that that proposal was stopped. I believe the agita- tion which is going on now in Dunedin-and it will also be carried on in this House will be strong enough to stop any attempt to take the tramways through the Gardens in Dunedin. Sir, these reserves are small enough. The city represents forty to fifty thousand inhabitants, and I take it that in forty years' time it will The Town Belt is small enough, and the Gardens are small enough, even at the present. There are few places where the people can go and have their games and recreations; and if there is a cry now, with forty thousand people, for cricket-grounds and football-grounds and you have not got them, and you are going to cut up and destroy what you do possess, what is there for the future ? Sir, I shall oppose as strongly as I can any attempt to have such a thing done. I am not sure whether under existing legislation it will be possible for them to do it. I doubt very much if they have any further rights than the rights which the old Tramway Company had, and I know that the old Tramway Com- pany could have had no right at all to take the tramway through the Gardens. I know that even under our own Public Works Act you cannot take land from a man's garden, and, if you cannot take it from a man's garden, why should you take it from the people's garden under such an Act ? Mr. ATKINSON .-. They did it here in Moles- worth Street. Mr. J. ALLEN .- That is a special Act, and I was referring to general Acts; but what I say is that under the Public Works Act you cannot, even for railway purposes, take an ornamental garden or an orchard. And if that Act provides that you shall not take an ornamental garden even for railway purposes from the individual, surely there must be in our legislation-and I think there is-a provision that not even a Cor- poration itself can take its own Gardens for the purposes of a railway or a tramway ; and cer- tainly if that provision is not in the legislation, I hope the honourable gentleman will consent to place such a clause in this Bill as to allow the people of Dunedin to retain for all time what has been given to them as a heritage. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo). -- Per- sonally, I wish to congratulate my honourable friend the member for Caversham for having risen to-night and raised his voice in the in- terests of the people of this country. The honourable gentleman has been silent during the whole of this session, and I venture to say that if it had not been for the great public interests that were threatened to-night he would have continued to remain silent. And, Sir. if his voice is never heard again in this Assembly --. and I hope and trust that it may be fre- quently ; but if it is not, he has left a monu- ment worthy of emulation in his words to the people to-night ; they should never be forgotten by the people of New Zealand. He has pleaded for the preservation of the reserves which the wise founders of this fair colony said should be the heritage of the people. He has opposed the vandal, and the speculator, and the Bond Street merchant, and the "fat man " of Dunedin. He has helped to stop them from spoiling these It is all very well for the lovely grounds. honourable member for Dunedin City to laugh. Mr. MILLAR .- I am not laughing. Mr. T. MACKENZIE. - We know that it is the wealthy speculator of Dunedin who wants 