the colony ought to be awakened to a know- ledge of the position we have drifted into -a position in which we are unable to meet our liabilities, a position in which no pro- vision has been made for our liabilities. I say I do not know that there has ever been a time in the history of the colony when the Colonial Treasurer has been placed in the position of having to go to the foreign money-lender ad- mitting, "We have so much liabilities and we cannot meet them, and we have to come to you for aloan." Is it a favourable condition under which to go to the outside money-lender for a loan of money when you have to tell him that you have exceeded all the money available, and that you have incurred liabilities which you have no means to meet ? Supposing you could not borrow the money in London or here, what would become of the £260,000 extra liabilities to meet which there are no ways and means at present available ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Time is up. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) .- I had not the slightest intention of speaking, but I would like to say a few words chiefly directed to the question of the position of the working- men of New Zealand, and of the industrial classes, and of our industries and of our manu- factures. An Hon. MEMBER .- We cannot hear you. Mr. WITHEFORD .- I must ask the indul- gence of the House to-night, for, like many more of my fellow-members, I have been laid up for the last few days. In regard to the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 question of the industrial position of New Zealand, I ask, Why should not the same spirit of Ministerial prestige as is given to military matters be given to the establish- ment of industries? Let us provide an alter- native for the periodical stagnation and depres- sion which have ever occurred, and which will otherwise be actually brought about by the well-meant policy of the present Government. In proportion to the check given to private capitalists and industrial concerns, so the State should provide a counterbalancing system by which workers will not between two stools come to the ground and be left without any work at all. The working-man cannot regulate finance or control financial concerns, and the law- makers who introduce regulations which in- crease the cost of production should be pre- pared to show that they can produce on the same system, to prove that they are going on practical lines. I would like the Go- vernment to lay down a practical system in regard to each form of industry they think necessary to interfere with, and show how articles for sale or export can be produced at a profit within the four corners of the Acts, or proposed Acts, affecting these in- dutsries. The Government have individual ability of high order, and high enough to devise and carry out a more up-to-date busi- ness policy. The railway - formation should also be carried out on commercial lines, and run parallel with land-settlement, the pro- secution of one leading to .the successful VOL. CXVII .- 43. should be carried out more energetically in the interests of the whole colony, because mining communities provide the best cash markets for the settlers' produce. Development should be carried on on more practical and go-ahead lines than in the past. If men can be sent Home in order to marshal our business and arrange for the sale of our produce, I fail to see why the same plan should not be carried out in regard to goldfields development, nor why specially qualified men should not be sent to the goldfields to make them more productive, directly and indirectly. Then, there are raw materials which can be obtained in different parts of the colony; all this should be made the basis of industrial works ; we should start first one and then another department in accordance with their merit. The reducing of rates of interest is clearly borne by people dependent on their incomes, and with trade and industries the reduction of profits on manufactures will mean reduction of wages. Such is the traditional effect shown in the past on trade in the case of individuals, and it will doubtless prove the same in the case of the country ; the business of a country is only the business of thousands of individuals rolled into If revenues are cut off and unproductive one. expenditure increased, sooner or later the State employés will have their wages cut down, just as people have their incomes cut down through the reduction of interest. I feel we have not paid sufficient attention as a Parliament to the industries of the colony. The prevailing ten- dency of our legislation is so to hamper the industries in connection with the Factories and other Acts that there will be a percentage of loss in connection with the products of the colony, instead of a percentage of gain. The consequence is the colony will be placed in the position of the old woman and her apples : she lost a little on every apple she sold, but she said that it was the quantity she sold made up for the loss. If each industry is to be attacked so that the goods we produce cannot compete with those outside, it means that the greater our manufactures become the greater will be the loss to those who have money in- vested in them. A constant stream of money is required to turn the colonial wheel of pro- sperity. If Government could arrange to pump that stream of wealth out of our own gold- fields, they would at the same time turn the whole of the wheels of every other local industry in the colony. That is why I should be very pleased if the Minister of Mines would give greater attention to a more speedy development of the goldfields, because, though we cannot always command the markets of the Old World, we are benefited by strong internal markets, such as those of the goldfields, which provide the best market for the settlers' produce, and are, therefore, worthy of every encouragement. Personally, I am a supporter of the Government, and I am going to continue to support them ; but when there is a slight tendency to visionary legislation, and a failure to pay sufficient atten- tion to providing reproductive work for the 