I have been reading only lately of an effect in London of the floating of our loans there with- out making provision for sinking fund. and there can be no doubt if we had provided in our colonial loans for a sinking fund, as we had in the old days, we should have been able to float them at par, or a premium, instead of a dis- count of 4 or 5 per cent. If that be the case, that is a strong argument for this Board pro- viding for a sinking fund ; for it cannot afford to dat a loan at a discount, it wants all the money it can get. Another reason is that it is right with works of this nature-harbour-works, that are not permanent works in the sense that railways are permanent - to provide for repay- ment. A railway is a work which of necessity must be kept in repair. The rails are renewed and replaced by heavier ones from year to year, and the rolling-stock is replaced, so that really after fifty years it is probably superior in regard to actual value to when it started; this being done out of revenue, and not out of fresh capital. This Harbour Board is not similar to that. Harbour-works cannot be kept for ten or twenty years in as good repair as when they were started. The sea Ihaves in a way it is not expected to behave; good wharf accommodation becomes inferior owing to the action of the elements; and it is reckoned that provision should be made for repaving a loan within a reasonable period. I hope that the honourable gentleman will con- sent to these two clauses in Committee, so that, he might have no difficulty in passing his Bill through. In Committee I will do my best to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 assist him to pass it, and I hope honourable in moers will give him that assistance which they usually give to a new member having charge of a Bill for the first time. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City). - 1 in- tend to support this Bill. The Bill has now been discussed from every point of view, and I hope there will be no further delay. Patea is a fme district, and they are fine people down there. deserving every encouragement. There- fare I trust that the measure will be passed, and let us proceed with other business. Mr. HASELDEN (Patea) .--- This Bill has raised more discussion than I ever thought it would, and it only shows how important the Patea Harbour is. I can assure honourable members that it is the most important har- bour on the West Coast, judging by the large amount of produce exported from and im ported to it. At present it acts as a great feeder for Wellington. An enormous amount of stuff is imported to and exported from it. A great many figures have been read to- night. but I will give honourable members a fes simple ones. In 188- the imports amounted In 1900 they were 9,081 to 2, 727 tons. tons. which shows a very considerable in- In 1888 the exports of wool from the crease. Patea Harbour amounted to 2,156 bales, and in 1900 they were 4,799 bales, showing a very large increase in that item alone. That there foot-and-mouth disease in the Argentine Re- public, and therefore more sheep have been frozen at the central freezing.works. It is to be hoped that the foot-and-mouth disease will not scourge the Argentine again, though it would be a ver: good thing for New Zealand if it did. We have an enormous increase in exports of butter, cheese, and bacon from Patea. I think every member in this House knows that Patea is one of the richest districts in New Zealand, and that it is increasing every vear in the amount of produce exported from it. As we used to say, the butter industry is progressing " by leaps and bounds," and very many of our other industries are being assisted and are increasing. Moreover, the settlers are receiving a very large amount of money for the produce of their labour, and this will result in a still further increase in the amount of our exports. Steamers are being built specially for this trade, and I do not think that there is a sounder Harbour Beard in the colony than that of Patea. It has always paid its interest and provided 24 per cent. for a sinking fund. We have now avail- able an annual revenue of no less than $1,910, and it is increasing every year, showing that after providing for interest there is an ap parent surplus of $535. There has been spent out of revenue $5,000, showing that over $1,060 a year of revenue has been spent in improving the harbour-works. It is now proposed to obtain $10,000 to further improve the harbour by carrying the wall further out to sea, so as to prevent the accumulation of silt caused by the north-west currents. Much larger vessels . ill then be able to enter the harbour than at pre- sent. Of the 98,000 expended, $5.200) was spent in Guide Pier: 12,200 in wharves and sheds ; payment of staff. $100; and dumping plant, 2430, bringing the total to $7.980; 9.0. and I can say that it was well spent; I can assure the honourable member the finances are sound. An Hon. MI MBER .-- But where are you going to get the revenue ? Mr. HASELDEN .--- The revenue is coming from the increased imports and exports, which are increasing year by year. If wool is de- creasing, the export will more than be made up by butter, cheese, and bacon. I think I shall show the honourable member for Avon that the endowment has not been disposed of. There is no less a sum than 9381 95. 2d. paid yearly in rents for these endowments, proving at once that they have not been disposed of. The rate of interest is a matter for Committee ; but at present money is borrowed at 4} per cent., and I see no reason why we should not, with so much cheap money in the market, ob- tain it at the same rate. I was rather amused at one honourable member speaking about the competition with the railway, and saying that we should not improve the harbour because it would compete with the Government railway. I think everybody knows that that land carriage 