Wednesday, 14th August, 1901. First Reading-Oats for South Africa -- Timaru Har' bour Board District and Harbour Board Bill- Birth Registrations-Auckland Government Arch - Uniform Set of School-books-Makohine Via- duct - Education Boards Elections - Bishop's Reserve and other Native Lands, Masterton- Stoats and Weasels in the North - Land taken for Drainage Purposes - Waihi Swamp - Im- ported Stud Horses - Advances to Settlers Office -Duty on Gold-saving Fabrics-Makohine Via- duet - Conciliation Boards-Woodville County Bill-Shops and Shop-assistants Bill. Mr. SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Local Bodies' Goldfields, Public Works, and Loan Bill. OATS FOR SOUTH AFRICA. On the motion of Mr. MASSEY (Franklin), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing the names of the persons or firms who received the orders for the 50,000 tons of oats referred to by the Premier when re- plying to a deputation on the 7th instant, the dates on which the orders were received, and the prices per bushel (either f.o.b. or c.i.f.) at which such orders were placed. TIMARU HARBOUR BOARD DISTRICT AND HARBOUR BOARD BILL. On the question that leave be given to in- troduce this Bill, Major STEWARD (Waitaki) said he did not rise for the purpose of asking the House to refuse leave to introduce this Bill, but to present a petition against the passing of the Bill, which he should presently move that it be referred to the Local Bills Committee, which would have to deal with the Bill. The petition was from the Mayor and Councillors and 806 other burgesses and residents of Waimate and the immediate neighbourhood, praying the House not to pass a Bill to include the Borough of Waimate in the Timaru Harbour Board Rating District. He moved that the petition be read. Motion agreed to, and petition read by the CLERK. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister of Marine) said he could not compliment the honourable gentle- man upon the course he had taken that after- noon. As an old member of the House, and as one who had occupied the position of Speaker, he ought to know that the proper course was to allow honourable members an opportunity of perusing the Bill. The present position was that there was no Bill before the House, and the honourable member should have known that the proper time to present a petition was on the motion for the second reading of the Bill, when the honourable gentleman would have just the same oppor- tunity as he had that afternoon. The reading of the petition had taken a considerable time, of the House had listened to the reading of it. Those who had listened would have gathered that there was an intention to force part of the district the honourable member represents into the Timaru Harbour District. That was not so ; and honourable members when they saw the Bill would see what its actual purport was. On the present occasion he only wished to say this : that the petition as read bristled with gross and misleading inaccuracies. He would further refer to this when dealing with the Bill itself ; and he hoped the honourable member, when he received, as he understood the honourable member would receive, a petition from his own constituents in favour of this Bill, would take the same course in having that petition read as he had taken on the present occasion. Leave given to introduce the Bill. On the question, "That the Bill be now read a first time," Major STEWARD (Waitaki) wished to say two or three words in reply to the honourable member who introduced the Bill. The honour- able gentleman had accused him of taking an improper course, and said that, as an ex- Speaker of this House, he should have known the proper time to present a petition was on the second reading of a Bill. Now, he was aware, as an old member of the House, that the proper time, if one wanted a petition to go before the Local Bills Committee, was to pre- sent it at the time of the first reading, because the Local Bills Committee's report would have come down before the second reading ; and it would be something like locking the stable door after the steed was stolen if he presented the petition without having it referred to the Local Bills Committee. Now, with regard to the statement of the honourable member that the allegations in the petition were not correct, all he had to say was that these allegations were put forward on the testimony of his Worship the Mayor, the Councillors, and all the leading citizens of Waimate, and he left the matter there. He believed there would be witnesses from Waimate who would be pre- pared to substantiate the allegations of the petition before the Local Bills Committee, and it was for the reason that he wished them to have an opportunity of being heard, as he was sure the House did, that he had taken this course with the petition. The honourable member said he would have a petition to pre- sent in favour of the Bill. He had no such petition at present. He had heard that by a majority -- he thought of two-the Waimate County Council had passed a resolution in favour of the Timaru Bill; but the County Council did not represent the burgesses of Waimate, who were the persons interested. Further, it would be seen, if any petition in favour of the Bill did come up, that he would move that it be received, and also that it be referred to the same Committee. It would be seen that the weight of the petition for the Bill was very little as against the weight of the peti- tion against it. He would not for a moment attempt to refuse any honourable member, or 