the contributing shares; that is what every- body got, with the exception of those who got an over-riding commission of 1} per cent. and 2} per cent., which most of the brokers did in Dunedin. If any brokerage was paid on shares that had not been paid for the auditor should have called attention to it.' The only matter bearing on the point known to him-speaking from memory-was in the case of the Ngahere Company. He got a letter from the liquidator, addressed to Cook and Gray, asking for a refund of $5, being the application-money on a hun- dred shares not paid by a shareholder who had nothing at all to do with Cook and Gray. No brokerage was allowed on vendors' shares, only on the contributing shares. " Further questioned, Mr. Cook said that he had taken the option of some of the claims from the people on the West Coast for the vendor, and acted as broker and a director. The shareholders appointed the directors, and the latter made No. 17, High Street, Dunedin, the office of the company. He did not know that there was anything wrong in a firm float- ing a company and acting as he had done. Those of his employés who held shares in the companies mentioned did so as a private specu- lation, and not on his behalf, to influence votes in his favour. The statement that any man ever held a share in trust for him was abso- lutely incorrect. Mr. Mace would get assistance and be able to pay his calls. " Asked whether, in saying he stood to lose https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 double as much as any one else, he had taken into consideration the moneys he received for the sale of claims to the companies, Mr. Cook replied that he never got a shilling in that way -none at all. Where there had been cash paid it had been paid to the original owners. He never had a shilling from any company that he floated. If any of the companies went into liquidation he could not claim a penny as ven- dor. He could not understand how the auditor missed charging the brokerage back. " After the witness had concluded his evi- dence Mr. Easton asked leave to repudiate Mr. Cook's statement that he was either a connec- tion or a relative of his. He stated that he landed in the colony on the 17th January, 1900, and until the 23rd April following had never heard of that gentleman. What induced him to believe that Mr. Cook was a man to be trusted was the fact that he had been appointed by the Supreme Court as liquidator of several large estates." Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I understand it is the desire of honourable members not to take up time by reading the whole of these three columns, so I will take the voice of the House as to whether the whole extract should appear in Hansard. Hon. MEMBERS .-- " Aye " ' Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- It is the duty of some honourable member now to move that a breach of privilege has been committed. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) .- Sir, I will move, That a breach of privilege has been committed by the publication in the Dunedin Evening Star, of the 23rd August, of certain evidence given and documents produced before the Goldfields and Mines Committee of the present session, and which Committee has not yet reported to the House on the matters re- ferred to. I think it only right to say that under the Standing Orders of the House it is a very serious breach of privilege, not only of the House itself; but it is a very unfair thing to people coming before a Petitions Committee that evidence should be disseminated-whether it leaks out trom the Committee, or is given out by the Committee-before the Committee has had an opportunity of reporting to the House and supplying the full evidence. In addition to this, it is not fair to the newspaper Press of the colony that, by any unusual ability of the re- presentative or representatives of any particular journal, preference in this way should be given to any particular journal, however enterprising, in any part of the colony. I have seen a good deal of trouble arise from matters of the sort during the time I have been a member of this House, and I think it is very much to be regretted that breaches of privilege of this kind from time to time occur. How the evidence gets out it is impossible to say, but it appears an extra- ordinary state of things that we do find that Press representatives are apparently able to get hold of documents and information before they ought to; and, whenever any inquiry is at- tempted to be made, as to how they come by the documents or information, it is most diffi- cult indeed to ascertain how they are able to say they get them in a fair and honourable way, and I believe the representative of the Dunedin Evening Star to be one of the fairest and most upright journalists in the colony, and one who would not act dishonourably. I do not think that if a Press representative is smart enough to get hold of documents or information of the kind, that any great exception can be taken to his utilising them for the benefit of the paper he represents. Where the weakness is, it appears to me, is in the way the business of Committees is conducted, with the result that evidence of this kind is allowed to leak out. But, once it has leaked out, it only remains for the House to declare that a breach of privilege has been committed, and to go further, if the House so desires- although in the past it has always been shown to have been an unsatisfactory state of affairs- to bring the publishers and the reporters of the journals who commit breaches of privilege of the kind to the bar of the House. Probably the best course to take is to do as was done on the occasion I refer to, and to pass the resolution I have moved, and to specially direct the attention of members of the Committees to the fact that breaches of this kind are a serious reflection on the House itself and also on the Committees. Sir, I beg to move the resolution. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- Sir, I think the course usually adopted in these cases should be followed. I think the Chairman of the Com- mittee has not yet fully explained the means by which the information was published in this newspaper. An Hon. MEMBER .- He does not know. 