sails of the opponents of this scheme to produce the contract at the eleventh hour, when there is, in reality, no time for dissecting its terms. Although I am a burgess of this city I have never seen the contract, and I undertake to say that no burgess outside of that select circle of persons who are interested in pushing this pur- chase to a conclusion has seen that contract. It ought to have been open to public inspec- tion by the citizens of Wellington, who are the persons most interested in the proposal ; but no such opportunity has been given them. The fact of laying the contract upon the table at this stage places the opponents of the scheme in no stronger position. As a matter of fact, it rather weakens their position. It certainly can be said that the contract is now on the table ; but who of the burgesses has seen it, or who understands its contents? As I have already said, no burgess, except the select few, has the faintest conception of what is embodied in the contract. I myself, as representing this city, and as a burgess of thirty-one years' standing, ought to have known the contents of that secret contract between the vendors of the estate and the Corporation. I say that no such opportunity has been afforded the people, and on that ground, if on that ground alone, they have a legitimate ground for delaying the passage of this Bill. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) .- I would like to ask the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson) whether this is the original contract that he has put on the table, or whether it is a true copy of the contract. Mr. HUTCHESON .- It is a checked copy of the whole contract. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I think the House will be pleased to have had the opportunity of inspecting this contract-agreement, and I think it should be printed and circulated. Certainly the people of the City of Wellington have a per- fect right to have this contract placed in their hands. so that they shall know every detail of it. It would appear to me to be unreasonable to ask the people either to vote on the proposal or to ask Parliament to pass a Bill practically vali- dating the transaction in anticipation of the approval of both Parliament and the ratepavers of the city. I question whether a parallel case could be found in the colony, where a local body takes the option of a purchase, and, having secured the option proceeds to take parliamentary authority to carry out the pur- chase and after that proposes to take a poH of the ratepayers. It seems to me to be com- mencing at the wrong end. Why the option should be taken, and why they should wish to force the situation into concrete form by having such a contract as this, I cannot understand. Plainly put, the contract is for $75,000. There is at once to be paid $10,000, which is secured on mortgage at present ; and the balance is to be paid about the year 1905. At that time the sellers have the right to remove everything on the land, which, of course, does not amount to much-about £1,500, according to the schedule. But, as the contract is to be laid on the table, in respect to this property, when it was offered previously at a much lower price, and I would also like to have evidence to show how this property has jumped up from the price at which it was offered a short time ago to the $75,000. It would be interesting to the House, in view of the fact that you are practically legislating for the purchase at $75,000, if this matter was referred to a Committee, which could obtain the land-tax value and the valuation of the pro- perty. I would rather see in your legislation a provision that there shall be no such contract and no such purchase ; but that if the local body wants to take the property they can take it as other properties are taken, under provisions such as are found in the Land for Settlements Act, so that some Court may decide the price. I say that is fair to all concerned, and would remove all suspicion. I have nothing to say on the merits of the case at all. In a large city like Wellington, growing as it is, and looking to the future, there ought to be some provision made for lands for recreation purposes. The city is being gradually hemmed and wedged in, and there is a necessity for doing something, and the longer you leave it the worse it becomes ; but the fact of having such a contract as this, tying the city to buy at a price, is wrong, and I say the Mayor had no right to sign such a document, and the Council had no right to commit the city to such a contract, until some authority had been given to them by the ratepayers. There was not sufficient warrant, in 12.0. my opinion, for entering into a con- tract of this kind; but, having been entered into, we have it now before us, and my own way of dealing with this business is to leave it to the people of Wellington and to the discre- tion of their representatives; but we have no right to bind them to give a price such as this for a given property. If the estate is to be taken for the public, then I say you ought to give open powers to take it, and to see that this is so safeguarded that only the real value is paid for it. That is all I ask for, and it is what I think the House ought to insist upon. I am very pleased that the contract has been laid on the table. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City). - This contract is only the right of refusal within a certain specified time-namely, two months after the close of this session. And the Bill provides for the alternative scheme of taking the land under the Public Works Act ; but the Premier was quite in error when he stated the amount offered for the land was $25,000. It was nothing like it. Mr. SEDDON .- I never mentioned any such sum. Mr. HUTCHESON .- The original proposer of the scheme, Mr. H. D. Bell, says, " I in- tended to offer $50.000, and if that was refused I meant to go under the Public Works Act." But that was years ago, prior to the expendi- ture of very large sums of money on heavy cuttings, roadings, wharves, and all sorts of ad- junets to the property, thereby enhancing its value. Now, the fact of this contract being in 