who prefer to make every sacrifice for the sake of saving half a crown. Sir, I do not think there is anything further to reply to. The proper thing to do is to debate the Financial Statement, and not anticipate it by debates on Imprest Supply Bills. I want to say, from in- formation received and from indications that are before me, that I have come to the con- clusion that there was nothing that honourable members expected to get hold of in the Financial Statement, and, as honourable members have not been able to discover anything there out of which to make capital against the Government, they say, "Oh, well, in the absence of these papers we cannot debate it." I will take that excuse and accept that apology, and take it as a big compliment to the Government in respect to the Financial Statement. That being the case, I will accept the situation and facilitate busi- ness. If honourable members do not wish to debate the Statement let it be postponed, and we will go on with the estimates on Tuesday night. I do not care about the Financial State- ment being debated. I consider these set de- bates are a waste of time, because really we have to go back to the business of the estimates afterwards. Nothing can be effected by the debate, and there is change of policy. An Hon. MEMBER. - The Opposition have converted you. Mr. SEDDON .- No, I am not converted, because conversion is unnecessary ; but what we have done is to convert the Opposition until they are all Government supporters -- in fact, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 there is no Opposition. However, I should not be a bit surprised, notwithstanding the position, if there is an attempt made to debate the State- ment. And I want to see it fully debated. have no objection myself. I say that criticism, if fairly directed and if fair in its incidence, is an assistance to any Administration, and it is an assistance to the Government, and it is an assistance to the people of the colony. There- fore I court the fullest investigation and the fullest criticism. I have never hidden any- thing, and never will endeavour to hide or keep back anything ; but if there is further informa- tion wanted I am prepared to give it. I thought to-day there would be an attempt made to make capital, and that some members would say they were not prepared to go on with the financial debate until the returns of Ministers' travelling expenses were given. I knew that point would come up, and I have got it here. Here are the papers, and I am only waiting and panting for an opportunity to place them on the table. Mr. MONK .- I wish you would give me mine. Mr. SEDDON. - The colony offered the honourable member £40, and he took it. Then he had conscientious scruples, and he handed it over to the local bodies. Mr. MONK .- Is the Premier in order in re- ferring to a past debate ? Mr. SEDDON .- I am not referring to a past debate, but am simply giving an answer to the interjection of the honourable member, who asked me to give him his expenses. Mr. MONK .- No ; I said " return." Mr. SEDDON. - The honourable member said, " Give me mine" ; and I said I gave him $40; and the honourable member would not stick to it, but gave it to the local bodies, and they in turn would, if the money was paid over to the Charitable Aid Board, get a subsidy of €1 for #1 for it, which was giving £80 instead of $40. I shall be very careful about giving him another $40. \\If it is returns he wants, of course, I will give them. What is the return the honourable member wanted ? Mr. MONK .- A return showing the number of petitions last session presented to Parliament. I might say that I have been asked to procure this return, and I think the Premier ought to recognise that whenever inquiries are made of him an answer is expected. We are asked to get certain information, and the people of the colony have no idea how difficult it is to get in- formation out of the Cabinet. Mr. SEDDON .- Then, Sir, I shall have great pleasure in facilitating, as far as I can, the return mentioned by the honourable member. I wish to relieve him of anxiety and from being worried by his constituents. But I want to point out to honourable members that a very large number of returns have been ordered, and work is being delayed because the various staffs in each department are now engaged on the returns, and if members say to the Government, " Very well ; you ought to put on twenty or thirty extra clerks and give us our returns," we will do so. But it means that we must wait until we get the returns done, or else em- ploy extra assistance, and that means extra money to be paid. That would be the case if I we really had to give the returns at once that are ordered by the House this session. We would have to put on twenty or thirty extra clerks. Well, if you want to pay $60 extra a week well and good, and I will put the matter in hand. A lot of work has been got out already, and the pigeon-holes are getting pretty full. Mr. MONK .- You will not allow me to have the return granted. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable member has been asking me to give him a return that has never been asked for. That is quite a new light thrown on the matter. I understood the honour- able member was alluding to a return that had been ordered and had not been made. That is a different matter. I only carry out the orders of the House, and do not comply with the wishes of honourable members unless it is the proper thing to do. But my present busi- ness is to get the Supply Bill through, because there are a couple of Bills here that are of im- portance. At all events, the honourable mem- ber for the Bay of Plenty knows that they are of importance. The motion now is to go into Committee on the Bill; and the next motion is to go into Supply. When Supply comes up I hope we shall not have a long debate, and that we shall get on with the work. Motion agreed to. On the motion to go into Committee of Supply, 