so far as we can see at the present time? The labour question dominates the finances of New Zealand. There is at the present time a stand- ing army of 5,627 men employed as labourers on the co-operative works carried on by the State in New Zealand. They are kept going on loan-money, and a large part of the money that is paid to them from the English lender filters back into our Treasury in the shape of Customs duties. Stop the loan - money, and the Seddonian finance would tumble to pieces like a house of cards. Mr. Ballance, as I have stated, turned the tide of adversity into prosperity by an expenditure of $389,000 a year. It apparently takes $1,950,000 a year under the Hon. Mr. Seddon to keep things going. Now, let us ask ourselves what would happen if, say, one-half of this army were turned loose. Wool is down : the revenue from that source will be two millions of money less this year than last year, and private expendi- ture will therefore be restricted by that amount. As I have already said, wool is down to the extent of $2,000,000 sterling, and the spending- power of the people will therefore be restricted this year to that extent ; and if our standing army of co-operative labourers were turned loose to look for work in the open market, or if our public works expenditure were reduced to even the amount that Mr. Ballance considered sufficient-$389,000 per year-there would be such an " unemployed " difficulty in New Zea- land as has never yet occurred. Sir J. G. WARD .- Would you like to see that? Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- No, I should not ; I should be pained to see anything like that brought about, and I will now tell the Govern- ment where they have blundered, and what they should have done to prevent such a catas- trophe. The Government have not expended sufficient money on settlement side by side with expenditure on public works. They have drawn the genii from the bottle, and he is there standing before them, and they cannot get him back. He is the co-operative labourer. I do not say that the time has passed when the Go- vernment could deal with this important ques- tion as statesmen, but they have not proved themselves to be statesmen. They have proved themselves to be opportunists; and year after year the expenditure is growing, and it keeps growing, on roadworks and railways, whereas their attention should have been directed to land-settlement. In this way numbers of men now engaged as co-operative labourers should and could have been absorbed. Vacancies would thus have been made in the labour-market, which would have been filled by men now engaged as co-operative labourers. One of the first planks of the policy of Mr. Ballance was that of settlement upon the land. What did the Government do under the Land for Settlements Act of last year ? Why, Sir, they put only 177 farmers on the land, according to their own showing in the Financial Statement. One hundred and seventy-seven is the total number of farms that were provided under the Land | don money- market, a policy of self-reliance. Mr. G. W. Russell men's homes, as they are not worth looking at from the point of view of land-settlement. In Canterbury and Otago, which I am best acquainted with, the total purchases by the Government last year under the Land for Settlements Act were only £53,000. In a previous speech this session I showed that the expenditure was $186,000, but if I give the Government credit for their purchases. not for what they paid for, the amount is $350,000. I would ask, Why have they Lot done more ? They have authority to buy up to $500,000 every year. The cash paid last year under the Land for Settlements Act was only £186,000 ; whereas, including the unexpended vote of the previous year, they had the right to spend $630,000. Can you wonder, Sir, that the number and influence of the co-operative labourers keeps on growing, and that we have our constituents urging us to get the Govern- ment to give them work rather than starve + I say, if the Government wish to return to the policy of Mr. Ballance, instead of, as the Premier is everlastingly doing, dancing abou: in and out of the colony-I say, Sir, instead of the Premier being the Minister in charge of the purchase of lands for settlement, that that department ought to be handed over to the ablest man in their ranks, who should "go the whole hog," so far as the legal powers are con- cerned, in the purchase of lands for settle- ment. An Hon. MEMBER .- Where ? Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Everywhere. They ought to go on settling the lands in the North Island. I do not wish land-settlement only in the South. Do the Government mean to say that in Wanganui, Masterton, Wairarapa. and in other electorates, especially Hawke's Bay. there are not great tracts of country suitable for settlement as well as in Canterbury and Otago? What I complain of is that the Canter- bury people have been told all the time that the land-for-settlements policy is a quid pro quo as against public works expenditure in the North. Mr. SYMES .- Rubbish ! Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I think the inter- jection of the honourable member for Egmont is excessively insolent and ill-timed. As I have already stated, the Government, by their own showing, spent during the year ended the 31st March last only £53,000 on land for settlements in Canterbury and Otago, and I say, there- fore, that his remark is improper. I 9.30. am quite prepared to meet the honour- able gentleman in fair argument, but when he interjects such a remark as " Rubbish " it simply shows that he does not know what he is talking about. You have rung the bell upon me, Sir, and I will only say, in conclusion, that there are other matters upon which I should like to have spoken before my time was up; but I have shown clearly that what we want is. first of all, to carry out the Liberal policy that has been laid down so far as land for settl- ments is concerned, independence of the Lon- 