it for that purpose ; but when it comes to this Bill it is a different matter. It does not con- cern me personally, for before this Council is abolished I shall very likely be abolished myself, and many honourable gentlemen are in the same position ; but still I believe this Bill has a clause in it by which this Chamber could be abolished without its own consent. I do not approve of it. I believe we are as Liberal as the members who occupy seats in another place ; that we are as closely in touch with the people of the colony; and that we can now even give those members a lead in matters of Liberal polities : and while we are in a position to in- darse, to alter, and to make suitable their Bills, I think we have the right to remain here, and to do the good work we are called upon to do. Sir, without saying anything further, I shall support the amendment and vote against the motion for the second reading of this Bill. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY. Sir, speaking to the amendment. I wish to correct a statement I made on a former occasion. I stated there was no national Government that I was ac- quainted with where the referendum was adopted. I was then corrected by my honour- able friend Mr. Rieg, who said that it was in Switzerland. On looking over the Constitution of Switzerland, I find that I was, to a certain extent, in error. Although the Federal Govern- ment itself has not the option of the referen- dum, it can be compelled by the cantons to use it before Federal laws which may be objected to have legal effect. Article 89 of the Federal https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 Constitution states : --- " Federal laws shall be submitted for the acceptance or rejection of the people if the de mand is made by 30,000 active citizens, or by eight cantons. The same principle applies to Federal decrees which have a general applica- tion and which are not of an urgent nature." To a certain extent I was wrong in making the statement. I also stated I was in favour of this Bill going into Committee; but upon ex- amination of the Bill I find that it is of such a dangerous character that I will vote to reject it on the second reading. And my reason is this : I can see in this Bill a latent power which may possibly be used to abolish this Council without this Council's consent. That is possible under the Bill. If a Bill is brought into the other House by Governor's message to abolish the Council. if that Bill passed the other House and is rejected by the Council, and again passed by the House of Representatives, and again rejected by the Council, it may, under the Bill, be sent to the electors by referendum. and if the electors confirm it, then the Bill is placed in the same position as though it had been passed by both branches of the Legislature ; but, being a repeal of a section of the Constitution Act, it has to be reserved for His Majesty's assent. and if that assent was given this Council would be in a fair way of being abolished without its consent. Now, I think that is a power contained in the Bill which does not appear on the face of it. I Debate adjourned. STATUTES REVISION COMMITTEE. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER asked leave to move, without notice. the addition of names to the Statutes Revision Committee. He found out this morning, after the Committee met, that the other House had added five names to their list of members. The practice was that the Committee was composed of an equal number of members from each House, and he would therefore ask the Council to pass the following motion : "That Standing Order No. 162 be suspended, and that the names of the Hon. Mr. Aikwright, Hon. Major Harris, Hon. Vir. Louisson, Hon. Mr. Pinkerton, and the Hon. Mr. Scotland be added to the Statutes Re- vision Committee " Leave to move without notice given. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK, while seconding the motion, thought it his daty to call attention to the great evil that was arising. The Council was under a system of having to cover what- ever number of members for joint Committees the other House chose to put down. The effective numerical strength of the Council was only two-thirds (or less) that of the House, and it was exceedingly inconvenient. In the case under notice, the joint Committee would consist of over thirty members -- a little Parlia- ment in itself, and very similar to the Educa- tion Joint Committee set up many years ago, which, in the end. as the result of additions, numbered between thirty and forty. He could not, by any possibility, understand what object there was in making the Committees so large. If they could go in the direction of reducing the number of members on the Committees of both Houses they would be doing a very good thing. His own view was that, so far as joint Committees were concerned, there should be about seven from each House The Hon. Mr. BOWEN quite agreed that the number appeared to be very unwieldly ; but there was no doubt that the Minister had been forced into the position of moving the addition of the names by the fact that the House of Representatives had added five names to the Committee, and it was necessary that the Council should be represented by an equal number. That was the universal custom. A joint Committee of thirty members was ex- ceedingly unwieldy, especially for the revising of statutes; but it would never do for the Revision Committee of each House to sit separately, because the great value of a joint Revising Committee was that members of both Houses consulted together, and those who attended that Committee could make the same explanations to their respective Houses as to the reasons for any proposed amerdment. The progress of Bills through both Houses was thus greatly facilitated. That advantage would be lost if the Committees sat separately. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI said, Nodoubt they were justified in protecting themselves against 