admitted by the Premier in his own Statement to be a shrinking one! And it is evidenced by a remarkable falling-off in the Customs revenue for the June quarter, for notwithstanding the fact that this quarter's Customs receipts have been enormously increased by the lavish ex- penditure, consequent upon the visit of their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess of York, there is a diminution in the June quarter's Customs revenue from the correspond- ing quarter of last year of no less than £24,148, which in round numbers is a shrinkage of $100,000 a year, though the comparison is made in that quarter which, I believe, is less likely to show a shrinkage than any other quarter will be. Because, as we have been told by the Premier in the Statement in two or three different parts, the visit of their Royal High- nesses the Duke and Duchess of York caused a considerable clearance of certain articles, more especially ad valorem articles, which go to swell the revenue. It is true-I have not time to read it - that the right honourable gentleman has endeavoured to mislead - not the House, for, of course, we know better-but to mislead the country-for it was the coun- try that he was addressing in the Financial Statement-by leading it to suppose that all the large expenditure consequent upon the visit of their Royal Highnesses took place in the last financial year. Sir, he knows full well that their Royal Highnesses did not arrive in this country for more than two months after the close of the last financial year ; and, therefore, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 the expenditure of the last financial year was in no appreciable degree-and, in fact, one may say, in no degree whatever-increased by the exceptional expenditure consequent upon the Royal visit. I am afraid that the evidence of the shrinkage of the Customs revenue portends a heavier fall than that which is foreshadowed by the Premier in the estimates for the current year. He estimates the decrease in Customs revenue will be $70,862. I only trust that may be the case, but I am afraid it will be exceeded, though he is bolstering up his expenditure in every possible way, because he wishes still to remain true to his false principle-that is, that to achieve popularity you must bribe the people. Sir, I find this passage in the State- ment,- " It must be pleasing to honourable members to know that the elasticity of finance, for which our colony is noted, still continues, and that, notwithstanding the concessions granted last year, our Customs revenue is buoyant, and more than realises expectations. The Customs revenue is the barometer of the spending power of the people, and also of our prosperity, and the indicator points between 'fair ' and ' set fair,' whilst the financial meteorologist an- nounces a blue and cloudless sky." That paragraph is put into the Statement when the Right Hon. the Premier has the salient facts before him of the shrinkage to which I alluded of nearly $24,148 on one item in one quarter, and that the first quarter of this financial year. Instead of telling us that the sky is blue, and that the meteorologist says that it is cloudless, it would have been better if he had remembered that the meteor- ologists sometimes say that there is a "wide- spread depression prevailing over all parts of New Zealand "; and that to my mind is a truer way of putting what the weather prophet would say if he had been allowed to say anything as to the question of the buoyancy of our reve- nue. Well, now having drawn the attention of the House to the dangerous condition of our Customs revenue-and here I would pause to say that the unfortunate facts in connection with the great staple industry of the colony- namely, wool, are such that it is not unreason- able to suppose, unless there is a sharp rise in the value of wool during the next year, a heavy depression will come upon the main industry of the colony such as has not prevailed here in that particular branch of industry since the year 1870. I, as an old farmer, can say with truth, I believe that in no time during all the years I have been engaged in the pursuit have I known prices nearly so low as at the present time; and the result must be a decrease in spending power, and a fall in the Customs re- venue. The result must be a hugely diminish- ing spending power on the part of both the em- ployer and the employed, and with the result that there will be less travelling upon the railways, less money spent on the Customs, less money spent on amusements of every possible kind ; and in all probability, a serious fall may be coming in each particular branch of the revenuo. Well, now, let us take another, also an important branch of the Government service - I allude to the railways. And here I would briefly say how unjust it is that we have not been furnishd with the details in connection with their management. It is all very well to say that the staff has been engaged in connection with the Royal visit, and that they have not been enabled to pre- pare returns. I maintain that no such thing really can be believed by any reasonable person. I have heard it stated, and I will not say I disbelieve it, that many of these returns we are now unavailingly asking for, and which it is said it is impossible to prepare from want of time, are at the present time in Ministers' own offices, tied up with blue ribband, and all ready to lay on the table of the House so soon as the financial debate is finished. The Hon. the Premier may laugh. Well, at any rate, I have heard that upon authority which I believe to be good, and if it is not so it ought to be so. We are now several months past the end of the financial year, and there is no possible reason why every account, and every detail of the administration of the past year, should not have been in the hands of members long before this. But, Sir, there is another misleading statement in the Financial Statement. Weare told in so many words, on the fourth page, that the railway revenue is in excess of the previous year's revenue by £99,028. That is another example of how faith is kept to the ear, but in reality is broken in fact. When the Right Hon. the Premier wrote the paragraph about the ex- cess of revenue from railways over last year of 