Sir, I maintain it was the duty of the Right Hon. the Premier, being Colonial Treasurer, when he became conscious that words of his own had created alarm throughout the colony as to our financial position, to have immediately taken steps to allay the alarm, and that instead of that sneer in his Financial Statement he ought to have seen the trade of the colony was not disturbed simply because he had used words, which, I presume, now he deems to have been ill-considered. Sir, he has led the people to suppose that those persons who have written upon his statement to the deputation mistook altogether what he said ; such, how- ever, was not the case-it was the very reverse of the case ; and here I may say that I have every reason to believe that the report which was published in the Lyttelton Times of the 3rd August, 1901, did actually represent the speech made by the Right Hon. the Premier to the deputation. As published in the Lyttelton Times, it bears within itself intrinsic evidence of its accuracy. And even were that not the case, I, at any rate, believe that a journal which is not an opponent of the Government, and which is so well conducted, would not pub- lish any statement unless the editor had taken trouble to verify the fact that it came from a responsible source. Though the Right Hon. the Premier tells us in his Financial Statement that the "penny-a-liners " have jumbled up the consolidated revenue with the loan account, such was not the case at all. I have here the actual words used by the Hon. the Premier. Mr. SEDDON. Reported to have been used. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 Captain RUSSELL .- As reported, I should say. Mr. PIRANI .- Reported by the Premier? Mr. SEDDON .- They were not reported by the Premier. Captain RUSSELL .- I have only an hour in which to speak ; please be quiet. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, keep that gentleman behind you quiet. Captain RUSSELL .- Whether this was re- ported by the Premier himself, as is generally believed, or whether it was reported by some special correspondent of the Lyttelton Times, I do not, of course, profess to know; but I reiterate again that the published report must have been brought under the notice of the Right Hon. the Premier; and if it misrepre- sented what he did say, it was his duty imme- diately to make public that it was incorrect, and that there was no cause for alarm. Mr. SEDDON .- The Lytteiton Times cor- rected itself in a day or two. Captain RUSSELL .- The report says,- " The spending policy had been increasing at far too rapid a rate, and it was time to go slow once more, or the consequence might be such as he scarcely liked to contemplate." And then the report continues,- " Discussing the ordinary balance-sheet of the colony, the Premier said this also had caused him very much anxiety. For the last financial year they had an excess of receipts over expenditure amounting to half a million ; in framing the estimates for the current year Captain Russell he was unable to make the receipts equal the expenditure. Parliament had made the people large presents by abatements in the Customs and postage, and now it would be necessary to look for more revenue to meet the deficiency. The position must be faced, but it was by no means a pleasant one." Now, that is the statement made by the Right Hon. the Premier, and I regret to say- Mr. SEDDON .- I have told you several times that I never made that statement. You might put it that I have been reported to have made it. Captain RUSSELL .- Then I will 8.0. put it in this way : that the Premier is reported to have made that statement; and I will add to that, he took no trouble to con- tradict it when he read it, which he un- doubtedly would have done if it had not been substantially accurate. Well, now, in examin- ing the figures in the Financial Statement- <!-- PageHeader=". -" --> and one is only able, at least I am only able-to take them in their broadest aspect, I admit the grave apprehension the Premier is reported to have expressed I express without hesitation. To me it seems that the finances are such as to lead every person who has the welfare of the colony and a belief in the virtues of economy at heart, to fear there is serious danger in front of us. And when I come to think what a huge increase in the departmental expenditure is proposed for this year, it seems to me that it would have been better if, instead of making these large increases in departmental expendi- ture, proper caution had been used in framing the estimates to prevent the possibility alluded to by the Premier of, in a short time, there being a necessity for further and increased taxation. The Premier says, and I am now quoting from the Financial Statement, which is not what he is reported to have said, but what he read to the House,-the Premier said this: "When increased taxation is re- quired to meet the ordinary expenditure, so surely will reductions in salaries eventuate." This seems to me to be a most discouraging statement for all the people who are employed It can mean only in the Government service. one thing : that the Premier fears that bad times are coming, and that his policy will be a policy which I maintain is a wrong policy-to reduce the salaries of those in Government employ. That it will be necessary to practise economy I recognise; but the whittling off of small slices of salaries as a national economy. which can have any practical result, is a thing I do not believe in at all. And when we know that in the report of the statement the Premier made to the deputation he said in so many words, " It will be necessary to look for more revenue," it appears to me a warning to the persons whose salaries are going to be increased this year that they will hold them in jeopardy unless their economical administration is such as to insure a balance of revenue over expendi- ture. There is an increase in the departmental expenditure this year of $280,670. This, in face of the diminishing revenue-a revenue 