Tuesday, 6th August, 1901. The Royal Visit - Rhodes Trust Bill-Cemetery Trustees Validation and Appointment Bill- Coal mines : Report of Royal Commission- John Falconer and Others-Wellington City Recrea- tion-ground Bill-Financial Statement -Delayed Questions-Maori History and Art -- The Licens- ing Laws - Asiatic Restriction -Municipal Corpo- rations Act-Gasworks Compulsory Purchasing- Stoke Orphanage-Volunteers' Lost Rifles-State Coal-mines-Old Soldiers' and Sailors' Claims- Rifle Clubs-Matakauui Land for Settlement- Cambridge Domain - Government and Ocean Accident Insurance Premiums-Crown Tenants' Rent Rebate-Cook Islands Native Land Court -Hotel Licenses-Police Offences Bill --- Rating on Unimproved Values Bill-Death of Sir John Mckenzie. Mr. SPEAKER took the chair at half-past ten o'clock. PRAYERS. THE ROYAL VISIT. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said there was a matter he wanted to bring under the notice of He the House in order to get it rectified. found that, on the motion of Mr. Monk, it had been ordered, "That there be laid before this House a return showing, in detail, the expendi- ture by the Government in connection with the visit to New Zealand of His Royal Highness the Duke of Cornwall and York." Now, these words, "in detail," should be struck out, for the Government had agreed to the motion on that understanding. It appeared. also, that on the 4th July a similar return was ordered, on the motion of Mr. Barclay, in these terms :- "That there be laid before this House a return showing the cost in every department of,-(1) The visit of the Imperial troops : (2) the visit of the Indian troops ; (3) the visit of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York, so as to show in one return the total cost to the colony in every way of these three events." Mr. MONK (Waitemata) had not thought that his motion had been duplicated. Mr. SEDDON said the motions could go all right, but these two words, "in detail," would be treated as if struck out. And it was better done now in the House, lest he might be accused later on of not carrying out the orders of the House. In the House he understood it was agreed that these words should be eliminated from the motion. Mr. MASSEY did not think so. Mr. SEDDON said, Of course, he was not in the House at the time, but he understood from his colleague, Sir Joseph Ward, who was in the House, that that was the fact. He certainly knew that in Cabinet it was agreed that the return should be given with those two words "in detail " struck out of the motion. The motion would then be practically the same as Mr. Barclay's. Mr. MONK said there was no mention made of striking out those words. He could only say the House had passed it in that form. Mr. SPEAKER said if the honourable gentle- man was not satisfied with the return when it for the information he desired. # RHODES TRUST BILL. Mr. RHODES (Ellesmere), in moving the second reading of this Bill, said he did not think it necessary to enter into any lengthy ex- planation. The object of the Bill was to relieve certain lands in the vicinity-almost, one might say, within the boundaries of the City of Wel- lington-that had been tied up by the pro- visions of a will, so that it could be cut up. If honourable members would read the preamble they would see, on page 2, that the land could not in any case be disposed of by way of sale, and could only be leased for a term not exceed- ing two years. This Bill, if passed. would remove those restrictions. He might say that all the members of the family who were in New Zealand, and were interested, had given their consent to the Bill. The Supreme Court had also given its approval ; but the Bill was necessary because a few minors could not give consent. The interests of the beneficiaries were safeguarded by section 5, which provided " That all moneys to be received on any sale or sales shall be paid to the trustees, to be invested by them in accordance with the trusts of the said will." So that, whoever inherits under the Bill would not be any worse off : in fact. pro- bably would be in a better position than if the land was still tied up when they became pos- sessed of it. In fact, this Bill would merely give effect to the policy they all thought so de- sirable, the cutting up and settlement of land. He did not know if his remarks had been suft- ciently clear, but in reply would be glad to answer any questions. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) might say that he should support the passing of this measure. It in no way varied the trust, but it did give power to cut up the land and to let it, and to deal with it to greater advantage, and that in the interest of the beneficiaries and to the benefit of the locality in which the land was situated. He also knew, from what had been stated in the House the other day, that. owing to an alteration in the law by the adoption of rating on unimproved value, this very land would have to pay considerably more. It bad gone up from about $30 to about $280 ; and if it was not cut up, that, of course, meant that the rates would be very heavy upon land that was not producing. If the land was ent up. that would be to the advantage of the district. and to the advantage of those who were to benefit under the trust. He, therefore, thought the House ought to be unanimous in giving the opportunity to the trustees of doing what was asked. There were no objections, and. owing to the altered conditions, the proposal was reason- able, and he would strongly support the Bill. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) said he sympa- thized with the principle of this Bill, seeing that its object was the cutting up of a large landed property contiguous to a populous city ; but he had hoped the honourable member, in introducing the Bill, would have given some reasons why specific legislation was required. 