sent easy and practical mode of arranging between the two branches of the Legislature when any difficulty occurs would probably not work so smoothly. At the present time, as I understand, if there are any amendments passed in a Bill which one branch of the Legislature objects to, there is generally a Conference ar- ranged, and, as a rule, things are amicably settled. But, to my mind, if there was a Referendum Act that arrangement would not so very frequently be carried out. Either House might be obstinate, and might say, " Oh, well, we shall not give way ; make it a rejected Bill, and let it go to the referendum." The consequence would be that wherever any difference of opinion occurred the Bill would Now, probably be sent to the referendum. Sir. I have been devoting my remarks so far to the first portion of the Bill. But when I turn to the second part of the Bill-namely, subsec- tions (2) and (3) of clause 4 - which set out what questions are to be referred to the vote of the people, I think it is even more objection- able. This clause provides for legislation not by Parliament, but by the people. Subsection (2) is as follows : " If a Bill passed by both Houses contains a provision that such Bill shall be re- served for the referendum." Now, what does that mean ? It means that the Bill is not a Bill as we enact it, but a proposition from Par- liament that such-and-such a thing may be done ; but it leaves it for the referendum to decide. Subsection (3) is even worse : it says, " If a resolution is passed by both Houses in favour of submitting to the referendum any legislative proposal (other than a Bill) set forth in such resolution." Now, what does that mean ? It means that whenever any difficult question comes up for Parliament to decide they will simply say, "We will not decide it ; we will let it go to the referendum." It seems to me that this is actually abrogating the powers and duties of Parliament. It seems to me to be. Sir, if I am not disrespectful in using the term, rather cowardly on the part of Parlia- ment, which is elected by the people. Because, Sir. I contend that both Houses are practically elected by the people. Although this House is nominative, still members are nominated by representatives elected by the people, so that to a certain extent both the Houses are elective. And it seems to me rather cowardly for a Parliament elected by the people and called together to legislate for the people to say when any difficult question comes before them, "We are not prepared to decide this ; we are not prepared to legislate on this question ; we shall leave it to the people to decide for themselves." It seems to me that this is an undignified position for Parlia- ment to take up. I think, Sir, if Parliament is worthy of the country it should be able to deal with any question that comes before it for the good of the people of New Zealand. I think, Sir, it is their proper duty, and if they cannot vote or enact what the great majority of the electors want, then, Sir, I think they should stand aside and make room for others who would do so. But I do think, Sir, this is ab- solutely handing over the very serious and responsible powers that are given to Parliament to the people. It would be simply a confession of inability to deal with those very subjects they are elected to deal with. Sir, there is an- other thing: If one branch of the Legislature had the Referendum Act hanging over it at all times it would result in this : They would either, as I said before, have to make nearly every Bill a rejected Bill or they would simply become a copying-machine. If this Council were bound either to pass the Bills enacted by the other branch of the Legislature or let them become rejected Bills, I say we would simply become a copying-machine of the other branch of the Legislature, and I do not think, Sir, that was ever intended. Former speakers have referred to Switzerland and to the state of things there, so that there is no need for me to go over that ground, except to say that the position of affairs there is very different from what they are in New Zealand. I understand that the refer- endum is in force in South Australia ; but I would ask honourable members how many times it has been put in force, because I do not remember, myself - I trust some member will correct me if I am wrong-but I do not re- member any case in which the South Australian Referendum Act has been put in force. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Oh, yes. The Hon. Mr. LOUISSON .- Well, I did not know of the cases. However, we do not hear much about it. I think in South Australia they manage to settle their legislation between the two Houses pretty well as we do here. Now, Sir, I have travelled a great deal from time to time, and a little lately, and I must say that wherever the legislation of New Zea- land has been mentioned I have always heard it spoken of in terms of very high praise. In fact, I have been very proud to hear people in other countries speaking in the very high manner in which they do of New Zealand legislation, and I think, Sir, that is one of the chief reasons why we do not want the Referendum Bill. 1 think, Sir, if we had been enacting legislation which was inimical to the interests of the people of New Zealand, and which brought ridicule and contempt upon us from other nations, we would require some drastic enactment to pre- vent such legislation. But, Sir, our legislation has not only been beneficial to the inhabitants of this country, but also has gained us the high commendation of other countries, and is being admired and discussed in all its bearings in most countries at the present moment, and that, I think, is one of the strongest reasons why we should not wish to interfere with our present mode. Our present mode has proved ample up to the present time, and until some such dead- lock as I have described arises in New Zealand politics to call for such a drastic cure I think we should not pass this Bill. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND .- Sir, if any one had told me a few weeks back that a Referendum Bill would form part of the Government pro- gramme for this session I would have been tempted to say "Impossible." Of course, in 