guarded expenditure," and they call it "reduc. ing the national expenditure to the lowest limit consistent with efficiency." But that is not the only fact : Let honourable members take up the estimates at the present time and they will see that the salary of nearly every high-salaried official is increased. An Hon. MEMBER .- Not that of the Auditor- General. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- The salary of the Auditor-General is not an annual appropria- tion; I am dealing with departmental expendi- ture under annual appropriation. Now, let me take Mr. John Ballance's year, because Mr. Ballance's second year of expenditure was less than it was in his first year. Take the year 1891-92 and compare it with the estimated ex- penditure for the year we are in at the present time. During the year 1891-92 the actual ex- penditure on the departments of the colony was £1,998,000. The estimated expenditure this year is £3,329,000, an increase in ten years of £1,331,000 in the expenditure on the ordi- nary departments of the Government of this colony. In his earlier days as Premier Mr. Seddon had those democratic ideas of sim- plicity which were worthy of him as he then was-a Liberal leader. But, unfortunately, he went to England, and got badly bitten with the military craze. Here is the proof of it: The Defence vote for 1895-96 was £68,000, but last year, excluding the cost of the South African contingents, it was £119,000, and this year it is estimated at £183,000, also excluding the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 South African contingents - as compared with 1895-96, an increased military expenditure this year of £115,000, and this does not in. clude contingent defence. I am one of those who think that, while it is desirable we should have our shores defended, and that our population should be in a state of readi- ness to meet any emergency that may reason- ably be expected to arise; but I protest from my place in this House, as one of the represen- tatives of the people, against the tendency which is showing itself at every turn to create a military caste in this colony. Let any man take the estimates and see how, within the last year or two, the number of permanent military officers has been enormously increased ; and I ask, Is this necessary? I do not think it is. We should encourage our Volunteers, and con- fine the permanent establishment to that small reasonable number of departmental officers that may be necessary at headquarters and in the four centres ; and, if we do that, New Zealand will be prepared to meet any foe that might come along. But during the last few years there has been an unreasonable tendency on the part of the Government to raise the military pro- fession to an abnormal and undesirable status. We want to remember that our chief line of de- fence here is the British navy. I am prepared to vote any reasonable sum that may be neces- sary to increase the number of warships that surround our shores to keep an invader off ; I am prepared to vote for any reasonable Mr G. W. Russell date, and to enable them to have a reasonable amount of ammunition ready in case of emer- gency. But the very idea of turning numbers of our young men into persons strutting about our streets, wearing swords, and epaulets, and red jackets, fancying themselves a different class or caste in the community, is, to my mind, utterly abhorrent ; and I venture to hope the Government will pause before taking any further steps in the direction of making this country more-what shall I say ?- some- thing in the nature of a third-class military State of some European empire. We must recognise that we are colonists, and that the nearer the approach to the simplicity of colo- nial life the more thoroughly we shall be able to work out our destiny. Unless we put our foot, while the country is young, on the ten- dency towards the military spirit which is so sedulously cultivated at present, there will be a tendency in the course of forty or fifty years towards the country having something in the nature of a standing army; and who is there that does not recognise what a menace to the liberties of the people the existence of anything of that sort may be? I think members will agree with me when I say that, bearing in mind the manner in which the Government have increased the borrowing, have increased the public works expenditure, the military expendi- ture, the loan expenditure, and the departmental expenditure, I am not far wrong if I say that prudence has been cast to the winds, and the philosophy of the Budget may be summed up in the Epicurean phrase, "Let us eat and drink, for to-morrow we die." Last year the House increased the salaries of Ministers, and increased their number, in order to enable them to trans- act to better advantage the work of the colony. Yet, I think, if we were to add on to the in- crease of salaries of Ministers and the increase in their number the cost of the Royal Commis- sions set up during the year, it would be recog. nised that a very enormous increase has taken place in administrative expenditure, for I hold that each of these Commissions has been merely doing work and making inquiries that could have been made, and ought to have been made, by a really capable Min stry. We have had, first of all, the Rivers Commis- sion, on which the member for Geraldine has been placed, and for which probably he has received certain emoluments. He has had his reward. We have had the Coal-mines Com- mission, and I venture to say that the work done by the Coal-mines Commission ought to have been done by the officers of the Mines Department, and that there was no need what- ever that a Commission should be appointed outside the Mines Department in order to deal with the facts obtained by that Commission. Now I come to the Commission on Federation. and what have we got for that #3,800 of ex- penditure? We provided some dozen or so of gentlemen with a trip through the Austra- lian Colonies-men who reported exactly as we knew they would report before they started. 