Government, Whether they will this session propose an alteration of the law to limit the power of levying distress for debt where the household goods of a person so levied upon may be proved to be worth not more than, say, $10? This question was really not so clearly expressed as he himself might wish it to be. But it was difficult to express in words. The object was that. where distress was levied, the house goods -or household gods - of a person should not be seized by the bailiff. As had been pointed out to him by two or three gentlemen of the legal profession, the Magistrates' Courts Act of 1893 (section 125) already exempted ' the personal and family clothing, the bed-clothes, bedding, and tools or implements of trade,' not exceeding in all $25 in value. The articles specifically mentioned might not be worth 55 or $6, but the bailiff, under the law, rust seize everything not specifically mentioned ; so that the $25 exemption was misleading, and was a myth. The bailiff, as stated, was restricted from seizing the personal clothing of a man, the bed- clothes, the bed he slept on, his blankets, his mattress, his bedstead, and his set of tools, but the rest of his household gods was swept away. Every stick of furniture and the pots and pans must be seized. The object of the question, then, as the House would see, was to amend the law in that respect. He had it on the testimony of Mr. Gordon, the bailiff of the Wellington Stipendiary Magistrate's Court- who, in addition to being a most exemplary and efficient officer, was a man of humane feeling - that, notwithstanding this clause in the Magistrates' Courts Act exempting to the value of $25, he was bound to seize anything and everything beyond the articles specified in section 125 of the Act. He therefore asked the Government to alter the law so that the fur- niture and the small belongings of a house might not be seized by a merciless bailiff, and the persons levied upon literally turned into the street." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he would not repeat the reply he had given last session, but would say he was still convinced that there was a necessity for an amendment of the law, and would give effect to what was intended under an amendment of the Magistrates' Courts Act. He did not himself think it was ever intended, or that it should happen, that people should be thrown out into the street without anything at all. He would bring in a Bill to deal with the question. ## PAYMENT OF MEMBERS. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Premier, Whether he will this session intro- duce a Payment of Members Bill? Again he would read a few words he had uttered in the House last session as bearing on this sub- ject :- "Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- I did not speak during the debate on the second reading of this Bill for the reason that in speaking upon the Governor's Salary and Allowances Bill I said all that I wished to say in regard to both ject which during the discussion of both Bills has been kept steadily in the background. Now, I am not one of those members who organized an opposition to the proposals of the Ministry. I am a loyal supporter of the Go- vernment. The branch of the subject that has not been brought to the front is the amount of . salary or honorarium paid to members, and on that subject I hold a very distinct opinion, which I will make very plain. It was said that to have made any proposal to the House on that subject during the present session would have been to take the country by sur- prise. It was also suggested that, in order that the country should not be taken by surprise, members of the House should broach the matter to their constituencies during the recess. That was, without doubt, a prudent course for the Government to suggest; but I have an opinion of my own on the point, which is this: that now is the time, and this House is the place, in which to broach the sub- ject to the constituencies ; not with a view to include the proposal in either of the Bills im- mediately before us, but with the view to the introduction of a measure in the next session. In the last Parliament I gave it as my opinion that there should be an increase in the salaries and in the number of Ministers; and I now speak in advance of a step which I hope to see taken during the next session-namely, that the honorarium or salary paid to members shall be increased to $300 a year. It is futile for members of this House, or any member of the public, to cavil at my opinions on this sub- ject or to cast imputations at me. I give at once and without doubt my clear and emphatic opinion upon the subject. I think a member of the Parliament of New Zealand is entitled to at least the salary paid to members of the Par- liaments of Australia-Queensland, New South Wales, and Victoria. We are equal in legisla- tive standing to the Parliament of any one of these colonies." He hoped the honourable gentleman would make good his promise to introduce the Bill. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said there had been an indication of something of this kind, he thought, in the Speech from the Throne, and there was every probability that later on this session a measure bearing on the question would be introduced. WELLINGTON HARBOUR BOARD. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Premier, Whether the Government will intro- duce a short Bill this session to afford redress to those persons resident in the City of Welling- ton whose land was compulsorily taken by the Wellington Harbour Board ? This case, he knew, was familiar to the honourable gentleman. He (Mr. Fisher) had brought the matter before the House during the last session of the last Parlia- ment, when Mr. Joyce, the honourable member for Lyttelton, brought up the report of the Petitions A to L Committee on the petition of Edmond Carrigan and others, and moved that the report do lie on the table. On his (Mr. 