As to the land in question, the question had been brought under his (Mr. Seddon's) notice by Mr. Old and his friends, who advocated that some relief should be given to the appli- cant ; and, as regarded what the member for Franklin had stated, as to the extensive nature of the improvements Mr. Old had made on the land, instead of their being as stated by the honourable gentleman, one man for six weeks could do all that had been done in the way of im- provements. The application had been before both the late Minister and the present Minister of Lands : and he might say that the Govern- ment were not prepared to allow people to force this colony or the Government into arbitration just as they liked ; and it was simply non- sensical to say that any person who had a grievance, either fancied or solid, should have the right to force the Government into arbitration on that question. It was for the Government to do what was just, right, and in the best interests of the colony. In this case the Minister of Lands had the solution of the matter, and he had practically a free hand in regard to it. Therefore, he did not see that there need be any talk about it. Of course, the member for the district, in bringing the matter up. wanted to let his constituents know that he was doing his duty. They therefore had this little " fare-up," and the member for Franklin was patting the honourable member for Egmont on the back. He had an object in doing so; but the Minister of Lands was the unfortunate man who had to do his duty, and they ought to leave him to do his duty. Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera) did not think it was right or just to treat Mr. Old in the way he had been treated. Even on the statement of the Premier the Government need not be afraid to submit this matter to arbitration. The ques- tion had been before the Waste Lands Com- mittee on several occasions, and, if it were such an insignificant matter as the Premier stated, he need not be afraid to send it to arbitration. If the (Government were not prepared to give petitioner fair consideration, and do what was just, the House ought to force the Government to do it by carrying a resolution to that effect. He trusted a resolution would be moved by the member for Egmont. No individual in the community should be allowed to suffer through the mistake of a Government department. Every consideration should be given, in his opinion, to the back-block settlers, who had hardships and difficulties to endure which many honourable members were not aware of, having no experience in the real work of settlement. In the interests of justice the matter ought to be referred to arbitration. If the case for the department was a good one the Government had nothing to fear, and, should the subject- matter be submitted to arbitration, the peti- tioner would not receive more than he was entitled to. He therefore trusted the Minister would submit what appeared to him to be both equitable and just. Mr. LANG (Waikato) said he very much regretted that the Premier should treat this VOL. CXVII .- 33. importance to the gentleman concerned. The Premier had stated that there were little or no improvements on the place ; whereas it had been proved that Mr. Old had spent £150 on improving the particular part of the property that had been referred to. Then, the Premier stated that the matter had been "looked into"; that was very little satisfaction to the petitioner, if something more substantial did not arise from it. This matter had been " looked into " now for two or three years, and yet the petitioner had received no com- pensation whatever, and the Government would not even allow the matter to be de. cided by arbitration. Now, he wished to indorse all that had been said by the honour- able member for Egmont, the honourable member for Franklin, and by the honourable member for Hawera. He happened to have known Mr. Old a good many years, and he had been several times on the property, and knew When Mr. all the particulars of the case. Old first thought of buying this property he believed there were no other settlers in the district at all. Mr. Old went down to the Land Office to make inquiries, and was shown a map of the property, and he, with another gentleman who was with him, pointed out to the Com- missioner that there was a certain bend in this river not shown on the map, and they asked if the land he was acquiring went right down to the river and had a river frontage. They were told distinctly more than once, that "the land went right down to the river, bend or no bend." He wanted to point out that Mr. Old purchased the property chiefly on account of the flat along the river, which consisted of 278 acres, and which was the pick of the whole block. With- out that land the block was worthless, so much so that when unfairly deprived of it, he had to purchase seven hundred acres from an adjoining neighbour in order to work the section properly. Mr. Old made the improvements already men- tioned : but, when the lease was made out and sent to him for signature, he found it had then been discovered that the land did not go down to the river, and he refused to sign the lease. The department admitted a mistake had been made, and told him he was entitled to compensation if he liked to throw up the land: or, if he liked to stick to the land, they would see that this portion was purchased from the Natives, and he could take it up at the same price at which he had ac- quired the rest of the block. Now, being a bond fide settler, and not wishing to make anything out of the Government by way of compensation, Mr. Old said if he got the land he would be quite satisfied. It was agreed that the depart- ment should purchase the land from the Na- tives, and, when purchased, he should have the first right to acquire it on the terms he (Mr. Lang) had just mentioned. During this time Mr. Old had several offers from the Natives to sell this land. The department, however, asked him not to interfere, and they told him the Government would purchase the whole block of 900 acres, and would give him this piece of land 