Hon. MEMBERS .- Oh ! The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- Yes, I am- honestly. I would rather retire from political life to-morrow than make myself one of a party who wish to force down the throats of people what they do not want. I say it is not right. If a printers' union or a carpenters' union make representations to the honourable gentle- man, or to the Labour Department, those representations are very properly listened to. Now, in the face of the numbers of persons affected by this Bill saying that they do not want it. I ask, is it right or wise to thrust it upon them ? I say this Bill should have come from the other Chamber, and this Council may find itself in a false position if it is going to include in the Bill those clauses which the people concerned object to. I would rather the department had brought down a Bill similar to the South Australian Shop-hours Act. That Act has worked fairly satisfactorily, and I believe it would suit the peculiarities of this colony. Again, why not allow shopkeepers and those employed in offices to adopt the local option principle ? It has been adopted through- out the colony in regard to shopkeepers fixing the day for the half-holiday. The municipal authorities call a meeting of those interested for the purpose of deciding what day will suit the majority. Why should not that option principle be extended a bit further ? I would give power to those affected by this Bill to meet in a similar manner, and would say, "Meet amongst yourselves and decide as to the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 hours you are going to close, and so forth, and arrange what would suit the majority." It is not right in these smaller matters to be con- tinually having one portion of the people at loggerheads with the other, and thus causing irritation. I have received innumerable letters objecting to certain provisions in this Bill. There is one, for instance, from a number of chemists objecting to being included. I think it would be better to put off the Bill for another six months, so that further consideration may be given to the new provisions of the measure ; and if any honourable gentleman is prepared to move in that direction I shall be prepared to support him. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- As one who has been intrusted with something like a hundred and fifty petitions from members of the staffs of various banks in the colony, I feel that I ought to make some remarks upon the question of the application of this Bill to such institutions. I am very sorry to see that proper consideration has not been given to the representations of these gentle- men. Deputations representing the whole of the banks in Wellington waited upon the Labour Bills Committee, and those gentlemen pointed out the great difficulties which would arise from the operation of this Bill. Now, I will give some of my own observations. I regard the staff of a bank as altogether on a different footing from that on which the staff of a warehouse or any other similar institution stands. First of all, let us look at it in this way: Supposing you provide that the officers must leave the bank within half an hour of the ordinary time of closing on Saturday, or on other days, and a large quantity of money has been paid in in the way of country cheques, or cheques from places at a distance-we know that it is necessary according to law to get those cheques away that night for clearance by the country banks-then if you only allow the officers half an hour in which to do the work the thing would be absolutely impossible. Then, take the 4th of the month, or the 20th of the month : it is usual for merchants to make their bills payable on the 4th or the 20th of the month - mostly on the 4th. An enormous amount of additional work has therefore to be done on those two days, and if the officers were only to work during the hours now proposed it would mean that a very much larger staff would have to be engaged. The staff of these institutions is regulated according to the usual business transacted, and if on the 4th of the month you closed the bank at one o'clock or five o'clock, as the case may be, the officers would have no possible chance of getting through with their work. They necessarily have to work longer on those days. The only consideration you can give to them is to allow them overtime. That is a very small matter compared with the great necessity there is for these great institutions being able to carry on their work properly, for there is no possible chance of their putting off their work, as in the case of an ordinary mercantile house or warehouse-the work in 1 which houses may sometimes be put off till next day. Therefore, the application of this Bill to the banks will result in their having to employ very much larger staffs to cope with this extra work only, or else the work will be badly done, and great mistakes may occur. I quite agree with what the Hon. Mr. Jennings has said-that the Council ought to give con- sideration to the representations of the peti- tioners. My sympathies are with those who have been overworked in the past, and there is no doubt that the staffs of banks have been worked very much longer than they ought to have been worked. There is no doubt about that ; but the thing is quite different now. I believe those institutions have taken warning from remarks made in this Council, and the warning held over them on the introduction of this Bill last year, and therefore they have altered their ways. I think the Council would do well to give much consideration to the pro- visions of this Bill, and to pause before it imposes on these institutions a system which 1 I am quite certain will be unworkable. The Hon. Mr. BOLT. - There was one matter which came before the Committee, and as to which evidence was taken, and that was: it was shown that the conditions of labour in both warehouses and banks had improved very much With during the past two or three years. regard to warehouses, if honourable members will look at the evidence they will see that there is uniform testimony as to the friendly feelings and the good conditions which exist in ware- houses at the present time. Wherever there is 