the splendid progressive legislation which has passed these Houses of Parliament, and which has won the admiration of the world and drawn to us the attention of politicians everywhere, neither of these propositions could be proved, and that consequently there is no necessity for making a demand for such a reform as this. We have, as I said before, the freest Constitu- tion on earth. No republic could be freer than ourselves ; we can do anything we like under it ; and I think it is a great mistake for us to hamper that by such doubtful innovations as are proposed in this Bill. We have only to look back on the last few years and see how the political machine has been working. During the first period of the present Administration the Legislative Council kept in check the pro- gressive legislation until such times as the people had exercised the referendum by return- ing to Parliament those who were in favour of and were promoting that legislation. Then, when the Legislative Council found that these expressed the wish of the people at large it gave in handsomely and passed the legislation. I do not think, Sir, there is any great loss to be suf- fered by delaying matters of this sort. I think, from what I know, that the result of the delay in the past was that great improvements were made in the measures, and that in consequence of this they came to stay, and became acceptable to the people, and not only acceptable, but use- ful. It is under the present Constitution that all this splendid law has been passed. It is https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 under it that we are growing prosperous, and that we are attracting the attention of the world ; and, for my own part - and it is my honest advice to every one-I think we should / http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero be careful before we tamper with a Constitution that has worked so admirably. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .-- Sir, I quite agree with the honourable gentleman who has just sat down that it is indeed a serious matter to make such a change in our Constitution as is proposed in this Bill. The honourable gentle- man has referred to the referendum in Switzer- land, and I need not further refer to its opera- tion there. I will deal with the referendum in the American States, in an English-speaking community like our own, from whom we may learn what the referendum properly means. Sir, in no part of the world that I know of is the referendum used by the General Govern- ment. It is not used by the General Govern- ment in Switzerland, but simply by the cantons, which are in the same position, I may say, as the provinces were in New Zealand before the abolition of provincial government. It is not used by the General Government in America : it is used by the States. What is the reason ? The reason is that in America the sove- reignty is vested in the people of the States, and each State has its own primary law, as it is called-that is, it is declared in the State Constitution that certain subjects cannot be dealt with by the Legislature without the consent of the people as declared by the re- forendum vote. That is the primary Con- stitution. The people themselves enforce on Hon. M. Twomey shall be, and that primary law cannot be altered without the consent of the people. That is a very different state of things from what is proposed in this Bill. Why have matters been so arranged in America ? The people have actually found from time to time that they cannot trust the Legislature with legislation for their benefit. The legislators were so often bought over by wealthy syndicates and com- panies to pass laws that were not in the interest of the public at large, but in the interests of these particular syndicates or companies, and it was therefore resolved by the people that the power should be taken out of the hands of the Legislature in various directions. That was mainly the cause of the referendum being so largely instituted in the United States. 1 will give a few of the instances of subjects that the American States Legislatures cannot deal with without the consent of the people. First of all, there is revenue and taxation. In pro- viding revenue and imposing taxation the Legislature is restricted. If they propose to exceed certain limits the question must be submitted to the people. In regard to educa- tion, the people by the primary law have indi- cated that the Legislature cannot touch educa- tion in the public schools in certain directions without first submitting the que-tion to them. 1 Then, with regard to the organization of Militia the power of the Legislature is limited. As for dealing with railways, the same steps must be taken. In that matter the powers of the Legislature are very much curtailed. It was found that the Legislature was giving away 1 the estate of the people, and giving privileges 1 in all directions, and therefore their powers were limited. The people also deal with such a matter as the fixing of the rate of interest. With regard to the fixing of the salaries of State officers, and officers of the public depart- ments. the people are also consulted. The establishment of banks and reformatories is also referred to the people in almost all the States. Defining the relations between hus- band and wife is also a matter that is dealt with by the people. They must also be con- sulted with regard to the law between debtor and creditor. The State also insists that if the Legislature wishes to fix the length of a day's work the people must be consulted by referendum. The people also have a voice in the length of the session. The primary law fixes the length of the session - the members are evidently paid according to the length of the session-and if the Legislature . wish to exceed the usual length , and therefore 1 exceed the expense allocated for the carrying-on of the work, the permission of the people must be given to any extension. The same principle is applied to the counties and the towns. They have their own Constitution. as we have in Now Zealand under the County Councils Act and the Municipal Corporations Act. It is truly astonishing to one to find the number of things that must be submitted to the people in these counties and towns. The power is limited in every direction. In fact, the Legislature is 