would be dealt with at once. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said a very large number of clubs had applied to be approved by the Government, but they had not stated whether they were within the five-mile limit mentioned in the regulations, and the applications had been returned for further par- ticulars. He might state, however, that the other day he accepted a large number of these clubs. He would like them to be ready for the sumner shooting season, and he had given orders that all the orders should be brought up, and he would agree to them, contingent on the regulations being complied with. If they did not comply with the regulations, of course they would not be in time for the season ; but a large number had already been approved. Mr. RHODES ( Ellesmere) asked if the Pre- mier would give the House a list of those clubs that had been accepted. Mr. SEDDON said, If the honourable gentle- man would mention any one in his own district he would tell him at once what the position in respect to it was. MATAKANUI LANDS FOR SETTLEMENT. Mr. BENNET (Tuapeka) asked the Govern- ment, If they will resume a block of Crown lands in the Matakanui district, with the view of having the same thrown open for close settlement ? He asked this question last ses- sion, and the Minister of Lands premised during the recess to see the land for himself; but doubtless he had not found it convenient to get away on account of the work he required to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 do in the North Island. The people of this district had been applying for land for the past twenty-five or thirty years, and as the land in this district was considered fit and suitable for the purpose, and it could be obtained, it was promised that the Minister of Lands should visit the district and inspect the land ; but he believed that had not been done. During the election-time. when he visited the place, the electors asked him if he would endeavour to get land for them. He told them he would see the land, and he did so. He felt thoroughly satis- fied that it was perfectly suitable for the purpose of cutting up for close settlement, and, although it was generally contended that if they took the frontages it would destroy the run, he felt convinced that that would not be the case, as the people asking for the land were prepared to take up the rough portions along with the good, from the frontage to the bound- ary of the run. Had the Minister of Lands found it convenient to have gone to see the land he would have found a number of the settlers waiting on him to explain their wants. There was also a considerable number of old miners down there, who had been in the district for about thirty years, and they were anxious to get a bit of land to settle on, but at present they were not able to get it. He hoped the Minister would give him a favourable answer to the question. He had brought this matter before the Hon. John Mckenzie when he was there, and had told him what had taken place, and Mr. Lethbridge saw the land was suitable for settlement, and they wanted it, they would get it. He (Mr. Bennet ) repeated this last session to the Minis- ter of Lands : but, of course, he had not seen the land. He hoped he would take the earliest opportunity of seeing it. It was Crown land, and there was nothing to pay for it. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the attention of the Land Purchase Inspector would be directed to the matter mentioned in the ques- tion. # CAMBRIDGE DOMAIN. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked the Premier, Whether he intends to act on the re- port of Mr. Northcroft with regard to the Cam- bridge Domain ; and, if not, whether he will take steps to have a further inquiry made ? This question referred to a matter that had been in abevance for some time. The Cambridge Domain Board consisted of five members, and in February last a vacancy was caused by the death of one of the members. The Borough Council recommended one gentleman for ap- pointment and the Domain Board recommended another. Under the circumstances, the Minis- ter of Lands suggested that a public meeting should be held at which a gentleman to fill the vacancy should be selected. The public meet- ing was held, and the gentleman who had been recommended by the Porough Council was se- lected by a majority of four votes only. The Domain Board considered that to be a vote of want of confidence and rosigned in a body. The Minister of Lands was informed that they had resigned, and suggested that a public meeting should be held to consider the whole matter, and also wrote and thanked them for theirservices. A public meeting was held on the 11th April, and it was called together by a requisition signed by 258 people ; and that meeting was thoroughly representative, as far as he understood, and, judging from the names of those who signed the requisition, he was quite certain it was. This meeting recommended that the Board should consist of seven members, and sug- gested the names of members who would form a Board that would give more representation to Cambridge West. which had previously been a bone of contention. These resolutions vere passed unanimously and forwarded to the Go- vernment. The reply of the Minister of Lands was contained in the Gazette of 9th May. in which the Minister cut the Board in half ard appointed two weak Domain Boards, instead of two strong ones. No one that he know of asked for this solution of the difficulty. if difficulty there was. Exception was taken to this division into two Boards, and a telegram was sent by the secretary of the Liberal or- ganization to the Premier, and the Premier promised that Mr. Northcote, the Resident Magistrate there, would go down and report. Mr. Northcote did go down and inspected the books and minutes which he got from the Chairman of the Domain Board, and, he believed, reported. He now asked the Pre- mier whether he would act on that report, or 