tion of our representation. Now, why is this extra 28 per cent. given to the country districts ? I will tell the honourable gentleman. In the first place, everybody knows that in the large cities and boroughs public opinion is more acute. The people are able to walk a few hun- dred vards and record their votes. In those cities there are the large political organizations of the colony, which are able to make them- selves felt more or less as the election comes on. There are the large metropolitan newspapers, which are able to influence public opinion very much more than they can in the country dis- tricts. Those are the reasons why a handicap has been placed upon the cities by which the country districts have an extra 28 per cent. given to them. But as I have already shown, it is not given in particular electorates, and therefore this Bill has no application. First, you ascer- tain the total rural population of the colony, and then the gross total is obtained by adding 28 per cent. I sympathise with the remarks of the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) as to the sincerity of the honour able gentleman who has introduced this Bill, but I venture to say this proposal to take away the 28 per cent. which is given to the country districts, emanates from a small coterie in the City of Christchurch, and one which does not usually take a broad view of the large considera- tions involved in many matters of legislation. That being the case, although I do not desire to move that the Bill be read a second time this https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 day six months, I shall certainly feel it my duty to record my vote against the proposal now before the House. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, on a question of such grave importance as this I should be wanting in my duty did I not express the views I hold in regard to this matter. I do not believe in attacking-because this appears to be an attack-the quota that is given to the country districts. I do not see why the suburban populations should be deprived of the 28 per cent. That is what the honouralle gentle- man is proposing, I believe. By what argument can that be sustained? I say there are large country districts that are a hundred miles long, and there are suburban electorates where the surroundings are the same, and the conditions are the same, and I do not see why this attempt should be made in respect to the suburban dis- tricts. If, Sir, the main issue is to be raised -the issue of town versus country, and the taking away of the 28 per cent. from the quota -- then I can understand it. If this is the thin end of the wedge, and it is to be applied to the suburban populations with a view of ultimately taking it into the country districts, then I can understand that there is some force in the position taken up by the honourable gentle man. Take, for instance, the district of the Wellington Suburbs. Surely those people fol lowing, as they are, farming and agricultural pursuits, should not be treated differently from those following the same occupations further Otaki. The member for Otaki represents part of the Lower Hutt, and at the same time he represents all along the coast. But this is a suburban district, and probably would come under this Bill. Then, I say you are injuring the farmers of Otaki and right along the coast by taking away their privilege of 28 per cent. Why should this be the case? There may be some little centres or suburban electorates that are probably equal to Christchurch, and might be dealt with in the same way. But there are others again where, to get the necessary quota, you have to go far afield in the country districts; and those country representatives, if the Bill became law, would have the privilege they now en- joy taken away. I think strong cause should be made out before we make this alteration, and I believe it is sound in principle that if we are going to do anything with the represen- tation or electoral law or system it should not be done piecemeal or by a Bill like this, singling out certain electorates, and not interfering with others. I believe that is the proper course to adopt on the main question of urban, suburban, and country representation. I may say at once I shall not be a party to taking from the country representation the quota they enjoy. Mr. J. W. THOMSON (Clutha) .- Even with the advantage of the 28 per cent. the country electoral districts are very large. In the dis- trict I represent there are nearly forty small centres, and any one who contests an election has to address the electors at nearly that num- ber of places. There are districts even larger, territorially, than the district I represent, and in these districts there is a very scattered population. Mr. ELL .- I am not touching country dis- tricts at all. Mr. J. W. THOMSON .- I do not know what the honourable gentleman means if he is not touching the large country districts. That is not in accordance with his speech. In the large towns a candidate may not have to address more than three or four meetings; but in & country electorate he has often to speak at about forty different places, and this is rather too much for any man. I have always opposed legislation of this kind, and intend doing so on this occasion. Mr. ELL .- The honourable member for Ric- carton stated that I did not understand what I was talking about. If the honourable gentle- man will take the trouble to look at the elec- toral maps, which he must accept as official, and examine the tables in connection with them, he will see that in connection with Christchurch the Commissioners state there is a rural population of about two hundred and sixty in the Christchurch electorate. He will see that there are no less than 1,445 of rural popu- lation in the City of Dunedin, according to the Commissioners, and that in a town like Inver- 