engaged at Home to fill the office. Up to the present, however, he had not appeared. As there had been some change in the management of the Tourist Department lately, he wished to put the question to the Minister in charge in order to find out whether he was still of opinion that a balnealogist was required, and, if so, whether he would shortly appear on the scene ? Sir J. G. WARD (Minister of Public Health) presumed that by a balnealogist the honourable gentleman meant a medical officer who should be attached to the baths. Mr. HERRIES said the explanation previ- ously given was a general superintendent of all the baths of the colony. Sir J. G. WARD said the whole question of the working of the baths was at present under the consideration of the Government. For him- self, he thought something would require to be done to bring them more up-to-date than they were at present. He did not think, however, that Dr. Kenny, Resident Medical Officer of Rotorna, who had done good work in the past, should be displaced. If anything was done it should be in the direction of getting a man who had had wide experience of thermal springs in the Old Country, to control and improve the baths of the colony generally. It would pay the colony to do so. The matter, as he had already said, was now under the consideration of the Government. RAILWAY FREIGHT ON MANURE. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether he will abolish the railway freight on the carriage of manure for the use of country settlers throughout the colony, and thus encourage the improvement of land ; and confer the same privilege on all parts of the colony as has been conferred on those districts where lime is found, and is carried free of rail- way charge ? The Minister would agree with him that if ever there was a time in the history of the colony when the farmers should be en- couraged it was the present time. He was very loth to ask the Minister to carry anything free on the railways ; in fact, he was rather of opinion that nothing should be carried free ; at the same time, as lime was carried free in certain parts of the colony, he thought in other parts of the colony where lime could not be easily obtained, that other manures should be carried free. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said he must give a similar reply to that which he recently gave to the honourable member for Waikato. He did not think anything should be carried free on the railways; and if it was to become a question whether, because lime was carried free, they should therefore carry manures free, then the alternative was whether the free carriage of lime should be abolished. He might say that the free carriage of lime had not been availed of to anything like the extent that was anticipated. While he thought ma- nures should be carried at the lowest possible rate, he felt it was, as a matter of principle, a Manures and the haulage also cost money. should be carried at the lowest possible rate ; but he hoped that the good-sense of the settlers would enable them to see that some charge should be made for a service that could only be performed at a certain cost to the colony. If they kept on giving free carriage first upon one article and then another, it must inevitably result in the amount being provided by tax- ation in some other form. LAWRENCE RAILWAY OFFICES. Mr. BENNET (Tuapeka) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will during the financial year authorise the erection of suitable offices at the Lawrence Railway-station ? The rail- way traffic at this place had considerably in- creased, and the present accommodation was far from adequate. In bad weather there was no shelter for passengers or people waiting for the train. It was absolutely necessary that improvements should be made. The buildings were not only unsuitable but unsightly in the extreme, and he hoped the Minister would give him a favourable answer. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said it was contemplated making improvements at the Lawrence railway-station yards as soon as the necessary funds were available. # GREY DISTRICT HOSPITAL AND CHARITABLE AID BOARD. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) asked the Govern- ment, Whether they will reconsider their de- cision not to allow the appeal lodged by the Greymouth Borough Council against the levy made by the Grey District Hospital and Chari- table Aid Board ; if not, will they state why they refuse to grant to the Borough Council the right to appeal against what is considered an unjust levy ? It appeared that the Grey County Council, which represented the largest majority on the Charitable Aid Board, had made a levy upon the local bodies-that was, the Borough Councils in that county : but, in making that levy, they had not taken into account the reve- nue derived from the rates levied upon mining property. The Borough Council contended that all rates received - whether from mining or general property-should be taken into ac- count in order to base the calculation as to what cach local body should contribute. Against that decision the Borough Council of Greymouth had appealed, and passed a resolution and had forwarded that resolution to the Colonial Secre- tary. Section 26 of " The Hospitals and Charit- able Institutions Act, 1885," made it mandatory on the Colonial Secretary to grant the appeal. He was very anxious to know on what ground the department or the Government declined to grant the appeal. He believed it was said that the same question that was now raised was decided by a prior Magistrate some three years ago : but as the Magistrate's decision unfortu- nately in these matters was final and conclusive, the local body for whom he was asking this question deemed it right that this new levy 