Railway in hand at the Waihi end, so as to provide work and prevent many of our popu- lation leaving the colony ? In putting this question to the Premier he need not say much in support of it : it was plain, and explained itself. A number of people were going from the district, as they were unable to get work, and, as the Waihi-Paeroa Railway was now being pushed on, they might be em- ployed on the other end of it, and so kept in the country. The work had to be done, and the sooner it was done the sooner it would pay the Government. He would therefore urge on the Premier that. in order to stop these people from leaving the colony. this particular work should be started at the Waihi end and continued on. It was a pity the company had dismissed the men. They had no chance of going into the other mines, and, while many had had to go without work. others had had to leave the dis- trict and the colony. Some of the mines had to pay 437 10s. a day for coal because there was no railway to bring it to Waihi. This was crippling the mining industry. They had de- cided in this House that the railway was to be completed to Waihi, therefore why not put on enough men and complete it at once. The cost would be just the same, and the Government would get a quicker return for the money they had already spent and were spending upon the line. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, If what the honourable member had stated was true no one regretted it more than he did -that the company had vented its feeling on those of its employés who had given evidence in the Court. Such action could only bring about a state of things that any employer would regret. That was his honest con- viction. At the same time, while the Government could not much further increase expenditure on public works, he would discuss the matter with the Minister for Public Works, and, if it was found that men could be employed with advantage at the Waihi end, they would probably be taken on to push the railway to a completion. Of course, it was the desire of the Government to meet difficulties of the kind as far as possible. If any attempt was made by employers or by employes to intimidate, he would be found taking the part of those who were intimidated. It seemed very wrong to punish men for giving evidence. He only hoped it was not true. At all events. the Government would do their best to keep the men in the colony. and. under authorised expenditure, to give them employ- ment. IMPORTATION OF SADDLERY. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Defence. Why the Government have im- ported saddlery from England, and whether the importation is being continued ? He was informed that the Government had imported saddlery for military purposes to a much larger extent than public requirements would warrant. and some of it, it was asserted, was being used for ordinary trade purposes. The Govern- ment professed a desire to help those who made the action of the Government in importing had diminished the means by which a large number of persons were fully employed. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, in the first place, it was a moral impossibility for anything introduced by the Goverment in this way to find its way into ordinary trade. Secondly, he, as Defence Minister, although power had been given to import uniforms under the Defence Act. had been very careful, and had given the necessary certificate in very few cases. He had made up his mind that these would only be given in cases where the same could not with advantage be procured in the colony, as was the case in regard to certain officers' uniforms. As regards saddlery, he had made up his mind - after the way in which our own saddlers had come to the assistance of the Government in respect of saddlery for the contingents, and as our saddlery was, in his opinion, equal to much of the English-made saddlery-to do nothing to injure our trade, but, on the contrary, he would do his best to further it. PASSENGER STEAMERS BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) asked the Ge- vernment, If they will, at an early date, con- sider the advisability of purchasing or building three steamers of 10,000 tons, or thereabouts, to develop the passenger trade between New Zealand and Australia ? The question of pas- senger traffic between New Zealand and the Australian Continent was one of supreme im- portance, and it was generally considered that the passenger traffic could be largely developed by the introduction of passenger steamers of large size, and if the rates were made more reasonable than they were at present. It was well known that there were hundreds of people who declined to come to New Zealand owing to the poor class of vessels at present in the trade. One of the most prolific sources of wealth to this colony would be the tourist traffic. which might be made to do the same for New Zealand as it had for Switzerland. The question was now engaging the attention of Australian states- men, and a motion had been passed by the Federal Senate appointing a Committee to in- quire into the question of the Commonwealth undertaking the construction of large passenger steamers to ply between Australia and Tas- mania. He understood that the Premier had had some communication on this subject while in Australia with the Commonwealth authori- ties, but at that time they seemed to be indis- posed to consider the question of uniting with New Zealand in establishing a passenger service by means of large steamers ; but now that a ser- vice to Tasmania had been mooted the Common- wealth Government might co-operate with New Zealand in the direction he had indicated. He trusted the Premier would take the matter into serions consideration, and see whether something could not be done in the matter. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said this was a very large question, and a very important one. It was necessary that something should be done 