should sign the memorandum of association for a number of shares, not less than the qualifica- tion, if any, or sign and file with the Registrar a contract in writing to take from the company and pay for the qualification shares, if any. If the list of persons who have consented to be directors contains the name of any person who has not given his consent, the person who hands in the list shall be liable to a fine of $50. As members know, there have been cases in the colony in which the list of directors has con- tained the names of persons who have not given their consent to act in that capacity. They were never consulted about it, and they had never consented; and to prevent anything of the kind in the future it is advisable that a substantial penalty should be imposed. Sub- clause (3; of clause 4 provides that the section shall not apply to a company registered before the commencement of this Act, or to a com- pany which does not issue any invitation to the public to subscribe for its shares, or to a pro- spectus issued by or on behalf of a company after the expiration of one year from the date at which the company is entitled to commence business. That, I think, is a necessary proviso to have in connection with the company law of the colony. Clause 5 provides that it shall be the duty of every director who is by the regula- tions of the company required to hold a specified share qualification, and is not already qualified, to obtain his qualification within two months after his appointment, or such shorter time as may be fixed by the regulations of the com- pany. Judging by some matters that have been recently brought under the notice of honourable members in the House, a provision of the kind http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero is certainly required. Regarding the allotment of share capital, there are several important provisoes in the Bill dealing with the matter, both as to the restrictions and the allotment of capital. If members will read the clauses they will find the allotment is safeguarded in a way that should commend itself to the House, and I really do not think that any particular ex- planation is required from me with reference to these clauses. Sir, the Bill has been in the hands of honourable members for a consider- able time past, and doubtless they are as familiar with the whole of the proposals as I am myself. Mr. PIRANI .- What about the audit ? Sir J. G. WARD .- Regarding the question of audit, I am inclined to think it would be a good thing to give the shareholders power if they so desired to have a State audit. Their right to elect private auditors should, of course, re- main. Generally speaking, I may say that the Bill is intended to place the formation of com- panies in the colony on a better and safer footing than has existed hitherto, and if this can be done it would be a very good thing for the country itself, because there are cases in the country at present of important companies who have a great difficulty in currying on their affairs in such a way as the people connected with them would desire ; and if the company law can be brought into line, to insure to share- be on the lines of the English Act, which is incorporated in the Bill, it will be a very desirable thing to do. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) .- I heartily support the provisions of this Bill. At this late hour it is not to be expected that one should go into the very important amendments proposed in the Companies Act and the amendments thereof. The honourable member has no doubt at- tempted by this legislation to meet the cases of the formation of companies, especially for gold-mining purposes, which recently have been brought under the notice of the public within the last few months. He is attempting to make some reform or alteration of the law, and pre- vent some of the alleged frauds that have taken place. I am not going to take up the time of the House by going into the details of the measure, because I confess at once I have not studied it as carefully as the Minister has. But, with regard to the question of audit, he will no doubt remember that in this Bill he proposes that the audit system shall continue pretty well the same as it is. It is only in cases of neglect to appoint auditors that a member of the company can apply to the Colonial Secretary to appoint an auditor. I think we ought to do in this Bill the same as in the Municipal Cor- porations Act, under which it is provided that the Audit Office shall be the auditor. The com- panies have to pay the cost of the audit, and whether they pay private individuals or a State officer makes very little difference to them. But I submit the appointment of the Audit Office as auditor of all companies will be of great benefit to the colony. If this had been the case many years ago we should not have had the mis- representations and swindles which were per- petrated in Dunedin in regard to the Equitable Insurance Company, for instance. An Hon. MEMBER .- How about West Coast dredging companies ? Mr. GUINNESS .- Nothing has ever been charged against any of the companies floated on the West Coast, but charges have been made against some floated in Dunedin, and I dare say the same remark would apply to some floated in Christchurch. Now, I can say this : that there has not been a breath of suspicion of wrong dealing suggested with regard to the flotation of companies on the Coast. The ground is there ; but the process of floating companies and of gulling the public with regard to some of these claims has been perpetrated by the promoters of these companies in Dunedin, and not on the Coast. The Goldfields and Mines Committee is at the present time inquiring into some of these matters, and before that inquiry is concluded they will thoroughly go into the whole question of the manner in which this Companies Act is worked for the purpose of deceiving the public. I think the Minister would do wisely to agree to remit this Bill to the Goldfields and Mines Committee to go through it clause by clause. That Com- mittee is not a small one-it is one of the largest in the House-and I think, if that were done, that Committee might make very 