done it frequently -his right of speaking at a subsequent stage of the debate is never chel- langed. So I citim my right to speak at any period of the debate, though I don & device to exercise it at this moment. I hope you will rude so, Sir. The Hon. the SPEAKER. - The honourable gentleman has the right to speak now if he plats. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. - But at no other thne? I should like to know whether you rule that I am within my rights in either speaking now or later on if I think fit? The Hon. the SPEAKER .-- The honourable gentleman has the right to speak now. I have no doubt that if he wishes to speak later on the Council will not object. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. - 1 do not wish to ask a favour of the Council ; I wish to ask an interpretation of the Standing Orders. I can only saw what I know it to be in another place. No member forfeits the right to speak because of having moved the adjouoment, and not speaking on the resumption of the debate. The lion. Mr. McLEAN .- That is, if his motion for the adjourninont is carried. The Hon. the SPEAKER .- I did not rule thit. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. - I hope you will not imagine that in any shape or form I de- sired to raise a contention- question, because in the samo way, I think, as you have challenged ine von might have challenged in honourable mem- bor who is not in his place, I regret to say, owing to ill health. He moved the adjourn- ment of the debate on the first occasion : he has been laid up since, and if he had recovered and had been able to take his place in the Council / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero his right to speak would also have been chal- longed : and I contond, with all respect to you. Sir, that whatever may have been the custom in this Council, and whatever the ruling in the past, the rights of members who move the adjournmont of a debate are undoubted. The Hon. Mr. Mecan drew attention with perfect accuracy to the one saving clause. that if an honourable gentleman moves the adjourn- ment and his motion is not carried he undbabtedly loses his right to speak again in .the debate. That is a rule, I think, abso- lutely sound. But as to the member who carries the motion for adjournment, it remains entirely with him as to whether he chooses to spark on the resumption of the debate or not. If he does not choose to speak and the debate continues he can speak when he chooses without any challenge from the Chair. And for this I claimed my privilege. As to this Bill. I am sorry that either my exposition of it when I moved the second reading was not sufficiently exhaustive, or ele I presumed too mach on the fact that honourable members would have been sufficiently acquainted with the mind of the country on the subject, and would therefore be up as much to date as insself and the Government on this matter. I may have erred, perhaps, on the side of taking too much for granted, but I maintain that it is Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker ma'ter. There is no une treating it as a matter which is not to be considered and dealt with, because it has been dealt with in a live way in other countries at the person time, and also it involves the question that this country has already adopted the principle in certandly one vory notable instance, the question as to the alcoholic liquor trade. An Hon. Meysen. - - That is local option. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. - Call it local option or what you like, bat the principle of that Act, referring it by referendum to the people, has been accepted with relief by the general mind of the country : that on a certain day every three years the publie mind should speak on a subject on which no individual him- self can come to a conein-ion, on which no Government can absolutely come to a con- clusion, but in regard to which at one par- ticular time the great voice of the electors in every part of the country should be prepared to say whether they wish that system to con- tinne for the next triennial period. If this is not the referendinn I do not know what it is. And how long has that principle been in force in this country? And as long as it has been in force, who have objected to it? I know some pothouse politicians - the word " pothouse " does not convey exactly what I mean -I meant to say, small-minded politicians- - An Hon. MEMBER .-- Pigmy politicians. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. - Piany politicians object to it because they think that the loe di-option vote very often exringaishes the attention that ought to be paid to them, and to their claims on the electoral eve and ear. They say that two issues in the one day are placed before the electors, to the detriment of a candidate, who should be the cynosure of all eyes on the occasion. Well, I say that that man only says that because he is too small- minded to see that it is an advantage that the electors can vote at one time on more than one subject. He ought to be only too glad to think that his perfections can be measured without the disturbing element of whether it is to be " beer or no beer." This I consider one of the most beneficial enactin ats we ever passed - the fact that this vote can be taken in such a way as to eliminate the question of personality from politics, and also that the vote must be taken on such a day that you will get a con- vineing " Ave" or " No." I would not for anything in the world alter the provision of the Mesholic Liquors Sale Centrol Act which preseribos the day on which that vote is to be taken; and any one who votes to change the poll from that day. I think, would be com- mitting a grave error, as I am persuaded that the action of that referendum has ben most salutary and in the interests of every one. I concond. Sir. also th it there are other questions which might very well be submitted in the same way to the popular vote. I mentioned one when I was moving the second reading ; but there are others which are not policy questions - which are very often social questions - and side issues which do not enter into publie usefulness : and, as far 