succeeded in prevailing upon the Legislative Council to amend the Bills in conformity with the wishes of the people of this city. Mr. SPEAKER. - I think the honourable member is exceeding the bounds of a personal explanation. Mr. FISHER .-- I say that my action through- out in regard to these Bills has been consistent, and I also say, with the Premier, that it is un- wise for Parliament to always take for granted everything that is stated by local bodies in favour of their own local Bills. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) .- I understand that objection has been raised to this Bill be- cause clause 7 makes the financial year expire on the 30th September instead of at the end of December. If members will only take the trouble to read the first page or two of the Bill, where reasons are given why the Bill should be passed, they will find the reasons set forth very clearly indeed why the Board desires to have the financial year end on the 30th September, and I cannot see, myself, any better reasons which it is possible to give ; and if members only read what I have suggested, I think they will come to the conclusion that there is no necessity to recommit the Bill. It says .- "There are four reasons why the 30th September has been suggested as the most suitable time for the closing of the financial year :- " Firstly, that it will enable the Chairman of the year to deal with the finances of his year of office at the annual meeting in January, and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 before vacating his position. "Secondly, a year ending in December closes in the middle of the wool season, and an early or late season, or an insufficiency of vessels to remove the produce, renders the annual statis- tics irregular and not comparable, whereas the 30th September is prior to the commencement of the wool season. "Thirdly, the work of balancing and audit, with the preparation of statistics, et cetera, would be completed before the rush of the wool season, in place of being as at present under- taken in the busiest period. " Fourthly. as the Board came into active existence on the 1st October, statistics could be collated for twelve-monthly periods continuously from the commencement of the Board's opera- tions." These reasons are, I think, most excellent, and any one who has any knowledge of the work which such a Board as this has to do must see that they are weighty reasons. Surely, because other Boards have not the same special reasons as this one for altering the date of the financial vear, that is no reason why the request of this Board should not be acceded to. I do hope the House will pause before it stultities itself, be- cause I do not think there is any reason which can be set forth which will controvert the reasons given in the explanatory page to this Bill. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- I trust the House will not agree to recommit this Bill. I think it would be a pure waste of time; Mr. Fisher Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) that he can always get what he wants inserted in a Bill put in in the Legislative Council. It would there- fore be a sheer waste of time to recommit the Bill. I was surprised to see that the honour- able member has become a convert to the rights of property-owners. He has used the same arguments on their behalf which the so-called " bloated squatter "-the owner of the Hatuma Estate-used on his own behalf-namely, that he could not get as much interest from his compensation as he could get from his property. That argument has now been boldly advanced by the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) in favour of certain persons in Wellington. 1 do trust that he will continue in that frame of mind, and both by his speeches and his vote defend the rights of property-holders. I trust it is not a mere flash in the pan. Mr. FISHER .- Sir, may 1, with your per- mission, add a few words to my amendment. I wish my amendment to read as follows : "That the Bill be recommitted for the purpose of reconsidering clause 5, so as to provide that one member shall be elected from the Wharf Labourer's Union, such member so elected to be a bona fide member of the Wharf Labourer's Union." Mr. T. . MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .-- I am going to support the recommittal of the Bill. The honourable member for Wakatipu has not at all made a clear case in favour of what the Board desires in connection with clause 5. He read out a list of reasons, but these might apply to every other Harbour Board in the colony, and yet, forsooth, we are asked to make an ex- ception in this one case in the rendering of returns to this House. The whole of the Boards in this colony have to render those returns. which are supposed to be a guide to the country. I am astonished that the honourable member. who usually shows good common-sense, should have opposed the recommittal of the Bill for the insertion of the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Wellington City. Hon. MEMBERS .- You are on the wrong amendment. It is an amendment to clause 5. Mr. MACKENZIE .-- I understand the Bill is to be recommitted for the purpose of re- considering clause 7. Mr. SEDDON .- It was originally intended that the whole Bill be recommitted, but the honourable member now asks for the recom- mittal of clause 5 only. It is quite competent. however, for the honourable member for Wai- hemo to ask for the recommittal of the whole Bill. Mr. MACKENZIE .- I regard the recommittal of that clause as essential. I see no reason why one Board should make up its accounts on the 31st December, while all the others have to do this on another date. For these reasons I wish to support the honourable member. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .-- I want to explain. so that I might not be accused of being unfair to the Wellington Harbour Board in respect to this matter. In going into the history of the passing of these Wellington Harbour 