is a necessity for a fresh loan, at any rate ; nor is it the right time for us now to authorise new loans unless there is absolute necessity for it. The London market is not in a condition to supply us with money at the rate we should require the money. Honourable members must recollect that the whole scheme is based upon our borrowing in London at 3 per cent., and if we go to London and borrow money at 4 per cont. for advances to settlers, there is not suffi- cient margin to pay the State. The State will lose, and the whole scheme will break down. It is a pity that it should break down, because if we have a law on the statute-book providing for such a scheme, I want to see that scheme a success, and, of course, the right honourable gentleman himself must wish to see it a suc- cess. If the honourable gentleman is in earnest about this he must know he cannot afford to pay more than 3 per cent. for his money ; and I hope Parliament will hesitate before it gives authority to borrow to such a large extent as another two millions at this par- ticular time. There is no need for it, and it is not the right time to go upon the London market for the money. The amendments pro- posed in the Bill, of course, are technical amendments. They do away with the limit of time. The amount authorised in the Bill can be raised at any time, either at once-the whole two millions-and invested in securities of the Crown, and realised for Government purposes, or the loan may be delayed for a year, or two years, or ten years, or any period whatever. I do not think it wise that the precautions which have been embodied in our legislation previously should now be done away with. I feel certain myself that Parliament would be safe in throwing out the Bill altogether-at any rate, it would be wise if we limited the loan to half, or even a quarter, of what is proposed, and when this Bill is in Com- mittee I shall myself move that the amount which is to be authorised in the Bill shall be cut down by a considerable amount. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) .- Sir, the question when the amount of money to be authorised under this Bill should be raised is one which I think should be left entirely in the hands of the Colonial Treasurer. The mere fact of giving authority does not imply that the Co- lonial Treasurer is going to raise the money at once or at a time when he cannot carry out his financial operations to the best advantage. The honourable gentleman must have forgotten the fact that in 1899 we passed an amending Act enlarging the scope of the authority of the Advances to Settlers Act, so as to give authority for the money to be advanced upon the security of urban and suburban lands. Necessarily, a much larger demand would be made upon the money borrowed to satisfy the needs of those who require advances, honce I can see there is every necessity to give the Government what authority they require for this purpose. The credit of the colony will not be in any way pledged, nor has any detrimental effect been brought about in consequence of this scheme of lending money by the Government, be- Mr. J. Allen cause this money which is borrowed is, as the honourable member must know, fully covered by the securities taken by the department. The particular matter I rose to speak about was the injustice, under the Act of 18.9, which is being committed-unintentionally, 1 think-to the owners of property in the Town of Greymouth, which I have the honour to represent. Most of the land in that town is held under lease from the Public Trustee under the Westland and Nel- son Native Reserves Act of 1857; and, under the original " Government Advances to Settlers Act, 1-94," if lands leased under this Native Reserves Act were situated in the country the owners of such land had a right to borrow money from the Advances to Settlers Depart- ment. Then, in 1-99, the privilege was given to those who lived in townships to have the same advantages as those who lived in the country. The Advances to Settlers Office have interpreted the Act of 1899 so that these lessees who hold lands in the Town of Greymouth under the Westland and Nelson Native Reserves Act are not entitled to get advances from the office, because the land is held under these leases from the Public Trustee. Now, I maintain that if those who hold under similar conditions in the country are entitled to get loans, there can be no possible objection taken to lending money on land held under lease in townships. I have already brought the matter under the notice of the Minister, and I ask him to take it into his consideration and have the question looked into, with a view of preparing such necessary amendments of the Act of 1899 as that there will be no difficulty in those lessees who have good and ample security for advances, if they wish to avail themselves of the privilege of getting money cheaply by apply- ing to the Advances to Settlers Office. The honourable member knows that loans have been applied for ; but it has been pointed out by the office that the clauses in the Act of 1899 are not sufficiently explicit to empower the office to lend money. I do hope that no portion of the colony will be allowed to be treated so exceptionally as Greymouth is now, if the law is allowed to remain as it at present stands on the statute-book. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) .- It is not my intention to offer any very extensive remarks in regard to the policy of advances to settlers. There can be little doubt that it is highly approved of by the whole colony. Some of the arguments used by the honourable mem- ber for Bruce have already been replied to by the honourable member for the Grey, who has pointed out that very likely more money will be required under this Act now that suburban lands are being included in the operation of the Act. I should like to say I think the time has now come when even a further advance should be made, in respect to lending on urban and city properties. The honourable member for the Grey also pointed out that, although this Bill does authorise the borrowing of two millions, there is no obligation on the Government to borrow it at present or in an unfavourable market ; it merely gives the authority, and the 