Revenues Act of last session we yielded a power into the hands of the Executive. We had no right to yield it, and I trust the day is not far distant when some of the most important provisions of that Bill will be repealed, so that the Government or the members of the Cabinet will not have the power of placing a sum on the estimates, and so overriding the statute law. I regret that in the discussion that has taken place to-night there has been a personal ele- ment which has introduced a deal of acri- monious discussion and heart-burning, which may, perhaps, sink deeply into the minds of members. It is always a regrettable thing to me to hear a heated and personal debate crop up in this House. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) .- Sir, I did not intend to take any part in the debate to-night, as I was not here when the Act was passed last year, but I would like to say that, so far as the constituency of Christchurch is concerned, I believe the measure meets with very strong disapproval. If I had been in the House when the Bill was going through I should undoubtedly have voted against the provision of the Act which gives power to the Ministry to override the decision of the Auditor-General. I was not a member of the House, however, and therefore had not the opportunity. As regards the question of the bonus of $40, which has been referred to to-night, I think it is a pity the matter has been brought up. The subject was fought out on the floor of the House last session. Members voted as they felt inclined, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 and I suppose they have justified their votes to themselves and to their constituents. I do think the Premier ought to give the House a chance this session to reconsider its decision so / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero far as the Public Revenues Act is concerned. If he does so, and the present Act should be confirmed, then his position is strengthened. From the expressions of opinion I have heard in the House, however, I am con- vinced that there are a number of members who regret the vote they gave in connection with the Act last year. I cannot see how the House can possibly justify the passing of three or four of the sections of this Act. The neces- sity has been shown again and again of having the Auditor-General, an officer of the State, who is superior to the Ministry, and whose duty it is to keep the expenditure within legal bounds. Yet. the Parliament of New Zealand has introduced and passed an Act taking away the powers of the Auditor-General, and making it practicable for members of the House, by their own vote, to override the statute law and benefit themselves personally. I cannot con- ceive how it was possible for members of the House to pass such a section, and if I can get the chance of voting in favour of its repeal I shall join with those members who have ex- pressed their opinion against the Act to-night. I was not in the House at the time, and there- fore I had not the opportunity of voting when the Bill was going through ; but I wish to put on record my opinion that that Act, or those particular sections of it referring to the Mr. Ell passed. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City). - Sir. at last I breathe a sigh of relief. Without rhyme or reason we have been compelled to listen to a purposeless and irritating debate which has wasted the whole of the afternoon and the whole of the evening. We have been treated to another act of "Les Miserables." When those dwellers in caves on the Opposition side of the House emerge from their state of gloom and inflict on us their dismal jeremiads they give me the impression that they have been living continuously on a diet of mustard and water. They make grimaces and squirm with discomfort as if their internals were not in first-class order. Sir, what is the effect of all this discussion? There is absolutely no effect. The benefit is nil. As well put a linseed poultice on a stone horse. Half the debate is made up of personal explanations and recrimi- nations. How does that benefit the Pariia- ment or the people ? The business is to discuss the report of the Public Accounts Committee. We have not discussed the report of the Public Accounts Committee. We have instead dis- cussed all subjects which come anywhere within a thousand miles of the four corners of the Public Revenues Act. We have had a rechauds of the £40 vote of last session, a dispute abou: the labour legislation and the amount paid to the President of the Arbitration Court, and the Deputy-Speaker, in a thoughtful and timely way, prevented the member for Riccarton inflict- ing upon us a debate upon the general finances of the country. Let us come to the report of the Public Accounts Committee, and, first, the remarks of the member for Palmerston upon the report. The honourable member said the re- port of the Committee was not complete because the minutes of evidence were not laid on the table with it. The member for Wakatipu com- plained that the report had not been presented early enough, and to that the member for Palmerston added that the Chairman was directed by resolution of the Committee to present the report a fortnight ago. No such direction was given. There is no entry of the kind in the minutes. The last meeting of the Committee was held on the 14th August-eight daysago-and throughout the minutes, from first to last, there is no direction in regard to laving the report on the table. I laid the report on the table to-day in deference to a request from the member for Wakatipu, but personally I wished to delay the presentation of the report until the Public Trustee had corrected his evidence, so that I might satisfy the desire of the member for Bruce, who says the evidence should have been laid on the table. Between those two honourable gentlemen what was I to do ? First I pleased the member for Wakatipu : then I displeased the member for Bruce. Is it possible to please these two honourable gentlemen ? Absolutely, no; it is not. The member for Palmerston says the report is a bald report. What did he want? Five dis- tinct cases, as set out in parliamentary paper B .- 19-called Paper No. 59 in the order of re- 