the officer's duty to treat the interests of the i ment have given notice of, or have actually travelling and business people with despatch, and, that being so, it was time that attention was drawn to the manner in which the officer carried out his duties. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said he had noticed in the papers a complaint against the Health Officer, and he had a certain amount of fellow-feeling with the honourable gentleman who had put the question, as they both went through the same ordeal on one occasion. Fortunately, however, they were in a good state of health. The matter was one he would mention to his colleague the Minister of Public Health. Of course, if delays could be avoided, he hoped steps would be taken to see that that was done. At the same time it was no use talking about the inspection of vessels that came from foreign places if the inspection was to be a real inspection. If it was to be real, it was only fair the Health Officer should have a little discretion in carrying out his duties in the way he thought they should be carried out. He (Mr. Walker) had been repeatedly put under quarantine and subjected to inspection at many ports, and his regret had always been that the inspection was such a formal matter that it was of no value at all. Therefore he thought they should give some consideration to the Health Officer, who thought he had a responsible posi- tion to fill, and who, no doubt, thought it was his duty to be careful. However, he would consult with his colleague the Minister of Health, who, he had no doubt, would com- municate with his officer as to how the duties might be performed with the least amount of friction to the passengers and the general public. # REFERENDUM BILL. # ADJOURNED DEBATE. The Hon. Colonel PITT .- Sir, before this matter goes to the vote I wish tosay one or two words. I do not suppose I can add anything new to the debate that has already taken place, and I should not have spoken had it not been for some remarks that were made by the Hon. the Minister of Education in his speech vester- day, all of which, unfortunately, I did not hear : but in what I did hear I think he did not fully represent the true position in reference to the provisions of the Commonwealth Act as to dis- agreements between the two Houses. Before I come to that, however, I should like to say that, with the Hon. Mr. Arkwright, who has moved the amendment, I feel sorry indeed that I can- not support the leader of the Council upon this measure. I think that on all broad matters of policy of the Government for the last ten years the majority of this Council and I claim to be one with them are quite pre- pared to give a loyal support to that poliev. But, Sir, I do not regard this Bill as a policy Bill at all. This question of the referendum has been introduced from time to time by private members, and the position of the Government in reference to it has been various. At times the Government have very stoutly opposed it, and on other occasions, I believe, the Govern- Hon. Mr. Jenkinson i introduced, a Bill almost identical with the Bill at present before the Council, but it has not gone forward. Therefore, Sir, I can only re- gard it that the Government have, out of good nature or something of the kind, taken up a private member's Bill and have introduced it as their own. Well, I do not feel bound to sup- port a Bill introduced by the Government in that way, and I regret to say it is not the only Bill on our Order Paper which I think is in that position. At all events, I am prepared to speak on the Bill itself and on its merits : and I say that the Bill has no merits, and that we ought to reject it, as I have no doubt it will be rejected. The honourable gentleman said yes- terday that many of the members of the Coun- cil had addressed themselves to this question as if the existence of the Council itself was con- cerned in the matter. Sir, that cannot be so. This Bill cannot, nor can any Bill that can be created or referred to the people under it, in any way affect the existence of this Council. That is clearly defined by the Constitution Acts of 1852 and 1857, and no Bill could affect the existence of the Council unless it were an Act of the Imperial Parliament. So that so far as that is concerned this Bill can- not affect this Council one iota, for I say that no Bill which could be referred to the referendum under this Bill could affect our existence as a Conneil in any way whatever, although honour- able members possibly may be aware --- as I am aware - on looking into the past history of this referendum question, that when a similar Bil! was introduced by a private member, and a deputation waited upon the Premier in refer- ence to it, the member in charge of the Bill and the deputation accompanying him told the Premier that the principal object of the Bill was the abolition of the Legislative Council : but, of course, they were not aware - for the moment, at all events -- that the existence of the Legislative Council could not be affected by any such Bill. But the Bill itself is absolutely useless. There is no finality about it. As the Hon. Mr. Louisson and other honourable members have said. to pass such a Bill as this would be an attempt on the part of the Legislature to abrogate their own func- tions, and the result would be to refer to an uninformed or misinformed body of electors a question which the legislators themselves are fully informed upon and ought to deal with themselves. And, if there is to be any good in such a measure as this, there surely ought to be some finality in the matter ; but there will be no finality under this Bill. If a Bill is rejected by either House on two separate occasions, and is referred to the referendum attempted to be set up under this Bill, and the voters agreed that the Bill ought to become law, and it did become law, what is to prevent Parliament passing a Bill the next session to repeal that law ? Nothing whatever. Parlia- ment cannot divest itself of its legislative func. tions : it must exercise them ; and therefore such a Bill as this is purely waste paper. And. if the thing is to be pushed to its logical con- 