of legislation there is nothing good in it. We are older than we were ten years ago, and we have learned by experience, and, in spite of what the honourable gentleman may say, not only have we been justified in the legislation we have passed during the last few years on these subjects, but events have abso- lutely proved how right we have been, and how very wrong the prophets of evil were when they protested against those measures. It is too late now for any honourable gentleman to get up in his place and say, simply because he does not like a measure or because a measure embodies some new thing, that therefore it necessarily is wrong. That is no argument at all ; it never was any argument at all ; but now that sort of argument has been discredited, and the prophecies we have heard so often have proved to be false, and things have turned out just in the opposite way to which the prophets desired. I do not think, therefore, that this Council need care twopence for opinions of that kind. Of course, I listened with great respect to the personal opinions of honourable members as to including this class and that class and the other class of traders in this Bill. I know that members in this Council have had many more experiences in certain directions than I have had myself, and my endeavour always is to learn from them where my experience falls short. But to my mind the only argument that I have heard in reference to bank clerks, for instance, that is worth anything at all was the argument used by the Hon. Mr. Pinkerton, in which, speaking as an old trades-unionist, he said that it was of no use helping people who would not help themselves. Well, I must say in the bottom of my heart I have a certain sympathy with that sentiment. If bank clerks are as subservient as I believe they must be to have signed those petitions, I believe they hardly deserve help. But, Sir, in spite of their subservience, in spite of the way they will follow the guidance of the hand that should cherish, but which in some cases crushes cruelly, I think we ought not to take them out of this Bill. We ought to give them the protection which the law ought to give to any child of the State. In the same way, I think, in their own interests it would be better both for employers and employed that over- time should be treated as an amount of work to be paid for, as out of ordinary time. I am sure it would bring about more satisfactory relations between employers and employed. As to all we have heard about the amicable relations existing between the institutions and their employés, if all that is true I am quite sure the payment of overtime will not disturb them. I am not troubling myself with their affairs; but, if they have not the spirit to let us know what their feelings are, I do not think there should be very much doubt that those institutions have worked their clerks a good deal longer hours and paid them excessively small salaries. The privileges they get in the matter of holidays and sick-pay are what any employer must give to his servants Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker luxuries-they are necessities, and we all know very well that bankers give them to their employés in order that they may be kept fresh <!-- PageHeader="\-----" --> for their work, and I am quite sure that holi- days will not be taken from the bank clerks as a result of the passing of this measure; nor do I think their pay will be reduced, because this cannot be done below a certain point. A man must have enough to live decently on, and their present salaries can admit of no deduction. I trust the Council will go into Committee on this Bill, and there give careful consideration to the clauses that have been inserted since it was first brought down two years ago. I hope they will do this, and turn out as good a Bill as they possibly can. It was with regret that I heard the remarks from some honourable gentlemen to the effect that it is a wrong departure to initiate measures of this kind in this Chamber. I would point out that this is largely and principally a con- solidating measure, which the Council, on its. own motion, has added to. Since I have had the honour of representing the Govern- ment in this Chamber, my endeavour nas always been to give the Council work to do; but if I am not to initiate measures. excepting those of merely a formal or not contentious kind, then I say that this Chamber would be more often without work than it is at present. I do not see how any objection can be brought against this Bill, because it is really a consolidating measure, and one that requires. careful consideration. I therefore think that the Council should now proceed with the Bill in Committee, and judge it by the evidence taken by the Committee and the report that has been brought down. I move, Sir, That you do now leave the chair, in order that the Council may go into Committee on this Bill. Bill committed, and progress reported. The Council adjourned at three minutes to five o'clock p.m. # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Friday, 16th August, 1901. First Readings- Presbyterian Church of New Zea- Jand Bill - Charitable Gifts Bill - Hospital Nurses Registration Bill-Financial Statement -Supply. Mr. SPEAKER took the chair at half-past ten o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READINGS. Juvenile Smoking Suppression Bill, Feathers- ton County Bill, Mackenzie and Geraldine Counties Boundaries Alteration Bill. PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH OF NEW ZEALAND BILL. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) .- Sir, in moving that the report of the Committee be agreed to. I desire to point out to honourable members and 