Counties Bill, quite unprepared to discuss its new and varied provisions. I, at any rate, knowing I was to be a member of that Com- mittee, believed that the Bill would be referred to that Committee, and that there would merely be a motion to read the Bill a second time pro fo ma, so that the debate would take place after the Bill had been revised by the members of that Committee. I maintain, therefore, that honourable members are not now in a position to properly debate the subject. It is all very well to say it is only an amending Bill ; but, as a matter of fact, it is a Bill traversing the whole question of county government as it is at the present time. And then on account of one of the questions to which the Premier alluded, that of the alteration in the franchise, which is a matter of such vital importance to all local governments, the whole Bill ought to be discussed first in Select Committee as it only can be there, and the second - reading debate should take place when the recommendation is brought down to the House. Have honourable members realised this important fact, that under an alteration in the representation it will be quite possible for a County Council to consist simply of persons who do not own one penny- worth of property in the whole county ? In the 4Sth clause of the Bill it will be found that every person whose name appears on any county electors' roll for the time being in force for any riding shall be qualified to be elected as a member of the Council, and the persons whose names appear on the electoral roll may be persons who have a quarterly tenancy of the value of 50s. only, and no permanent holding, so it would be possible for the whole government of a particular county to consist of persons who did not own one pennyworth of property in the county. ] am now drawing attention to the fact because there are not half a dozen members in the Chamber who realise that there is such a drastic alteration in the system possible. So it is throughout, in the alteration of the Road Boards, or rather their destruction, in the i derstand it was nothing but an amending Bill ; creation of River Boards, having jurisdiction right from the source to the mouth of the river. All these matters are of such vital im- portance that if we now go through the form, before we have studied the Bill, of agreeing to its second reading, it will be held that the principle is one that is approved by the House. It is all very well to say that we can alter the Bill as we choose in Committee; but if We have affirmed the principle contained in the ! Bill we go a long way to passing a Bill, of which on reflection, on reading the Bill, we may not approve. I do not exaggerate the position when I say there are not half a dozen members of the House who have thoroughly read the Bill from beginning to end ; and yet we are asked to agree to it. But I say that the object which I have in view is to allow the local-go- vernment question to be considered thoroughly, not superficially, but after examination by honourable members who have taken part in local government, and are therefore best quali- fied to express an opinion on the subject. If we are to advance the passage of the Bill it should be first referred to a Select Committee, and then brought down for its second-reading debate. At some period or another of the pas- sage of the Bill it will have to be debated-the whole principle will have to be reviewed, and why not let us have an intelligent and fair discussion ? I would ask the Right Hon. the Premier to agree to adjourn the second reading for a week, and in the meantime the Committee which has been set up-though the Bill has not been referred to it-can meet, and let us ask the Committee to devote, say, Saturday and Monday to its consideration. Or, at any rate, all I ask is that the House shall not be in- vited to pass a Bill which I venture to say not half a dozen members have studied thoroughly. I presume, like myself, they have all been sufti- ciently curious to open up and read passages here and there, but have not devoted care and attention to its various clauses nor compared it with the existing statutes on local government. nor the bearing and relation between the powers to be given and to be taken away from local bodies- River Boards, Road Boards, et cetera. The general alteration in the system of local government, I say. is one of such vast concern that it should not be dealt with in a perfunctory manner. To postpone the consideration of this Bill for a week or a fortnight-I say a fortnight would be best -- to allow members to have a fair chance of studying it would not be to jeopardize the Bill at all. It would tend to reduce dis- cussion and to secure intelligent consideration, rather than having what may possibly be- come an unintelligible debate, because mem- bers have not been able to study the subject they are called upon to vote on. I move the adjournment of the debate. Mr. SPEAKER .- The honourable gentleman cannot move the adjournment of the debate after discussing the principles of the Bill. Captain RUSSELL .- I did not intend to dis- cuss the Bill, but to point out the reasons for adjournment, because the Premier led us to un- whereas in reality it involves complete change of the principles of local government. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) .- I move the adjournment of the debate. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .-- I do not think what has been said would apply to this Bill, or that honourable members are in the position that has been alleged. The Bill was introduced at the commencement of the session. We have now been sitting five weeks. I purposely bad the Bill introduced within the first few days of the session ; it has been before a Conference, and if members have not read the Bill itself they have been, I presume, doing their duty by reading what took place at the Conference. An Hon. MEMBER .- We have not had the report of the Conference yet. Mr. SEDDON .- If honourable members tell me they have not read what has taken place at the Conference-I have been able to swallow a great deal in my life - but if they tell me they have not read the proceedings of the Conference -more especially members representing coun- try districts-I can only say they have been 