with the supremacy of Parliament should suc- ceed, I am sure the honourable member for Palmerston would be one of the first to regret it. I hope we will not have many more cases before us such as we have had to-day, and I trust the debate will have shown honourable members the origin of some of the tags which have been attached to the Public Accounts, and that they, like the honourable member's statements, have actually nothing in them. Mr. PIRANI ( Palmerston) .- I desire to make a personal explanation. The Minister for Public Works has repeated a statement made by the Premier, that section 9 of last year's Act is identical with section 50 of the Act of 1878. I stated at the same time that section 9 of the Act of last year used to be the law, but was repealed, and was not re-enacted till last year. Section 7 of the Public Revenues Act of 1872 provides :- " In case any difference of opinion shall arise between the Commissioners and the Treasury as to the vote or other authority to which any expenditure ought to be charged, the question shall be determined by the Colonial Treasurer ; but the objections made by the Commissioners shall be by them laid before Parliament within ten days thereafter, if Parliament be then in session, and, if not, within ten days after the next meeting of Parliament." That part of section 7 was repealed, as I stated, in 1878. Mr. SEDDON .- The part as to charging to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 votes, et cetera. Mr. PIRANI .- Yes, that part. The clause then went on - "Provided that if, in the opinion of the Commissioners, the proposed mode of charge / http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero is illegal, the opinion of the Attorney-General shall be taken, and the matter shall then be decided by the Governor in Council." The last part of that section was re-enacted in 1878 without the first part. In 1891-not 1892, as the Minister for Public Works said just now-it was re-enacted ; but last year the whole section-as well as the latter part-was re-enacted in "The Public Revenues Act, 1900." Mr. HALL-JONES .- What I said was that there was provision made in the Act of 1878 for any question in doubt or difference of opinion between the Auditor-General and the Govern- ment to be referred. Mr. PIRANI .- Only a question of law. Mr. HALL-JONES .- In these matters nearly every question that arises is a question of law, and that is where the Solicitor-General is more competent to express an opinion than the Auditor-General. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable member re- ferred to me, and he must admit he was in error because he was under the impression that in re- spect to questions of law as between the Auditor- General and the Government that has been re- pealed. I say the law has obtained from 1878 and prior to 1878, and has continued from that time until to-day. There has been an addition in regard to the other point, at to what vote the money should be charged to : that was the ex- Mr. Hall-Jones tension made last session. The Legislature has recognised that there must be some one, if any dispute arises, to come and adjust it. Whether the right person has been fixed by law or not is for the House to say ; but this power must exist, and has existed for over twenty years. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) .- I should like to add a word or two about statements that have been made with regard to the $40 bonus. Some remarks have been made in its justifica- tion with which I cannot agree. The Minister for Public Works, in support of the statements made by the member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier), maintained that Parliament is su- preme, and can constitutionally do what it likes. Now, I claim our trouble is that we have no Constitution in this country ; that is our defect. The only Constitution we have is public opinion, or the will of the majority, and that was violated by the members of Parlia- ment last session ; for public opinion through- out the colony was strongly against the action by which they enabled the Premier to give members this $40. I can assure the Premier that one of his very strong supporters-he may <!-- PageHeader="\--" --> have seen it in the newspaper himself-described it as "a thievish action." I know that was in- correct. I know the $40 was paid legally, and I believe, too, what the Premier stated this afternoon - namely, that it was arranged months before Parliament met- Mr. SEDDON .- I said nothing of the kind. Mr. MONK .- Well, somebody stated it during this debate, that it was arranged long before Parliament met last session that the power which the Premier took under the Public Revenues Act should be obtained from Parliament, because the Auditor had refused some of his applications for money- Mr. SEDDON .- In respect to the railway. In regard to the sessional expenses of mem- bers, that part had nothing to do with the question, and I never said so. Mr. MONK .- If you did not say so the state- ment has been made, and the excuse has been made that there was an agreement on the part of members to give the powers to the Premier by means of which he paid the $40 bonus. That is the position which was taken up-that the Premier used this €40 bonus as an incentive to them to give him the power by which be gave it. An Hon. MEMBER .- Nonsense. Mr. MONK .- Why. on the platform the Premier's own followers made the statement that it was arranged at a caucus ; and not one of them can say that, when voting for the amendment of the Public Revenues Act, he did not know that £40 would be paid by reason of the amendment being carried. Hon. MEMBERS .- Who? Absolutely incor- rect. Name one. Mr. MONK .- And it has also been said on the floor of this House that if the Premier had not intimated the result that would follow that vote they would not have given him that power. An Hon. MEMBER .- Who said that ? 