adjourn, The Hon. Mr. REEVES said, - Sir, the Speaker being absent, I presume you are the Speaker, and that the question remitted from Committee ought to be referred to you. The ACTING - SPEAKER (Hon. Captain Baillie.)-The Hon. the Speaker being, unfor- tunately, absent at the present moment I shall report it to him to-morrow morning. The Council adjourned at twenty minutes past nine o'clock. # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Thursday, 22nd August, 1901. First Readings-Notices of Motion-The late Con- stable L. McDonnell - Public .Accounts Com- mittee-Government Advances to Settlers Bill. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock p.m. PRAYERS. # FIRST READINGS. Westland and Nelson Goldfields Administra- tion Bill, Kiwitea County Council Offices Bill, Nelson Harbour Board Bill, Maori Lands Ad- ministration Bill, Stamp Bill, Coal-mines Bill. # NOTICES OF MOTION. A message was received from His Excellency the Governor, forwarding a draft of the Coal- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 mines Bill, and recommending the House to make provision accordingly. On the question, That the House go into Committee to consider His Excellency's mes- sage, Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said he wished the honourable gentleman at the head of the Government would give an assurance that on some specified day the notices of motion on the Order Paper would have some chance of being disposed of. Day after day the honour- able gentleman told the House that he had not had time to look through the Order Paper. That was the uniform answer the Speaker re- ceived when he called for unopposed notices of motion. The Standing Orders provided that unopposed notices of motion should be dealt with day by day ; and, although he did not wish to cast reflections on any members of the House, or on any body of members, he thought it to be regretted that there was not a strong Opposi- tion to see that the Standing Orders were given effect to as they should be given effect to. An Hon. MEMBER said there were no Standing Orders. Mr. FISHER said that was virtually the position - that the House had no Standing Orders ; but, being a Government supporter, it was hardly his function to call attention to the fact. However, if the Opposition members would not supply the fulcrum the members of the Government would have to do it them- selves. <!-- PageHeader="1" --> ply with the Standing Orders, he would simply say that the Government objected to all the notices of motion. That would give the Govern- <!-- PageHeader="\-" --> ment time to consider them. Until he had re- plies from the departments he could not tell what motions would be opposed, but he did not want to block any of them in any way. Mr. FISHER said the financial debate would begin on the following day, and, that being so, what chance had members of getting their <!-- PageHeader="1" --> motions before the House ? Mr. SEDDON did not think there were any on the Order Paper that were urgently wanted. Hon. MEMBERS. - Yes. Mr. SEDDON did not know what they were. At any rate, he would comply with the Standing Orders by saying that all the motions were opposed. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) was astonished to hear that the Government opposed all the motions on the Order Paper, because the first was in the name of the Hon. Mr. Duncan, and the second and the third in the name of the Right Hon. the Premier. It was certainly most <!-- PageHeader="1" --> remarkable to hear that the Government were opposing the whole of the returns. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) said the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher ) blamed the Opposition because they were a fulcrum, and could not move the Government in the matter of allowing notices of motion to come on for discussion. He ventured to sav they had been a lever, but that the most solid fulcrum they could find was about fifty-five jellyfish who backed the Government. Mr. FISHER said he could give the honour- able gentleman an undertaking that they would mend their ways. Motion agreed to. Resolution agreed to, and Bill read a first time. THE LATE CONSTABLE L. McDONNELL. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .- I beg to bring up the report of the Public Petitions Commit- tee on the petition of Elizabeth McDonnell, to the effect that, taking into consideration the very exceptional circumstances in connection with the death of the late Constable Luke Mc- Donnell, the Committee recommends the Go- vernment to grant the petitioner a compassion- ate allowance equal to three years' salary ; and I beg to move, That the report do lie on the table and be referred to the Government. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City) .- The report of this Committee deals with a very sad and peculiar case. The constable in question un- doubtedly contracted his illness whilst doing his duty at the wreck of the "Wairarapa." This caused prolonged suffering, and finally terminated in his death, and his widow is now left in rather unfortunate circumstances. I am aware that the Police Department have appointed her to the position of Matron in the police office in Auckland, which will help her somewhat. She has been left with five girls - mostly young. The constable himself was quite 