Parliament led the Premier to suggest that it is committing the citizens to something -- Mr. SEDDON .- It helps to fix the price at $75,000. Mr. HUTCHESON .- That is the point I wish to meet the Premier on. If the intending purchasers did not fix the maximum price that they were prepared to pay before asking the public sanction to the purchase, what chance would they have of treating with the owners of the property after a poll had been taken and the public had sanctioned the taking of the land ? I say that it would prejudice the best interests of the citizens entirely to disclose the provisions of this contract before having sub- mitted the Bill to Parliament. The citizens' interests are absolutely safeguarded in the Bill, and the Bill is simply the machinery to settle the present manner in which the land is to be dealt with ; and this contract indicates one of the conditions upon which the City Fathers propose to treat with the owners of the land ; and they ask for the alternative power of taking the property, as the Premier suggests, under the Public Works Act. Surely there is every conservation of the publlc interest in the Bill, and the reason why I did not lay this agreement on the table when I intro- duced the Bill was that I had not the permis- sion of the promoters of the Bill to do so, and they. on the other hand, had not had the oppor- tunity of doing the owners the courtesy of asking if they had any objection to the agree- ment being produced. That has since been done, and the usual course which has been taken right along in connection with this Bill is still being pursued. I submit that the whole of the proposals are perfectly clear. If the City / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero Council decide to acquire the land under the contract, then this proposal will be submitted to the citizens at a public meeting, as required by the schedule to " The Municipal Corporations Act, 1900." Whichever means the Corporation decide to employ to acquire the land, the pro- posal under that particular head will be sub- mitted for the consideration of the citizens at a public meeting, and the subsequent machinery required by the Municipal Corporations Act of 1900 will be employed. Mr. SEDDON .-- Would you have any objec- tion to referring this Bill to the Waste Lands Committee ? Mr. HUTCHESON .- I would certainly be willing to bear that suggestion in mind, and to refer it to my principals ; but I might tell the Premier that I would have absolutely declined to touch the paper upon which the Wellington City Recreation Bill was printed if I had not felt perfectly sure in my inmost mind that everything in connection with it was absolutely clean, and in the interests of the City of Wel- lington, and that it was only promoted and safeguarded by men who were absolutely honest in every walk of life, and the very opposite of those who are seeking to obstruct this proposal. Mr. SEDDON said the question was one as to fair value. Mr. Hutcheson Premier that the citizens ought not "to pay too much for their whistle," and if the thing was done in absolute good faith, and there was no sinister motive impelling those who were opposing the Bill. there was not much fear of that. Let them deal with the matter on its merits in an open, fair, and honest way. He would certainly bear the recommendation and suggestion of the Premier to the Mayor of Wel- lington, and, as this was an absolutely fair and square proposal, with only the interests of the city as its main-spring and motive, he would do all things in reason in that direction. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) only wished that everything should be clear and unmistakable in connection with such a matter as this. Unless it were so it would only be entailing very much expense, and, he feared, a protracted debate ; and the time of the House and the con- venience of all concerned would be conserved if the matter were referred to a Committee. He suggested this as a means of removing the dif- ficulties he saw in the way. He only throw it out as a suggestion, and then there would be opportunities for evidence, and plenty of time to make estimates as to values, and as to the necessity, and so forth. At any rate, he threw the suggestion out in order that the honourable gentleman might consider it. Motion agreed to. FINANCIAL STATEMENT. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) wished to ask the Colonial Treasurer when he was likely to bring down his Financial Statement. The last time he had the pleasure of asking this question, about a fortnight ago, the right honourable gentleman said it would be brought down in a week or ten days. He hoped on this occasion to receive the answer that it would be brought down this week. Mr. SEDDON (Colonial Treasurer) said this was certainly the week for which he had pro- mised the Financial Statement. He had in- tended and hoped to bring it down as he had promised, but he had been face to face with difficulties that had caused the delay. Captain RUSSELL. -- Not financial, I hope. Mr. SEDDON said, Well, of course, finance was one of the main questions in a Financial Statement, and that was one of the main difi- culties. He had once or twice indicated that they were not so bright as in former years. However, he hoped, if he was not able to bring it down this week, the House would have it probably early next week. # DELAYED QUESTIONS. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) complained that, as the result of the new method of answering questions by grouping in sequence all those addressed to the respective Ministers, the ques- tions addressed to the particular Minister who was put at the end of the list were not answered on the day set down for answering questions. He had himself a question on the Order Paper which had been there for about three weeks and was still unanswered. 