soil, and made it really worth having, owing to the labour they had spent on it-land that was in many instances valueless-and seeing these people ruthlessly cleared away to make room for deer for the pastime and sport of a few wealthy men, impressions were made on the strong individual mind of John McKenzie that were never effaced from it. They never could be. The idea of preventing similar things in New Zealand was always before his mind, be- cause he has said to me time and again, " If ever I have the opportunity you will see that I will do all that I can so that the lands of New Zealand will be for the people." And he stuck to that from the day he entered Parliament until sickness overtook him and laid him aside. Then, he was a kind man; although rugged in politics, and to the Opposition generally he was of a very different disposition, yet he was more kind by far than many people would give him credit for. And when he had a friend he was one of those men who would stick to that friend until he was convinced that he was a fraud or an impostor. Nothing short of that would shake his friendship. He was a true friend and a true legislator for the people, and one that could be very ill spared. I cannot say any more, only that I deplore with others the loss the colony has sustained, and that I desire to support this motion that a vote of condo- lence be forwarded to his family. In that I heartily join. Mr. GILFEDDER (Wallace) .- Sir, as one of the younger members of the House, and as the representative of a district in which the deceased gentleman had many warm friends and many political admirers, I wish to add my tribute of respect to the memory of the states- man who has done so much to mould the destinies of this colony. By his strict integ- rity, honesty of purpose, and indomitable per- severance in promoting the welfare of this country, and in endeavouring to advance the best interests of his fellow - men, Sir John Mckenzie has earned the good-will, the esteem, and approbation of every right-thinking man and woman in New Zealand. His career has been an honourable one, and by his unswerv- ing adherence to political principle, as well as by the success that has attended his legislative enactments, his name has become a household word, and he has made for himself a reputation which I venture to say will never pass away. Well might he exclaim towards the close of his political career, " Exegi monumentum ære perennius "-" I have com- pleted a monument which will be more lasting than brass." "The path of glory leads 3.30. but to the grave," and, although Sir John Mckenzie has passed away, his good works remain as a monument of his sterling qualities and of his undoubted ability. They reflect the highest credit upon himself and upon the Administration of which he was a worthy member and at the same time a tower of strength. Though he has left us, his memory will not be forgotten, and so long as the spark- ling waters of the Shag River flow down that Mr. Duncan memory of Sir John Mckenzie be remembered and revered by the people of this colony. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- As suc- cessor to the late Sir John Mckenzie in the electorate of Waihemo I desire to say a few words on this occasion. On behalf of his late constituents I wish to express the great grief they have experienced through the loss of so able a man-a man who has been stricken down in the vigour of his manhood. He has been stricken down at a time when this House was justified in expecting important legislation and most valuable assistance from him. I can tes- tify to the grief and regret of that important con- stituency ; but it would be out of place for me to say more on this occasion, for his career has been ably dealt with by older and abler members than myself. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley). - Sir, I cannot refrain from saying a few words on this solemn occasion, although I can scarcely trust myself, so strong are my emotions. When the Premier read the telegram last evening the biblical quo- tation flashed through my mind, " A great man has fallen this day in Israel." This quota- tion becomes the occasion in its application to the late Sir John Mckenzie. The deceased statesman was a son of the soil. Born in Scot- land, he came out to Otago in 1860, and is there- fore a colonist of forty-one years' standing. He possessed a splendid physique, a strong will, an inflexible constancy of purpose, honesty of intention, heroic courage, and a kindly heart. These are some of the qualities that enter into the composition of great men. He was neither an adventurer nor an opportunist. He was an honest man, which is "the noblest work of God." In all his actions he was actuated by the highest principles of statesmanship. He was a manly opponent, worthy of a foeman's steel; he neither cherished revenge nor brooded over defeat. He has died prematurely. Those who knew him best know that he prac- tically sacrificed himself upon the altar to his country. His memory will live in the hearts of the people of this colony ; and, after all, the noblest shrine that a man can have is the con- sciousness within himself that he has tried to do his duty to the best of his ability, and that he lives in the hearts of the people whom he has served. Sir, I cannot do better than close these few remarks by quoting some lines from one of Emerson's poems :- Life is too short to waste In critic peep or cynic bark, Quarrel or reprimand. 'Twill soon be dark ; Up! Mind thine own aim, and God speed the mark. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- I only have a few words to say. Sir John Mckenzie's persever- ance, and his high purpose, and his success are undoubtedly an example to all New Zealand poli- ticians and politicians elsewhere ; and no doubt he will be remembered in New Zealand very largely, and perhaps mostly, by his successful political career. But there is another side to his character-the side that, to my mind, touches an even sweeter chord-that part of his nature 