find accommodation for those whom they dis- lodge, I would ask him to try and induce the (Government to take upon their shoulders the responsibility of finding a place of abode for the people whom they dislodge. I have in my mind not so much those who are dislodged under the land-for-settlements scheme at the present time as what has been taking place in the last twelve months in the City of Dunedin. The railway authorities are making provision for a new rail- way-station in Dunedin, and they have displaced and dislodged from their houses in Dunedin dozens of poor working-people, and have not made the slightest attempt whatever to provide them with other places of abode. Mr. PIRANI .- They have done the same in Palmerston. Mr. J. ALLEN .- They may also have done the same thing in Palmerston-I do not know- but they certainly have done as I have stated in Dunedin. These poor unfortunate people are seeking for a place to put their heads in, and it is most difficult for them to find what they want. Now, if the Harbour Boards have done this kind of thing, then I say the Govern- ment has been a thousand times worse. With regard to the point raised by the Right Hon. the Premier, the honourable member for Avon touched a little on the fringe of that question too, but he did not go far enough. This land that the Premier has been talking about, as having been taken compulsorily by the Wel- lington Harbour Board and applied to a pur- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 pose other than that which they assigned to Parliament, is situated in Grainger and Allen Streets, and was not land that was purchased for a dock at all. There was certain land adjoining Grainger Street which the Har- bour Board had to acquire for dock pur- poses, and which they have not vet used, and will not use until such time as they get the money to build a dock. But the particular land that the Premier referred to where these people were dislodged was land that the Wel- lington City Corporation wanted to buy for the special purposes of widening the street and clearing away a slum. It was an arrangement entered into between the City Corporation and the Wellington Harbour Board; not that the Harbour Board wished it particularly, though they certainly wished to see the Corporation remove a slum that was near to the proposed dock, but the Corporation did particularly wish to carry out this object. The Wellington City Corporation, therefore, were the movers in this matter, and they wished the Harbour Board to include this in their scheme ; consequently, the land was taken under the Public Works Act, and compensation was paid for it. Does the Hon. the Premier wish to say that the compen- sation paid under that Act is not fair? If 50, 1 will ask him to consider this : There was other land taken at about the same place-not under the Public Works Act, but by agreement-and the fact that the owners of the land that was taken under the Public Works Act received as high and even higher compensa- tion than wasgiven for that which was taken by Mr. J. Allen under the Public Works Act was awarded a fair value. Now, what is the result ? A 66 ft. wide street was constructed in that neighbourhood, and now, instead of the place being an eyesore, it is pleasing to the eye. The Premier was wrong in stating that the Wellington Harbour Board had no intention of making a dock in that locality. On the contrary, that intention still remains. He was wrong in saying that the people whose land was taken had been de- frauded. They received under the Public Works Act what the Court decided was fair. <!-- PageHeader="1" --> Mr. SEDDON .- They have a grievance. Mr. J. ALLEN .- If you are the champion of the people who live in these slums -no doubt it is right they should have a champion-but I say it is better for themselves and for the community that they should be cleared out of these slums. I have given an instance in which it was better, and the place made re- spectable. It was a slum, and the intention was to clear it ; and the shum was cleared and a respectable street made there. Mr. SEDDON .- The power was obtained under an Act of the Wellington Harbour Board for the purpose of obtaining land for a dock. It was not for the purpose of clearing a slum at all. Mr. J. ALLEN .- The Premier forgets that the whole matter was before Parliament, and I believe that the Local Bills Committee, to whom the Bill was referred, went down and examined the place and recommended that this very thing should be done for the purpose of clearing the place. What more can the Premier say ? I think, after what has been said, he will see that he has fallen into an error in making the state- ment he did. I am aware that this was in the Wellington Corporation Act, and that it was not for the Wellington Harbour Board alone that this land should be acquired. As I say, it was a joint acquisition by the Wellington Corpora- \- tion and the Wellington Harbour Board Mr. SEDDON .- It never ought to have been done under that Act at all. Mr. J. ALLEN .- It is a matter of opinion whether it should have been done under that Act or not. The Wellington Harbour Board had to do certain work on land adjoining this. and if it was found necessary to put this in their Bill I do not think it matters. But to say that the Wellington Harbour Board acquired the land under false pretences is a charge that is quite unfair, and ought at once to be refuted. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) .- I cannot under- stand why the honourable member for Avon and other honourable members are raising a debate . on an Act passed some two years ago. The Right Hon. the Premier simply interjected a correc- tion to what Mr. Hutcheson, the member for Wellington City, stated. I wish to call honour- able members' attention back to the Bill now before the House, and especially to clause 7. which alters the date upon which the financial vear shall commence and end. I am sorry the Right Hon. the Premier did not notice this clause when the Bill was going through Com- mittee, because I think it is a most objection- 