and their agreements are wise agreements, be- cause they answer the purpose for which the Conseil meets-that is, of conciliation. That I should like to see adopted in New Zealand, but I fear, for the reason I have already given, that we are not Frenchmen, we should there- fore set our faces against it. But if this arbi- tration and conciliation system of ours should break down, I do hope that something will be tried as nearly as possible in the same direction as the French system. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- I wish to make a personal explanation, Sir, in reference to some remarks made by the Hon. Mr. Rigg. I think that gentleman misunderstood me - he certainly has misquoted me. I never said any- thing at all about a revulsion of feeling, or that I was afraid of a revulsion of feeling. Those who know me best in Otago and in Auckland will tell you that I have stood in the front rank in regard to public questions, when not popular, when many who are now enjoying a great share of the loaves and fishes stood under cover and were in the background. Now, Sir, I wish that my honourable friend, who certainly talks cleverly, and who frequently succeeds in getting his opponents into "chancery," was en- dowed with binocular power of vision, so that he could see correctly on this question. He, un- fortunately, looks at these labour questions from one point of view. What I have stood up for in this Council-not to-day, but four and five years ago - was that mutuality should be cultivated between the employer and the em- ployé. I do not think that the only link to exist between master and workman should be merely that of wages. An attempt was made to crush me for holding those opinions, but I am http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero still here, and I venture to say that I stand fairly well in the good opinion of the com- munity of New Zealand. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- It has been said, Sir, that we passed a much stronger Bill than this last session, and therefore why should not we pass this. We live and learn. We are all being educated, Sir, and we now see dangers ahead which perhaps we did not see last year. Now, Sir, take my honourable friend the Hon. Mr. Rigg, and I would say, as a warning to him, that he must look at this question from other sides than the side of labour only, because the circumstances that he ignores are conducive to the interests of labour. I venture to say that if the honourable gentleman were to succeed in getting his way in regard to the making of la . s in a very short time half the industries of this colony would be shut up, and we would have people walking about the streets with no work to do, and we should have to find employment for them, whereas they should have been hard at work on good pay, and earning good livings for themselves and families. It is this Council that has to take into consideration the interests of labour, the interests of the country settlers, and the interests of the industries of this colony, and endeavour to weld them together so that every one shall be as happy as we can make them. Sir, that honourable gentleman finds fault with the Hon. Mr. Jennings, but who is the man who is held in respect by the employers and the employes? And you must so weld employers and employed together that all their interests shall be in common, and the good you do shall be dis- tributed equally on both sides ; and, forsooth, it is said with regard to those who try to mould these labour Bills to be fair to the people of the colony, and to bring prosperity on the colony, that they are the enemies of labour. Sir, I ask you to take any one of those men who employ labour largely, and see their actions in regard to that labour, and then say whether they have not the interests of the workers at heart quite as much as those who harangue in the open street. Well, Mr. Jennings has done good work in the City of Auckland, and he did good work for the workers in Dunedin be- fore he went there, and his efforts to bring about a better feeling between employer and employé deserves encouragement instead of jeers. Now, Sir, the honourable gentleman talked about revulsion of feeling. I say there is no necessity to have a revulsion of feeling ; but does he think for a moment that the country settlers are going to sit quietly and see the prices being raised on everything they require, while they can get nothing that they require done ? There are no eight hours a day for those settlers and their families. The London market rules the price of their produce, and they can only give a certain amount of wages to raise that produce for export. Sir, the result of all this labour legislation will be that things will be brought to a standstill if the farmers are not able to find labour at fair rates in order to enable them to raise their crops. Therefore, Sir, it is useless to say that the farmers, who are now rising to a sense of their importance, have. no great interest in these matters. Sir, I can tell of a case that has been mentioned to me in regard to the labour legislation of last year which may surprise some honourable mem- bers. Last year we passed the Workers' Compensation for Accidents Act. Now, we hear of the case of a farmer with eighty acres of land, who put a man who came pleading for a job at work on a hedge, but instead of slashing the hedge he slashed his legs, and is now bringing an action to recover $200 damages against the farmer. If he gets that $300 it will be the farmer and his family who will be on the streets, and not the labourer. Sir, in view of all these things, is it not natural to expect that these people will begin to look to their interests ? I say we should be fair here, and should endea- vour to make our laws fair to every person in New Zealand, and let every one have a fair show. Now, Sir, there has been an endeavour to pass an Apprentice Bill but it could not get through the Legislature. But the Arbitration Court is getting above the Legislature. Mind you, in speaking of the Arbitration Court, although I have pointed out its likely de- fects, there is no man who would glory more in its success than I would, because who amongst us would care to see strife or to uphold strikes if we can do without them? I say no large employer of labour ever cares to be interested 