nificent ports, and the harbour accommodation is the best in the Southern Hemisphere, and this is largely due to the able men who have composed the Board, and because they allow Mr. Ferguson, their engineer, to wisely domi- nate their expenditure and their operations. But coming to the question of the Napier Har- bour. It was recognised as Bill after Bill went through this House authorising increased ex- penditure of hundreds of thousands of pounds that this money was to be literally wasted -- and it is wasted. They have spent between $500.000 and 9600.000 on the harbour. works, and it does not aid one of these steamers a bit. Not so; they cannot use the protective works or wharves when the weather is in the least rough : and if it cannot be done in rough weather, what is the use of having a fair- weather harbour? And I suppose when these great cargo-steamers and ocean-going tramps to take away the produce of the farmers of the Napier district go to the port not one single ocean-going tramp or cargo-boat ever goes near the wharf. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) .- I rise to a point of order. What has the Port of Napier to do with the Patea Harbour Bill ? Mr. SPEAKER .- I must say I think the honourable gentleman is travelling rather wide of the mark. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- I always obey the ruling of the Chair. What I wanted to point out to the House is that as imprudent expendi- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 ture, and as glaring mismanagement have oc- curred in the past in connection with expendi- ture, and as these mistakes have rather beon made by the people of the towns than the people of the country-if these mistakes have occurred in connection with other harbours, it is reasonable to suppose with the same in- fluences that have been acting in Wanganui -and that I was referring to as being alluded to by the Minister of Marine and the member for Wanganui-that. as these loans have been influenced by the townspeople rather than by the country people, then I contend that the voice of the country people should be taken in preference to that of the townspeople. And the betring on the Harbour of Patea is this : I believe it is the people of the Town of Patea rather than those of the surrounding district who are con- tending that this should be gone on with. If Iam confined to the question of the Patea Harbour I shall go into the finances of that particular harbour, and I shall show that, although they wish for a further expenditure of $10,000, their exports, instead of being an increasing quantity, are diminishing. On page 14 of the published report of the Patea Harbour Board we find that the exports for 1900 amounted to 533,000. whereas the exports for 1599 were $103,208, the difference between those two vears being no less than $20.000. In other words, the exports from that harbour have diminished in one year by $20,000, or 20 per cent. In the year 1593 1897, when the exports were $113,701, which is something like $30,000 above what the exports were for the year 1900. Then, if the exports are diminishing in that ratio, 1 venture the opinion that the agriculturists in that district are either finding another outlet owing to the cheap railway fares that we have heard so much about from the Minister for Railways, or the produce is not there to send away. I hope the honourable gentleman in charge of this measure, when he replies, will give full information in regard to this matter. He will probably point out to us that the sheep pre- viously exported from the Port of Patea are now being bought up by the enterprising meat- freezing company of Wanganui, and are being shipped from the Wanganui works instead of from that port. That may probably account for the diminished exports for 1900, as against those of 1897. We might go back a little further. Take, for instance, the year 1896. We find that the exports then were $123,784. In 1895 they were $108,000, in 1894 €115,000, and in 1893 they were $99,592, so that last year they were $16,000 less than the year 1893. Now, coming to the general account of the Patea Harbour Board, I find that the total revenue was $4,038 Os. 3d., but from that con- siderable items, which really do not stand as revenue, have to be deducted. There is a balance of $1,036, so that the Board's revenue is some- thing like $3,000. Now, in connection with this matter of revenue, I should point out that there is a loan of $13,000, upon which 44 per cent. interest has to be paid. absorbing $585 of the money derived by the Board. And, then, Sir, there are the sinking funds. There is a sinking fund of 24 per cent. on the 410,000, and of 2} per cent. on the $3,000. The sinking fund in the one case absorbs $250, and in the other $75. You will therefore see, if you are going to borrow and to authorise the expen- diture of another $10,000, we ought to ask the Hon. Chairman of the Local Bills Committee to explain, as he has not explained to-night, where that probable revenue is to come from, seeing that the exports during the last six years have enormously decreased. I say the honourable gentleman has not been faithful to his work when he recommended that the Bill should pro- ceed, for he should have shown us clearly and emphatically that not only had he examined the proposed plans, and seen that the Bill had been properly advertised in the district as is provided by law, but he ought to have been pre- pared with figures - - because the honourable gentleman is an authority on figures, and I believe it is within the history of this House that he made one great financial statement here that riveted the attention of the House and was cabled all over New Zealand. However, that is by the way. Mr. GRAHAM .- You ought to be Chairman of the Local Bills Committee. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- I am an ex-chairman of the Local Bills Committee, and I venture to 