IN COMMITTEE. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON moved the following new clause :- " Notwithstanding anything in subsection two of section three of the principal Act, it shall not be an offence for any person to wheel (but not to ride) a bicycle on any public footpath." The Committee divided on the question, "That the clause be added to the Bill." AYES, 6. Feldwick Smith, A. L. McLean Reeves Jenkinson Twomey. NOES, 19. Barnicoat Montgomery Stevens Pinkerton Bolt Swanson Gourley Pitt Tomoana Rigg Walker, L. Harris Kelly, T. Shrimski Walker, W. C. Smith, W. C. Kelly, W. Williams. Louisson Majority against, 13. New clause negatived. Bill reported. MORTGAGES OF LAND BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- This Bill has been before the Council before, and the shape in which it has come down this year is virtually the shape in which it emerged last vear from the Statutes Revision Committee. I therefore trust that the Council will pass the second reading, and that it will not think it necessary to send it back to the Statutes Re- vision Committee. It has been before that Com- mittee two sessions, and last year it was thoroughly discussed, and put into the shape in which we see it now. It is a very simple measure. Whether it will be fruitful of good or not is a matter I am not able to say, because we cannot by statute or other arrangement prevent a lawyer coming into business in some form. I admit that the wise man employs a lawyer in most business transactions. How- ever, we have already in the matter of land transfer provided a simpler form of dealing with land. This Bill provides little else except a simple method of mortgaging land, having on the document indorsed the covenants which the mortgage contains within it, the applica- tion of insurance money in case of fire, and for the protection of the mortgagee as regards de- fault or otherwise. Clause 4 provides, - "(1.) Every such mortgage, if relating to land under 'The Land Transfer Act, 1885,' shall for all purposes be deemed to be a memo- randum of mortgage within the meaning of that Act. "(2.) Every such mortgage, if relating to land under ' The Deeds Registration Act, 1868,' shall for all purposes be deemed to be a deed or instrument within the meaning of that Act, and a deed of conveyance of land by way of mortgage within the meaning of 'The Property Law Con- solidation Act, 1883,' and may be registered under the former Act accordingly." renewed in the prescribed form simply by in- dorsement, and the mortgagee can transfer his interest. All this is provided for by this Bill. If it will reduce the interest charges on bor- rowed money, especially in the case of small men, it will be a matter for congratulation. The Bill was so carefully gone through last year that I believe it is now in a workable shape. I beg to move the second reading of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. STEVENS .- It is perfectly correct, as my honourable friend has said, that the provisions of this Bill have been under the review of the Statutes Revision Committee on a former occasion ; but it must not be under- stood because that has taken place that the principle of the Bill has been approved or ac- <!-- PageHeader="\- - -" --> cepted by that Committee. I trust my honour- able friend will agree to refer the Bill to the Sta- tutes Revision Committee, and that the Regis- trar-General of Lands shall be invited to attend that Committee and give his opinion as to what the effect will be, departmentally and other- wise, of the adoption of this measure ; because I am perfectly satisfied in my own mind that it will probably be attended with very serious and very evil consequences. The argument that my honourable friend has used, that the Land Transfer Act has provided a simple means of mortgaging, is one of the principal objections to this Bill. Any one can now procure land-transfer forms and prepare a mortgage from any person to himself, and can proceed to register in the ordinary way. But the whole thing is that the act of registration can only be performed at the centre where a registration office exists, and in the general manner now adopted. Therefore the argument of my honour- able friend as to the simple manner of making mortgages is not really an argument in favour of this Bill. For the registration of the mort- gage some one or other must be employed, or the holder must visit the registry. As regards what we call mortgages under the old Act, which are contemplated under this Bill, there the same difficulty will arise: a person might prepare a mortgage himself, and all these covenants in the schedule would be supposed to be implied ; but I am very doubtful whether that would be the effect of it, and whether they would be so implied. I am not speaking for one instant in the interests of the lawyers, but I am speaking in the interests of in- dividuals not engaged in this class of business, who, I am perfectly convinced, will very fre- quently neglect to register their mortgages, and then two or three years afterwards, when it occurs to them to register, they find that some one else has stepped in before them and registered a lien. That will be the effect, I am sure, of people tinkering with matters with which they are not familiar. I trust the Council will not take my word for this, nor that of my honourable friend as to the expedieney of the Bill, but that they will send it to the Statutes Revision Committee, with the view of having it properly considered. There is one point that renders this especially desirable : Land Transfer mortgages are included in the Bill, and the whole system provided by 