with some other person. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) .- My views are very much the same as those enunciated by the honourable gentleman who has just sat down. The mover of the Bill mentioned that in some previous year I voted for the second reading of a Bill which contained a provision which would enable three years' desertion to be a ground for divorce. I believe that is so ; but it was not because I approved of that parti- cular period, but because I desired to include in the Bill-and succeeded in doing so afterwards -a clause which would enable divorce to be obtained in cases where one of the parties to marriage had attempted the life of the other, and been sentenced for such offence to im- prisonment for seven years or upwards. I do not approve of the period of three years' deser- tion being made a ground for divorce. If the Bill is read a second time the honourable gentle- man should strike out that provision. I think the existing Act is liberal enough in that direc- tion by making the period five years. In re- gard to the next proposal of the Bill, I can understand the honourable gentleman's desire to place the law on all - fours as regards the period in relation to each cause for divorce. At present we make the period in the case of de- sertion five years ; and it does seem logical that when imprisonment is the ground the period should also be five years; but I do not think any strong cause has been made out for going any further in this direction than we have. But there is, as regards clause 4, an arguable https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 ground for adding this as a ground for divorce -I refer to the question of insanity. Of course it is a misfortune, and there is no element of fault, as there is as regards desertion and im- prisonment. As regards insanity, the insane is not a person in fault, but in misfortune, and therefore the position is different. But it may be argued, and I think rightly, that it is not desirable that persons should live to- gether in marriage when one of the parties has been for five years admittedly insane. I think, indeed, that it is very undesirable with regard to its effect on future generations, and that the honourable member who submits this Bill has reason on his side in asking the House to extend the divorce law so as to include insanity as a ground of divorce, provided always that there are proper safeguards. I do not know whether the suggestion made by him goes far enough. The Premier suggested that there should be a report by two independent medical mon outside of the doctor of the asylum ; and that, I think, goes in the right direction, and something in this direction should be added to clause 4 of the Bill. I only wish further to refer to one remark made by the Premier -- namely, that there has been a very much larger number of cases of divorce brought before the Courts since the passing of the ne v Act than Well, Sir, of course, that in previous years. Seeing that we made de- naturally follows. sertion for a certain number of years a ground Mr. G. W. Russell provided by the Legislature- Mr. SEDDON .- It should not continue. Major STEWARD .- And it will not con- tinue. Mr. SEDDON. -- It is continuing. Major STEWARD. - Possibly the honourable gentleman has not allowed sutheient time for the whole of these cases to be brought before the Courts; but I think it will be found in years to come that the number of divorces on the ground of desertion will be very much smaller than it has been, because the cases that have arisen from desertion in the past will, it is to be presumed, soon be disposed of. However, I am not prepared to say that there is any urgent demand for this Bill, but I shall vote for the second reading solely on the ground that I think something in the direction of clause 4 is necessary. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) .-- I would like to say a few words on this Bill. I understood the honourable gentleman who had just spoken to say that he voted for the second reading of a similar Bill some two or three sessions ago, with the understanding that the words " for attempting the life of the petitioner " were to be added to the clause. Well, Sir, it is proposed in this Bill to erase those words, and I think that is a mistake, because one can understand that if a husband is sentenced to a term of im- prisonment for attempting to take the life of his wife, it is more than likely that they will never care to live with each other again, and I think these words ought to remain. In regard to the question of the reduction of the term for desertion from five to three years, it was in 1893 the reduction to three years took place in New South Wales and Victoria, and the first year after the amending Act came into opera tion there were 306 cases of divorce in the former colony, while in the previous year there were only 102. The number of cases has not diminished to any extent, for in 1894 we find there were 313 cases, in 1895 there were 301, in 1896 234, in 1897 246, and in 1898 247 ; while the highest in New Zea- land during that time was thirty-six in any one year, which shows plainly that the door for divorce is opened too widely in New South Wales. I am of the same opinion as the Premier - namely, that we might allow our present Act to remain in force and see how it works. Had I not seen these figures relating to New South Wales and Victoria, where in the year 1897 there were 117 cases of divorce, I should have voted for the second reading of the Bill. But, after seeing these figures, I 9.30. certainly must vote against the second reading of the Bill, because I do not think it would be in the interest of the colony to pass such a measure. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- Sir, I in- tend to oppose the second reading of this Bill. It seems to me that the whole trend of the legislation of this country is to extend too great facilities for divorce. I largely indorse the 