I have no feeling in the matter, but would go on in the ordinary way. With regard to the time when the printing of these reports was stopped, I suppose the debates referred to came on im- mediately after the matter had been first brought under my notice. Well, I think the honourable member will admit that I was right in stopping the printing of speeches when I had high legal authority, no less than that of . the late Solicitor-General, Mr. Reid, who ad- vised me as to what the position was. I should not have been justified without some distinct authority in allowing this eclony to drift into actions for damages, the cost of which would fall upon the taxpayers of the colony. Mr. PIRANI .- Whose speech was it ? Mr. HALL-JONES .- I shall not sav, but I say let the question be decided by the Reporting Debates Committee. Mr. FISHER .- I will answer the honourable member for Avon, who asks whose speech it It was my speech. The speech of the was. Minister for Public Works, who is the Minister in charge of the Printing Office, is what the Americans call "piffle," or "mush." The honourable gentleman has not given one solid reason why the right exercised by members of this House to my knowledge for thirty years past should be taken away from them. As to referring the matter to the Reporting Debates Committee, or to the Speaker, as the member for Palmerston says, why should the speech of a member who delivers a speech on, say, a Local Government Bill be referred to the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 Speaker, or to the Reporting Debates Com- mittee? It is only in case of an exceptional speech. I suppose my speeches would be regarded as exceptional speeches which would have to be referred to the Speaker or the Committee. They are too strong in fibre -the pabulum is too strong-for members like the honourable member for Avon. They are not made for men of his physique. But why has the Government taken from the members of this House the right to have their speeches printed at the Government Printing Office from the Hansard type? Here is the ridiculous suggestion of the Minister for Public Works. It is his pet way out of the difficulty. According to the opinion of his lawyer, who he now tells us for the first time is the late Solici- tor-General, it is not libellous if you print, not your own speech, but the whole number of Hansard. Now. I hold in my hand one number of Hansard, containing 122 pages. I have, say, a speech which occupies eight pages in that number. I want ten thou- sand copies of those eight pages only, and I am to print the entire number, containing 122 pages, with the whole of the proceedings of the Legislative Council as well as those of the House, in order that my constituents may get those eight pages. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .-- I rise to a point of order. I have already risen to a point of order, and understood you to rule that this could not proceed ; but the honourable gentleman has achieved his object so far. I think, myself, that the House should declare that members' speeches should be printed, and the Govern- ment and the department should be absolved from the risk. If the House will do that, I will give the opportunity of carrying the reso- lution. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- Will you support that ? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes. Mr. FISHER .- I will accept that. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable gentleman has achieved his object. Let the House pass a resolution to absolve the Government of all liability. I think the Government should be so absolved, and that members' speeches should be printed separately or otherwise as they may desire. Mr. FISHER .- That is all I ask. That is enough for me : I want the privilege of having my speeches printed at the Government Print- ing Office. It is the only chance I have of getting my speeches printed, and I want to preserve that right. The honourable gentle- man in charge of the Printing Department said he could not allow the Government Printer to print them because of the risk of libel. Mr. HALL-JONES. - In accordance with legal opinion. Mr. FISHER .- The honourable gentleman, I understand, received a letter from a lawyer threatening to institute an action for libel. Is that so ? Mr. HALL-JONES .- No. Mr. PIRANI. - It was only a newspaper para- graph. Mr. FISHER .- Is that all ? Well, let me tell the honourable gentleman and the House that I received a letter threatening me with an action for libel in consequence of the printing and publishing of a speech. I tore up the letter and threw it into the waste-paper basket, and I have heard nothing more of the matter since. Yet here is the representative of the Government frightened because he has received a lawyer's letter ; and because he holds a legal opinion on the law of libel every member of the House is to be denied the right to speak to his constituents through the printing of his speeches at the Government Printing Office. Mr. SEDDON .- Oh, it is all right. Mr. FISHER. -- If the Premier, before the session is over, will give the House an oppor- tunity to pass a resolution saying we should have the right to print our speeches, but absolving the Government Printer from respon- sibility or risk so long as the person who makes the speech accepts the responsibility, that is all I wish. I will take all the responsibility, and as many lawyer's letters as they choose to send along. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I will solve the difficulty at once. I ask my colleague to move a resolution that this House authorises the printing of members' speeches as usual. There is a motion which can be put in two minutes, and the whole thing is done. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) .- 1 will move, That, in the opinion of this House, it is desirable that members' speeches should be reprinted as heretofore. 