under the heading of the Public Works Ac- count, there is stated an account of the sale of the $500,000 of 4-per-cent. debentures, London issue, and the #500,000 4-per-cent. debentures, colonial issue. Now, we knew of the colonial issue of $500,000 of 4-per-cents., which is dealt with in the Financial State- ment, but until that Gazette came out this week we were not informed that the Govern- ment had raised $500,000 at 4 per cent. in London during the last quarter. This is the first intimation given that, in addition to the colonial loan of $500,000, another $500,000 had been borrowed by the Government in London. But when I turn to the estimates of ex- penditure what do I find ? I find that whilst the Gazette of the 20th August states that the English colonial issue of that loan was at 4 per cent., the Government are actually taking authority to pay at 32 per cent. on both the London and colonial issue. Which is correct ? I ask the Treasurer, or whoever may deal with the speech I am making, what is the explana- tion ? Honourable members will see on the estimates, under the heading of " Aid to Public Works and Land Settlement Acts, 1896-1900," " Interest on $500,000 at 34 per cent., 1st Oc- Interest on tober (London issue), £8,750. $500,000 at 3} per cent., 1st October (colonial issue), $8,750." And yet, in the New Zealand Gasette published on the 20th August, a few days after the Financial Statement was de- livered, it is stated that the loan was obtained at 4 per cent. and not at 34 per cent. An Hon. MEMBER .- A printer's error. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - I do not know whether it was a printer's error or not. But there is another element that should be con- sidered in estimating our interest and sinking- fund charges as compared with ten years ago. In the year 1894, the then Colonial Treasurer, the Hon. Sir Joseph Ward, brought down a scheme in connection with the drawing loan, which very materially reduced the interest and sinking-fund charges. I am not going to weary honourable members with a statement of the very technical proceeding by which that was done. I will simply read to honourable mem- bers one short passage from the Budget of 1894, which explains my position. The Colonial Treasurer said,- " After careful consideration and considerable correspondence, I decided to do away with the charge for interest and sinking fund on bonds which had already been converted, and confine ourselves to making provision only for the bonds remaining in the hands of the public. After this year the charge for interest on the Consols will diminish in proportion as the debt becomes extinguished by the annual drawings ; under the former method it steadily increased year by The charge under this loan for year. . interest and sinking fund has been diminished by #182,957." If you want to make any comparisons of what was the position ten years ago as compared with that to-day, you will add $182,000 to the sum of $1,956,963, which is the interest this Mr. G. W. Russell by a stroke of the pen you will get what the position of the colony is to-day compared with what it was ten years ago. And what must be the effect of this huge increase of the debt ? The effect of it must be that there is a frightful increase of the taxation of the people of the colony. The Budget shows that the increase. so far as Customs revenue is concerned, is £653,655 as compared with 1891. I am going to reduce this to a matter of population, and honourable members will then see exactly what the position is. In 1891 the population of the colony was 626,368, and the Customs revenue was €1,527,207, or a net amount of $2 8s. 9d. per head. During the year just closed. with a population of 772,504, the Customs <!-- PageHeader="\-" --> revenue has risen to £2,180,862, or #2 16s. 5d. per head. That is to say, the Treasurer is drawing at the present time 7s. 8d. per head of Customs revenue from every man, woman, and child more than Mr. Ballance did in 1801 : and the result is that the revenue of the colony from Customs sources has increased to the extent of $296,126 more than the basis of \-- Mr. Ballance's revenue from Customs would produce. Let me give honourable members a sample case of what this means. If you take the paper H .- 9, " Consumption of Articles in Common Use," and take the case of a man and his wife with a family of five children, what will be the result ? The father would pay on spirits, €1 19s. 10d., and on tobacco, #1 12 -. 2d .: 1 the father and mother would pay on wine, -- 2s. 7d. ; on English ale, 1s. 4d. ; on New Zealand beer, 6s. 7d. ; and the whole family would pay on tea, 12s .; on coffee, 10d .; on sugar, ₺1 8s. 7d. ; and on ad valorem goods. £6 13s. 10d. In other words, that family of father, mother and five children-the children all being under fifteen years of age-would pay to the Customs revenue #12 17s. 9d. a year under the impost at present placed on families in this colony on those articles. The Govern- ment refer in terms of regret to the shrinkage of the birth-rate. I venture to say that were the Government wise in carrying out their duty, their object would be to lessen the bur- \- dens upon the necessaries of life, because, after all, in my opinion, the very large shrinkage of the birth rate, and the decline in the marriage rate, are economic questions rather thall social questions; and I believe, therefore, that the policy of the Liberal party in this colony should be by prudent administration, by re- trenchment and economy, to seek to lessen the burdens of the people, and specially to take the burdens off those things that are necessaries of life. I have shown that during the last ten vears the Customs revenue has increased £653,000, and upon the basis of Mr. Ballance's revenue in 1891, the taxation from Customs has gone up nearly $300,000 per year. I say that is not what was expected from the Liberal Go- vernment. In the utterances of Mr. Ballance from which I have goted, he spoke very strongiy of the necessity of this colony being weaned from servile dependence upon the London money-market. He said that borrowing in the 