£99,028 he must have been endeavouring wil- fully to mislead everybody who listened to him, or anybody who might read the Financial State- ment, for the very reverse is the case. It is true that the receipts for 1891 did exceed the previous year's receipts by €99,028, but it took ¥105,565 to earn that extra sum ; and an easy sum in subtraction will show that the net revenue from the railways was $6,537 less this year than it was the year before. And yet through all parts of the colony-and, in all probability, telegraphed home to England-is the assertion made that there was $99,028 ex- cess of revenue this year. But, Sir, that does not really get to the bottom of the whole mat- ter ; the loss is really very considerably more than the sum I have already named. Of course, one ought to deduct the liabilities on the con- solidated estimates for the railways for the pre- sont year from the liabilities which were against the railways the preceding year. And here I would pause for one instant to point out how enormously the liabilities have increased, both in the Consolidated Fund and in the Public Works Fund, during the past year. In the year 1900 there were $74,911 of liabilities, and this year they have grown to $90,777. If, then, we add the difference, which is #15,856-liabilities on the consolidated revenue which ought to have been paid on the 31st March, although they were not-members will find there was a deficiency of $22,403, or rather less pro- fits than there were in the preceding year. But by way of making sure that we are abso- lutely accurate, and to give the benefit of the doubt to Ministers, I would point out that the difference between the contingent liability in the preceding year, 1899-1900, was €8,742, which reduces the net loss on the working of the railways this year to €13,661. And that does not exhaust the subject, because there has been expended during the past year £717,722 upon railways ; and as the interest on that ¥717,722 has to be met, and as I have shown the receipts from the railways are less than the year before, we have the interest on that sum to add to the loss on working-expenses. It seems to me the loss we are likely to make on our railways is also a matter of very serious importance. Now, I have taken the trouble, in connection with this railway expenditure, to examine the various tables in the Financial Statement dealing with the rate of interest we are paying on our loans, and honourable mem- bers no doubt know - but the people generally do not know- how high a rate of interest we are still paying on the major portion of our loans. I find we pay 6 per cent. on £43,675, 5 per cent. on $530,245, 44 per cent. on $52.900, and 4 per cent. on $30,958,280; so that there is at 4 per cent. and at above 4 per cent. a sum of £31,585,100, which is a very serious state of things. At 3% per cent. there is $334,000, and at 3} per cent. $10,698,203, making above 3 per cent. a sum of £11,042,203 ; whilst at 3 per cent. there is $6, 148,810, and at 24 per cent. there is $19,000. Sir, I may be asked what have these figures to do with the management of the rail- ways. Well, none of these loans-I believe I Captain Russell am right in saying so-were floated at par, and so, though we pay interest on the nominal total of our debt, $49,591,245, we have not received so much money as that, but we pay interest on $49,591,245 though we have not received it. And of that sum more than three fifths is pay- ing interest at 4 per cent. and above 4 per cent. Of course, the interest is proportionately higher than 4 per cent., seeing, as I have already stated, we have not received in cash the total nominal amount of our indebtedness. Now, in this con- nection I wish to warn the House - and this is my object-against the present comfortable doctrine that we are to run our railways to yield a profit of 3 per cent. only. The words of the Financial Statement are, "Next year. and with abnormal expenditure eliminated, we hope to grant such concessions as will bring down the net earnings on our railways to 3 per cent." Now, let us examine the facts of the case. The cost of the railways on the 31st March last open for traffic is $17,207,328; but the i liabilities on the 31st March, 1901, are $447,388: making a total cost on our railways up to the 31st March, in money paid or in liabilities. of £17,654,716. But though that is the sum set down as the amount which our railways have cost, I think no one will dispute that if the accounts had been kept by any company building railways the sum set down as con- struction would have been infinitely higher. During all the years they have not paid cost of construction ; during all the years that an attempt was not made even to work them, the interest should have been debited in some way to the capital cost. I think that in reality I am understating the position considerably if I say \--- that the cost of our railways would not stand in any company's books under $20,000,000 sterling. if books had been properly kept. Now, Sir. the figures I have quoted about our loans prove that three-fifths of the money borrowed costs the colony over 4 per cent., and the railways were built when rates of interest were bish. As these 4-per-cent. loans are not payable until the 1st November, 1929, we are encumbered with loans paying a high rate of interest for twenty- eight years hence. I fail to see the justice, then. of taxing the community for a quarter of century to the amount of $200,000 a year. that being the difference between 3 and 4 per cent. on $20,000,000. I think that this is specially unjust, seeing that the large mass of the people of the country do not use the railways much. of use them very slightly indeed, and the indirect benefits gained by them are so infinitesimaliy small that they cannot be taken into account at all. Sir, I do not want the House to mis- take me. I do not want honourable members to think that I object to low rates ; but what I have always contended for is that our railways ought to be managed upon commercial prin- ciples, and that there ought to be an idea of reducing rates to the lowest possible point com- patible with the assurance that there will be no loss of revenue. To arbitrarily fix the rate of interest that our railways are to earn a: 3 per cent., while the great bulk of the capi- tal invested in them has cost considerably over 