union of the Churches in so far as this: that when the Churches unite, that union will not affect the trusts connected with the property owned by the southern Church. That is all the Bill proposes to accomplish. I move, That the amendments made by the Committee be agreed to by the House. Mr. J. W. THOMSON (Clutha) .- The honour- able member for Mataura has told us how it happens that the Schedule, which forms part of the Bill as introduced. came to be struck out by the Private Bills Committee. I may say I have had a letter from a clergyman in Dun- edin who wishes to see the Bill pass as intro- duced-that is to say, with the Schedule as part of the Bill. I mentioned this to the honour- able member for Mataura, and asked him to delay the Bill for a week, but he did not see his way to agree to my request. I have the right to move that the debate be adjourned, but I am unwilling. to take the responsibility of doing that. The Bill has still to pass the Legislative Council. Those, therefore, who are desirous that the Bill should pass as intro- duced will have an opportunity of placing their view of the case before the other branch of the Legislature. As they have this oppor- tunity, I shall not interfere with the passing of the Bill. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) .- Like the honour- able member for the Clutha, I also regret that provision is not made to retain the Schedule in the Bill. The Schedule contains the whole https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 terms of union of the Otago and New Zealand Presbyterian Churches, which, from a Church point of view, it is most desirable to have re- tained. I do not intend to move an adverse http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero motion, because I recognise that the honour- able member for Mataura is empowered by the bodies interested to act in their interests, but I wish most emphatically to protest against the proposal to eliminate such a valuable record of the union from the Bill. I think the Bill ought to have been altered to suit the Schedule, instead of the Schedule being cut out to suit the Bill, and I trust that this beneficial amalgamation of Churches may be in the direction of giving greater power to such a large body as the Presbyterian Church of New Zealand to work in the interests of that Church in all social work in the community. I have no other objection to make, feeling sure that the honour- able member for Mataura has the confidence of both Churches who are parties to this union. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) .- Sir, I think the honourable member for Mataura has been wise in taking the Schedule out of the Bill. The Presbyterian Churches of New Zealand want legal authority only to deal with their properties, and, so far as Church government is concerned, members of that Church will, I think, find it very much better to eliminate from the Bill all reference to that. When the Methodist Bill was being considered the question was looked at, and it was decided that it should deal with the legal difficulties so far as the property was concerned only, and that any reference to Church government in the Mr. McNab Presbyterian Church will find that the altera- tion agreed to by the honourable member for Mataura will be in the best interests of that Church itself. Personally, I am delighted to find that the two Presbyterian Churches of New Zealand are united, and have become one strong body. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .- When this Bill came from the Committee my suspicions were somewhat aroused on account of the Schedule having been excised from it, but after hearing <!-- PageHeader="!" --> the explanation of the honourable member for Mataura, Mr. McNab, who is in charge of the Bill, and who has been in direct communication with its promoters both in Otago and Southland, and also those of the northern Church, I think the House might rest satisfied that everything that need be done has been done in order to serve the best interests of the united organiza- tions. I understand that one of the objects of the Bill is to give a legal status to the united Church as a corporate body to hold property. I do not agree with my honourable friend the member for Clutha, Mr. Thomson, that there is justification for misgivings on the question. I am prepared to support the Bill, believing as I do that it is in the best interests of that import- ant Church organization, which numbers about one-fourth of the total population of the colony, and hope the union will be productive of the highest good. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo). - The honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Smith), says that this Bill is what the Presby- terian Church of New Zealand requires, and he has arrived at that conclusion on account of certain conditions that obtained in the Bill 1 of another Church of this colony some years ago. I have, however, had communications stating that the concessions granted by the honourable member for Mataura were never contemplated by the supreme Court of the Presbyterian Church of Otago, and that the whole union was influenced and promoted by the retention of the Schedule of the Bill. Some of the oldest and most respected ministers of the Presbyterian Church of Otago declare that if the Schedule is not made part of the Bill it will cause very great trouble to the Church in Otago. I have had very strong letters upon the point, and I am requested to oppose the Bill, because without the inclusion of the Schedule they maintain its purposes are lost. They declare their surprise that the repre- sentatives of the Church from the South should, in order to obtain unanimity, have conceded points that were never contemplated by the Presbyterian Church of Otago when the union was agreed upon. I am simply voicing the opinion of these worthy clergymen, and not my own. The subject is one that I am not suffi- ciently familiar with to give an opinion of my own upon it ; but the gentlemen I refer to are perhaps the most representative of the Church in Otago, and I venture to think that their opinion should receive great consideration here. The honourable member for Clutha says that he does not feel justified in moving the adjourn- 