whether anything had been done-only to find that the application had not been for- warded. Either Colonel Gordon or Bailey was in fault here. All the preliminaries were again gone through; but again we got no satisfactory reply from the department. " Again application was made, and this time we were told that cadet corps were now under the control of the Education Department. I then applied to the Education Department, but they said they had not completed arrangements. Again I applied, with the same result. "If you can do anything for us we shall be very grateful .-- Yours, &c., " GEORGE PITCAITHLY. "Hon. Major Steward, M. H.R." It seemed to him, after the discussions in the House, and the unanimous opinion of members that cadet corps should be en- couraged, that it was extraordinary that eighteen months should have been allowed to elapse when a suitable corps was offered without any answer being vouchsafed, although repeated applications had been made to the de- partment. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) said he thought the honourable gentle- man did not mean that there had been no answer, but that no decision had been come to. He believed there had been correspondence be- tween the authorities of the school and the de- partment ; but that no decision had been come to was quite correct. The reason for this was because the authorities asked for something of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 an unusual character. Honourable members were aware that, in connection with cadet corps, where they were formed at high schools they came under the Defence Department, and re- ceived $20 per annum ; but where they be- longed to ordinary primary schools they received no such grant, but they got a supply of model rifles. The difficulty in connection with this school was that it was a district high school, and therefore in a similar position to a primary school. If it had been a high school they would have had a grant in the ordinary way, or if they formed a cadet corps on the lines of a primary school they could get the rifles ; but they, being mainly a primary school, wanted to bring themselves under the same rule as the ordinary high school, and that was where the difficulty occurred. The best course would be for them to form a cadet corps as if they were a primary school. Major STEWARD asked if the Minister would have a communication sent to the school authorities to that effect. Mr. HALL-JONES said he would request his colleague to have that done. CO-OPERATIVE WORKERS. Mr. LETHBRIDGE (Rangitikei) asked the Minister for Public Works, If he will explain why the co-operative workers on the North Island Main Trunk Railway are continually com- plaining of the Engineers' measurements ? He Major Steward to the measurements. They complained that, after having finished the work and having obtained competent persons to measure their work, it was found to be nearly twice as much as the measurements of the Engineer. He was not speaking without information, because he had a letter which he had received from a party of men at Taihape, and the writer said,- " I wish you to place this letter before the House, and show clearly the way in which the co-operative works are being run up here, and how the labourers are being victimised on the works here. My case is as follows : Myself and party shifted 760 yards at Is. a yard, and on pay-day they wanted to pay us off with 370 yards, which I refused to take. It's been mea- sured by three different parties, all competent men, and they all make it 760 vards. This fetched us out at the rate of 6s. a day. I can- not get any redress here, so I hope you will do your utmost to show the way in which the co- operative works are being run here, and expose the present 'sweating' system, which prevails from one end of the line to the other. There are married men here who can't get enough money to shift them out of the district, and would be happy if they could once get away. 'Sweating' is quite general here, and we are all of opinion that the Government is responsible for the lot. Will some of those men who are so fond of the working-man at election stand to us now, and make this a test case, and cause an inquiry into the administration or maladminis- tration of the work. Things are in a terrible state here, and it is about. time something was done for the men. We have got no union, no Arbitration Court .-- I remain, &c., AND PARTY. "P.S .- Please put this letter on the table ; it is all solid facts. When I write a letter like this I confine myself wholly and solely to facts. By doing this you will do the co-operative men in this district a favour which will be appre- ciated by one and all." Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) presumed the honourable gentleman would follow the usual course of laying on the table of the House a document read in debate. seeing that this was a matter of importance. He would like to ask the honourable gentle- man if he realised his responsibility in this matter, seeing that he was making a charge against the Engineer at the works that he was robbing these men of one-half their earnings. As regards the charges, he knew nothing about them. There was sometimes a difference of opinion amongst the men as to the absolute quantity of material they had shifted; but what possible interest was it to the Engineer to defraud the men of a single penny ? Some- times they were told that these works were costing too much, and the honourable gentle- man said they were "sweating" the men. The honourable gentleman should, before bringing such a serious charge against Mr. Cook, who was the Engineer in charge of these works. 