authority to raise $2,000,000, not raising more than $1,000,000 in any one year. That is really what you are asked to do in the Bill. Nothing more nor less. Formerly Parliament gave the right to raise £3,000,000 without any safeguards or restrictions. An Hon. MEMBER .- As to time ? Mr. SEDDON. - Well, I shall come to that ; but I wish now to say that it is advisable in the interests of our borrowing that we should have an extension of time, and that we should not be fixed to a definite time, more especially at the present juncture. Honourable mem- bers have taken the returns laid upon the table, and from them we have had different amounts given as to the money available. In fact, the honourable member for Bruce, I think it was, made out the amount available on the 31st March to be $400,000. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I said that the amount now out-borrowed was £620,000. Mr. SEDDON. - On the 31st March last the But amount not then raised was $760,000. the honourable member will not find it in the accounts at all. The amount, as I say, not raised was $760,000. The amount avail- able on the 31st March was only $560,000. Now, honourable members will find that at the rato we are lending-approximately you may put it down at $500,000 and $560,000 being available on the 31st March, if you take six months of that there is $250,000 gone, or, in round numbers, a quarter of a million. Take the use of that between the 31st March last and the 31st March next, and An Hon. MEMBER .- What about the repay- ments ? Mr. SEDDON .- They may come in or they may not; but at most those will not reach £100,000. But is that the manner in which you are going to run the Advances to Settlers Department ? Are the advances to future bor- rowers to depend on the amount that is to come in? Is that what is asked to be 3.0. done? I do not think so. I say straight out we are lending now at the rate approximately of half a million a year. If you look at the return here you will see your authorities have been £3,600,000 ; some of them are not taken up. If a person comes to you and offers you security, and it is good security, you must be in a position to say you will advance him money. If subsequently he gets better terms, or the mortgagee lets him have the money on better terms than the Go- vernment, then the object sought has been achieved. We do not cry because a person gets his money on better terms outside than from the department ; we do not ery because he does not take the money from us ; but we must be in a position to lend it to him. That is the object of the Bill. If you have no money at your command you will not have applications. If it is understood that we are limited to a million, and up to the 31st March could borrow no more money, people would never come near us. They would say, " What is the use of going to the Advances to Settlers have all your machinery, but people would not come, because we should have no money. It is the same as a banking or other financial in- stitution : the more power you have behind you and the stronger your finance the more applica- tions you will have and the stronger you will be. We started this by publishing to the world that Parliament had authorised us to raise three millions ; we now desire to show intend- ing borrowers and those who have already borrowed that we have got power to raise two millions, and that the only limitation in connection with it is that we should not be able to borrow more than a million during any one year. That is very simple ; if we did not get power by this Bill to raise two millions we should have to pass a Loan Bill again next year for another million-we shall have to pass a Bill this year for a million and another next year for a million. Why, then, should we make two bites of a cherry ? It is exactly on the same principle ; there is no reason in it at all. I hope I have made it clear. I say, unless you give this extended power, that our present powers will be exhausted by the end of the financial year. Then you have to go on till Parliament meets again, and there is another quarter of a million gone. I do not think it is desirable to come to the House, as some members would suggest, or to limit the Bill to a million, when, as I have said before, your million will be exhausted prior to the session of 1908. And this brings me to a point as to limiting the time. You should leave it open to the Government to selcet the best time for floating the loan. It may just happen-by holding on and not going on to the market for your loan-that your sum, being limited, would almost be exhausted, and. with your demands coming in, you would be forced to go on to the market and bor- row on terms which would be against you as compared with watching for the best market. The honourable member for Bruce was illogical in his argument. He said you are borrowing now, and you pay 4 per cent., whilst the basis of your borrowing and the construction of your finance is on a 3-per-cent. basis. He is right so far. Why, then, in the next breath does ho say, "I am going to limit you as to the time when you are to borrow"? He apparently wants to force us to borrow when money is at 4 per cent., knowing as he does that the basis of the Advances to Settlers Office loans was 3 per cent. You must leave the discretion as to the exact time to borrow to the Government, and that is one reason why we say there should be no limit, except that we should not raise more than a million in one year. Let the Gic- vernment use their discretion as to a faveurable time to borrow within the million limit. I think, after reflection, the honourable member for Bruce will see such a discretion should be given, and that the time should not be limited as under the present Act. I hope I have made things clear to the honourable member for Waitemata. He wants to know whether this money raised under the Advances to Settlers 