<!-- PageHeader="NEW ZEALAND." --> PARLIAMENTARY DEBATES.
=== Second Session of the fourteenth Parliament. LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Tuesday, 30th July, 1901. Referendum Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. REFERENDUM BILL. ADJOURNED DEBATE. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- Mr. Speaker, I did not intend to rise at so early a period in the debate to discuss this subject, and consequently, as it is a very important one, I have some hesi- tancy in speaking at the present moment. We all know that it is always a very serious matter to tamper with our Constitution. There is always great risk and great danger in doing so. For years past there are political terms which have been in the mouths of political women at women's conferences and others of that ilk, such as the elective Executive, the referendum, and the initiative, but have received no serious attention so far. With two of these we have nothing to do at present ; but the referendum comes to us now with the imprimatur of the Government on it, and, under these circum- stances, it is time, I think, that we began to look into it seriously, and ask ourselves what it means. We have the referendum at present in a limited form. We have it as regards the liquor question-a question that is referred to the people every three years. Then, we have it again in another form-as regards local loans. No local body can raise a loan with- out referring the question to the people. ] have taken some little trouble to go into the matter within the last few hours, and I find that the referendum is in operation in America in a restricted sense. It is chiefly used in the individual States, and not by the whole nation, and questions affecting changes in the Consti- tutions are the chief matters submitted to a referendum. Now, in America it is only right and proper that these questions affecting the VOL. CXVII .- 1. <!-- PageNumber="." --> Constitution should be referred to the people, for the reason that in these States the people are the source of sovereign power, and they delegate to the Parliaments of the States those powers ; and wherever any changes take place in the Constitution it is only right and proper for the people to exercise a vote in the matter. There are some other occasions in which the referendum has been used, and in most of these cases the Supreme Court of America, which always plays a great part in the legislation of that country, has declared it to be illegal. I find that the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio gave this decision :- "That the General Assembly cannot surrender any portion of the legislative authority with which it is invested, or authorise its exercise by any other person or body, is a proposition too clear for argument, and is denied by no one. The people in whom it resided have voluntarily relinquished its exercise, and have positively ordained that it shall be vested in the General Assembly. It can only be reclaimed by them, and by them by an amendment or abolition of the Constitution, for which they alone are competent." There are several of such decisions. Here is another from the State of New Jersey :- " Much as the authorities differ in their con- clusions, they all concur in the great principles by which the question is to be settled. It is conceded as indisputable,-(1.) That, as well by the theory of a representative democracy as by the expressed provisions of the Constitution of the States of the Union, legislation cannot be exercised directly by the people. (2.) That the legislative power cannot be delegated ; that it can be exercised only by the functionaries, and in the mode designated and prescribed by the Constitution. (3.) That a law enacted by any other mode than that prescribed by the Constitution is void." I have looked through several other deci- sions, and that is practically the opinion of the Supreme Court of America. But, I may be asked, what has this to do with us-what bear- ing has it on the question before the Council ? 