for defence purposes, although it might not be for a rifle-range. If there was any defect in the law he would see to it. # DEFENCE. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) asked the Minister of Defence, Whether he has com- municated with the Imperial Government in terms of paragraph 16 of the report of the Secret Defence Committee of the 21st Septem- ber, 1900? Paragraph 16 of the Secret Defence Committee's report was as follows : - "That the Imperial authorities be applied to by the Government of the colony to advance the capital necessary to enable the colony to carry out such of the above recommendations as may be adopted by Parliament, and upon the terms set forth in the statement made in the House of Representatives on the 20th July, 1900, by the Right Hon. R. J. Seddon, Premier and Minister of Defence, referred to in the early portion of this report." The recommendations of the Defence Com- mittee, adopted by Parliament last session, involved an expenditure of #373,428, which required an annual cost of $59,303, in order to place the defences of the colony on a satisfactory footing, and it was apparent, of course, to the Committee that the colony could not stand an immediate expenditure to that extent ; therefore the Committee recommended that application should be made to the Imperial authorities to see whether that Government would contribute, and, if so, in what form. This was an important matter, and should not be allowed to drift. Twelve months had passed now since the De- fence Committee reported, and, although a good deal had been done considering the amount of money at the disposal of the Defence Depart- ment - they had now an abundant supply of the most modern rifles and ammunition . still all the items of Schedule A in the report of the Defence Committee had not received attention. There was not one single item in the report that the Committee thought could be deleted with safety to the colony. Therefore it was very necessary that immediate negotiations should be commenced with the Imperial Government. He knew that the Minister had had a great deal to do lately in connection with the Royal visit ; but still this was of vital importance to the Empire and to the colony, and it would be false economy to delay assuming obligations which the conditions of our existence as an insular colony demanded. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said he was Colonial Treasurer, and, with the very heavy claims now made upon the Imperial Treasury and the increased taxation necessary, it would be futile at the present juncture to press this matter. They must wait until the Imperial difficulties were over and a normal condition was established. They could then ask for this and go into it thoroughly. He thought to press for it now would mean a negative reply. Mr. NAPIER would point out that this was a most suitable time. The Imperial Govern- ment were now spending on outlying stations millions of money. They were going to spend large sums straight away at Hongkong, at Thursday Island, and also at other strategic points in the Empire. The Imperial Govern- ment recognised that it was necessary to make this expenditure on these outlying stations, and there could be no more opportune time to push this colony's claims than when so much money was being spent on Imperial naval bases, espe- cially as Auckland was now an Imperial naval station. Mr. SEDDON said the places to which the honourable member had referred were points at which, for strategical reasons, it was absolutely necessary that the Imperial Government should spend money. It was quite different with New Zealand. To press the claims recommended by the Committee now would, he repeated. bring forth a negative reply. If they waited till a more favourable opportunity the probabilities were that something would be done. He was speaking now with authority. RETURNED TROOPERS. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked the Minister of Defence, Whether the Government will es- tablish some systematic method of dealing with applications for employment by returned troopers from South Africa ? He understood that the Government had already very properly stated that they would, if possible, find employ- ment for returned troopers. He did not think it should be necessary for these men to have to go to members of Parliament and ask them to use their influence to get them employment under the Government. There should be some bureau established or some other system by means of which the Defence Department should deal with this matter. He had no doubt the Government were paying some attention to this subject, but he trusted the Premier would be able to say that the Government would make a strenuous and systematic attempt to find employment for returned troopers, and in par- ticular those who were incapacitated from doing hard manual work. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) might say that there was a systematic method now in operation. And not only that, but he knew that the Christchurch Press was voluntarily and freely helping by inserting advertisements gratis on behalf of those who are out of employment. In reply to an interjection, he might say that it did not matter whether the paper was Liberal or Tory, if any paper was helping a patriotic and proper object it should be commended for doing so, and he would like to see all other papers throughout the colony doing the same thing. However, the Government were finding places for these men as fast as they could. It was only natural, however, that when a large number of men came back to the colony some of them should be out of employment for a time. He might say that some of them were a little fastidious, and wanted better positions than those they held when they went away. Of course, he did not blame them, but the Govern- ment were doing all they could. 