the amendments be agreed to." AYES Parata Hall Arnold Seddon Hall-Jones Bennet Stevens Hanan Buddo Heke Steward Carncross Hogg Symes Carroll Laurenson Tanner Duncan Willis. Lawry Flatman Fraser, A. L. D. McGowan Tellers. Mills Barclay Gilfedder Morrison Colvin. Guinness NOES, 19. Mckenzie, R. Smith, G. J. Atkinson Thompson, R. McNab Bollard Thomson, J. W. Meredith Ell Fraser, W. Monk Tellers. Rhodes Lang Russell, G. W. Herries Lethbridge Mackenzie, T. Russell, W. R. Massey. Majority for, 10. Amendments agreed to. RATING ON UNIMPROVED VALUES BILL. INTERRUPTED DEBATE. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- Sir, I have 2.30. a few words more to say before closing my remarks. I had been referring to the speech of the honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell), and pointing out that the statistics he introduced to the House were not as reliable as one might have expected them to be. from the fact that they were estimates of his own, and not instances from actual experience. The Act has been in force in some districts in New Zealand for some time, and I expected / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero the honourable gentleman was quoting from actual facts and experiences after the Act had come into operation. We were led to believe, however, from his subsequent remarks that that was not so, and we were also led to that conclu- sion from the fact that he referred to some printed matter which he circulated on the eve of the poll being taken. His facts, therefore, whatever value they may have, have only the value that may be given to estimates. Now, Sir, this Act intends to make rating on unimproved values compulsory, and that is my objection. There is a great deal to be said, as I stated in my open- ing remarks the other evening, for rating on unimproved values in certain districts, and there is a great deal to be said against it ; but there is nothing to be said in favour of making it compulsory, and that is why I object to it. Mr. SEDDON .- Why should it not be ? Mr. J. ALLEN .- Why not? I will ask the honourable gentleman why he has introduced the Act at all? If it is to be compulsory on the one leg, why should it not be on the other? Now, the Act has been brought into operation in thirty-three districts. A poll has been taken in forty. It has been rejected in seven districts, so that only forty of the local bodies in New Zealand have spoken their voices on the matter. I was pointing out that five counties and a hundred boroughs, and I do not know how many Road Boards, and out of that number of 185 only forty have expressed their voices on the matter, and only thirty- three have decided in favour of it. Mr. BOLLARD .- There are nearly five hun- dred local bodies. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Well, at all events, it is sufficient for my purpose to point out that, as far as the boroughs and the counties are con- cerned, there are 185, and that only thirty- three have decided in favour of rating on un- improved values. Now, why is it to be made compulsory ? If out of 185 bodies 120, or some such number, had decided in favour of rating on unimproved values, then the Premier might have had some reason for saying, " I am going to make this rating on unimproved values compulsory all over," because, as he said, he wanted a uniform rate in New Zealand. But, if he wants a uniform rate, this Bill does not give it. The clauses in the Bill omit certain works- waterworks and gasworks --- from the rating on unimproved values, and, instead of the rate being uniform, it will be less uniform. In one district you will have rating on the capi- tal or annual value, and in others on the unim- proved value for some purposes and on the capi- tal value for others. There is no uniformity in the Bill, and it is not a measure that will make rating in New Zealand uniform; and if it were, then I say that all the arguments are in favour of retaining that which is at pre- sent adopted by the majority of the local bodies, and, if there were a necessity for being com- pulsory at all, it ought to be in the direction of rating on the capital or the annual value. Now, with regard to the statistics quoted by the honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell), I pointed out, with regard to those statistics, that in thirty-three districts the vote had been carried, and that in seven the vote had been lost. But it is interesting to examine the polls. I find that little interest has been taken, even in the very district in which the honourable member has been agitating. Take, for instance, the question as it was decided in the district of the member for Ashley -- the Cheviot County. There are 345 persons on the roll in the Cheviot County, and out of that number only 119 went to the poll. Now, where were the remainder ? Mr. SEDDON .- They are satisfied. The man who stops at home is satisfied to let it go. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I say the man who stops at home is satisfied with what he has got, and therefore stays at home. Then, in Eketahuna there are 600 on the roll, and only 102 went to the poll, and these 102 carried rating on unim- proved values. That is no voice of the rate- payers. If I were to go over the other figures it would show the same result. An Hon. MEMBER. - Look at Sydenham. Mr. J. ALLEN .-- It was carried in Syden- ham ; but, unfortunately, the number of per- sons on the roll is not given in the return. However, I am sure that what applies to other places applies also to Sydenham. In Sydenham 