acquired, and cut up at the same time as the freehold. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the question was, when would the Mangatoro Estate Le ready for selection ? That was the question, and the answer was that possession would be given on the 1st April, 1902, and the land would be put into the market carly in January next year. In respect to the other question, as to the lease- hold, he might say it would not do to tell what they were doing in respect to these matters; in fact, the law said they should not do so. Mr. O'MEARA said he might tell the Hon. the Premier that he already had information that the Assets Board intended cutting up this land, but he preferred the Government should do it, acquiring it from the Assets Board. Mr. SEDDON might say the matter had not been lost sight of. MACKENZIE AND DUNTROON RIFLES. Major STEWARD (Waimate) asked the Minister of Defence, Whether he will place on the estimates a vote to enable grants-in- aid to the Mackenzie Mounted Rifles and the Duntroon Rifles for the erection of drill-sheds at Fairlie and Duntroon ? There were com- panies of Volunteers at Fairlie and Duntroon -- in the one case mounted infantry, and in the other case a rifle company. These companies had not drill-sheds at the present time. At Fairlie there was a large building that could be converted into a drill-shed, and the local Volun- teers were willing to defray a considerable part of the cost, but wanted assistance from the Go- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 vernment. With respect to Duntroon, there was no suitable building for the corps, but they had obtained a section of land upon which they would put up a building if they got the neces- sary assistance. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said no recommendations had been received as to the sheds mentioned, and he might say that usually grants on the basis of Al for 11 were given to companies which wished to ereet drill-sheds. That was the general rule, and if they were re- commended he would be most happy to look into the applications. Of course, every applica- tion must stand upon its own merits. There were some cases in which greater assistance was given than in others: it depended on the position of the corps. Major STEWARD said that, so far as the applications were concerned, they were sent in some time ago. He did not know whether the honourable gentleman had seen them or not. Mr. SEDDON could not say that be had. ## RIFLE CLUBS. Mr. HANAN (Invercargill) asked the Minister of Defence, If he will allow members of rifle clubs as at presented constituted to be enrolled. and the clubs accepted by the department ? He hoped this question would receive the serious consideration of the Premier, as it was a matter of great interest to many members of the House who had rifle clubs established in their di-triets. Mr. O' Meara follows : --- " Ex-Volunteers resident within a radius of five miles of the headquarters of a Volunteer corps, and having had not less than three years' service, or Volunteers after having served for three years in the Volunteer Force, will, on dis- charge from the Volunteer Force, be allowed to <!-- PageHeader="\----" --> enrol themselves in any recognised Government rifle club in the colony, provided no man so chi- rolled is less than thirty years of age." He felt certain the Premier recognised the splendid work that the rifle clubs of this colony had performed and were performing in the direction of training our young men to become proficient in the art of marksmanship. He might observe that many members of our rifle clubs were either under the age set forth in the regu- lation, or have not served the time required in the regulation for precedent Volunteer service. If this condition which he had read were insisted on, it meant that in many districts of the colony the rifle clubs would be reduced to mere skeletons, so far as membership was con- corned. It was well known that many mo- bers who were now shooting with rifle clubs had no time to devote themselves to Volunteering : in fact, the only time they had for devoting themselves to rifle-shooting was generally on 1 the half-holiday that was held during the week. He hoped this condition would be amended. ! otherwise many of our young men would be 1 compelled to disassociate themselves from our rifle clubs, which, he thought, would be a step that they must all deplore. It was highly necessary that all our young men should be good shots, so that if ever they were called upon to defend their hearths and homes they would prove themselves qualified for such de- fence. Furthermore, the best shots in the colony were to be found in rifle clubs, and many young men preferred joining these rifle 1 clubs because they recognised that they were more likely, by being members of such clabs, to improve themselves in marksmanship than \- by belonging to the Volunteers. In saying this he did not wish to disparage in the slightest the many great benefits which were ! derivable from active membership of Vohmteer corps. It might be said that some of our Volun- \- -- teers might be drawn away from the Volunteer corps to the riffe clubs. To that he replied that in our rifle clubs there were to be found many persons who were not only members of Voim- teer corps, but also were members of a ride club. He understood a number of one rifle clubs, if accepted as they were now coll- stituted, would be quite willing to be enrolled as a reserve corps. Having regard to all these facts, he hoped the Premier would give a favour- able answer to this question-that the rogi- lations would be amended so that the rifle 1 clubs as at present constituted might be en- rolled and accepted. So far as existing rifle club's were concerned, he would say, leave thon as they are, but with a proviso applying only to new members requiring three years' active Volunteer service, and the qualification of age 