able system. I think that what we ought to do more than anything else is to give a rateable value to the Crown and Native lands of the North Island, and, greatly as I admire the Pre- mier, the Minister of Lands, and the other mem- bers of the Government, I must say I do not think they are doing their duty in regard to the waste lands of the North Island. Mr. DUNCAN .- Yes, they are. Mr. WITHEFORD .- Well, I believe they are going to, now the honourable gentleman is Minister of Lands, but they have not done it hitherto. In the North Island we have land enough to accommodate the whole of the British army in South Africa-200,000 men. Sir, we all know that those who take up land are the wealth-producers of the colony. They are, of course, the pets of the labour Govern- ment that we have in New Zealand. Then, why not open up the land we have in the North Island and bring into the colony 200,000 men from different parts of the world to take it up and work it? You would then create a rateable value on the land -- a value that does not now exist - and at the same time you would bring in a profit to the country. Would it not be better to take such action as that, than to waste time here in talking about the single-tax and other questions that will do no good to any one ? Last session many a night was wasted. We sat for thirty hours at one sitting, and passed measures that we have to remedy this year. It seems to me, Sir, the system we have dropped into is most absurd, and instead of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 pursuing it further we should go to work, and in a practical manner do something that would benefit the people of the colony as a whole. In the first place, we might take up the land for / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero settlement question. Instead of going to the South Island, where a great quantity of the land has been bought by Government from private people, let us draw the attention of the young men to the virgin lands of the North Island. Let these young men take up this land as their fathers did in the old days ; let them improve it, as their fathers did in the South ; let them take up large runs, and in the next quarter of a century they will be able to sell their land as improved land-round about the cities created by the construction of railways, or the making of roads for the settlement of the interior of the North Island. Why, we are pursuing at the present time a policy of stag- nation. So much so, that when a few hundred men come back from the war in Africa they cannot find employment, and as our boys leave school you see them walking about the towns unable to get employment. There is no sadder sight than to see a youth come back daily to his home and tell his father that he cannot get work. I say that the whole of the returned contingents-some two thousand men- might be put on survey-work, or road-construction, or prospecting for gold in the country between the Waihi Mine and Wellington, where there is one of the richest auriferous belts in the whole world. We have got more unimproved land in the North Island than they have in i encourage all the different industries, and then Mr. Witheford waste land in the Province of Auckland than there is in the Province of Wellington. It is necessary that I should point these things out, or I can hardly expect to receive the approval of my constituents. I may here say that the speech of the Hon. the Minister of Lands -- Mr. Duncan-on the resolution of con- dolence with the relatives of the late Sir John Mckenzie, was, I think, the finest speech made on that occasion. I trust the honourable gentle- man will rise in his strength, and declare that he is going to pursue a policy of land-settlement and progress; that he is going to lift New Zealand out of any possibility of stagnation or shortness of money, or anything of that kind. If he does that the people of the North Island will in the future be as grateful to the Hon. Mr. Duncan as the people in the South have been grateful to the late Sir John Mckenzie. The Hon. Mr. Duncan has visited the different dis- tricts of the North Island, and he knows the magnificent resources of the country. The Minis- ter for Public Works has visited the interior of the North Island, and has admitted that he there saw the best land in the colony. Why should not the young men of the South Island have an opportunity of settling upon that land ? I say the young men of the South Island ought to have the same advantages as the old men in the South Island have had-such grand men as they were too. I say that the young men should have just the same opportunity to acquire the waste lands and the virgin lands as the old settlers had ; and, in regard to this matter, I fear that the present Government are standing in the way of settlement. I say that they are not giving the sons of the colony a good " show." They should take up all this magnificent land and throw it open for settle- ment, and, if the young colonials do not want it, invite people to come from all parts of the world with their money to settle here and spend their money here. I believe the title of this Bill is "The Rating on Unimproved Value Bill "-in other words, the single-tax. For many years I have endeavoured to solve this question of the single-tax. I have been in Aus- tralia amongst the single-taxers, with very en- thusiastic single-taxers-men who are amongst the staunchest of the members of that party- ard I have been unable to follow their argu- ments or to understand their line of reasoning. And, in regard to this question. although my colleague Mr. Fowlds is a gentleman I esteem very much, I regret that on certain main points I have to differ from him. I do not think that in the present condition of things the single-tax is what we want, and therefore I think it is only a waste of time to discuss the matter at all. We have passed enough legislation to last us for many years, and I trust this House will \- not waste further time by dealing with experi- mental legislation. My sympathies go out to the young men, and, seeing the grand Premier we have got, I would like to see him do some- thing practical to enable the young men to | make homes for themselves, to find work. to 