difficulty in the way of speculating and holding land idle for increased value that speculators will seriously consider before they resolve to hold land idle for a rise. Take the case of town lands. People with capital now invest in land, and then leave it for a long period perfectly idle, being satisfied that in the natural order of things the land is going to increase in value, because other men will spend money in im- proving and in putting buildings upon their property, and thus, while these are doing good to their fellow - men by giving employ- ment, they will also benefit those who hold for speculative purposes, and who do not deserve it. These progressive men are now heavily taxed, while the others who have done nothing go nearly scot-free, and their lands are improved at the expense of the men who use their money to raise up a business or to in- prove the land. I consider that is not a fair system. I think if any one should be en- couraged it is the man who makes improve- ments, not the man who holds his lands idle, it may be for years, in order to get a larger price for them. Now we come to the case cited by an honourable member-the case of a poor man who is driven out of the city where land is dear to find land for a home. Such a man goes a few miles out where land is cheap, takes up a section, and puts a house upon it ; and then in the course of time, settlement takes place around him, and large houses follow. It is said he would be in a pitiful condition under such a system, as he would https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 have to pay much higher rates for his land because it has been permanently increased in value. Well, do you think a man in that position deserves our pity? Does he deserve our sympathy because his land has been trebled, or perhaps increased tenfold, in value ? I think, instead of pitying, we ought to con- gratulate him. So far from requiring sympathy, he should be regarded as being extremely lucky, as he is able to get a good deal more for his land because of the handsome residences that have gathered round it, and if the man chooses he can again go afield ; but the difference would be that if he so went to seek a place of residence he would be able to sell his small place at per- haps ten times the value he had paid for it. I think it is not a case for pity where a man finds his property thus improved-it is not a case of hardship where a man is so fortunate as to find his property so materially increased in value. The number of boroughs that have tried the system go to prove that it has been a success. I do not know a single case in which there has been dissatisfaction when the rate has been levied in this way. Surely if there had been any want of success in these experiments we would have heard of it. But there has never been a single complaint of the non-success of this rating on the unimproved value. An Hon. MEMBER .- Have you carried it in Wanganui ? Mr. WILLIS .- I hope it will be carried there Mr. Willis a poor man his rates will be increased through the local body not being able to rate on the buildings of his richer neighbour under the un- improved system. But, Sir, the richer neigh- bour will have the rateable value of his land raised as well. The same amount of revenue will require to be raised, and the proportion of the rich man's land will be increased in value the same as the poor man's land. The unim- proved value will have to produce the same amount as is produced under the present system. Sir, I am rather surprised to find members of this House, who profess to be in favour of an advanced system of legislation that will be for the benefit of the people of this colony, opposing the Bill. I consider that the system we are proposing will be one of the most advanced kinds of legislation we have had, and I believe also it will be a benefit to all classes of the community. I will only ask, If the system has not been successful, how is it there is no discontent with the present system of rating on the unimproved value for the Government land- tax ? At the present time, no matter how pa- latial the residences, those buildings and im- provements are not taxed by the Government. Well, Sir, I consider if this system has an- swered with the Government land-tax it will be equally successful with local bodies, and I think it is extremely unfair that one man who spends large sums of money on improving his place should have to bear heavy taxation, while his neighbour, who has done nothing, escapes scot-free. I will say nothing further on the subject, but I deemed it right to express my opinion on the fairness of the measure. When I hear honourable members say they hope this Bill will not pass its second reading I can only say I hope it will, and if honour- able members have induced the Premier to bring down this Bill so much more honour to them. I did not know the Bill was coming down until I saw it on the Order Paper. I can only say that a Bill of this kind will have my most hearty assistance, and I shall be pleased indeed to help in placing it on to the statute- book of the colony. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works). - Sir, I beg to move the adjournment of the debate. The reason for doing so will be given by the Right Hon. the Premier. Debate adjourned. DEATH OF SIR JOHN MCKENZIE. Mr. SEDDON ( Premier). - Sir, the reason why the debate has been adjourned arises, I regret to state, from the fact that I have just received the following communication :- " FATHER just passed away at half-past seven. His end was peace. " T. J. MCKENZIE." I move, Sir, That the House do now adjourn, and to-morrow I will move a further adjourn- ment, so as to enable members, who so desire, to pay a last mark of respect to our old friend and colleague. The House adjourned at half - past eight o'clock p.m. 