ciently liberal ; the salaries under the second scale, in fact, would mean, with very few ex- ceptions, a general levelling-up. As to the ex- ceptions, the Commission suggests that for two years no salaries should be lowered, and, as the cost of the concession would be trifling, this suggestion may readily be adopted without in- terfering with the general scheme. Since January of the present year, with the £3 15s. statutory capitation and the special vote of 5s. per head, the total payments have been at a rate practically equivalent to a capi- tation of £4 on the total average attendance. Last year the appropriation for capitation was £398,000; this year £416,200 is required to be voted, which is £18,200 in excess of the amount voted last year. Next year-the finances of the colony permitting, as I believe they will- we hope to be able to provide for the payment of teachers on the second scale recommended. MANUAL AND TECHNICAL INSTRUCTION. The administration of the Manual and Tech- nical Instruction Act of last session has en- gaged the attention of the Government during the recess. Organizing Inspectors have been appointed, and the regulations required to give effect to the Act have been issued. The terms of these regulations, I believe, are such as to offer a degree of encouragement to manual and technical education as liberal as is offered by the State in any part of the world. The Inspectors have already visited nearly every part of the colony, have met teachers and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 others interested, giving model lessons and such information and advice as will enable local controlling authorities to begin work on the best lines, or to extend their work where it has been already begun. The Inspectors have also in hand a series of small manuals suggesting suit- able programmes of work in manual and tech- nical classes. One of the most satisfactory features of the movement is the degree of in- terest that is being manifested in regard to the introduction of hand-and-eye training into the schools of the colony. Inasmuch as trained teachers are essential for effective work, special grants have been given to all the Boards of Education to enable them to establish classes for giving manual instruction to teachers. The extension of technical education proper will be sufficiently indicated when I say that since the passing of the Act there have been some forty or fifty applications for grants in aid of build- ings, apparatus, and material. The expenditure under the head of technical instruction, exclusive of grants for building, for the year ending 31st March, 1901, was £2,690 ; the expenditure this year may be esti- mated at €14,000 or €15,000 exclusive of build- ing grants, which last year amounted to $2,178. This year we anticipate an expenditure of £10,000 or $12,000 upon buildings and appa- ratus. After a few years the grants in aid of buildings and apparatus may be expected to decrease as the need is generally satisfied ; while, on the other hand, the grants for capi- tation and other current items will increase year by year for some time. Mr. Seddon GOLD-MINING. Gold-mining generally is steadily progressing, and, although many companies which were floated more for the purpose of collecting calls from shareholders than for the purpose of win- ning the precious metal have been and are being wiped out of existence, the yield of gold is increasing. The quantity and value exported for the half-year ended 30th June last was 217,478 oz., valued at £844,888, being an in- crease of 38,175 oz., valued at £150,029, over the first half of the year 1900, and, as compared with the first half of the year 1899-when the quantity of gold exported for the year was 389,558 oz., valued at £1,513,173, being the highest for twenty-six years previously-the export shows an increase of 24,347 oz., value £94,389. It is not unreasonable, therefore, to expect that the yield for the present year will equal, if not exceed, that for the year 1899. # RIPARIAN RIGHTS. The scope of the Commission referred to in last year's Statement as having been set up to inquire and report as to claims for compensation in respect to riparian rights, and land affected by dredging in Otago and Southland, was ex- tended so as to include all rivers in the Middle Island; and the Commission has now concluded its investigations, resulting in reports having been made on forty-six rivers, of which number six have been proclaimed, and compensation amounting to £5,799 13s. 4d. paid. Notices of application to proclaim twenty-four rivers have been issued, but, as the period of ninety days within which claims for compensation can be received has not expired, the total sum that may be claimed is not yet known. On some of the more important rivers on which agricultural lands will be affected by mining it is feared the individual claims will be large ; but, as in many cases the farmers have disposed of the portions of their holdings fronting rivers and streams for dredging purposes, the compensation clainis will have to be considerably reduced before such rivers or streams are proclaimed. The question of a fair and equitable settle- ment between the riparian right holders and the mining community is beset with many difficulties. If, however, a conciliatory spirit is exhibited on both sides, and with the infor- mation before the Government resulting from the inquiries of the Commission, it is expected that in most cases the conflicting interests will be adjusted. # STATE COAL-MINES. The time has arrived when the colony should supply itself with coal. The output at present does not adequately meet requirements. Pri- vate enterprise is not meeting the general and increased demand. The annual consumption of coal for the several branches of the public services amounts to about 115,000 tons. The railways alone require 100,000 tons per year ; of this, 65,000 tons are hard or bituminous coal. It is estimated that the bituminous coal should be obtained at from 5s. to 7s. 6d. per ton less 