RETURNED TROOPERS' PAY. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) asked the Minis- ter of Defence, Whether the Government will give a definite assurance to the returned troopers from South Africa of the date when their lawful claims for arrears of pay may be expected ? He had received two letters on the subject from returned troopers. One of them was dated the 5th instant, and in it the writer stated :- "I relied on my arrears of pay as a mem- ber of the Third Contingent to meet the half-yearly rent of my own and my brother's section. I wrote to the Defence Department, Christchurch, asking that the money should be forwarded as soon as possible. The money has not arrived yet, consequently we lose the 10-per-cent. rebate allowed on rents paid before the 31st July last. In our case it amounts to $6. It appears to me to be very unjust that one Government department withholds money due for so long, while another department im- poses a penalty for non-prompt payment of rent." That young man belonged to the Third Con- tingent, and returned to the colony about three months ago. He and his brother . ere tenants on the Cheviot Estate. He had another com- munication, dated 12th August, from a trooper who returned to the colony about ten months ago. It was as follows : "I may say that the Defence Office has not paid us our back money yet ; also, we were told the Imperial Government voted a bonus of £5 a man to all colonials who served in South Africa. I have not yet heard regarding it. I am not hard up for money, but I think it is time the Government paid up our lawful claims. Also, troopers having their own horses : the Premier recently said that the Government would pay for the horses of all deserving cases. Will you ask him what he means by that? I had my own horse, and would like to know about it." Although the writer of the second letter he had just read returned to the colony about ten months ago, the arrears of his pay had not yet been settled. Those two cases would show the Premier that there was something decidedly wrong in the management of the Defence De- partment. That one man should be kept out of arrears of pay for ten months and another for three months was a grave reflection on the Government. In consequence of not receiving the £60 that was due to him, one of the troopers had lost a rebate in his rent of £6. owing by him and his brother as Crown ten- ants. If the Premier desired it, he would place the letters at his disposal for departmental in- quiry, and hoped the matter would be attended to at once, and the men paid their just and well-earned claims. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the honourable gentleman if he would include in his question the case of Sergeant Mitchell, whose pay was in arrear. He had not long returned from South Africa, and the Govern- ment had asked him to go back ; but why should he do that while there was pay due to him here that he could not get ? Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said, If the honourable member for Ashley had given him particulars of the cases referred to before putting the question he would then have been able to give the departmental reply. There must be something deficient. There was no man so much as ten months in arrear. Either the man was not entitled to the payment de- manded or there was some dispute between him and the department, and he ought to have told the honourable gentleman the facts re- specting it. He (the Premier) undertook to say there was something wrong. Possibly ho was claiming more than his certificates entitled him to be paid. There were any amount of those cases. In some cases the men had got the money, and when the pay-sheets came back from Africa it was found that they had been paid twice over. Well, he was not going to throw away public money. If the case was not shown to be one right for payment the Government would not pay. As to the cases the honourable member referred to by , name, he would make inquiries and let him know the result of the inquiry. The department told him that, with very few exceptions of disputed cases, all the returned troopers of the First, Second, and Third Contingents had been paid. Regarding the other case, where £6 was alleged to be due, the probability was that the £6 was lying in the office of the officer commanding the district. Mr. MEREDITH said the young trooper he referred to was at Cheviot, and in consequence of the Defence Department not paying him he had lost the 10 per cent. of the Government rebate, which amounted to £6. Mr. SEDDON said, Not knowing the par- ticulars of the case, he could not give the honourable member a definite reply : but he could say that if he was one of those who came back with the Fourth or Fifth Contingents, their accounts had only just been finished by the Officer Commanding. If he belonged to the First, Second, or Third Contingents, the officers had finished their work weeks and weeks ago, and their certificates and money had been sent to the officers commanding the districts, and the young man had not made application. It was one of two things : either there was a dispute as to the amount owing, and there was no certificate for it, or the money had not been applied for at the proper quarter -to the Paymaster General : it was not kept back by the Government. Then, with respect to Sergeant Mitchell : He might say that he had treated him with consideration and gene- rosity. The honourable gentleman could see the papers, and he would find that such was the case. No one regretted what had oc- curred more than he did himself; but he did not see that there was anything more that he could do. The trooper's wife died in Wellington, and he (the Premier) had given instructions for the fact to be cabled, and the trooper had obtained leave to return to Wel- lington. The man was an Imperial soldier and had been granted six months' leave, and had been in Wellington six weeks. Of course, the 