them at the cost of those who cannot do so. Another question I would like to touch upon, if time permitted, is that of the excessive and increasing payments out of loan for mainten- ance, and for the up - keep of engines and rolling-stock. As I have already said, unfor- tunately we have not the necessary data to speak with authority on the subject. I must therefore defer any remarks upon the manage- ment of the working railways until such time as Ministers are graciously pleased to allow the representatives of the people to obtain the in- formation which ought to be placed at their disposal at the earliest date after Parliament meets. Sir, the concessions which were made in freights and fares seem to have been made entirely irrespective of the principles of true finance, and irrespective of any idea that the railways should be run to the best possible advantage. One principle only underlies these concessions, like everything else, and that is by some means or other the Government must bribe the people. Now, in the Statement there are to be found endless comparisons between the periods 1891 to 1901. And it almost seems to me as if it was a valedictory effort on the part of the Right Hon. the Premier, as though this was to be his last Budget, and that therefore he wanted to draw a comparison between the finances and the population when he came into office and as we now find it. It is not a generous action to disparage, or endeavour to disparage, one's predecessors ; but we know if it is necessary to work a point by https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 disparagement of others it does not interfere at all with the utterances that come from the Ministerial benches. But let me endeavour to extend the comparison to the previous decade, and then let us see what that comparison proves-and by doing this I am not disparaging any person, because various Ministers were in office ; but one can arrive, by comparing the previous decennial period with the last one, whether anything has been gained by the popularity-hunting policy of the present Go- vernment. In 1881 the net public debt amounted to £27,108,270, and between then and 1891 it rose to £37,359,157, an increase in that decennial period of ₺10,250,887 ; whilst the railways increased from 1,287 miles to 1,840 miles of open lines, an increase of 555 miles. Between 1891 and 1901 the debt grew from £37,359,157 to £49,591,245-an increase, I may say, in the last year of £1,627,675; but the total increase for that decennial period was £12,232,088, whilst the railways opened in- creased only from 1,842 miles to 2,212 miles, or only a further increase of 370 miles with more than twelve millions increase of debt, against 555 miles with a smaller increase of debt in the previous decade. And that is not all, because there were huge sums of money, the amount of which I cannot recollect at the present moment - approximately $3,000,000-which were trans- ferred from the consolidated revenue to Public Works Fund, all of which money must have been scattered somewhere, but where I admit I do not know. It is extremely difficult to roads, bridges, or some purpose or another, and in most instances to bribe the people. Now, the foregoing statements of comparison which I have made are not so indicative of the profligacy of the Government as the Public Works Fund expenditure of the last three years, when com- pared with the expenditure of the Public Works Fund of the last three years of the last Ad- ministration. Therefore, I propose to draw a comparison between the three years imme- diately precedent to the accession of the pre- sent Ministry to office with the three last years of the present Government. In the year 1888 the debt amounted to 135,536,381, and it rose in 1891 to $37,359,137, an increase for the three years of £1,822,776. But to be perfectly fair, and to endeavour to put the case strictly accurately before the House, I admit that there were liabilities on the Public Works Fund Ac- count at that time of #240,385; so that if we add these liabilities to the debt I have already quoted it makes a total increased debt during the three years ending March, 1891, while Sir Harry Atkinson was Treasurer, of £2,063,161, or $687,720 a year. Now let us examine the last three years that the Right Hon. the Premier has been Treasurer. On the 31st March, 1898, the debt was 8.30. £44,081,521, and it had risen on the 31st March last to $49,591,245, an increase during three years not of £1,822,776, as it rose during his predecessor's term of office, but of $5,509,724. But again I would like to make the account as accurate as I can, and I find, on looking through the tables in the Public Works Statement, that the liabilities on the Public Works Fund on the 31st March, 1901, were the appalling sum of £1,292,095. This makes the total increase during the three last years of the public debt of the colony £6,801,819, or £2,267,273 for every year, which is #204,1 12 each year more than the £2,063,161 which was raised by Sir Harry Atkinson during the three years he was in office. But then, of course, this is a self-reliant, non-borrowing Government, to whom much is to be excused. Much ! During the whole period of the public works policy there has been no such extravagant expenditure as has been made by the right honourable gentleman during the last three years. Now, it is clear - even the census returns show-taking the quinquennial period which ended on the 31st March, 1891, that during that period of depression the population increased by 8} per cent. Taking the last census returns, the last quinquennial period ending on the 31st March, 1901, notwithstanding all this profligate expenditure, the increase of the population of the colony has only been 8g per cent. There- fore it would appear to me that the present Government has failed to justify its policy by the rapid increase of population, by giving us more railways, or by in any way materially benefiting the people. In fact, the outlook is serious, for on page x. of the Financial State- ment we find, "The latest census of the people proved that during the last five years our popu- lation had been, relatively to the previous five <!-- PageNumber="1" --> 