was the late Mr. Ballance's policy. This Financial Statement bristles with comparisons between 1891 and 1901. I will take members back to the man who founded the Liberal party that has been triumphant during the last ten years, and will arraign the present Go- vernment before I am done by saying that they have departed from every one of the cardinal principles on which Mr. Ballance built up the Liberal party. Here are some quota- tions from the Budget speech of 1891. He says,- " If we are to maintain our credit and finan- cial independence, borrowing in the English market must cease ; while any local borrowing is likely to be confined to the absolute necessity of carrying on those essential works of coloniza- tion, such as the settlement of the people on the land, on which depend so directly the pro- sperity of the community." That is what local borrowing was to be con- fined to ; and again he says,- " On the other hand, if the machinery of Go- vernment could be simplified, and judicious retrenchment carried to its proper limit, the expenditure side of the account might still be considerably reduced. But we are strongly of opinion that any material reduction must come from a more direct and simple form of admin- istration, directed to the attainment of practical ends ; and it will be necessary to see that our measures of legislation do not include liabilities which will render this form of economy an impossibility." He further says,- "It is true our debt is great, and the popula- tion to bear the burden comparatively small. We have marched for twenty years at a furious pace, too severe to last, and have piled up obli- gations to make sane men pause." " I desire that it may be understood that the only safe policy for the colony is one of self- reliance-one which fosters colonial enterprise and creates a colonising spirit, which recognises that the capitalist equally with the labourer must be identified, by residence and fulfilling all the duties of a colonist, with the progress and destiny of New Zealand." In another part he went on to say that Parlia- ment should commence to " erect the structure of our financial independence." These, Sir, were the leading lines of the Ballance policy of 1891. Now I shall proceed to show how they have been departed from by the present party ; and now take, first of all, the growth of the national debt. Cn the 81st March, 1901, the net debt of the colony was #37,359,000 ; on the 31st March last it was £48,557,000, showing in round numbers an increase of £11,200,000 in ten years. This is surely, as Mr. Ballance said, "marching at a furious pace." Now, analysing the debt a little closer, I shall show how Mr. Ballance carried out his principles. The net debt on the 31st March, 1893-the year Mr. Ballance died-was £38,144,000, so that, after carrying out his policy of self-reliance for two years, Mr. Ballance increased the debt by or at the rate of £1,302,000 per annum. Sir J. G. WARD .- Does that £7,000,000 in- clude released sinking funds ? Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I am taking the net figures of the Financial Statement as given by Mr. Ballance. I am quite prepared to admit that a large part of this vast increase of £1,302,000 per year that has been placed on the back of the country, is for interest-earn- ing objects, such as land for settlements, advances to settlers, and loans to local bodies ; but the fact remains that on a great part of it the colony has to pay interest, as I shall presently proceed to show. I now turn to the accounts for interest and sinking fund. This is stated in the Budget to be for the last year £1,745,615; but this statement is grossly mis- leading. In order to put the colony's finances in a false position, various charges on interest and sinking fund account are ignored. The British money-lenders need not be deceived with the idea that the colony is carrying a debt of £48,557,000 on interest and sinking- fund charges amounting to £1,819,000, as ap- pears in the estimated expenditure for the year :- Actual Payments for current year on Interest and Sinking Fund. As per estimates 1,819,000 On 3-per-cent. loans for Advances to Settlers and Land for Settle- ment Accounts 67,200 . Land for settlements 62,693 Advances to settlers 8,000 .. Accident insurance . 70 £1,956,963 The amount payable will be, as per estimates, £1,819,000. Then, in addition to that, there are recoveries on the 3-per-cent. stock, on page 5 of the estimates, from Advances to Settlers and Land for Settlements Account, £67,200. On the Land for Settlements Account a further sum of £62,693; from the Advances to Settlers Account, #8,000 ; and from the Accident Insur- ance, $70. So that the actual interest which will be payable by the people of this colony almost entirely to the British money-lender this year is $1,956,963. The Treasurer has invented a plan by which, instead of stating the gross amount of the debt on the one side and the accrued interest from the interest-earning de- partments on the other, he deducts the amounts receivable from the interest-earning departments from the gross amount of the interest payable, and thus places, as I say, a false and fictitious statement of the position before the country, being the net interest payable after deducting the amounts receivable from interest-earning departments. Without any hesitation, I say that the interest payable by this colony for the year ending on the 31st March, will be £1,956,963. And now I just pause for a moment to say it appears to me that very often but little reliance can be placed upon the statements as they emanate from the Treasury. In the 