bring their produce to the main roads, and realise, is of paramount importance. The completion at an early date of the North Island Main Trunk Railway, and the coupling together of Auckland and Wellington by a band of steel, is essential and of great im- portance. It will remove existing fears, and give potential advantages by increasing the tourist traffic, by the settlement of the people on the land, and by bringing the settlers in the far North and those in the South closer together for mutual profit and good. This work is national in character, and necessarily in re- spect to railway-construction should take first place. Railways in a young country should be run for the common good and to give encourage- ment to producers, small as well as large. The true principle to be observed is to carry your produce at the lowest possible rates, so as to give the producers an opportunity of competing with the markets of the world ; and to provide cheap fares and freights to convenient markets, so as to obtain revenue from widely distributed areas of settlement. This year, from the cir- cumstances narrated, material reductions in railway freights could not be granted. Next year, and with abnormal expenditure elimi- nated, we hope to grant such concessions as will bring down the net earnings on our rail- ways to 3 per cent. Some honourable members may have mis- givings respecting the large amount asked for defence, but the money spent with this object is only the payment of a premium on an insur- ance. To preserve peace it is wise to be ever prepared for war ; and it is also a duty we owe to the Mother-country and the Empire, as well as to the people of New Zealand, that our able- bodied men should be trained to arms, that our sons should be drilled at school, so as to become efficient members of cadet corps, and ultimately Volunteers, and, when required, as in the caso of our sons in South Africa, to prove them- selves valiant soldiers of the King. I have now detained honourable members a considerable time, and let me say, in con- clusion, that I am sensible of their great and continued confidence. I hope that, although there may be differences of opinion respecting the Budget now submitted, at all events, they will do me the credit of believing that the conclusions have not been arrived at hastily, that the position has been accurately gauged, and that time will prove the finances of this colony to be sound and secure. I advise, and that in good faith, that at the present time the good steamer " Finance " should be steadied, and that " Slow," and not " Full speed ahead," should be the order on the dial. Reasonable care will insure the good ship riding buoyantly and safely in calm and placid waters. The information upon which the present position has been gauged will be placed at the command of honourable members, and I trust that they, with myself, will conscientiously and honestly arrive at the conclusion that our fair colony is prosperous, that there is a bright future before its people, that progress is Mr. Seddon assured, and that, as at present, so in the future, this colony will hold a foremost position as a British dependency. SUPPLY. CLASS I .- LEGISLATIVE DEPARTMENTS. Legislative Council, £1,870. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I move to report progress. Captain RUSSELL. - Perhaps the right honourable gentleman will, in accordance with the usual custom, tell us the date on which he proposes to commence the debate. Mr. SEDDON .- I propose to proceed with the Financial Statement debate on Friday next, if all goes well ; and I hope to have the Public Works Statement down within a fortnight after the conclusion of the financial debate. It is my intention, as soon as the House resumes, to lay on the table the Appropriation Bill, the Civil List Account, the North Island Expendi- ture Account, the Abstract of Revenue of Pub- lic Account, and the next Gazette will contain the first quarter's returns for the year. An Hon. MEMBER .- Do the papers include B .- 1 ? Mr. SEDDON .- As regards B .- 1, I have made inquiries with regard to what I said the other day, and I am told it is impossible to get it. I do not care one jot, and have no wish or desire to keep back the return, but neither I nor any one else can do impossibilities. But, with the estimates and other work in the Treasury, I am told it is impossible for the return to be pre- pared in the time I was asked to give it in. I cannot do impossibilities, but I will give the necessary year's return, and from these papers honourable members will be in the position of knowing the finances just the same as myself. I beg to move, That progress be reported. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I would like to ask the Hon. the Premier a question -namely, Whether the accounts he has referred to are to be gazetted in this week's Gazette or next week's Gazette ? Mr. SEDDON .- I am quite prepared to issue -although that is not necessary-a special Gazette ; but, at all events, the information will be in the hands of honourable members before the financial debate commences, so I think the best thing would be to issue them, say, on Tuesday next, and get them circulated. I hope members will be prepared to go on with the debate on Friday, and to let us get on with the business of the country. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I wish to ask the Premier if he is going to issue the returns for the quarter ending 30th June ? An Hon. MEMBER .- The last quarter's re- turns. Mr. SEDDON .-- The last quarterly returns, which will be the first quarter of this year. Mr. PIRANI .- I should like to point this out to the Premier : The Premier made an insinua- tion just now that members opposite knew more about the Public Accounts than he did, because several of us laughed when he said it was impossible to get the B .- 1 statement ready. 