to the members of the previous contingents by the Acts cited ; (2) if so, will an amending Bill be introduced this session ? Last session they had passed an Act entitled the Military Pen- sions Extension to Contingents Act, the pro- visions of which extended the benefits of the Military Pensions Act to the members of the South African contingents. The Act provided that the principal Act should extend and apply to the forces enrolled by the New Zealand Go- vernment for service in South Africa. Then, sec- tion 3 said, "The following persons, and those only, shall be deemed to be members of the forces enrolled," namely : Those referred to in Schedule I .; those in the First, Second, Third, Fourth, and Fifth Contingents ; and, next, those who, though not enrolled in New Zealand, were sent to South Africa by the Government and were enrolled there ; and, next, those who, though not sent out to South Africa for the purpose, vet, being New-Zealanders, joined the contingents there ; so it would be seen that the Act absolutely excluded the members of the Sixth and Seventh Contingents now serving in South Africa, who were certainly equally en- titled with the members of the First, Second, Third, Fourth, and Fifth Contingents to be included under the Act. He therefore begged to submit the question standing in his name. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said a Bill would be introduced this session. It was necessary this should be done. There were some cases that had come under his notice that really demanded an alteration of the law, other- wise grave injustice would be done. As to plac- ing these names in the Schedule of the Bill, most decidedly they would be so placed, and given the same position as those in Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 Contingents. Just to show members a case in point, if a soldier's mother was a widow and anything happened to the son, then the mother was entitled to a pension ; but there was a case where the father was bedridden and the son was maintaining father, mother, and family, and, being wounded and incapacitated, nothing could be done for them at all. There was another case of a similar character where the son had been killed. In cases of this kind the law ought to be amended so as to give power to consider all such cases. Major STEWARD asked if there would be a nominal schedule containing the names of the Sixth and Seventh. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes. DUNEDIN PUBLIC ART-GALLERY. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) asked 12.0. the Premier, If he will grant a subsidy of $1 for £1 on any subscriptions raised for the purpose of building a public art-gallery in Dun- edin ? He would like to point out to the right honourable gentleman that there was an art- gallery in Dunedin at the present time, but, unfortunately, no proper buildings to put the pictures in. There were some very valuable pictures in the collection, and they had to be put in a temporary galvanised-iron building. Christchurch, he believed, had got a site some through the munificence of some private citi- zens, was provided with very handsome build- ings for the purposes of an art-gallery, and on any day you liked to go to these art-galleries you would find students there engaged in copy- ing the pictures. The people of Dunedin were similarly desirous of putting up an art-gallery, and, as it would cost a considerable amount. and seeing that the Government had subsidised public institutions of various kinds, he asked now if they would grant a pound-for-pound subsidy towards the erection of an art-gallery in Dunedin. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the matter would be referred to Cabinet for consideration. # AUSTRALASIAN SQUADRON. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) asked the Government, If any practical steps have been taken towards securing the strengthening of the Australasian squadron, as recommended in paragraph 20) of the report of the Secret Defence Committee ? In asking this question he would like to point out that section 20 of the report of the Secret Defence Committee of 1900 was as follows :- "Your Committee, having regard to the altered international political conditions, es- pecially in China and the Pacific, recommend that representations should be made by the Government of this colony to the Common- wealth of Australia and to the Imperial Govern- ment as to the necessity of strengthening the Australasian squadron by raising the class and increasing the number of the cruisers com- posing that squadron ; the increased cost to be paid by the Commonwealth of Australia and by New Zealand on the basis of the present agreement." That step seemed to the Committee to be one of urgent necessity, and from recent events and the disclosures made both in the House of Commons and by the Chairman of the Navy League it was apparent that the necessity had become still greater at the present time, owing to the disparity between the ships of France and Russia and those of Britain in the China Seas. He hoped to hear that the Government had taken some steps in the matter, as recommended by the Defence Com- mittee. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said it would be in the recollection of honourable members that he had stated the necessity of this in 1897. He had repeated the statement since then, and, as time went on, the necessity for strengthening our naval forces in the colonies and in Austral- asian waters became more imperative. The honourable member would note that during the last few days a report from the admiral in charge of the station, Admiral Beaumont, had been given to the Federal Government, and, now that the Australasian Governments were definitely informed what was the position, it would be for them to make representations to the Imperial authorities to have the Austral- asian squadron strengthened, and on the basis of our present contribution. It was futile to 