ences between the leader of the Ministry and his colleagues. Mr. SEDDON .- I should like to say that I corrected my colleague, who purported to be using my own words. He said I said so; I corrected him, and said I did not. He was under the impression I had said so. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I was going to say that the Premier possesses a talent that the Minister in charge of the department does not possess. He possesses the art of the Delphic oracle, whose answer could be read both ways : and he is very facile in finding out the second way to read it when trouble is likely to happen. His juniors have not been long enough in the Ministry to have learned that art, but it leads to friction from time to time when the Premier has to put the brake on, as happened in the case of his colleague asking the House to deal charitably in its criticisms of the measure. I think, Sir, that I have clearly stated 12.0. the position that I am taking up. say that there is no necessity for the raising of the one-million loan. I say, had I known as much when the second reading of this Bill was taken as I knew when it was in Committee, I would not have made the statement that I would even be satisfied with reducing the Go- vernment proposal to one million. I believe that the Government require a very tight rein to be kept upon them in connection with their borrowing proposals. I am of the opinion that the colony views with great alarm that this session proposals for borrowing several mil- lions are being brought down by the Govern- ment, and I believe that if we are to maintain our credit upon the London market we should restrict borrowing in every possible way to pre- sent necessities. The danger to this colony is that, while the former Premier, John Ballance, set up a policy of independence of the London market, under the present gigantic policy of borrowing we are forced to go to the London market. The floating of half a million in the colony is not sufficient for us to be able to realise what Mr. Ballance called structural independence in borrowing, and, if these large sums are to be borrowed, the Government will be compelled to go to the English money- lender. If they are compelled to do that, the result will certainly be that we shall become the slaves of the foreign bondholders, and, instead of working for ourselves and our country, we shall be in the position of the rack- rented tenants of Ireland, who, being in their own country, do not own it, and who, by their energy and labour, provide wealth that is being spent by absentee landlords. We have taxes against absentee landlords; but what is the difference between the absentee landlord and the absentee bondholder. Are they not drain ing the very life's blood out of the colony ? I say that, if the Government are going to em- bark upon this large borrowing policy to the extent that they propose, the outcome of it must be that they will not be able to get these vast sums in the colony. Far better to restrict your borrowing to the smallest amount con- and, having done that, consent to float your loans as far as possible in New Zealand. If I thought there was any question as to the stability of the Advances to Settlers Depart- \- ment, I would stand shoulder to shoulder with the Government in their efforts to borrow any amount required. But I am sure that a half-milllion will be enough to carry on during this financial year and the next. Having that opinion, I was justified in voting for a half- million loan only, instead of the million asked for by the Government. Mr. HASELDEN (Patea). - Sir, it is not necessary for me to say much after what has fallen from the honourable member for Riccar- ton. The Premier led us to understand, in moving the second reading of this Bill, that the amount asked for was really required, and I be- lieved, in consequence, that there was very little money left in the Advances to Settlers Office. As a matter of fact, the right honourable gentle- man told a deputation from the West Coast that I there was very little money in the Treasury of the colony at all, and that statement was pub- lished in the newspapers. That being so, I thought that a great hardship would be inflicted on the settlers of the country if the Advances to Settlers Office stopped lending the money. Instead of the office having no money, how- ever, I now find that there is sufficient not only for the purposes of the next twelve months, but for at least a year and a half -that there is a sum of $500,000 or $760,000 available to lend to the settlers. When I found that was so I began to change my opinion I will admit ; and not only that, but when the Premier asked in the first instance for two millions, and subsequently came down and said he would reduce it to one million. I began to doubt what he would have done with the two millions if he had borrowed it. I concluded that it would not have been lent to the settlers, but that it would have been used for some other purposes. Therefore I opposed the one-million proposal, and supported the amendment to have it cut down to $500,000. Now, Sir, I am not much in love with this Advances to Settlers Office. The Premier has stated to-night that the price of land is too high. That I perfectly agree with ; but it is not made high by the rates ob- tained for its produce. What has put up the price of land ? It is the low rate of interest at which money can be borrowed. I do not say for one moment that we should not pay a low rate of interest ; but the people who under ordinary circumstances would not give more than #10 an acre for land rush in for land at $20 an acre, because they can get the money at half the rate of interest. That is the reason why land has gone up. And that is the trouble, and will be the trouble for many years to come, I fear. Now, not only did I find that although two millions were asked for only one million was required ; but, what is more, there is a large sum of $200,000 that nobody can give an account of. The Premier himself only laughed and chaffed members when he was asked to explain it. He would give us 