ing a proposal to give authority for the raising of $2,000,000. One would think we were talk- ing of 2d., or some such trivial amount, to suggest that we were wasting the time taken up by discussing a proposal to give the Execu- tive power to raise $2,000,000. We are paying out now about one-third of our total revenue in interest on our public debt. Then, Sir, we have on top of that the private indebtedness ; and it seems to me that the members of this Legisla- ture. the representatives of the people, seeing that there is such an enormous amount of money being paid out of the pockets of the taxpayers as interest-charges to foreign bond- holders, it is therefore quite time to seriously consider and see whether we cannot devise some means of reducing the charges upon the taxpayers of the colony-whether we cannot devise some means whereby we may provide credit - which is absolutely necessary if we are to progress at all-to put into the hands of the people of the country in order to develop the resources of the country. An Hon. MEMBER .- State note issue. Mr. ELL. - The honourable gentleman is perfectly right. We have examples with regard to that that should remove any feelings of ner- vousness on our part from taking any steps in that direction. Only last session, I would remind honourable members, the Premier, in speaking on the Consols Bill, suggested that the time was not far distant when it might be desirable in the interests of the country to take some such step, and he also referred in somewhat https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 similar terms in reply to a question put to him by the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay). The honourable member for Waitemata, in speaking on the question of a paper currency, said that the people would not accept it, and that they only would accept when they knew there was gold behind it. If the honourable gentleman will take the banking returns published in the Gazette every quarter he will find this : that in the five banks trad- ing in the colony the interest-bearing deposits amount to €8,186,350 -- I am not quoting from the last quarter, but the preceding quarter ; the deposits not bearing interest amount to £6,925,369 ; and the Government deposits amount to $770,503- a total of nearly sixteen millions; while the notes in circulation of the five banks amount to less than $1.400,000. The coined money amounts to $2,752,000, and the bullion to $133,000. Now, taking the notes and the coined money and bullion, we only have four millions and a quarter of currency : yet, according to the banks, we have sixteen millions of cash deposits. In the Post-Office Savings-Bank we have over five millions. They are cash deposits, just the same as they are in the other banks, so that there are twenty-one millions of deposits between the five banks and the Post-Office Savings-Bank, and we only have a little over three millions of coin in the country. Where is the gold behind it ? The fact of the matter is that the gold, the copper, and the silver is a trifling part of the currency of the country. The currency of the country is manufactured credit, manufactured by the ! Mr. Ell banks, and that, Sir, is what we are paying interest on. It is not because the people know there is gold behind it that they ac- cept it, but because they have confidence in the currency. The banks could not possibly meet all the demands if they were made on them. The honourable gentleman contends practically that you must have sold behind your notes or otherwise they are not worth any- thing. Sir, we have had a lot of talk about the bale of paper and the printing-press : and every man who is opposed to a State bank, or the State having greater control of the currency than now, raises that bogey to frighten nervous people that they are going to be ruined if you give the State authority-to have absolute authority-over the currency of the country, and power to manufacture credit the same as the banks do. An Hon. MEMBER. - The Government made the Bank of New Zealand notes good tender. Mr. ELL .- Where would the bank have been if the State had not come to the rescue? The question of this advances to settlers and the currency are very much involved. You cannot separate the one from the other, and therefore I do not make any apology for touching upon this question this afternoon. We have bad statements made here this afternoon to the effect that the advancing of credit for that is practically what it is to the farmers to enal le them to develop their resources, to enable them to produce all that is possible to be produced from the rich lands of this country, has done a large amount of good. Sir, they are simply following the advice and plans advanced many years ago. Pennsylvania was in a somewhat similar position. They were without credit to enable them to develop the rich lands of their country. They had everything but the where- withal to make the most out of what they had. Benjamin Franklin then advised the people that they should create credit. They did, and they issued thirty-five issues of paper-money in that State, and the system extended for fifty years. They charged 5 per cent. for the credit that was thus loaned out. Then, as the interest came in they called the notes in and destroyed them, and that operated very successfully. When the British Government took away the right of issuing notes from the States it was represented to the British Go- vernment that it had been carried on with such success and with such care that the Govern- mont allowed the State of Pennsylvania to re- tain this privilege, and subsequent events showed that the authorities were quite justified in taking the step they did take in creating credit, because success follows upon the issue of credit to the people, as it enables them to develop their resources. Now, we have another in- stance given by MeLeod, who is one of the recognised authorities on banking. MeLeod stated that agriculture was impeded, that the development of the resources of Scotland was impeded, because they did not give credit to the farmers. The farmers had not the cash ; and what was their device ? They sent down boxes of notes to the different branches of their banks 