Pablo Accounts Committee, should be found lanching merrily at the parody the House has been compelled to listen to this afternoon. a-k any man of honourable mind and feeling - ins man of delicate susceptibilities - what his foolings would have been if his conduct had been of such a questionable kind that the Premier of the country and the Com- mitt as a whole found itself compelled to request him to withdraw from the room. What, then, can be the character of a man who declients to withdraw from a room when re- quested to do so ? I put it to the member for Bruce. Mr. Allen, and the member for Waka- tipu. Mr. Fraser, who encouraged the honour- alde member for Palmerston in the course he chose to take, that suppose I had been the member who persisted in remaining in the room. in opposition to their requests that I should withdraw, what would be their opinion of m ? I think I know the character of the honourable member for Bruce sufficiently well to say that he would have considered me an imondont and impertinent person, and I add to that that he would have been quite justified in so classifying me. That is the view I take. I have been a member of this House for seven- teen years. I have never intruded myself upon the proceedings of any Committee. Whatever ma be my reputation on the floor of this House, I feel entitled to say that I have such respect for members of Committees and their proceedings that I am sure no member can say that I ever intruded myself upon the pro- c:edings of any Committee. Whenever I have appeared before a Committee, either in charge of a petition or as a witness, I have always paid the greatest respect to that Committee, and so ought every member of this House. We are bound by the Standing Orders of this Hous to pay the strictest regard to the rules of debate and the courtesies due from one member to another ; and we have a Speaker whose duty it is to see that no insult or con- :umele is offered to any honourable member. And. Sir. if the proceedings of this House are protected in this way, why ought not the pro- ceedings of a Committee to be so protected .- particularly the Public Accounts Committee. which is generally conceded to be the most important Committee of the House? I say -- without heat or warmth or imparting any teeling whatever-I say the presence of the honourable member for Palmerston at the meeting of the Public Accounts Committee this morning was an unwarrantable intrusion, de- liberately intended to be offensive; not be- cause he - Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce). - I rise to a point of order. I wish those words taken down : " an unwarrantable intrusion deliberately intended to be offensive." Those are words which ought not to be used in regard to any member of the House, and I wish them taken down. Mr. SPEAKER. - J do not think they are such unparliamentary words as that the House honourable member for Wellington City has done, but I am not disposed to order the words to be taken down. Mr. FISHER .-- I am so anxious to conclude that i must express my sorrow that the matter was brought before the House at all. i merely wish to add, since you. Sir, have expressed a desire that the matter should be brought to a conclusion as speedily as possible, that there was no business before the Committee in which any member outside the members of the Com- mittee could have any possible interest. We had not proceeded beyond the reading of the minutes, and there was no business before the Committee on which any person other than the members of the Committee had any concern. Therefore there was no possible justification for the member for Palmerston remaining in the room while the Committee were deliberating upon the question as to the correctness or otherwise of the minutes of the business transacted at the previous meeting. Mr. SPEAKER. - I think it is regrettable that a conflict should have arisen between the Committee and the member for Palmerston, but still I must say that it appears to me that the honourable member was within his rights in insisting on staying in the room. At the same time I am bound to observe that. after long experience in this House, I have always con- sidered it customary for members of the House to withdraw from the deliberations of a Com- mittee when requested to do so. 1 think the honourable member for Palmerston seeks to make out that he was not asked courteously to withdraw, and he was incited by the manner in which he was asked to withdraw to uphold his right of remaining in the Committee-room. Mr. J. ALLEN .- His right was denied : that is the point. Mr. SPEAKER .--- It is clearly laid down in May's "Parliamentary Practice " that the Committee, in case of members' refusal, have no power to order them to withdraw. The general custom is, if a member is asked to withdraw, that he does so. I do not know whether there was any lack of courtesy shown to the honourable gentleman when he was asked to withdraw. He says he was treated discourteously, and then he was within his rights in insisting on staying. The Chairman did not make any reference to what I consider the most offensive part of the matter -- namely. the threatening to call in a policeman to re- move a member of the House from the Com- mittee - room. Probably the Chairman will explain that point. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City). - If you, Sir, paid careful attention to the opening re- marks of the honourable member for Palmers- ton, which no doubt you did, you will remem- ber that in those opening remarks he himself stated that the Chairman politely intimated to him what was the desire of the Committee - namely, that he should withdraw. Those are his own words, and that is the actual fact. I 