seittered population? It has been said that this Bill is a Bill intended to adjust disputes between the two Houses. Well, I regard it simply as a whip hung up to keep the Council in order. Lagree with those who said there is no nee \`ssity to adjust differences as between the Council and the other Chamber. We have a method of doing that at the present time. But I remember perfectly well a few years ago, and when a majority of the Council were somewhat obstructive and very much more stiff-necked than they have ever been since, that even in those days they always gave way to the verdict of the people when ascertained at the general elections. Had a measure such as this been brought forward at that time I might have been one who would have advocated it. But I can s' that conditions are so changed that there is now no necessity for the introduction of such a measure. I do not believe in changing simply for the sake of changa. Everything that is material changes, and changes are going on all the time; but before we change things we should consider as to what the ultimate result may be. I have noticed that the letters "S.P.Q.R.," which used to adorn the standards of the Roman legions, are now found gracing the front of a grocer's shop, and they signify " Small profits : Quick returns." I mention that simply as a change time may bring about; but I repeat that in making any change we should be very careful in considering our first steps with a view as to what the ultimate result may be. Had a good strong speech been made in favour of the Bill https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 it might have led to a debate worthy of the Council ; but, apart from the Minister, not a single honourable gentleman who has spoken h is said a word in favour of it. This naturally causes one to ask why such a measure is intro. dneed at all. If a measure which is supposed to have the importance of this one is brought before the Council, and out of the varied opinions that exist here on political ques- tions there is not a single person who will speak in favour of it, surely we may therefore assume that the same indifference and the sume want of regard for it must exist through- out the country. It is impossible that a question of this kind could have been dis- caissed and understood by the people of New Zealand without that opinion finding a reflex in this Council, and yet such is the fact. Sir. as I have already said. I intend to vote for the amendmont. I may say, further, that I look at a measure of this kind from the point of view of a party man. I admit, and I think we all recognis, that our political machinery is not perfect. It might even be cumbersome in some respect- : but so long as it is good enough for our purpo\~ why change it ? Machinery of this description is only a means to an end, and, if you can achieve your end with the machinery at your disposal. why change it moroly for the sake of changing it ? If we adopt a measure of this kind, we would next have the elective Executive, and I sty to all those who think like myself in regard Hon. Mr. Rigg tion of this kind until their opponents are in . power. Debate adjourned. The Council adjourned at thirty-five minutes past four o'clock p.m. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Tuesday, 30th July, 1901. First Realings-Third Raiding; - Statutes Revision Committee- Wathi Miners' Dispute -Importa- tion of Saddlery -Passenger Steamers between Australia and New Zealand -Liquor-selling in King-country - Imperial Trade Zollverein - Workers Compensation for Areiden's Act- Breveles for Civil Service - Mangatoro Estate- Mackenzie and Duntroon Rifles-Ride Clubs- Law Consolidation -- Silverstream Public Road- Midland Railway Debenture holders -Kaikoura Mounted Rifles - Publie Servants and Local Bodies - Inebriates Institutions - Volunteer Regulations Submarine-mining Boat -Garrison Artillery Officer -- Immigration of Domestic Servant --- Compensation to Troopers for Loss of Horses-Municipal Markets-Ashburton Drill- Wellington - Mana wa:u shed - Mortgage tax . Railway-Michael O'Connor -East Coast Land Settlements Estates -Close Settlement in Tum- peka District - Answers to Questions - Woodville Refreshment-Toon -Coronation of His Majesty - - " The Impri-onment for Debt Limitation Act. 1900" - Removal of lacenses - Bonus for Preserved Miik -- Distress for Rant Bill -- Payment of Mem- bers -- Wellington Harbour Board - Workers' Compensation for Accidents - Passages to Great Britain for New Zealand Troopers - Wellington Harbour Board Act 1879 Amendment Bill - Patoa Harbour Bill-Dunedin City and Suburban Tramways Bill. Mr. SPEAKER took the chair at half past ten o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READINGS. Promissory Oaths Bill, Criminal Code Bill, Trading.stamps Abolition and Discount-stamps Issue Bill. THIRD READINGS. Woodville County Bill, Invercargill Reserve Leasing Bill. STATUTES REVISION COMMITTEE. On the motion of Mr. SEDDON (Premier), it was ordered, That Standing Order No. 211 be suspended, and that the names of Mr. Ar- nold. Mr. Fowlds, Mr. Gilfedder. Mr. Hardy, and Mr. J. W. Thomson be added to the Statutes Revision Committee. WATHI MINERS' DISPUTE. Mr. PALMER (Ohnemuri) asked the Pre- mier, If he is aware that the Waihi miners' dispute is still pending before the Arbitration Court, and that the company, it is alleged, have dismissed the witnesses who gave evidence for the union before the Conciliation Board, to- gether with 150 others of the Miners' Union. many of whom have left for Australia : and will 