Days ago, before this Bill came here, I said to myself, when I considered the number of peti- tions pouring in against it, that Bill is doomed. It will have to go the way of other Bills that have been brought before this Council, not only by this Government, but by previous Govern- ments also, which were not called for, and which were not for the good of the colony gene- rally or any single section of the community. Sir, I know that Bills have from time to time been introduced into this Council by Govern- ments for a particular reason. We who are "in the know "-to use a sporting phrase- are perfectly well aware what that reason was, but the people of the country as a whole were not aware of it. I really think that it is far from wise for any Govern- ment to bring a Bill into this Chamber, well knowing beforehand that it certainly will not pass, that it was not wanted, and could only come to an untimely end. According to the old saying " Familiarity breeds contempt." and I do not think it is right to accustom the generality of people in the country to point to the igno- minious failure of any Bill sent to the Council by the Government, and to see posted in the public Press another defeat of the Government over some ridiculous Bill or other -teaching grandmothers to suck eggs or something of that kind. Well, I do not think that any Govern- ment, however strong it may be, or appears to be, is able to endure these repeated shocks. Individually they may seem very small, very trivial, but it seems to me that if too often repeated these things must tend to bring a Government into contempt, and to lessen its influence in the country. It is dangerous playing with fire, according to another old saying; and I may say, with all due respect, that I think the Government ought to be very careful what measures it brings before either branch of the Legislature. It should not bring forward Bills with a jaunty air and just put them down, saying, practically, " Do what you like with them." Any honour- able gentleman who represents the Government may make an eloquent speech, a very pretty piece of special pleading, trying to make the best of a bad cause, but I think it is risky. I cannot at all agree with what the Hon. Mr. Rigg said just now in criticizing the Hon. Mr. Jen- nings's speech. To me the Hon. Mr. Jennings spoke nothing but common-sense. Neither do I think the Hon. Mr. Rigg is justified in even hinting an aspersion upon any member of this Council, who does not think as he does on this Bill, as not answering to the description of a true Liberal. For my own part, if I may speak of myself, I am not a party man. I do not think that under any circumstances I could be- come a party man. I have been many years in this Council now, and I can take my conscience to witness that I have never opposed any Bill from factious motives ; never because it was brought in by this or that Government, or by this or that individual. I have always taken the Bills solely upon their merits, and therefore I am sure the honourable gentle- man cannot with justice call me a bad Hon. Mr. Scotland Liberal because I vote against this Bill. Sir, the Hon. Mr. Jennings and all the other honourable members who have spoken against this Bill have, in my opinion, spoken nothing but what is true, and according to common- sense. We see that the Bill is not wanted. It has never been asked for ; and why, therefore, should they have obnoxious legislation thrust upon them any more than any other section of the community ? What will be the result of this mischievous Bill, as I call it, if it were passed ? Why, it may even be the means of creating an estrangement between employers and employed. It may put bad thoughts into the heads of some young clerks. They might. begin to think there was really something in this suggestion that they were, after all, not the well-treated people they thought them- selves to be, but that they were very ill-used and overworked. The generality of the per- sons affected be this Bill, however, are men of superior intelligence, many of them very highly educated men, and therefore they are not perhaps likely to be influenced by the pro- fessional agitator, as some other people are in the colony. The working-men as a rule, I think it will be admitted, are not highly educated. There are many highly intelligent working-men, I know, but those are just the men who would treat with contempt the professional agitator, hired at so much a day. It is a very good thing for the country there are such intelligent men among the working class, who are not likely to be influenced by pernicious advice. I do not think I have anything more to say. With regard to conciliation and arbitration, of course there is nothing bearing upon that in the Bill ; but still, as the subject has been touched upon by other speakers, I think I am entitled to sav a few words. I do think we are now approaching a very critical time in the history of industrial pursuits in this country, and of industrial disputes too. I say it is a very critical time, and it is not yet possible to see the end and the result of this feeling of unrest which is prevailing throughout the colony just now. How it will end no one can say. It mav end with a terrible collapse that very few may be able at present to take the measure of. Sir, I think that our whole system of conciliation and arbitration has been very ill-judged, and I am afraid it will come to grief. I have often regretted that something like the French system has not been adopted in this country instead of that which we have. I cannot see, for my part-although I am not engaged in industrial pursuits myself-why it should not succeed in this country, except that we are not French, and we will pursue our own methods, which are not always of the wisest. The system in France is so very simple. The Conseil des Prudhommes, con- sisting of so many employers on the one side and so many operatives on the other, meet together men who thoroughly understand the business from each point of view, and men not above listening patiently to the arguments of the other side, and having the question discussed from both points of view- 