Zealand. He might state that one of these horses was being sent to a convenient place in Southland, below the Clutha, so that any one having suitable mares might send them to that horse. The horse would be contiguous to the railway, and in a fixed place. He wished to do what was best and fair in this matter to all districts in the colony. The trouble was they had not enough horses for all districts in the colony. ADVANCES TO SETTLERS OFFICE. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) asked the Minister in charge of Advances to Settlers, If he will cause steps to be taken which will ob- viate the difficulty of borrowers from the Ad- vances to Settlers Office being obliged to finance for a period before they receive their deeds, when paying off their morgages upon a sale of the land, or borrowing from a new lender ? This question had been put under circum- stances which he had already explained to the Minister, and had dealt with at some length on another occasion in the House during this session, on the second reading of the Advances to Settlers Extension Act. The difficulty was that the Advances to Settlers Office, when re- leasing a mortgage, before they would sign the release, required the actual cash to be placed in their hands. This was a course which was quite unusual, and gave rise to great incon- venience, because the purchasers of a property would not hand over the purchase-money until https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 they saw the necessary legal documents and the release of the mortgage executed. Mr. MILLS ; Minister in charge of Advances to Settlers) said that it was the custom of the / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero office to have the money paid in before the Board signed a release of a mortgage, and for this reason : that on one occasion the Board signed the release, but the mortgagor was unable to fulfil his part of the contract, and therefore the deeds had simply to remain in the safe, and it was not considered wise to do that any more. The Board was very willing and anxious to offer every facility to mortgagors, and the interest was only charged on "instalment " loans up to the date of repayment, which was a great con- cession, because, of course, in most cases the private investor required six months' notice or the payment of six months' interest to release a mortgage, except at due date of maturity. Only two objections had been raised by two solicitors in the whole colony regarding this matter. He had explained why the Board con- sidered it necessary to use every safeguard until the money was actually paid into the Advances to Settlers Office, or into some post-office ; but to facilitate matters, any man who did borrow was not compelled to repay the principal in Wellington, as payment was accepted by the Superintendent at any money-order post-office ; and there need not be any serious delay, as directly he was advised of the money being paid in, the business was brought before the Board at its first meeting, or, if neces- sary, the Superintendent called the Poard to- Mr. Duncan little time was lost by doing this. Again, the office did not insist on the interest on a loan being repaid at Wellington, as it could be paid into any post-office in the colony. This was another concession to those who wished to bor- row from the office; and the Superintendent advised him that their method of doing business had been found to work most satisfactorily for the time the Board had been in existence ; but he also considered that if the Board had to meet and sign these deeds, and then the mort- gagor did not fulfil his part of the bargain, it would not leave the securities in the position they ought to be in. He thought the honour- <!-- PageHeader="1" --> able gentleman would realise from this explana- tion that the Board was willing to meet and oblige applicants in every reasonable way. Mr. BARCLAY said that, arising out of the Minister's reply, he would like to ask the honourable gentleman if he was aware that the system adopted by the Board in question was not adopted by any other department in the Government service. It was not adopted by any private lender, person, company, or individual in the colony; that the system in question was absolutely and entirely unique, and, so far from being found to work satis- factorily, it had been found to work very un- <!-- PageHeader="1" --> satisfactorily. He would also like to ask the Minister if he was aware that the release signed by the Board had no value whatever until it was handed over and registered ; and also if he 1 was aware that if the release be signed, and the date not inserted until the money was actually paid over, the deed could be held in the safe, and no possible harm or danger could arise. Mr. MILLS thought he had already answered all that the honourable gentleman had asked him the second time. He had explained that the office thought it advisable in the public interest not to sign the deeds until they knew for certain that the money would be found, and this could be done in a very simple way by the man who had the money paying it into the post-office in any part of the colony, and wiring to the Super- intendent that he had done so. The office were not asking any man to trust them more than they were prepared to trust him ; so that he still thought, under all the circumstances, although the private lenders might not adopt that system, it was advisable in the interests of "safe lending " to continue it. Mr. BARCLAY asked why other Government departments did not do it. DUTY ON GOLD-SAVING FABRICS. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) asked the Govern- ment, If they will favourably consider the advisability of repealing the present duty on plush and other textile fabrics used for gold- saving ? He might inform the honourable gentleman that a large quantity of this material was in demand, and was required for the purpose of saving the fine gold from the large slicing claims and dredges ; and it was a fabric which could not be manufactured in the colony, and it was on precisely the same footing as the 