mation ? He might point out that the Act of last session provided respecting boroughs that amalgamation' could only be done by special order. In the neighbourhood of Christchurch there were three boroughs, and the burgesses in each district protested against this power being given to the Council. They said they should be consulted in the matter. Provision was made in the Act as to joining a portion of a district to a borough : 25 per cent. of the people by petition might accomplish that ; but, with regard to the amalgamation of two boroughs, that could only be done by special order. The opinion had been freely expressed that they should have the power in the respective dis- triets to determine at a poll whether amalgama- tion should take place or not. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he believed that every latitude and freedom should be given in respect to obtaining the voice of the ratepayers upon a question of the importance mentioned by the honourable member. But the difficulty would be in bringing in an amending Act this session. He was not sure whether there would be an opportunity to do that. He thought every facility should be given, and he thought these smaller boroughs hovering round the larger bodies meant increased administrative cost, and it might be better if they were amalgamated. # GASWORKS COMPULSORY PUR- CHASING. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) asked the Premier, If he will this session introduce a Bill giving local authorities compulsory purchasing- power of gasworks, at a price to be fixed by arbitration ? He brought this matter before the special Committee on the Municipal Cor- porations Bill last session, but, in deference to a number of members who thought it was undesir- able to introduce the question, as it would meet with a lot of opposition, he did not propose it when the Bill came before the House. There were a number of boroughs in which the gas- works were owned by companies. No pro- vision was made to purchase those works, and legislation was necessary in each case. That being so, it seemed to him that it would be far better to give the local authorities general compulsory purchasing-powers, and to let the price be fixed by arbitration. In some cases these properties were paying their owners handsomely, and there was a natural reluctance on the part of the companies to part with them. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said that, summed up, the question was muitum in parco : it really asked the Government if they were prepared to pass a measure which would take from the Christchurch Gas Company the posses- sion- Mr. ELL .- No, no : general powers. Mr. SEDDON. - They had already had a fight on the floor of the House about the powers given to gas companies under the old Municipal Cor- porations Act. Those powers could not be al- tered unless bv special legislation. For some years the legislation had been general, and the Mr. Ell taken ; but it was a question as to whether they were prepared to take away by legislation the rights of the old gas companies. There was a good deal to be said on both sides, and at present he was in the middle. # STOKE ORPHANAGE. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Premier, Whether any report will be presented to Parliament relative to the management of the Stoke Orphanage under the new régime ; and, if so, when? He wished to add three words to the question -"special or separate." The honourable gentleman was, of course, aware that there was a general desire on the part of the great bulk of the people of the colony to learn what the result of the new management of the Stoke Orphanage had been, and he wished to know whether there would be any special or separate report upon the management of the institution. There would probably be, in the annual report of the Minister of Education, some general cursory reference to all the indus- trial schools of the colony ; but, under the very special circumstances, he thought it desirable that a special or separate report upon the Stoke Industrial School should be submitted to Parlia- ment. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) thought the House last session had given quite enough considera- tion to the Stoke Orphanage, and he was very happy to be able to say that there was now no necessity to give special consideration to it. Reforms had been worked there, and, so far as he knew, everything was working very satisfac- torily. He did not know what the object of the honourable gentleman was in calling attention to the institution by means of the question. As the Orphanage was working like all similar institutions, it was the intention of the Gio- vernment to deal with it in the ordinary report ; but, as honourable members had their attention drawn to it so much last session, he could not foretell what the report would be. He had no doubt, however, that it would be satisfactory. # VOLUNTEERS' LOST RIFLES. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) asked the Minister of Defence, Whether, in charging corps with the cost of missing rifles, the present market value is charged, or the cost of the weapons at a time prior to their becoming out of date ? Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said the department simply charged the cost price. Mr. McNAB. - Even if the rifles are out of date ? Mr. SEDDON said No ; he was selling some rifles which originally cost $3 10s. for 10s. # STATE COAL-MINES. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Premier, Whether the Government intend to nationalise one or more coal-mines to put the country in a condition of preparedness to meet every possible emergency of State, and also to enable the Government to supply coal at a reasonable cost to the poor? He was aware 