legislation at an early date to provide for the direct election of all these local bodies. I find that the Act under which this Board was con- stituted in 1879 provided that various means should be adopted for appointing members of this Harbour Board. Three members were to be appointed by the Government ; one was to be elected by the Chamber of Commerce ; the Mayor for the time being was to be a member ; two members were to be elected by the rate- payers of Wellington ; and others were to be appointed by various local bodies. Sir, the complaint has been frequently made that our people in New Zealand are not taking suffi- cient interest in local government ; that in- terest in local affairs, so far as the people of the colony is concerned, is dead. We have no strong, healthy public opinion in regard to local government such as we have in the Old Country and in other parts of the world ; and we want, if we possibly can, to correct that, and to create a strong and live interest in local affairs. To do that, it seems to me, would be to do a good and a very desirable thing. We want people to take a real interest in local matters and in local government. Now, if we give the power of electing the members of all local bodies di- rectly into the hands of the people, instead of allowing them that power only indirectly, I think much good would be done. When the Counties Bill comes down, I think it should provide that all local bodies should be elected on the same day as County and Municipal Councils. All that would be necessary would be that on the same day that the Councils are elected an extra voting-paper should be put into the hands of the voters, and they should vote direct for the election of the http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero members of the respective Harbour Boards. That would give an additional interest, be- cause it would give the people a direct voice in the election of the Board. The right of the people to have a direct voice in the elec- tion of Harbour Boards is beyond question. All the costs and charges incidental to the landing of goods in this country are put upon the consumer, and are paid for by the con- sumer, so that everybody who uses goods pays towards the cost of the management and carry- ing-on of harbour-works throughout the colony. An Hon. MEMBER .- Will they vote ? Mr. ELL .- They will vote if you give them a little more interest-if they are put more directly in touch with local government. To give them a direct vote will, at any rate, do a great deal towards doing away with the apathy that at present exists. I hope we shall in the near future have provision made in the laws whereby the members of local bodies shall be directly elected by the people, instead of being indirectly appointed as at present. Mr. TANNER (Avon) .- I have carefully read the Bill under consideration, and I consider it a most estimable arrangement, by which a kind of redistribution of seats on the Harbour Board is effected, which becomes necessary from time to time. It will be necessary, with the growth of population in Harbour Board dis- Bills of this kind, in order that the rural popu- lation may have some voice in the control of local government affairs. As the conduct of this public body-the Wellington Harbour Board-has come under review, I shall take this opportunity to call attention to an evil of an undoubted kind, which at present has not developed in the colony to any extent, but. instances of which have occurred in Wellington during the last year or two, as very striking instances of what the population of a large town may suffer oven from the action of a local governing body which may be carrying out public improvements. The Wellington Harbour Board has recently obtained legal powers to purchase a number of streets, and clear some very objectionable residences from the face of the earth ; but in doing so no pro- vision was made in the law whereby the Wel- lington Harbour Board was compelled to pro- vide house accommodation for the people in that way dislodged. The result is that those people, mostly belonging to the poorer classes -being working-men-were driven out from their homes, and the effect of getting themselves other accommodation in the city has been to harden the already high rate of rent in this town. In England such legislation is directed differently. If a railway company or a public body there attempts to purchase a block of land in the large cities-in the "slums," as it is called-there is attached to the legislation a provision to the effect that additional accommo- dation equal to the shelter required for the number dislodged shall be provided for them over and above what already exists within the immediate limits of the locality. In this way the large railway companies are compelled, when demolishing insanitary-or, for that matter, sanitary-buildings, to see that a sufficient amount of new accommodation is elsewhere provided, so that the result may not be so disastrous to the general public as it is in such cases as that to which I have just referred. I think the House would be well advised to pay a little more attention than it seems to do to some of the local measures which are passed. The principle which I have named, and which is in operation in England, led, a little while ago, to an injunction being served on the London and North- Western Railway Company, under which the amount of €18,000 was claimed by the Attorney-General for violation of this pro- vision in carrying out one of their improve- ments. If a principle like this were introduced into these Bills I believe it would be far better for the industrial population of our cities than to leave matters as they are now. I trust that a matter like this, which so deeply concerns the material life of the lower classes of the people. will receive that attention from the Govern- ment which its importance deserves, and that some active steps will be taken to put into operation the necessary remedial steps. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- The point raised by the honourable member for Avon is a point of considerable importance; but, if he desires that the Harbour Boards and the local bodies 