process will be cheapened at all. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) .- I would like to draw the last speaker's attention to the pro- visions of subsection (2) of section 3, in con- nection with his suggestion that the terms of one or two covenants in the Second Schedule need some alteration. The honourable member will see it there stated :- "In every mortgage executed under this Act there shall be implied all the covenants and conditions set forth in the Second Schedule hereto, except in so far as is otherwise expressed in such mortgage." . So that the person who wants a mortgage to contain covenants different from those given in the schedule will not use the form therein set out, but where both parties to the mortgage ac- cept the ordinary conditions as therein set out they can use the form as given in the Schedule. I would point out that the provisions of this Bill are not new to New Zealand, for under "The Government Advances to Settlers Act, 1894," The precisely the same system is followed. Third Schedule of that Act contains a form al- most identical with that in the First Schedule of this Bill, and the Fourth Schedule of that Act also, mutatis mutandis, corresponds with the Second Schedule of the present Bill. The honourable member for Bruce just now referred to the proposal under this Bill that the insur- ance policy shall be effected in the name of the mortgagee. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I want it to be done jointly. Major STEWARD .- Yes; the honourable member takes exception to the policy being in the name of the mortgagee only, and thinks it should be in the joint names of the mortgagor http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero and the mortgagee. With regard to all the mortgages made under the Advances to Settlers Act, this Bill really proposes to follow on the same lines, as under that Act all insurances must be in the name of the mortgagee. I do not express any strong opinion on the question raised by the honourable gentleman, but I think that if he gets his way in Committee he will do away, to a considerable extent, with the willing- uess of mortgagees to use the simple form pro- vided by the Bill. I believe that a large number of persons will be found willing to adopt a simple form of this kind. This Bill, if passed, will, I think, afford relief to a very considerable If honourable members number of persons. will turn to the return dealing with mortgages, to be found in the Appendices to the Journals of last session, they will find that last year, that is, from the 31st March, 1899, to the 31st March, 1900, there were registered in New Zealand no fewer than 11,814 mortgages, so that there are at least twenty-three thousand people, mortgagees and mortgagors, interested in these transactions. If only one-fourth of these persons should be wil- ling to come under a Bill of this kind, something like five thousand people would each save a cer- tain sum of money every year. Now, the amount of money dealt with by way of mortgage is also interestingly stated in the return referred to. I find that the total amount of money represented by the mortgages of last year was no less than small means are interested in this matter I need only point to the fact that, of the total 11,814 mortgages registered, there were no less than 9,160 that were for sums under and up to #500, so that the matter of saving even a few shil- lings on nine thousand mortgages by persons who are not too well off in the world is an item for consideration. Then, as a similar system to that proposed in this Bill has been in operation since 1894 in regard to Government mortgages, I can see no earthily reason why it should not work equally well with regard to private mort- gages. Seeing that the Bill is purely optional, and that no person, unless so disposed, need use the form prescribed under the Bill, and that that form will only be used when both mort- gagor and mortgagee are so disposed, it appears to me that no honourable member should object to its becoming law. I hope the honourable gentleman will succeed in securing the passing of the Bill. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden). - I fail to see what good this Bill can do if it is passed. It is, as the last speaker has said, optional ; and if the honourable gentleman thinks that the passing of a Bill of this kind is going to bring about an alteration all over the colony of the way in which the legal profession conduct this business, or that it will affect the conduct of those who lend money on mortgage, my conclu- sion is that the honourable gentleman knows very little about the business he is speaking of. I know that he himself is the author of the Bill: he has brought it forward several times, and no doubt would like to see it pass ; but I am afraid that his practical knowledge of this question must be very trifling. I venture to say that if the Bill passes it will have no effect on the mortgaging business of the colony. I would point out to the Minister in charge of the Bill that the Government now are the principal mortgagees in the colony. They do the largest business ; and I ask, is it going to affect their system of dealing with the ques- tion ? Not a bit. I do not think it will do the borrower any good whatever, and I am quite satisfied that the members of the legal profes- sion will not be influenced in any way by it. I certainly think it would be just as well if the Government left things as they are, for this is only a waste of time. I think this should be left to the honourable member for Waitaki. Personally, I do not care whether the Bill passes or not, because I am satisfied it will have no effect whatever. As to the question of insurance, of course the lender will always dictate his terms as to how the buildings are to be insured. I know it has often been the case, even in respect of trust property, that the buildings have not been sufficiently insured to enable them to be rebuilt when they have been destroyed by fire, and the result has been that the mortgagor has had to find money to pay in part for their rebuilding, supplementing the amount of the insurance before the build- ings could be reinstated. I know several cases in which trust properties that have been burned down have not been sufficiently insured to re- 