proposals. I can only say that I entirely sup- port the principle of the measure-that is, to amend the Companies Act and its amendments with a view to safeguarding the public in the investment of capital in mining and other ventures; but I say that this amendment should be made with great caution, considera- tion, and deliberation, and the best way to do that is to refer it to some Committee. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why the Mines Com- mittee ? Mr. GUINNESS. - I suggest the Mines Com- mittee because they are now making an ex- haustive inquiry into the working of this Act. There are more companies registered for gold- ming purposes under this Act than for any other particular purpose, and therefore it more particularly affects that industry. No honourable member can make any objection to sending this Bill to the Mines Committee, because, when the report of that Committee comes before the House, we shall have the benefit of that Committee's suggestions ; and then also members will have a knowledge of the other industries that are incorporated under the Companies Act, and take advantage of that Act, and in Committee of the Whole they will be able to give their experience, and make further amendments if required. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) .- Sir, I do not think the honourable member in charge of the Bill should follow out the advice given by the last speaker namely, to send this measure to the Goldfields Committee. And the reason I make https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 that suggestion is this: that this is a Bill dealing with the company law generally ; and, granted that there is the necessity for intro- ducing legislation to prevent a recurrence of / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero the abuses in connection with company pro- moting that has occurred in the Otago Dis- trict during the last twelve months, it is very questionable indeed - in fact, I think it is highly improper-that the legislation which we are bringing down to prevent a recurrence of that should penalise company promoting in other directions, and in regard to which it has never . been suggested that these evils have occurred. While this Bill follows the English legislation, and, I think, makes some very important and useful changes in the law, I do not think that it will be found to meet the Otago difficulties and the West Coast difficulties that were referred to. What I think should be done is that, when the Goldfields Commit- tee have done with the witnesses that they are examining at the present time, either the Minister of Mines or the honourable gentleman in charge of this Bill should introduce such legislation as the Committee recommends affect- ing those companies registered under "The Companies Act, 1882," or " The Mining Com- panies Act, 1894," and which carry on gold- mining operations, and limit the restrictive legislation, which it has been shown ought to be passed by this House, purely to those com- panies that carry on gold-mining as an occupa- tion. I do not think the law ought to impose upon all companies the restrictions which, as I | be done in cases like that, in regard to gold- Mr. Guinness necessity to require in this colony. Coming to the Bill, however, there are one or two points I want to refer the honourable gentleman to, and one of them is contained in clause 10. That clause provides that certain commissions and discounts may be allowed to any person or com- pany "in consideration of his subscribing or agreeing to subscribe, whether absolutely or conditionally, for any shares in the company, or procuring or agreeing to procure subscrip- tions, whether absolute or conditional, for any shares in the company ;" and then, in subsec- tion (2) it goes on to state that payment only is to be made as warranted in subsection (1)-that is, that these payments and charges must be set out in the prospectus, otherwise they are not allowed to be made. But if the honourable gentleman will look at subsection (3) he will find this section will not affect the power of any company to pay such brokerage as it has heretofore been lawful for a company to pay. Now, I understand that this section was intro- duced in this form on account of the English law and practice, which draws clear distinction between a broker and a commission agent, and where the two departments of company-float- ing are kept clear and distinct. In this colony the distinction between the two is lost sight of, and under the practice in this colony sub- section (3) of section 10 would neutralise the other two subsections. It is different in Eng- land ; but I am sure, owing to the want of that system in this colony, that would be its opera- tion, and it will be necessary to strike out sub- section (3). Then, referring to section 12, the question of promoters' shares comes up, and I want to point out to the honourable gentleman a difficulty that has arisen owing to last year's legislation in connection with this question of promoters' shares. Last year we imposed by the Companies Act Amendment Act certain limitations upon promoters' shares, and in section 2 of "The Companies Act Amendment Act, 1900,' subsection (3), occurs the following : " Shares given in lieu of cash in payment of any property acquired by the company shall not be deemed to be promoters' shares within the meaning of this section." Now, here is what takes place : A man secures an option over a property for gold-mining, and a consideration of, say, £10 per acre is promised for the land. After he secures the option he sells that option to a company. The consideration for the purchase by the company is the payment of that #10 per acre to the vendor of the land, and the payment of shares in lieu of cash to the vendor of the option of, say, fifteen hundred fully paid-up shares. Not one of these shares will then come in under this definition of promoters' shares, because given in lieu of cash ; and the result is that only in a case of bad draftsmanship by the lawyer who has to deal with it is there a single promoter's share Therefore the restrictions in a company. imposed by the Act of last year do not apply to proper promoters' shares, and they can be disposed of at once. What I think ought to 