ally one finds some scurrilous men who abuse their positions. I am not going to show why I consider this measure unworkable, and I am surprised that such a measure should have emanated from a member who is always making loud protestations of Liberalism. I maintain that the whole of the Press of the colony should not be put under an Act of this description because of the improper conduct of some of the smaller papers in the country districts. I suppose that when I first entered political life I was as roughly handled by the Press as any politician could possibly be, but in time we get used to that sort of thing, and do not mind it. After all, the public are the judges, and the Press has not that influence in forming public opinion that it had years ago when the population of the country was less educated than it is at present. I now come to the clauses that have been re- ferred to by the honourable member for Wanga- nui, and he pointed out that if a newspaper pub- lished an article injurious to any individual or company it at once comes under the provisions of this Act. Now, in connection with the work I was engaged on in the Old Country, the news- papers of this colony are at present unable to place before the public information that they ought to have and which I gave in this House. That information would be injurious to the com- mercial interests of many individuals, but if it were published in the Press, as it ought to be, the best interests of the producer of this coun- try would be served. It is much to be regretted that our newspapers do not now possess the right to publish this in the fullest manner possible. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - Will you guarantee its accuracy ? Mr. T. MACKENZIE. - It can easily be guaranteed, but the greater the truth the greater the libel. Does my honourable friend the professor of political economy and consti- tutional history deny that if a statement is published, however true it may be, the pub- lisher is liable for damages if it is injurious to the interests of individuals ? Mr. BARCLAY .- Yes. 9.0. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .-- There you are : he acknowledges it. Mr. BARCLAY .- No. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Then what does the honourable gentleman mean ? He might be called, like Sir George Reid, of New South Wales, the "Yes-No" member. I think, in connection at any rate with commercial sub- jects, the Press ought to possess greater liberty than they do now. Then, we have this precious clause 5, where the writer to a paper must give his signature. I pity numbers of correspondents if their names were given. We should not have many valuable opinions of some of our friends' political actions nor the actions of Governments if names had to be given. Not only would they suffer from damages in Courts of law, but they would be dismissed from their situations, which is a much more serious thing than being merely brought before a Court for damages. Alto- gether, I consider the measure is not required, and I hope to see the House throw out its second reading. VOL. CXVII .- 12. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) .- I do not intend to detain the House in discussing this matter, but I am bound to say I shall oppose the second reading of the Bill, because I think it would be an evil day for New Zealand if we were to attempt to muzzle the Press be- cause any politician may feel himself aggrieved by the nature of the criticisms that have been levelled against him or the House. I recognise, as fully as the honourable gentleman who gave us his annual and eloquent speech, that very frequently the columns of the Press do contain criticisms, the nature of which every right- thinking person must deplore ; but it is infi- nitely better that these extravagant criticisms should appear than that we should in any sense curtail the freedom of the Press and prevent it having the opportunity of freely criticizing those who claim to represent the public. I would remind the honourable gentleman that from his own standpoint he is scarcely logical in asking that such a Bill should be passed, for he has already assured us that he has in no sense suffered from the criticisms that have been levelled against him. Indeed, he tells us that whatever the papers may say, and in spite of all they have said, he continues to retain the gene- ral confidence of the people of the city he re- presents. That being so, why complain of the criticisms? They may be unfair or unjust ; but, granting all that, the public man who bei 3 subject to them can come out of them an- touched and unscathed is all the better man for the fact of the criticisms ; and I undertake to say the average politician, however much he may regret being subjected to severe criticisms of this character-even to those of an unfair character-that he himself comes out strength- ened and purified from the criticism, for if his character be above reproach, if the criticisms are unfair, he simply draws public attention to the fact that they in no way impeach his cha- racter as a public representative. Apart from the public character of this Bill and the effect it would be likely to have on the public spirit of the people's representatives, as well as on the Press, the Bill would be inoperative if passed into law. Let me point out to the bonourable gentleman that subsection (3) of clause 3 says,- " If the proprietor of such newspaper refuses or neglects to publish any such answer, denial, or explanation within the time and in the man- ner herein specified, he shall be liable to a pen- alty of not less than ten pounds and not more than fifty pounds." But, Sir, there is no means of recovering that. How are you going to get that €50? Would he ask the newspaper proprietor to hand over $50? and if the newspaper proprietor refuses, how is he going to get it ? The honourable gentleman might be able to "take it out," but I could not. A clause of that kind would be surely quite inoperative. As a matter of fact, there is nothing in the Bill to give effect to its provisions. Even if we pass the Bill it will be absolutely and entirely inoperative. I do not, however, regret that a little time should be taken up in discuss- ing the Bill. I invariably listen to the honour- 