clause. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) desired to explain to the honourable member for Hawke's Bay that when the Bill was in Committee he had stated that resolutions had been passed by the three Road Boards agreeing to be merged into the county. Public meetings had also been held in the district, and it had been unani- mously agreed by the people that the district should be formed into a county ; so that they had been consulted by the promoters of the Bill in every way possible. Motion agreed to. SHOPS AND SHOP-ASSISTANTS BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 2 .- "Subsection (a) of section seven and subsection (a) of section eight of ' The Shops and Shop-assistants Act Amendment Act, 1895,' are hereby repealed ; and chemists' shops shall be included in the operation of sec- tion three of 'The Shops and Shop-assistants Act, 1894.' " Mr. McNAB (Mataura) moved to strike out all words down to " operation of." Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) moved, That progress be reported. Motion to report progress negatived. Mr. McNab's amendment agreed to. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) moved, That the following words be added to the clause : "and section seven of 'The Shops and Shop- assistants Act Amendment Act, 1895,' are hereby repealed, and the following enacted in lieu thereof : 'All shops in city, borough, or town district, except those wherein is carried on exclusively one or more of the businesses of a http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero fishmonger, fruiterer, confectioner, coffee-house keeper, or eating-house keeper, or the keeper of a book-stall on a railway platform, shall be closed in each week on the afternoon of one working-day at the hour of one o'clock. When- ever a public holiday or half-holiday occurs in any week it shall be sufficient compliance with this Act if the shopkeeper closes his shop on such holiday or half-holiday instead of on the closing-day under this Act."" Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 3 .-- " Subsections (two) and (three) of section four of ' The Shops and Shop-assistants Act, 1894,' are hereby re-enacted." Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) moved, that the clause be struck out, with the view of inserting, as a new clause, the words of the section sought to be re-enacted by this section. Motion agreed to, and clause struck out. Clause 4 .- Domestic servants to have weekly half-holiday. Mr. HALL (Waipawa) moved, That progress be reported. The Committee divided. AYES, 23. Fraser, A. L. D. Colvin Bennet Bollard Graham Duncan Field Carneross Haselden Collins Flatman Hutcheson Mr. Pirani Lethbridge Russell, W. R. Tellers. Meredith Smith, G. J. Hall O'Meara Stevens Massey. NOES, 20 Allen, E. G. Russell, G. W. Lawry Arnold McGowan Tanner Mckenzie, R. Atkinson Ward McNab Willis. Barclay Carroll Mills Tellers. Hall-Jones Palmer Fisher Pirani Hornsby Millar. PAIR. For. Against. Gilfedder. Hanan. Majority for, 3. Motion to report progress agreed to, and progress reported. The House adjourned at twenty-five minutes to one o'clock a.m. # LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Thursday, 15th August, 1901. Library Recess Committee Report-Land for Settle- ments Bill-Shops and Offices Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. LIBRARY RECESS COMMITTEE REPORT. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK asked the Chair- man of the Joint Library Committee (Hon. Mr. Rigg), When the report of the Library Recess Committee will be laid on the table of the Council ? He was aware that the honour- able gentleman had just anticipated him by placing the report on the table. However, as he (Mr. Feldwick) had placed the question on the Order Paper, he would ask the question all the same, so as to enable the Chairman of the Library Committee, in reply, to offer any state- ment he might see fit to make. The Hon. Mr. RIGG said the report which he had laid on the table that day was the one referred to in the question of the honourable gentleman. There had been a little delay in the matter so far as the Council was concerned. He understood the report was laid on the table of the other House two days ago. The reason for the delay was simply this : that there had been an oversight on the part of the Librarian. It was only right he should say that that officer had been exceedingly busy since he had received his appointment, had done a great deal of good work, and therefore some allowance must be made for a small oversight of this kind. LAND FOR SETTLEMENTS BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. - Sir, in moving the third reading of this Bill, I desire to answer a question put to me yesterday by the Hon. Colonel Pitt as regards the operation of the Bill 