the Government to go further in the direction of amending the Education Act, because I think that the discussions which take place in this House which are the most instructive and freest from party influence are those that deal with education. I beg to move the second reading of the Bill. Bill read a second time. The House adjourned at a quarter past twelve o'clock a.m. # LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Thursday, Ist August, 1901. Training-ships-Referendum BlII. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. TRAINING-SHIPS. ADJOURNED DEBATE. The Hon. Mr. MONTGOMERY .-- I under- stand that the object of the motion is to obtain the establishment of a training-ship for boys of good character, rather than a reformatory. . I would not vote for the establishment of a training-ship as a reformatory, because I hold the opinion that a reformatory is better man- aged ashore. But as the intention which my / https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 respected friend the Hon. Mr. Jennings has in view is a training-ship for boys of good character who want to qualify themselves as seamen, and as the Legislature has twice ex- / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero pressed itself in favour of it, I think it should I consider the Government be given effect to. should now proceed to take action in this matter, with a view of carrying out the wishes of the Legislature. As I said before, I shall vote for the motion for the reasons I have indicated ; but I would not vote for it if the training-ship were for anything else than for lads of good character, and was in any sense a reformatory for boys who had committed a crime and had been in the hands of the police. The Hon. Mr. REEVES .- I am very sorry, Sir, that the honourable gentleman who has just sat down takes such a narrow view of the matter. If a boy in his early youth has com- mitted some petty crime and is committed to a training-ship, the opportunity of acquiring a training for a seafaring occupation should not be debarred to him. Many a hoy has been led into temptation at an early age, and has after- wards turned out, through proper training and looking after, to be a good man ; and I trust that such a thing will not influence the Govern- ment, if they do intend to establish a training- xhip, to preclude boys who have committed some offence from being admitted to it. Yes- terday, I think it was, or it may have been the' day before, the Hon. the Minister who is leading shore. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. -- I said there was no reason why it should not be. The Hon. Mr. REEVES. - I misunderstood him, then. There is a wonderful difference be- tween training on board ship and training on land. I think there is no reason why a certain discretion should not be used. At all events, an institution on land would no doubt be produc- tive of much good ; but not one of them can compare, for the training of youths, with a training on board ship. They are subjected there to better discipline, they are woll looked after, they are carefully trained, and they ob- tain all the exercise that they need, and every- thing is calculated to bring out good and true men in the long-run. This thing has been tried not only in New South Wales. but we know it, has been tried in the Mother-country to a very large extent, and any one who likes to read up the subject will find that immense benefits arise from training-ships in the Old Country. Those benefits are almost incalculable. Boys have gone in there who have perhaps been led into crime, in- asmuch as they have been committed for some petty offence, and those boys, in scores of in- stances, when they reach the age of fourteen or fifteen, turn out to be really good and useful boys in the Royal navy. I am sorry my honourable friend the Minister of Education made the remark that no boy who had been tainted with crime could be admitted into the Royal navy. If that is the case-and I cannot contradict the honourable gentleman's statement - it seems to me to be a very drastic measure ; because, as I have already mentioned, a boy who happens to be committed to a training-ship for some venal offence should not be debarred from taking his position in the world afterwards. Most honour- able members who have spoken are quite in accord with the motion of the Hon. Mr. Jen- nings, and I personally have always been so. When I was a member of another place, I always expressed myself in favour of the esta- blishment of a training-ship in the colony, and I think the time has now come when we must go into the matter seriously. New Zealand eventually will be a great maritime nation. as our insular position places us pretty well in the same position as Great Britain, and the time is coming when we shall be a great sea-going people. I trust the Government will take the matter up ; and I am surprised beyond measure that, with an enlightened Government such as we have now, a Government that is in the van of progress. they have not already taken the initi- ative in regard to this very important question. I trust the feeling of this Council and of the other House will be so strongly marked this session that the Government will see their way clear to establish such an institution. As the Hon. Mr. Jennings has said, there is no doubt the Home Government would be only too glad to turn over some of their old obsolete ships to the New Zealand Government at a very small price, if anything at all, because it must be recognised, as it is now recognised in the Old 