that would lesson the amount of interest and | the English bondholders and pledging our the consequent burdens on the people. I agree with the Minister for Railways that we must have credit to carry on the works of the State. We must have railways-the people are crying out for them - we must have roads and bridges, and we must have public institutions, and works of this kind cannot be carried on without credit. But the method adopted in the past of going to the foreign bondholders and getting his credit, which is simply created by the banking in- stitutions, should not be any longer pursued. Let me say here that I care not a snap of the fingers as to what people may say about my being brought up on "State bank pap " or any such twaddle. I do not mind the whole of their ridicule, whether it comes from news- papers or individuals, because I believe this: When we are landing our people in for heavy interest-charges, and are paying over one-third of our total revenue every year in interest, it is time we considered whether we cannot take some steps to check it. As an instance of the interest we pay, let me mention that in 1898 a return was furnished to the House in connection with the million loan for the North Island Main Trunk line. That return showed that over $420,000 had been paid in interest, and that the whole of the million is still owing. Sir, a statement was made by the Right Hon. the Treasurer that it was not only #140,000 that the Bank of New Zealand had advanced to the Government, but that the Bank had created another credit of $90,000 in favour of the Government ; in all, #230,000. Now, where did the Bank get that credit from ? As I have said before, and I repeat it now, it did not print any more notes or create any more gold, or silver, or copper coinage ; it simply created that credit and charged the Government in- terest on it ; and I say if the Manager of the Bank of New Zealand can create a credit in favour of the Government by a mere scratch of the pen to the extent of £230,000 at 4 per cent., the State can do it just as well as the Bank of New Zealand, and I challenge any member of the House to say that that could not be done. If a bank that is bolstered up can create that credit in favour of the Government, a State bank could do it ; and the interest would be saved to the taxpayers, and when we are load- ing our people with interest every year that is a question we might very well consider. Now, the Post - Office Savings- Bank has a large deposit - nearly six millions sterling. It is now collecting the interest and the prin- cipal, and is acting as a great help to the Advances to Settlers Office. What is that office? Practically, it is a State loan office. Why cannot we have our own State bank of issue, and assume control of the issue of the currency of this country, and act as a bank of deposit, and manage our bank in the same common-sense way in which private banks are managed-creating credit and charging interest upon it? If it can be done successfully in the case of a private bank it can also be done successfully in the case of a State bank. I do not see why we should be constantly going to credit, and paying interest on our bonds simply on credit, for there is actually no coin behind it. When the member for Lyttelton was speak- ing on the currency question some member made some disparaging remark upon Pennsyl- vania bonds. If the honourable member will take the trouble to look up the records he will find this in connection with those bonds : that the State paper money in connection with New Jersey, New York, et cetera., did not depreciate until the English Government took away the legal tender quality from that paper money ; so long as that paper money was good for the pay- ment of debts it was good. While I believe we could carry on a State institution- Mr. SEDDON .- I do not see what connec- tion that has with this Bill. Mr. ELL .- I say any means that can be devised for checking the loss to the community sustained under the present system would be a good thing for the country ; and this, I say, is the time for discussing that-when we are proposing to put on the shoulders of the com- munity, perhaps for forty years, another loan and interest on it for the whole of that time. Mr. . DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I must really ask the honourable member to come back to the question before the House. The honour- able member is getting a little bit wide of the Bill-he is going too much into detail with respect to establishing a State bank. Mr. ELL .- I was answering the objections which have been stated, that we could not create our own credit, and I am contending this: that we could create our own credit and could save the interest we are now paying to the money-lender at Home. There is a direct connection between those two things. If the Premier wants any examples, let him go to Russia, where they have a State bank - Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I must rule this discussion out of order. It would be more ap- propriate on the financial debate than at the present time. I think the honourable member is going beyond the four corners of the Bill now under discussion. Mr. ELL .- Then, I must satisfy myself with this : that the rate of interest could be reduced for the relief of settlers by the State establish- ing a State bank of issue and for the purpose of creating credit. Instead of the settlers having to pay the English bondholder 4 per cent. and a margin to defray the cost of working the department, their interest could be reduced by the State creating its own credit. The Premier has admitted in the House more than once that such a scheme could be brought into operation so that we could create our own credit, and I trust that will be done in the near future. I ask the honourable gentleman to take a note of this. If he will turn to the deposits in the five banks and in the Post-Office Savings-Bank he will find that in these six institutions there are over $22,000,000 of de- posits, and yet there is only two millions of gold, and if there was a run they could never meet the demand, and the State would have to come in. This shows clearly that to carry on 