months' interest at 10 per cent. per annum, and 24 per cent. for what our Hebrew friend calls " gommission." At the end of the three months the bill is renewed again with interest, and another 2} per cent. for " gommission," and so on until the expiration of the twelve months, when we shall assume the loan is paid. Now, during that twelve months " Ikey Mo " has received $20 for a loan of $95, or just on 32 per cent. per annum ; and yet nominally the money-lender was letting him have that money all the time for 10 per cent., the rate he said he would charge. If we pass only two clauses of this Bill we shall go a long way in the direction of clipping the wings of these people. I refer particularly to clause 3, in which power is given to the Court to review any bargain that may have been made, and if the rate is considered excessive the Court shall then set the agreement on one side, and give justice according to equity and fair-play. short time ago a case was before the Court in Christchurch, in which some 700 per cent., I think, was charged, and the Magistrate-Mr. Beetham -in giving judgment, ordered the man to meet his liability. The money-lender applied to the Court for an order for imprison- ment, and the Magistrate ordered the borrower to pay the money or suffer imprisonment. He said that he had no power to set aside the agreement, but he could, however, say how long the borrower was to have to pay the money. He therefore ordered that the debt should be paid at the rate of 6d. a week, if I https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 remember correctly, which would enable him to liquidate the debt in a few centuries. If this Bill is amended in Committee in the direction indicated by the honourable member for Inver- cargill, so as to embrace those gentlemen who would otherwise get clear of its operations, and even if we only get clause 3 through, I believe that we would be doing a good service to a sometimes cruelly used class of the community. It often happens that the best and most simple people are at times driven to the money-lender. It is then that they are taken advantage of and fleeced without mercy by human vultures. shall be glad to support the second reading of the Bill. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) .- Sir, I have noted with interest the remarks of the honourable member for Inver- cargill. He has pointed out one weak point in the Bill, to which I will give attention. With regard to the question of fixing 11.30. a minimum rate of interest : that is what appears to have been the difficulty in all legislation affecting this subject. The experience of other countries where it has been tried is that they have always failed through fixing the rate of interest, and in nearly every instance these laws were repealed, but in several countries were, with modifications, re- enacted. I am aware that in some of the United States the rate of interest is limited, but it does not work out as was intended. As regards the matter of commission agents who may be carrying on this business, and also as to Mr. Laurenson the course of this debate, I shall bear them in mind ; and I hope that, with the assistance of honourable members, we shall get a workable measure on the statute-book that will be for the benefit of the poorest class of people, who are those who most need the protection that will be afforded by this legislation. Bill read a second time. COMPANIES BILL. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) .- Sir, this Bill is intended to bring the companies law in this colony more into line with the Eng- lish law as recently amended there, so as to enable the whole position of the companies in the colony to be put on a better footing. It is a somewhat comprehensive Bill, and it would appear to me that, while I would give a general explanation of the principles of the Bill itself, it might be more convenient to honourable mem- bers to have the clauses of the Bill in detail A fully dealt with in Committee. But I will explain to honourable members the general pur- port of the Bill. For a considerable time past in this colony the whole law relating to com- panies has not been satisfactory. There have been many cases known to honourable members where the Companies Act has caused great injus- tice to be done to companies themselves, to shareholders, and very great difficulty to the people responsible for carrying on the busi- ness, who were anxious to comply with the law, but were frequently unable to do so in a way satisfactory to themselves or to the members of these companies ; and it is desirable that in the Companies Act of this colony the law should be more clearly defined, and consequently better understood by the people as well as by the shareholders of the companies-that we should make the position of directors and shareholders generally more defined. I think this Bill does that, or will do it if it is put on the statute- book, in a way that ought to commend itself to honourable members. The 1st clause of the Bill that requires any explanation from me is clause 3, relating to the certificate of incorpora- tion. I think that if a statutory declaration is I made by a solicitor of the Supreme Court en- gaged in the formation of the company, as set out in subsection (2), or by a person named in the articles of association as a director or secre- tary of the company, of compliance with all or any of the said requisitions, and is produced to the Registrar, that declaration should be ac- cepted by him as sufficient evidence of compli- ance with the law. Mr. MASSEY -- What about subclause (5) of clause 3 ? Sir J. G. WARD .- That subsection deals with a question of repealing, and it is necessary, if the amendment proposed by the clause is given effect to. If the amendment suggested in the clause is given effect to, it will be necessary to repeal section 259 of the principal Act, other- wise there would be an inconsistency in the law. The qualifications of directors are dealt with in clause 4. It is required that they should either sign or file with the Registrar a consent 