important evidence that was proposed to be sent to the Royal Commission in regard to this matter. Mr. SEDDON asked, Why not do it when the Minister brought down the evidence, which had to be brought down in another paper? These statements could then be placed with the evidence. Mr. GUINNESS said it would perhaps save him taking up the time of the House if, by permission of the House, he was allowed to lay these statements on the table with the report, so that they might be printed as a supple- mentary paper to the evidence. This document contained the evidence of a large number of miners who worked in the Wallsend Mine. They had read in the Press that Mr. Martin Kennedy and another gentleman gave evidence that no coal was to be found in the Wallsend Mine. These workmen wished to have placed on record side by side with that evidence their testimony as to the extent and quality of the coal left in the mine when it was shut down by the company which held the mine. Mr. SEDDON .- Is that taken upon oath ? Mr. GUINNESS said, No, but it was signed. He was sure it made no difference whether a person gave evidence upon oath or not. How- ever, he took it that a very great injustice had been done to the Wallsend Coal-mine in that district by the evidence which was recorded by the Commission at Wellington. The people in the district where the coal-mines exist had no opportunity of cross-examining these witnesses https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 or of knowing exactly what they said; but immediately they saw it reported in the papers that evidence had been given by these persons, who were interested in the Westport and Grey Valley Coal Companies, to the effect that no coal existed in that mine, they immediately wrote their testimony, as contained in this document, and sent it to the Commission. He was in- formed by the Chairman of the Commission that this document was received a few days after the report was sent to the Government, so he could only take this opportunity of read- ing it, and placing it on record in this way. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked if the evidence taken by the Coal-mines Commission was going to be laid on the table. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) said, Yes; the only reason it had not been laid on the table with the report was that there had been delay in printing it. Motion, to lay the report on the table and to print it, agreed to. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) said he would move, That this statement, which was addressed to the Royal Commission in connection with their report, should now be laid on the table, and be printed. He only wished to draw attention to the following paragraphs in the document :- " We, the undersigned coal-miners, having been employed in the Wallsend Colliery, beg most respectfully to state that we have seen certain statements re the Wallsend Mine, made by Mr. Martin Kennedy and others, to the | ber for the Grey spoke, it seemed to him that that ' the seam thins out on the east side,' and that ' the mine is fault-bound to the west.' To most of these statements we give an emphatic denial. We have looked up the plans published by the Mines Department, as per report on the coalfields of the Grey Valley, by Messrs. H. A. Gordon, F.G.S., Inspecting Engineer, A. McKay, F.G.S., Mining Geologist, and N. D. Cochrane, Inspector of Mines, to the Hon. A. J. Cadman, Minister of Mines, in 1893, and, as we are quite familiar with the workings of the above colliery, these plans are practically correct. We have laid these plans before a qualified surveyor, who has supplied us with an estimate of coal in sight, amounting to 1,250,000 tons. This, we think, is under rather than over the amount. As for quality, the average is equal to any ever produced in the district, and some patches equal to any ever produced in the colony. No attempt has been made to prospect beyond the western fault. The eastern level has been driven a dis- tance of some 16 chains, and the coal at the face was 14 ft. high when the mine ceased work. During the period of over three years, when the mine was in active operation, we were all the time in solid workings. No pillar coal has been taken out. The dip when the mine ceased operations was driven for some 20 chains; good coal for the whole of that distance, and no bords worked ; in position to start at least thirty bords, giving room for 120 miners double-shifted (usual method). Re the stony or dirty quality : During the period this colliery was in active operation the total out- put was 205,539 tons. The quantity of stone or dirt picked out is still lying at the site where the coal was screened, and it could be put into two ordinary railway-trucks. At the Brunner Colliery there is as much as 30 cwt. of stone picked out of an ordinary railway-truck of coal, which will carry some 5 tons. Hence, give Wallsend coal the same method of screening as adopted at Brunner, and they will leave the colliery equal as to stone or dirt. We are of opinion this mine is a most valuable property, as it is close to the Grey-Brunner Railway, and only seven miles from the Port of Greymouth, and in the centre of a large coal-bearing dis- trict." That was the principal part he wished to call attention to. The rest of the document would speak for itself when it was laid on the table and was printed. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) hoped the House would not allow this paper, which was a purely ex parte statement, to be laid on the table. If every person who had a grievance as to the nature of the evidence given before a Roval Commission was to be allowed at a sub- sequent date to write a report, which might or might not be absolutely inaccurate, and if such a statement was to be printed by order of the House as part of the proceedings of the Com- mission, then there was no use in setting up Commissions at all. As the honourable mem- 