in the different agricultural centres of Scotland, which were lent out to the farmers at a small rate of interest. An Hon. MEMBER .- Was there good secu- rity ? Mr. ELL .- Yes. They only advanced on good security, and 50 per cent. was the value up to which they advanced ; and a very good safe- guard it was, as it enabled them to carry on with safety and success. It had a most wonder- ful effect in developing the resources of Scot- land. They manufactured the credit, and they charged interest on the credit they manufac- tured. We borrow money from people in the Old Country, and we pay them interest for the credit they have manufactured, extracting it from our surplus. Now, if the banks can safely manufacture credit, cannot the State do it ? say the State can, and we have abundant evi- dence of it in one country. We want the State to establish a State bank, and that State bank should create credit as the bankers do. And as to what the honourable member for Waitemata says about there being nothing tangible behind it. supposing a merchant in a grocery business sells five hundred pounds' worth of goods. He takes a bill from his customer. He lodges this biil in the bank, and he has the cash credit up to $500. But before that bill matures where are the goods? Consumed. They have all gone. There is no tangible security behind that. The good name and the confidence in which the merchant is held by the banker is the authority that the banker has for advancing the cash. That is how credit is created -- piled up in huge bills in the banks. Then, if a local body wants a $5,000 advance it goes to the banker. What does the banker do? He has to be satisfied that proper steps are taken to secure the bank the payment of interest, and the local authority is absolutely credited with .€5,000, and the bank issues to the local authority a cheque-book, and the local authority proceeds to draw upon the amount credited to it. Prior to 1844 nearly all the money that was created was created by the issue of bank-notes. After 1844 the bankers devised another plan. They do not now issue notes for every $10,000 of credit, but simply make a book-entry of that amount and supply the customer with a cheque-book, who draws on his credit of $10,000 at the bank as he re- quires it by cheques. That is how it is multi- plied-by means of cheques and by means of bills. Nearly the whole of the commercial transactions in this country are carried on by the creation of credit, and not by the notes, and the gold, and the coin. You could not do it. It is absolutely impossible. I simply mention this to show that you do not want a bale of printing-paper, and you do not You merely want to want a printing-press. Vest in the authorities of this country the power of manufacturing credit in the same way as the banks do. Then, I do not think we should have the cases we have now of local authorities paying 6 or 7 per cent. for an over- draft of €5,000 or $6,000. Why should not a local authority be able to go to the State bank, and the State bank create the credit? We were told by the Premier a few evenings ago that the result of the year's operations of the Bank of New Zealand has been most successful, and that an amount of over $300,000 had been made during the last year. That shows very well that the power of manufacturing credit- which is the means that the banks have of making money-should be given to the State, and that the State should have the pronts which are now going into the pockets of the bankers. We have an accumulation of reserve profits held by the banks amounting to three millions and a quarter of money, and the amount paid in dividends by the five banks, according to the returns just issued, amounts to $242,500. So you see the power there is under our present system given to the bankers to make enormous sums of money out of I the people every year ; and it occurs to me, Sir, that it would be a statesman- like act on the part of any Premier to tackle this question of the growth of 4.0. interest and see if something cannot be done to reduce it. I just wish to make one or two remarks in regard to the proposal to borrow this money. If anything could remove from the minds of members any feeling of uneasiness as regards this department, about trusting the Executive of this House with the power of raising a loan of two millions, it should be the complaints that have reached this Chamber, not only last year but many times this session, that the Government are too careful. I have not heard a case yet where they have been reckless. That is a very good point. It is far better to be careful than reck- less, and this should remove all feeling of un- easiness with regard to giving the Executive authority to raise the money. While it is true that money can be borrowed as cheaply as from the department, I do not think it can be ques- tioned that the Government having these ad- vances to settlers in operation is a distinct check on the rate of interest ; it keeps the rate down. It is quite true you can borrow as cheaply as from the Government, but the very existence of the department has a very whole- some effect, and helps to keep down the rate to a reasonable amount. I shall support the Bill. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) .- The honourable member for Christchurch City has given us a very good address on the science of banking, borrowing, and finance generally. But while I was listening to his remarks, which are of a distinctly controversial character, I was re- minded of an old fairy story about a king, a miller's daughter, and a wizard, who went by the name of Rumpelstiltskin. The king wanted money, as sovereigns frequently do. He came to the miller's daughter, who was at her spin- ning-wheel, and asked her to take some straw and convert it into gold. The miller's daughter, in fear of pains and penalties if she did not per- form the wonderful work required of her, began to be very down-hearted ; but a little elf made his appearance and helped her to spin this straw, and golden coins rolled from her spinning-wheel. Apparently, from what we have heard from the honourable member for Christchurch City, the 