What is the price of money in the London market at the present time? Did we not see these gilt - edged 23 per cent. British Consols down to $92, a point never reached before? And all these arguments go to prove that what I said ought to be adopted by the House. An honourable gentleman on the left says it is owing to the war. But my financial friend the honourable and able representative for Nelson City says that the price will soon go up again, and I repeat and indorse that. We do not always find that common-sense delivered from that honourable gentleman, and it is only right and proper when we see the honourable gentleman moving along the narrow path of rectitude-which we always hope to see him pursue- that we should commend him, because we thereby encourage him to do the right. Coming back to the point which the honour- able gentleman has tried to wile me away from by his interjection, the point is this : That we should not sanction the raising of loans at the present time, because we shall not get that value that we shall probably get for our money as soon as this unfortunate war is over. Now, Sir, whilst I have not risen for the purpose of opposing this Bill, I am glad to think that the Chairman of the Local Bills Committee has endeavoured to make it a little clearer in the House as to what took place before the Local Bills Committee in connection with this particular Bill, because Standing Order 390, dealing with local Bills, clearly sets forth that the Committee shall be supplied with a state- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 ment of the finances of the body, and the works upon which the money is to be expended, and also a map showing the work to be undertaken. The honourable member has been exceedingly severe on the Premier this evening. He has been as bold as a lion in the absence of the Premier. What the Premier said was not based upon that which the honourable member en- deavoured to explain away. What the Premier stated was not that the Standing Orders bad not been complied with, but that a map should be deposited somewhere in the district for a period of three months. An Hon. MEMBER .- - No. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- It has to be deposited and advertised in the district. Mr. GRAHAM. -- It was deposited in the Magistrate's Court of the district. Mr. T. MACKENZIE. - Very well, why did you question the statement of the Premier ? The Premier said distinctly that there was a map required to be deposited for three months before this Bill can be gone on with, and accord- ing to the Premier, that map was not so de- posited. He did not say that a map did not accompany this Bill when it went before the Local Bills Committee. Therefore the explana- tion of the honourable member, and the courage he has shown on this occasion, was entirely uncalled-for, because the Standing Orders have been complied with, and the Committee recom- mended that the Bill be allowed to proceed. Coming to the question of the propriety of Mr. T. Mackenzie he in that connection instanced the Wanganui Harbour Board. I am sorry that the honour- able member for Wanganui is not in his place to- night. You cannot in the whole of the loan expenditure of this colony find a more flagrant instance of waste of public money than was carried out in connection with that harbour. They raised a sum of something like ¥60,000, and spent the bulk of it in river-works, and after the expenditure took place they dis- covered that, instead of assisting the navigation and increasing the depth of the water in the river, it absolutely reduced the depth of the water. That is a fact. And what are they going to try to do now ? They are endeavouring to raise money for the purpose of making a more efficient harbour ; but it is only for the purpose, after all, of bringing in the little mos- quito fleet which coasts round our shores. Will one of those large cargo-boats which are con- structed for the purpose of taking away the pro- duets of the farmers-wool and frozen mutton -- will one of these steamers be accommodated with 1 in. more water ? They will not. The whole policy of borrowing for further harbour con- struction emanates from the people of the Town of Wanganui. If you appealed to the farmers of the Wanganui district as to whether or not $100,000 was to be literally wasted in the har- bour, and for which they would be taxed without one farthing of benefit, would they assent ? They would not. It is the people in the towns, in order to have the temporary expenditure of hundreds of thousands of pounds-they advo- cate the expenditure of this money; but the responsibility of the bulk of that expenditure, unfortunately, falls on the farmers in the back districts, and for all time heavier export and import rates will be imposed on the products coming and going into the district, or else a rate will be levied on the district. And, when that comes about, will that assist the 8.0. farmers, as we heard so eloquently put by honourable but irresponsible members this afternoon ? You simply handicap them to a much greater extent, without extending one iota of facility for the export of their produce. <!-- PageHeader="1" --> I therefore say, so far as the Wanganni Har- bour is concerned, what this House wants to pass is a Bill to protect people from them- 1 selves-to protect them from the rashness of their own actions -and to take the voice not only of the townspeople on expenditure of this class, but the voice of the producers -- not the consumers and distributors of the townships, i but the producers in the country-as to whether or not this expenditure should be gone on with. Can we have a more glaring instance of waste of money than has occurred in connection with the construction of the so-called harbour-works at Napier ? An Hon. MEMBER .- How about Wellington ? Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- I should like to say this about Wellington : If the expenditure had been carried on in connection with other har- bours under the wise engineering supervision that has characterized the working of the 