Committee. I feel certain if he does that he will save a great deal of the time of the House, because after the report of the Conference has been circulated, and the Bill is printed with the corrections made in Committee, I do not think there will be one-tenth of the discussion in this House that would ensue at present. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) .- I was very much astonished to hear the honourable member for Ashley say that he did not consider the Premier understood the provisions of the Bill. He must have known that he was not speaking according to the book, when we remember that the Pre- mier has brought this Bill down for three vears now. There is not a great deal of dif- ference between this Bill and those brought down in former sessions, and I cannot for the life of me see why objection should be made to discussing this Bill now. Members have had it in their possession for the last four weeks. It has been discussed by the Counties Confer- ence, and members, I am sure, have paid atten- tion to the reports of what has gone on at that Conference. It was not a verbatim report cer- tainly, but everything that was important was reported. No great principle is involved, and the Bill is more of a consolidating measure than anything else. As for the remarks of the honourable member for Wakatipu, that when the report of the Committee comes down members will not have the amendments made by that Committee before them so that they can dis- cuss the report, members know very well that, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 if they desire to have the Bill with the amend- ments before them, nothing is simpler than to move the adjournment of the debate for a day or two; and if there is a desire to have those amendments before them the adjournment of the debate will be agreed to by the Premier, and we shall have the Bill with the amend- ments before us for discussion. There was another objection that the honourable member for Wakatipu urged which I cannot see any weight in. He says that if we affirm the principle in the Bill, as the Premier wants us to do, the Premier will say that we are bound by it and cannot make any alterations. An Hon. MEMBER. -- We have heard that be- fore. Mr. GUINNESS .- Honourable members know very well what that is worth with mem- bers like the honourable member for Wakatipu. Will that honourable gentleman, or any other honourable member, be bound by a statement of the Premier that because he voted for the second reading of a Bill he is not to make any alterations if he thinks fit ? No one would be bound by that statement, and therefore there is no weight in the argument. The Bill has been long enough before the country and before honourable members to enable them to grasp any principle there may be in it. This is only a proper and laudable effort on the part of the Premier to push it ahead. If there are members in this House, particularly those who represent Road Board districts, who do not want this Bill put through, they will resort to every effort to stop the passage of the Bill, and this is one of those efforts. I feel quite certain Mr. W. Fraser that this Bill ought to be advanced a stage, and that we ought not to agree to the postponement of the debate upon it. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) .- I am really as- tonished at the character of the objections taken to the second reading of this Bill. The Premier is not proposing anything of a novel character. To listen to what has been said by the honour- able members opposite, one would think that the procedure was something unusual. What are the facts in connection with nearly every policy Bill brought up in the House? The second reading is taken before the Bill is sent along to the Committee. The system of pro forma second reading is not, in my opinion,,by any means the best one. As soon as a Bill is brought down for its second reading it is advis- able, in the interests of members and of the country, to have a discussion on its merits and the principles, and the sooner it takes place the better. What is the Premier doing ? Is he trying to curtail discussion on the Bill ? Nothing of the kind. By the method proposed, instead of having only one second-reading discussion members can have two. They can have a discussion now on the second reading. and again when the Bill is reported upon by the Committee. We are thus afforded a double opportunity of explaining our minds to the country. The members who are-I do not like to say obstructing, but who are objecting to the proposal of the Premier, are simply splitting hairs. Instead of trying to 11.30. help forward the business of the country, and this is important business, they are simply endeavouring to delay the measure, which is of infinite importance to the country settlers. They are taking the best means they possibly can to prevent the Bill being carried at as early a period as possible. Now, for my own part, I believe the country requires the Bill, and my reason for endeavouring now to prevent any unnecessary delay is to have this measure brought into operation at as early a date as possible. The second reading of the Bill is not going to interfere with the work of the Select Committee, nor yet is it going to interfere with the work of the Committee of this House. I may subscribe to the principle and vote for the second reading of the Bill, but that does not by any means tie my hands. I have a perfect right to have the Bill altered in any way I think fit if I can carry out alterations in Committee. By voting for the second reading of the Bill members do not commit themselves beyond admitting that a measure of this kind is neces- sary, and that some reform is required. The Bill, although bulky, is of a very simple charac- ter. It simply provides that there shall be an alteration in the system of local government in the country districts, in accordance with advanced public opinion. I dare not, in speaking on the question before the House, enter into a discussion of the principles in- volved ; I am not able to discuss the Bill on the motion for the adjournment of the debate : but I certainly think this is the proper time for members to enlighten the country by giving their views on the principles embraced in this 