and make it general in its application, and then, if there are special circumstances, let them come from under that law. That is local option in the proper sense. Now, I will take one or two of the arguments that have been used. Here is one specious argument : that if the proposal is adopted a greater rent will have to be paid by the racecourses, by the "sports," and by the recreation trustees, and also by those who hold lands for recreation purposes. Sir, there is too much racecourse in this colony. There is too much sport in New Zealand. I say that one of the dangers which besets this young country is that there is too much sport, too much pleasure, and consequently many people are not looking to the reality of life : they are not, in my opinion, going on the right track, and there should not be encouragement given to that which exists at the present time. But there are private people who can afford to have sports grounds from which they are making huge pronts. If you can have racecourses within the boundary of a borough or city ; if you have, as I say, grounds of this kind-well, knowing the profit even that racing-clubs make -- knowing the profits made from these sports grounds An Hon. MEMBER .- What about the Canter- bury Trotting Club? Mr. SEDDON .- Why, the honourable mem- ber does not know what he is talking about. Discussing the matter with one of the vice- presidents of that club, and considering the amount spent upon the ground and the value of the improvements, and considering the in- creased value given to the land, I think it can very well afford to pay an increased rate. So that the honourable member was very unfor- tunate in referring to that. An Hon. MEMBER .- I referred to the Athletic Club. Mr. SEDDON .- I know athletic grounds belonging to private persons that are bringing in huge profits. The honourable member for Hawke's Bay trotted out the farmers in the back blocks. He said to rate them on this principle would be pernicious. They go back almost beyond civilisation, and they improve the land ; they go to the forest, they hew down the trees, they suffer great hardships ; and under this Bill, he said, they would be unjustly treated. Why, if you take one of these back- block settlers, every farmer on each of these sections is an improving farmer, and his thrift and energy will be exempted under this Bill. Therefore I say that the back-block settler -the thrifty and improving settler - will get relief. But I will give cases to the honourable member where men have taken up this timber country, and have never put an axe in it, and have allowed the timber to stand ; whilst the farmer who has improved his land has from year to year had to pay- say his land is worth $5 an acre-with his improvements he has had to pay upon £8 an acre. The man who has made no improve- ments and has allowed the timber to stand is the better off, because with the royalty on the is of greater value than that of the man who has effected the improvements. I would make the man who has left timber on the land and who has made no improvements pay the same rates as the improving farmer. Under the existing conditions of rating on the capital value, the timber has proved to be the best crop, with the royalty, and with the increased value given to the land by the labour and thrift of his neighbour ; and yet that neighbour is being penalised all the time, and the unim- proved-land owner comes in and sweeps up the full profits and all the benefits. I there- fore say that in this respect it is time there was an improvement and an alteration for the benefit of the back-block farmer. Then, we were told that the reason of this measure- the idea of increasing the graduated land-tax -came from Mr. Earnshaw. That was one of the arguments used by honourable members. What on earth Mr. Earnshaw's speech suggest- ing the increase of the graduated land-tax can possibly have to do with this measure I cannot for a moment imagine. All I can say is this : that if an increase in the graduated land-tax is required by the necessities of the country we should not hesitate; and I have never altered my views from the first passing of the Act- namely, that we were too moderate, and that with the increased population, and with the large spending that we are going in for weekly and yearly, I cannot understand how it has been allowed to stop as it is. But it looks to me that if concessions are going to be given in one way we must have something by which we can recoup ourselves in another direction, and I am very glad to find the matter noticed on this occasion, because it strengthens my views, and will prepare the way for what is coming, and that before long. Then, I call honourable members' attention to the Chinamen's gardens in the centres of the large cities of this colony. In Auckland and Wellington you will find Chinamen's gardens- An Hon. MEMBER. - Not in Auckland. Mr. SEDDON .-- Yes ; in Auckland, in one of the suburbs ; and if the fact does not point a moral to honourable members I do not know anything that will. I take it that the fact of a Chinaman being able to grow vegetables on land at a profit in the centre of the City of Wellington means that the owner of that land is probably getting at the rate, as I have been told, of £10 per acre per annum. It means that the owner is quietly lying back while the China- man is paying him a good interest on the money, and he is looking forward to the great profit he will get later on when he will cut up that land for building sections. But, in the meantime, the same remark applies to those shops and cottages of bygone days which you will find here in your City of Wellington, because in that re- spect I believe Wellington stands in the worst position of any city in this colony- Mr. HUTCHESON .- That is on the Church reserve that you are talking about. Mr. SEDDON .- I am not talking about a Church reserve. I am talking about what I 