bridges, and they were therefore limited as to the number of men that could be placed on the work, and it would not be economy to place more men there than could be advantageously em- ployed. On the Waipara - Blenheim line they were making very good progress with the work. Taking the three lines the honourable gentle- man had indicated for contrast with the North Island Main Trunk line, honourable members would agree with him (Mr. Hall-Jones) that they were all receiving a very fair share of consideration, and men had been placed there with judgment, having regard to the work to be done and the amount allocated for those works. # GISBORNE ANCHORAGE. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) asked the Minister of Marine, If he is aware that on the 20th May last the "Tokomaru " struck bottom when anchoring in Poverty Bay off Gisborne, and that on the 27th July the "Tomoana " struck bottom when anchoring in the same place ? Also, if any inquiry was held regarding these two cases; and have any steps been taken to acquaint the seafaring community with the danger attendant upon anchoring in the locality referred to ; and, if not, why not ? There was, perhaps, now less necessity for asking this ques- tion than a few days ago ; but at the same time he would like to receive some assurance from the Minister of Marine that steps had been taken to protect the seafaring community from the dangers attendant upon anchoring in the roadstead referred to. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister of Marine) said the matters referred to were the " Tokomaru " and the "Tomoana." With regard to the "Tokomaru," there was an inquiry into that matter. It was reported to the department as merely a vibration of the ship - simply a trembling motion felt on board-and when soundings were taken the depth of water was found to be 7 fathoms, with a muddy bottom. As regarded the case of the "Tomoana," an inquiry was held by the Collector, as the cir- cumstances were more serious, and it was evident there was some unknown danger in the roadstead at Gisborne. Steps were at once taken to locate that danger, so that further trouble might be avoided. The master of the vessel was informed that a Magisterial inquiry would be held if he so desired, but nothing further could be adduced. The "Tutanckai was sent to determine the position of the rocks. This was done, and the exact position was noti- tied in the Gazette. # UNOFFICIAL PASSENGERS ON GOVERN. MENT STEAMERS. Mr. (i. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked the Minister of Marine, What are the terms upon which passengers not on official business are carried on a Government steamer, so far as paying for food and other creature comforts are concerned ? Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister of Marine) said the inquiry was as to the terms upon which passengers not on official business were carried Mr. Hall- Jones what was meant by "creature comforts." If it was what were commonly called refreshments. then they were paid for on board at the ordinary rates, no matter who had them. With regard to the charge for passengers carried on Govern- ment steamers, such officers and wives were charged at the rate of 7s. 6d. a day, and children under fourteen at half-price. Members of Par- liament came under this condition. Other per- sons were charged at the rates charged on coastal steamers, with the exception of the West Coast Sounds or the Kermadecs, or the Auckland or Bounty Islands ; where there was no regular service they were charged at the rate of 10s. a day. Those were the official charges for those desiring to travel. He might say that these more than covered the cost of board, the cost of board being not much over 2s. a day for each person travelling. # MAKOHINE VIADUCT. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked the Minister for Public Works, How many men are at present em- ployed on the Makohine Viaduct, and whether he can now give information as to the approxi- mate date of its completion ? This question had already been asked more than once this session, and it might seem rather persistent to ask it again. But he had been requested by certain people in the city and district to repeat the question, and so he asked the Hon. the Minis- ter, if he did not mind, to make another defi- nite statement on the subject. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) said he had already intimated to the House on two occasions that he hoped to have the train running over the Makohine Viaduct during the course of the coming summer, and he saw no reason to doubt that that statement would prove correct. As to the number of men employed on the Makohine Viaduct- there were others employed on the Mangaweka Viaduct -- the number employed on the Mako- hine viaduct on Monday last was ninety-six. # LUNATIC ASYLUM EMPLOYÉS. Mr. HOGG (Masterton), for Mr. Morrison (Caversham), asked the Government, If they will take steps during this session, by legisla tion or otherwise, to put a stop to the long hours at present worked by the employés in our lunatic asylums ? He had been requested to put this question, and to explain that the attendants at lunatic asylums appeared to be by no means satisfied with the treatment ac- corded to them, both with reference to wages and hours of labour. They represented that they had no opportunity of forming a trades- union, and that they could not take advantage of the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act, and so regulate their hours and the conditions of their employment. They com- prised about three hundred of the public ser- vants, and they contended that their duties were very irksome, monotonous, and mentally laborious. From a schedule that had been submitted he found that their hours of duty varied from twelve to fifteen per day, and that 