mittee from the Public Trustee, together with the correspondence, with which he did not want to weary the House, would recognise there was strong reason in support of the course that was being taken. He said if they were to admit claims of this kind, and asked the Government to put votes of public money on the estimates for them, they would be taking up a wrong position. Mr. LANG .- Then, you ignore the report of the Committee. # MASTERTON CADET CORPS AND RIFLE CLUB. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) asked the Minister of Defence, When the applications of the Masterton Cadet Corps and the Masterton Rifle Club to be accepted under the Volunteer He regulations are likely to be dealt with ? would like the Minister of Defence to inform him in what position the applications from the young men who had asked for enrolment under the Volunteer and military regulations were at the present time. From time to time he had been appealed to on the subject by members of the corps in course of formation. They repre- sented that they had written to the Defence Department and were unable to get a reply. This department, he was told, had the services of six staff officers and thirteen clerks, but apparently their work was of such magnitude that they were unable to acknowledge the communications that were sent to them. This was his reason for putting the question on the Order Paper. He had written him- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 self to the Minister of Defence, and addressed his letters to the Hon. the Premier, think- ing they would receive attention, but he found very great difficulty in getting any in- formation. With reference to the Masterton Rifle Club, he found he had made a mistake. The name should have been the Opaki Rifle Club ; but he had made the Defence Department aware of the blunder he had inadvertently com- mitted. The club had been in existence for ten years under the name of the North Wairarapa Club, but as some other Wairarapa corps had been formed they considered it advisable to change the name. Mr. SEDDON .- Where are its headquarters ? Mr. HOGG said its headquarters were some seven or eight miles away from Masterton, and the members had no opportunity of joining any Volunteer Corps. They were mostly sons of farmers living out in country districts, and they were exceedingly eligible young men, a number of them being looked upon as our best shots, so that they deserved every possible encourage- ment. On Saturday night twenty-six of them handed in their names, and other names were to be sent in shortly. Though they had made an application prior to the arrival of the Duke and Duchess of York, up to the present time they did not know what had been done with their application. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said the answer he would give the honourable member would apply to all other rifle clubs in the colony. He had refused none, nor did he intend to refuse any so long as they complied with the regulations. When they made application a copy of the regulations was sent to them asking them to reply whether they came within those regulations ; that was to say : (1) Whether they were three miles from the headquarters of a Volunteer corps ; (2) whether their mem- bership was of the number required ; (3) whether they were prepared to comply with the conditions. Now, it would surprise honour- able members when he told them that not 20 per cent. had had the courtesy or had taken the trouble to reply to those questions. That had caused delay. On Saturday last he signed for about twenty rifle clubs ; he did not know whether this was one of them or not. He could only assure the honourable member that if this rifle club replied to the questions put and complied with the regulations he would accept them with pleasure. Then there was another question. Some of these clubs were cadet corps, and those cadet corps attached to the high schools and some of the other schools were under the Defence Department. Well, in his opinion, there should not be divided authority. All these school cadet corps should either be under the Boards of Education or under the Defence Department ; and he was inclined to think, as the Boards had something to do with them, and the school-teachers had a good deal more to do with them, that it would be better if those cadet corps were taken over by the Education Department. However, he had hesitated to do that until he saw that the Education Department was fully prepared to do for those corps what the Defence Department would have to do for them. They would have to see that they were instructed, and that there were regulations and inspection, otherwise the thing would not be a success. At the present time the matter was between the two depart- ments until a decision had been come to as to which should have control. He had given the Committee and members his views on the matter, and he would like to say now that he believed the cadet corps of the colony were of vital im- portance, and it was the intention of the Go- vernment to accept them, and to see that they were properly trained and fairly well encou- raged. RIFLE TEAM FOR BISLEY MEETING. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) asked the Govern- ment, If it is proposed to send a rifle team from New Zealand to compete at the next Bisley meeting in England ? This was a question of a good deal of interest to both rifle clubs and Volunteer corps in New Zealand. On the last occasion when a team from New Zealand com- peted at a similar meeting he believed they gave a very good account of themselves, and one of them was very nearly carrying off one of the principal honours. The rifle-men in his district were anxious to know whether a similar opportunity would be given again. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he was pre- pared to give this matter the very fullest con- sideration. No application had yet been made by the Rifle Association, but probably, if it was 