safety does not lie in the hands of His Excel- lency the Governor, with whom rests the ulti- mate appeal, in whose hands does safety lie ? Sir, I do not wish to weary the House by any further rebuttal of the arguments which have been used, but I say that the objections of the Auditor-General had reached such a stage that the intervention of Parliament was abso- lutely and essentially necessary. I hope the House will not repeal the provision introduced into the Act of last session. Indeed, I go further, and I express my confident belief that the House will not alter that Act. If it did it would be a bad day for the Government and for Parliament itself. As I have said, the only effect of these flimsy objections-for I cannot help so characterizing them-is that which I have already described. We have wasted the whole day in beating the air and discussing objections arising out of the re- port that any level - headed business man would dispose of inside half an hour. These are matters upon which we have sat days and days discussing upon the Public Accounts Committee, and we have now wasted a whole day of the time of Parliament-with what result ? Every officer of the Government whose duty it is to do so has signed every document in connection with these five cases. The trans- actions are completed and the money is paid. Then, what is the use of this unnecessary fuss? It may gratify certain members of this House to support the opinions entertained by the Auditor-General, so that they may harass, worry, and annoy the Government by getting up these recriminatory discussions. As to their usefulness to the country, the benefit is absolutely nil. As to that grand old gag about the composition of the Com mittee, it is probable that we shall hear the last of that about the time when we hear the Angel Gabriel's trump. The House divided on the question, " That the report do lie on the table." AYES, 39. Arnold Hanan Parata Barclay Heke Pirani Russell, W. R. Bennet Hornsby Buddo Houston Seddon Smith, G. J. Carncross Kaihau Colvin Laurenson Stevens Steward Duncan Lawry Field McGowan Svmes Mckenzie, R. Ward Fisher McNab Wilford. Fowlds Fraser, A. L. D. Mills Tellers. Hogg O'Meara Gilfedder Palmer Napier. Hall Hall-Jones NOES, 11. Russell, G. W. Allen, J. Hutcheson Tellers. Lang Atkinson Lethbridge Herries Ell Rhodes Massey. Hardy VOL. CXVII .- 37. For. Against. Allen, E. G. Mackenzie, T. Smith, E. M. McGuire Willis. Haselden. Majority for, 28. Motion agreed to. # GOVERNMENT ADVANCES TO SETTLERS EXTENSION BILL. On the question, That the amendments be agreed to, Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said,-I presume some members will have a few words to say on the third reading of this Bill. I do not think they will allow it to pass without saying something. I myself will not do any- thing to provoke debate, but I do think it is right and proper that I should set at rest some statements that were made in Committee, and show how far all those statements, that were made in good faith, were absolutely wrong, and likely to put this colony and the depart- ment in a very peculiar position. I ought also to say that I was rather surprised, after what had occurred on the second reading, at what eventuated in Committee. Though there were, of course, members who objected to the two millions, there was a general consensus of opinion that one million was sufficient. I can- not say the honourable member for Hawke's Bay was inconsistent. He did not so far com- mit himself as to say that he thought we could do without anything, or with a very small amount, after what he had stated on the second reading ; but there were some members who distinctly stated that they would be prepared to support a million, and those members, when the Bill got into Committee, we found support- ing a lesser sum. Now, I do not think that is fair to the leader of the House, and I think it is likely to prove very embarrassing in respect of so important a question as that of advances to settlers. I will refer first of all to the honourable member for Patea. He said, "I certainly object to the two-million loan which is asked for, but I will not oppose a million loan, because the Act is on the statute-book, and it would cause a great deal of additional trouble to settlers in the back blocks if they could not obtain further advances." What, therefore, the honourable member said on the second reading of the Bill was that he was prepared to support a million loan ; and then we find him voting for half a million. There is a good deal of inconsistency about such a proceeding as that, and more particularly when, as I understand, before his constituents he pledged himself to do his best to support and to promote this Advances to Settlers. Of course, I will not dwell upon that : the member is young and inexperienced, and may have been led astray by the sophistry of some other members. Then I come to a member who is not likely to have been so led astray. On the second reading of the Bill I find the honourable member for Riccarton said, " I only wish to say that, in view of the fact - - 