would like to say a word or two to correct a wrong impression that might arise from the remarks of the honourable member for Eden in regard to the registration of the nurses of the larger hospitals which are affiliated with those of Great Britain. What the honourable gentle- man says is quite true, but it might be thought from the honourable gentleman's statement that the nurses in these hospitals were superior to those in the smaller institutions. Now, such is The smaller institutions not the fact at all. also have examinations, carried out periodically, and it is by no means proved that the nurse is any the better because she is trained in one of the large institutions. The large hospitals produce a large number of nurses, and the likelihood is that after they have served three years they go to some other institution ; they do not remain long in one position, as they do in smaller institutions. In the smaller hospitals of the colony the same nurses have been engaged for years. They could hold a position in any hospital in the colony, and yet they have not a certificate that will enable them to practise their profession in the Old Country, as they have not served in institutions that are affili- ated with the older hospitals. The result is that these nurses undergo an examination that is often more severe than that carried out in the larger hospitals. A number of people attend the larger hospitals for the purpose of receiving certificates, while they attend the smaller ones for the purpose of obtaining a livelihood. Some of the very best nurses in the colony are so employed. I simply wished to make these few remarks, Sir, to correct an impression that I thought might get abroad on account of the remarks made by the honour- able member for Eden. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden). - Sir, I wish to make a personal explanation. It was not my inten- tion to speak in any way disrespectfully of the nurses who are trained in the smaller hospitals. I wished to point out that in a hospital that is affiliated, such as the Auckland Hospital and as the other hospitals of the large centres are, the nurses have the "hall mark " on them when they get their certificates, and they do not require to undergo any extra examination. But in the smaller hospitals they will have to undergo an examination before they can be registered. I do not mean to say they are not equal. As I pointed out, a person may be very clever in her profession, but if she has not the necessary diploma she has no standing. Take, for instance, the nurses of the Thames Hospital : they may wish to get into the Auck- land Hospital, but, notwithstanding that they may be very clever, they would have to com- mence at the lowest rung of the ladder and go through the whole course before they would be duly qualified. I do not wish to in any way disparage the nurses of the smaller hospitals. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton). - I wish to express my satisfaction with the Bill which the Minister has introduced, and I trust it will become law this session. As things are now, any woman can set herself up as a nurse, and she then assumes to herself the same status as Mr. McGowan a woman who may possess qualifications that entitle her to rank almost as a doctor. We know, of course, that a thoroughly trained woman, who has had experience and theoretical training, is in many cases better than a doctor. I was struck with some remarks made by the member for Bruce. He said the Bill was a small one, and not worthy of the Government. Sir, I consider it is the small things of life that are in most cases the most important things and the cause of the most far-reaching effects, and I hope the Government will not be discouraged in introducing measures of this nature simply because remarks of that kind are made by honourable members. It shows to what straits our old friends Betsy Prig and Sairey Gamp have been reduced when their only champion in the House is the mem- ber for Bruce. For myself, I sincerely trust that the day when the nurse made her appear- ance in a plaid shawl, with a bottle of gin under her arm, has passed and gone for ever, and that we have come once for all to the days when nurses shall be thoroughly trained women, who shall hold diplomas, and be paid in propor- tion. The suggestion by the honourable mem- ber for Palmerston is an excellent one, that when, for the future, nurses are appointed to our hospitals they shall be, with the exception of a small number of probationers-which number can be defined later on-in every case women holding diplomas under this Act. There are certain clauses I should like to see altered, but these can be altered in Committee. I am pleased to see the Bill brought in, and I hope it will go through without a division. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waibemo) .- Sir, the last speaker was rather unjust to the member for Bruce. He did not in any way rise up to advocate the old system of nursing which caused so much pain and suffering to past generations ; he merely stated that he did not recognise any necessity for the Bill in its present form. He did not advocate, as the honourable member for Lyttelton said, nurses of the style of Sairey Gamp and Betsy Prig. I do not, however, agree with the honourable member for Bruce in the statement that the Bill is not necessary. I think it is highly necessary, and had the honourable gentleman studied the very able report of Dr. MacGregor on the development of nursing he would see that the time has quite arrived for some system of training and classi- fication in order to secure proper nurses in our hospitals and for private nursing. He makes this clear. He refers to the old Sairey Gamp, but he goes on to say that already the lady style of nurse has passed away, and that women who go in for nursing now do so purely as a question of wage-earning, and how they can make a living. He states that a number of them are becoming mechanical and are growing hard, and not giving that attention to the minor details of nursing that is necessary. I am glad to think the Inspector has taken this view, because I know in some hospitals in this country patients do not receive the atten- tion they ought to receive from the nurses. Although the old Sairey Gamp type may have 