and hoped the Minister would not accept it. He knew there was a very strong feeling amongst country settlers on the question of vaccination. There were many country dis- tricts that were not visited by a Magistrate, or only once in every three months, and he did not think they ought to put people to the trouble of travelling twenty or thirty miles in order to meet a Magistrate to get exemption. So far as he knew the feelings of the country settlers, they would resent this alteration of the law. refuse to comply with it, and nothing but trouble would be caused throughout the coun- try. It would, he considered, be better for the House to put down its foot and refuse to accept this amendment, leaving the law as at present. If the House did not do that it would only create a great deal of trouble. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) also wished, on behalf of the country districts, to enter the same protest as the last speaker. It would be very inconvenient in many cases for people who wished to have exemption to go to a Stipendiary Magistrate. The last speaker had expressed his opinion upon the matter, but he considered it right to rise in order to indorse what had been said. He trusted the House would not accept the amendment. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) desired to join in the chorus that had been raised in protest against the alteration of the law introduced in this Bill. Other speakers had expressed his sentiments, and so what he wished now simply to do was to draw the attention of the Govern- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 ment to a very remarkable decision that had been given in his district. There it had been de- cided-by whom, he did not know-that certifi- cates of exemption would not be granted unless the parent produced a certificate signed by a doctor stating that the child was not fit for vaccination. The decision that had been come to by Parliament last year was that if a parent had conscientious objections to vaccination that parent on making a declaration before the Registrar could have his children exempted. He trusted the House would not budge one iota from the decision it had come to last year, that exemption should be granted upon parents making a simple declaration before a Registrar that they had conscientious objections to vac- cination. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) said that after the strong objections already made to this parti- cular clause it was hardly necessary to say a word, but he wished to join in the vigorous protest against any legislation of this sort being forced upon the country. He admitted it was a debatable subject : but medical testi. mony was to the effect that after a period of seven years vaccination was absolutely value- less. Now, there had been no epidemic of small-pox in this colony, and if small-pox came here the sanitary conditions had been so much improved that he thought there was little chance of the disease making headway. That being so, why should they force upon parents who had a strong objection to it the neces- sity of inflicting upon their children a painful operation, that was in many cases also a dangerous one ? The present law was more - suited to country settlers, and was sufficient to meet the necessities of the case, and if an epidemic came there were already enacted stringent laws to meet the circumstances. And vaccination should not be performed except from pure calf-lymph. He did not think the House should for a moment entertain the proposal to adopt this clause. He took it that if the House voted against the motion that would be sufficient to throw out the proposal, but would like to know if it was necessary to move an amendment. Mr. SPEAKER said the honourable member might move an amendment to agree to all the amendments of the Legislative Council except the new clause 2A. Mr. BUDDO then moved, To add to the original motion the words "except the new clause 24, to which this House disagrees." Sir J. G. WARD (Minister of Public Health) only desired to explain to honourable members what the position really was. Personally he had no objection whatever to a Conference upon the particular clause in question if honourable members so desired it. The amendment was not the Government's, but was made in another place, and he understood the reason for the alteration was that, as would be found, in con- sequence of the terms of the original Act, either Magistrate or Registrar, in addition to having to take a statutory declaration of the person desiring exemption, was required to take evi- dence. Now, many of the Registrars in New Zealand were in receipt of $5. $10, or $20 per annum, and it was found that these people could not give the time that was necessary in order to allow the provisions of the Act to be carried out without seriously interfering with their private affairs. It was not fair to ask that these officials should do this. If honourable members wanted a new department set up, or could suggest any better offcial to deal with this matter than the Magistrate, he was willing to consider the suggestion. Honourable members were aware that exception was taken to the inclusion of "Registrars " when that official was included in the Bill, and if they were going to occupy the time of Registrars in this matter they should make provision for the payment to them of something like adequate salaries, since they were required to take not only statutory declarations, but also evidence in support of such declarations. An Hon. MEMBER .- Add " Postmaster." Sir J. G. WARD said that Postmasters could not give the necessary time to this matter, and, as he had said, the Registrars could not do it. The principle of the right of people who had conscientious objections to vaccination to obtain exemption had been affirmed, and was now the law of the land, and the question was how could they best make provision to give effect to that. If honourable members insisted upon the inclusion of "Registrars" in that particular clause, it was still his duty to point out why it was proposed that this amendment should be made. The person 