show that it was necessary to take these tram- ways through the Botanical Gardens. There has been a report by the City Engineer, who says it would be unwise to do so. Sir, that is not my only complaint, but I must question the action of the City Corporation of Dunedin not only with regard to this, but with regard to other matters as well. Why is it that this re- port of the City Engineer was kept within the four walls of the Council buildings, and that it was difficult for anybody to get a sight of it ? Why was it not made public? Because it was contrary to the wish of a few members of the Council, who at that time were in a majority. Sir, fortunately for the good-sense of the people of Dunedin the opinions of the many have had an effect on the City Councillors, and they have rescinded by a majority of seven votes to six the resolution which provided that the tram- ways should be taken through the Gardens. Al- though they have rescinded the resolution that the tramways are to go through the Botanical Gardens, I shall not be satisfied until a provision is made in the Bill to prevent such a thing as the destruction of the Gardens being possible in the future. The Corporation has gone about this business in a very unsatisfactory way. They determined on having electric cars for these tramways, and how have they gone about it? They have taken into consultation with them certain experts by the name of Noves Brothers, whom they have asked to prepare plans and specifications for the construction of electric tramways in Dunedin. Now, Noyes Brothers, if you please, are to be among those https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 who are to be tenderers on their own plans and their own specifications. I should like to know what chance any outside tenderer would have when he comes to have his tender compared with the one from Noyes Brothers. I think it would be better for the City Corporation had they consulted an expert altogether apart from a firm who afterwards would be a tenderer on their own plans and specifications. No satis- factory answer has ever yet been given to the public in regard to Noves Brothers. And, Sir, the whole thing is wrapped in 10.0. mystery, and the new Councillors who have gone into the Council within the last six months are trying to find out all this business about Noves Brothers and this contract. It is a most difficult thing for them to get to the bottom of the mystery, and, though they have been trying for some time. I do not know if they have got to the bottom of it yet. I do not know if the honourable gentleman in charge of the Bill can enlighten us on the matter, but I doubt very much whether he has himself been enlightened as to the position of Noyes Brothers and the contract. That, however. is only on a par with what has been taking place with re- gard to the reserves. The City Council do not seem to have been consulting the rights of the case at all. They have been consulting-I do not know whether it is their own convenience or whether I should not apply some other term to it ; but, at any rate, the whole thing has been Vr. J. Allen before the Bill goes through this House. At any rate, I wish to have it made perfectly clear -- and I shall use every effort to have it made clear -that the heritage that has been handed down to the people of Dunedin shall in the future be kept for the people of Dunedin. There are those in Dunedin who have their own large gardens and who have their own pleasure- grounds, and who can afford to see these grounds taken from the public and destroyed : but the bulk of the people are determined that that which has been given by our forefathers for the people shall be kept in the future for the people ; and if the honourable gentleman desires to see the Bill go through I hope he will consent to the insertion of a clause to make it quite certain that this heritage shall be pre- served for the people. Sir, these Gardens are small, after all. In the old days our forefathers, in their wisdom, had provided that a reserve should be kept all round the city, commonly now called the Town Belt ; and in days gone by attempts have been made to utilise it for other purposes than those for which it was reserved. Every attempt to so utilise it has been met by the citizens with a distinct refusal. I recollect when an attempt. was made to place a fever hospital on the Town Belt, but the citizens would not have it. I recollect when an attempt was made to put a cemetery on the Town Belt, and unfortu- nately the citizens allowed it. When I came into the House first, one of the foremost things I was called upon to oppose, and to oppose strenu- ously, was a proposal for the further extension of the cemetery along the Town Belt, and from that day to this we have heard nothing of such a proposal. I hope we shall never hear any more of it. It was merely for sordid reasons, too, that this attempt was being made : it was an attempt on the part of the Corporation to get for nothing ground that was to be sold for money to people to bury their dead in. Now comes another attempt by the same body-an attempt to take a portion of the Gardens. It is said it will do no harm to cut the Gardens in two. One gentleman said we had no right to consider the nursery-maids, and asked what the nursery-maids had to do with it. Well, the nursery-maid has a lot to do with it, and so have the children who go there to play. Not only have the nursery-maids and the children something to do with it, but those who congre- gate there on a Sunday have also a say in the matter. I should like honourable members to go through our Gardens on a Sunday afternoon when a band is playing there, and when hundreds -ave, thousands - of people are congregated : when the Gardens are nearly full, just in the place where it is now sug- gested the trams should run. You will see thousands of people in that particular place on a Sunday afternoon-young and old, happy on a fine day, happy in the music, and happy in the knowledge that they have some place they can go to away from the bustle and noise of everyday life and so enjoy one day in the seven. But, Sir, this is all to be ruthlessly and care- 