Mr. MASSEY .- Repayments. Mr. SEDDON .- " Repayments ! " Honour- able members will keep hanging on to that miserable fallacy. You cannot with safety depend on moneys coming in as refunds. It may not be convenient for the people to send in the whole of the money ; and if we are to depend alone on the money coming in for the purposes of the Advances to Settlers De- partment, I say, where should we be in less than three months? If the finances of that department were to depend upon that, I say there would soon be an end of it. You might just as well put up the shutters at once. And the member for Riccarton, while profes- sing to be a supporter of this measure, and while professing to be a supporter of the advances to settlers-if he advocates their wait- ing until the money comes in for it to carry on with, I simply say it would be better for him to openly denounce the advances to settlers, and better for him, because it would be a more dignified and proper course to say, "I am en- tirely opposed to it." But to say, " I have always been a supporter of it" and yet to cripple it in the way in which the honourable member sug- gests is to me incomprehensible. We shall find when the voting is taken on the third reading that the honourable member for Riccarton who voted to reduce the amount to £500,000 will be voting to give me the whole million ; either that, or he will be out of the House and amongst the missing altogether or will be found voting for the Bill. Now, let members watch. Then, Sir, if he thinks this half-million is suffi- cient and the million would be a wrong thing for the colony, his proper position is to vote against the third reading of the Bill. But I have my doubts whether he will do that. The general public may understand when they see the voting on the second reading that you may alter your ground between the second and the third reading; but when they read that you supported the second reading, and afterwards voted to keep the measure off the statute-book no explanation on the platform will get over the fact that you voted in that way. That is why there is a little uneasiness in the minds of some members at the present moment. The honourable member for Riccarton, with the view of creating alarm again-I do not know whether he is responsible-made the state- ment that the finances of the colony were in a serious position. He says, "I find the public works expenditure for the last quarter was $400,000." Sir, four fours are sixteen- £1,600,000 a year. That would be the case, would it not? Now, Sir, the honourable member takes the total of £400,000 for this particular three months. He is not the only one who has been led astray in respect to this matter. He is not the only one who has had grave anxiety. He says that Ministers have been looking pale as they came out of the Cabinet room. I undertake to say that he has not seen my honourable colleague the Minister for Railways looking pale. I undertake to say that not even the illness he had lately made him look pale. With respect to this £400,000 for the quarter, I hope the Press will take the opportunity I give them, and that it will relieve them of some little anxiety, and that it will relieve the people of the colony of some little anxiety, when I say that during the last three months shipments of locomotives, railway- wagons, and rails have been teeming in. These, of course, have to be paid for immedi- ately they are put on board, and this is what has caused the abnormal drain during the last three months. It is not $400,000 on the ordinary railway construction ; it is not the ordinary expenditure out of the Public Works Fund for the construction of roads and tracks, but it has been these shipments and demands during the last three months, and which can- not possibly continue during the next nine months. It is morally impossible it should be so. And that is why it looks from the Statement as though our expenditure on public works was a million and three-quarters in the year. I say it will be nothing of the sort. I have now told the honourable member. He raised the question of the £400,000. I have given him the reasons why there is this abnormal expenditure. We gave last year half a million for additions to open lines, but if you look at the papers you will find that only £325,000 was expended before the 31st March ; and, consequently, these amounts are coming in now which are out of that par- ticular vote. And it is not the public works vote which has made this abnormal increase. I hope, now, that the honourable member and those honourable members who say there was this grave anxiety, and that the Public Works Fund had got into this terrible condition, and that the Treasurer appears asleep, and that the Ministers are not watching carefully what was going on, I hope, now they have got this explanation, that these honourable members will sleep sound, for we will not have this £400,000 again coming to charge for the next three months, and we will not have the ex- penditure going on at the rate of the last three months. That is the explanation, and I make it now, for before the financial debate is over I know the question will come up again, and I will thus forestall it. I see that the honourable member for Riccarton already feels relieved, and that he is beginning to draw closer. Then, the honourable member said we had the temerity-I might almost say the audacity-to hold back payments in Dunedin. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I never said that. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, one member, at all events, mentioned the holding back of the pay- ment of the expenses in connection with the visit of the Imperial troops at Dunedin. I think it was on the second reading, and I thought it was the honourable member ; and if my memory is defective, well and good. An honourable member said that we are hold- ing back payments from Dunedin in connec- tion with the Imperial troops. What was the fact? Some gentlemen in Dunedin sent out invitations, and invited officers and others to a smoke concert. They enjoyed it, and sent the bill in to the Government. Well, natu- rally, the Government did not pay it; and 