the article which appeared in the London Daily News to which I have referred. Nearly all these quotations are based on the practical working of this Act, and, I think, are sufficient to convince honourable members opposed to this measure that in advocating a continuance of the present rating on the "annual to let or capital value" with its penalising effect on enterprise and improvements, they are upholding a system of taxation which is most pernicious in its charac- ter and in every respect a bar to the improve- ment, progress, and prosperity of the colony .. Every endeavour, I submit, should be made in the public interest to secure land being put to its best use. It was the freedom of appropria- tion and disposition of land which obtained in the Old Country which has led to the existence of a propertyless proletariat. Land-owning is nothing more than privilege-owning. All the arguments of the honourable member for Ric- carton used against this Bill are the arguments of those who support the property-tax. If I held opinions like the honourable gentleman on the subject of taxation I should at once move to bring again into operation that much-con- demned. and I say deservedly condemned, form of taxation the property-tax. I trust, Sir, that we shall never have that iniquitous tax re-en- acted in this colony ; and I hope, further, that we will to-night take a step in affirming a pro- gressive principle of taxation by which we shall remove for ever, so far as local rating is con- cerned, another pernicious system of taxation. If we do so we shall introduce into this colony a most important factor, which will promote in a marked degree the general progress of the country, and be, I am firmly convinced, in the http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero best interests of its intelligent and industrious people. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston). - I think the speech of the honourable member for Riccarton must have come rather as a surprise to mem- bers of the House, who were not at all aston- ished at the attitude taken up by the member for Hawke's Bay on this question, because it is consistent with the whole of his career, and I can fully understand how strongly he feels upon the question of levying taxation on the unimproved value. But those who have strongly supported the general system of taxa- tion on the unimproved value cannot possibly see any anomaly in applying such a system to local rating. The difference between the two is this : that the general taxation only touches people who are fairly well off, while local taxa- tion reaches everybody, and the very argument the honourable member for Riccarton used against the land-tax as levied at present-that those who have leases in perpetuity escape from that taxation-does not apply to local rating at all, because under the rating on unimproved value they pay exactly the same as any other occupier of land. For that reason alone, I think he should, as a matter of equity, be a strong supporter of it. Now, personally I do not think it is advisable to make the system compulsory throughout the colony. I think it would have been preferable if the VOL. CXVII .- 16. enlarging the scope of the system by leaving out the exemptions of special rates, water rates, et cetera, imposed in the Bill of 1896, and also by making the system of taking the poll simpler and easier than it is at present. If there were, say, a compulsory poll at the time of the election of members of local bodies on this system, and people could record their votes without inconvenience, then I feel certain the result would be that throughout the colony rating on unimproved value would obtain. A little over eighteen months ago, Senator Bucklin, from Colorado, in the United States, made a tour of the Australasian Colonies, and spent a considerable time in New Zealand studying this system of local rating. The result of his visit was that, in the first session of the Senate after he returned Home, he was able to carry a similar Act to our own through the Legislature, and it only remained to be im- posed after a poll of the whole State-not, as in our colony, of the local districts-upon that system had been taken. Now, I have no doubt that there it will obtain just as successfully as it has in parts of this colony. But, at the same time, there are people in this colony who use the same old stock arguments which have been used in this House time after time against the system of taxation which was inaugurated by the late Mr. Ballance, in 1891. Almost the exact words that were used by the honourable member for Riccarton you will find recorded in Hansard at that time. But, strange to say, the people who use those arguments do not say that the system will injure the wealthy man, and that it is going to benefit the small man. They tell us exactly the opposite : that it is going to benefit only the wealthy owner and that the small property-holder will suffer. What is the fact? That the most ardent supporters of the rating on unimproved value system are not the large property-owners at all, but are the small property-owners; and the peculiar thing is that they are so willing to com- mit what I may call taxation suicide, after the evils which have been so eloquently pointed out -. they will not believe they are going to suffer in the way predicted. And, as a matter of fact, it has not worked out in that way. The Borough of Palmerston North was the first district in the colony to put this system into operation. It was carried within a month or two of the Act being passed, and there has never been any question as to the fairness of that system. In that borough the only dissatisfaction has been that certain rates are exempted from the opera- tions of the Act ; and when you get your rate notice, with the comparison side by side show- ing the rates which are levied under the rating on unimproved value system and the rates levied on the capital value, you have as strong an argument as you can possibly get in favour of the system of rating on unimproved value. But where there is dissatisfaction with the system it is in connection with the valuations. The Valuation Department may be all very well for general taxation, but when it comes to local taxation it is not careful enough. There 