of the members of certain aristocratic clubs. Before touching upon that point I would like to ask who paid for the circulation of the maps. such as those contained in a particular issue of the Evening Post, announcing that this was the Miramar Estate, which the Corporation proposed to purchase. In the first place, I assumed that the Corporation authorised the printing and circulation of those maps, but, on reflection, I came to the conclusion that it must have been done by the vendors, for surely the Corporation would not be guilty of such an illegal and reprehensible act. But, then, did the pressure to purchase this property come from the people of Wellington ? No. It came from people who have little concern in the municipal affairs of Wellington-people who are not called upon to face the rate-collector and the Magistrate if the rates are in arrear. The land is to be purchased to provide golf grounds, polo grounds, hockey grounds, and a racecourse. Now, I ask, Sir, does the working- man, the small ratepayer, of Wellington want a golf ground ? Does he want a hockey ground ? Does he keep polo ponies? Does he want a polo ground ? Does he want a racecourse of his own ? I certainly think the members of the Wellington City Corporation would be a splendid body to manage a racecourse. And these are the pressing reasons why we are asked to purchase this estate. I would not so much object to the purchase by the Corporation if it were not for the rates we shall be called upon to face, and I ask, with such a prospect before us, can we afford to in- dulge in such a luxury? It is purely a rate- payers' question. I repeat the question, Do the members of this House wish to impose an indebtedness of $1,259,924 upon a small city like this? It is really too much to ask us to bear. And, then, why did not the honourable member who moved the second reading of the Bill give the House some information in regard to its contents? Why move the second reading without saying a single word? It would have been just as easy for him to have told the House what the designs and projects of the Bill were as to leave that for other members to do. I undertake to say that the career of the Bill of 1897 will be repeated. The Bill may pass this House, which pays such little attention to pro- posals of this kind, but I sincerely hope the Legislative Council will reject it. I fervently hope the Legislative Council will take the wise and judicious step it took in 1897 in regard to this same proposed purchase. I would ask those members who really understand anything of the question whether we have not enough parks for the City of Wellington already. Mr. PIRANI .-- No. Mr. FISHER .- Again the member for Pal- merston knows all about the matter. We know nothing. We have the Basin Reserve. An Hon. MEMBER .- Too small. Mr. FISHER .- Oh! That is too small. Well, we have the Athletic Park. Mr. HUTCHESON .- Which is private pro- perty. Mr. FISHER. - Oh! That is private pro- perty, isit? Well, then, we have the Newtown Park. Mr. PIRANI. - Which is a Government camp. Mr. FISHER .- The honourable member calls it a Government camp. It is the very best recreation-ground in this city. But the most important consideration of all, which has not as yet been touched upon, is this: that the Public Reserves Acts, passed in many Parlia- ments from the year 1881 onwards, distinctly declare that all public reserves shall be reserved for the exclusive use and benefit of the public, and that they shall be open to the public at all times without fee or charge. Now, we are asked- Mr. HUTCHESON .- There are exceptions on a certain number of days each year. Mr. FISHER .- There are no exceptions of any kind whatsoever in the Public Reserves Acts. There is no bar to the public. The reserves are the property of the public. But under this Bill these croquet clubs, hockey clubs, and golf clubs are to be allowed to pick out the choice parts of this ground under lease which excludes the public. The estate is to be purchased with the money of the people of Wellington, and these clubs are to have the right to lease the land for their purposes at a peppercorn rent, and to exclude the public from the use of the land. The public of Wellington are in reality to purchase land for these clubs. If these are not grounds sufficient to induce the great mass of the people to move in this matter I should like to know what would be? Then, some honourable members have said, as the honour- able member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) has said, that the people themselves are to decide the matter-that a poll is to be taken. I ask any member to read the Bill and point out to me one word relating to a poll of the people. An Hon. MEMBER .- Clause 5. Mr. FISHER .- Clause 5 says,- "The Corporation may raise, under the pro- visions of 'The Municipal Corporations Act, 1900,' any special loan or special loans for the purpose of providing the whole or any part of the purchase-money or compensation to be paid by the Corporation for or in respect of acquisition of the said land or any part thereof ; and also for providing funds for constructing roads and drains upon or under the said land or any part thereof, and for developing and improving such land." Where is there any mention of a poll ? Mr. PIRANI .- Provision is made in the Municipal Corporations Act. Mr. FISHER .- Why is it not to be found in the Bill? I have the Municipal Corpora- tions Act of 1900 before me. I have read all the provisions relating to special loans. and I am extremely doubtful whether under those clauses the Corporation are compelled to take a poll. I undertake to say that if this clause is not altered no poll will be taken, and the ratepayers will find themselves burdened with this estate whether they like it or not. 