present moment, and as soon as money is re- ceived from the War Office, as promised by them, the men will be paid as soon as possible ; but they all receive advances when asked for if so entitled. The complete settlement of ac- counts of the first three contingents is being made as rapidly as it is possible to do so." He could not do any more. He believed the accounts were about finished now. The Go- vernment were not either refusing advances or delaying matters; but the accounts must be made up in order to ascertain what was due to the men. Complication had arisen owing to the state of things when the men left South Africa. It was not the fault of the Govern- ment. # GOVERNMENT WORKS IN HAWKE'S BAY. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) asked the Minister of Labour, If he will explain why men have been brought from the South Island for employment on Government works in Hawke's Bay when local men are idle, and overlooked ? No doubt it might be said that the obvious answer to this question was that where there was labour for the men it was immaterial where the men were brought from. As a fundamental principle, no doubt that was correct ; but he did say it was wrong for the Government to bring men from the South Island and place them on the Hatuma Estate when there were men idle in Hawke's Bay. Only three or four days ago the Mayor of Napier had to call a https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 meeting of the unemployed, and their chief grievance was this : that, although there was work at their doors, some one with influence or power had brought seven men up from Oamaru and had them placed on the Hatuma Estate roads. That was manifestly unjust, and no doubt the Premier would agree with him that it was wrong. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Labour) said half a dozen men were taken from Oamaru and sent to the Government works in Hawke's Bay. The men referred to by the honourable gentleman were out of work in May last, and, as there was no Government work available in the vicinity from which they came, it was the duty of the Government to endeavour to give them work in other parts of the colony if it was available, and as there was work to be done in the Hawke's Bay District, and no complaint had been received that men were idle there, they were placed on road- works in the Hatuma Estate. The bulk of this work was, however, only suitable for plough and scoop, and, as it was understood that the local men referred to by the honourable member were principally small farmers with teams, they would have an opportunity of participating in the work when the proper time arrived. As to the meeting of the unemployed at Napier, he thought the honourable member should be the last to give prominence to the fact that Napier was in a worse position than other parts of the colony. What had been reported to him (Mr. Seddon) by the Chief Clerk in the Labour De- partment on the matter was this :- " About thirty assembled in answer to ad- vertisement, some mere youths, many elderly men, and not up to labourers' requirements. Few of them would be employed by any con- tractor. Not more than ten could be regarded as able-bodied. Some were the usual derelicts. Have shown this to the Mayor, who concurs." That was shown to the Mayor, who concurred in it ; and if that was the state of Napier, then all he (Mr. Seddon) had to say was that Napier was well off. He would indeed be sorry to know that things were otherwise. If the " un- employed " difficulty was felt in an acute form it would not require an advertisement to call the men together, so that it was rather satis- factory to know that things were as they were. No doubt there were some people out of work in the district, and he would not be surprised to know that the trouble was caused by the existence of large landed estates in the district. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER said that what the Premier had stated with regard to the personnel of the meeting was practically correct, because he had received a telegram from the Mayor to the same effect. The meeting was called in his (Mr. Fraser's) absence, but he had no doubt from the information he had received that there were at the meeting several young able-bodied men who were out of work at the time, and who were, of course, anxious to get something to do. It came back, however, to what he considered was a wrong principle-namely, that where men had their names on the books of one district, others should not be brought to that district from somewhere else to fill the vacancies. Mr. SEDDON said he would do the same thing again. If there were only five or six able- bodied men out of work in Napier, for a few days, and other men had been out of work since May last, he did not care where they came from, the longest out of work should have the preference of any work. AMMUNITION FOR .303 RIFLES. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) asked the Premier, What steps the Government have taken with regard to supplying ammunition for the new .303 rifle with which the Volunteers have been furnished ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said this rifle took the same ammunition as the Martini-Enfield, and was being supplied under contract with the Colonial Ammunition Company. Mr. COLLINS said his object in asking the question was this : He had anticipated a reply in the nature of that given by the right honour- able gentleman, and he wanted to draw attention to the fact that the source of the supply of ammunition in New Zealand-he did not find a single fault with the source of supply-was a manufactory situated in the City of Auckland, and he (Mr. Collins) said it seemed to him that the supply of arms and ammunition should come from some point less open to attack than a coastal town. The lessons learned in South Africa should teach us the advantage of having supplies of ammunition from some point little 