should not be bought or sold ; it should be available to all-to every man. It is not so in this colony. The Supreme Court is practically a Court for the well-to do. It is virtually im- possible for a man to get justice in the Supreme Court at the present time unless he has con- siderable means. The Judges, of course, are above suspicion ; the machinery is all right. We have as our Judiciary men of talent, men well read in the law; but it is the system, which has remained unaltered for nineteen years, and which still has many of the attri- butes of a former epoch. What is called the " New Code " was adopted in 1882, and is now archaic in many respects. I should like to see either a Commission of experts appointed, or by some other means an effort made to bring our Supreme Court procedure more into har- mony with modern ideas. Then, again, the management of our prisons is, I think, some- what defective, and is behind the age. notice in the report of the Inspector of Prisons that he says, "My time has, as usual, been fully occupied in periodically visiting the dif ferent prisons of the colony." Well, if the In- spector is occupied in travelling and inspecting the prisons he has no time for initiating re- forms, and he is practically the only officer upon whom devolves the function of thinking out any question of prison management and prison discipline. The prisons require attention. There , is unfortunately, if I may use the term, a large clientelle for the prisons. Five hundred and thirty prisoners is the daily average population of the prisons, though I rejoice to see that there https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 is a decrease in the number of prisoners during the year of 7-74 males, but regrettably an in- crease of women prisoners of 0.19. Yet nothing practically is done in the way of initiating a / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero system of classification or a system of reform. Punishment alone, vindictive punishment alone -the old principle, and now largely exploded- is still the dominating feature in our prison system. The reform of the offender is not thought of. I would like to see an effort made to bring in, partially perhaps, the methods of the Elmira Reformatory, of America, which has been attended with astoundingly suc- cessful results in the treatment of crime. Sir, in that reformatory during the last ten years 83.1 per cent. of the number of prisoners committed were reformed. The prisoners in the reformatory, when discharged, are watched throughout their career. This is done, however, unknown to themselves. There is no system of espionage. And the number rescued from crime totalled 83 per cent. of the offenders. Now, that is a magnificent success, and I trust some effort will be made to intro- duce into some portion, at all events, of the prison system some of the features of the re- formatory of Elmira. A writer on the refor matory of Elmira, Mr. Alexander Winter, F.S.S., says in his book,- " With the communications reaching the institution from the discharged prisoners them- selves, or from their relations, employers, friends, &c., giving evidence of undoubted change, reform, and conversion, and expressing Mr. Napier thanks and acknowledgments, one might indeed fill volumes." Now, if that be so, I submit it would be well worth while to make a trial of the system in this country. The honourable member for Hawke's Bay also said that in looking at the <!-- PageHeader=".." --> future there were clouds ahead, and, with the competition of America and the Argentine, we should look forward with some misgiving to the future. I have no misgivings whatever with regard to the future of our country. I have taken some pains to make myself acquainted with the whole question of the possible results of competition with New Zealand products by America and the Argentine, and, Sir, without 1 quoting any works on the subject which I could have done, as time will not permit, I will refer the honourable gentleman, so far as the United States are concerned, to a book in the library called " Our Foes at Home." I Captain RUSSELL .- Will the honourable gentleman pardon me? I did not speak of America in that connection at all ; it was with reference to the Premier's establishing freezing- works at Home. Mr. NAPIER .- I understood the honourable gentleman to refer to the possible competition of the Argentine with our produce. Captain RUSSELL .- Only as controlling the output. Mr. NAPIER .- Precisely. If the honourable gentleman will refer to the recent books on the subject in the library he will see we have very little to fear from either North or South America. Time will not permit of my entering on another subject, as I have only two minutes now remain- ing; but I would submit that the Budget dis- closes abundant evidence, which he who runs may read, not only of the present prosperity of the colony, but also of a prosperity which, as far as human foresight can discover, is likely to con- tinue. I cannot see any clouds ahead at all ; . there is no cloud ahead even as large as a man's hand. This article of produce may rise and that article may fall, but New Zealand does not rest on any single production. Our products are varied. A gentleman told me the other day that though he had lost very considerably on his wool-clip during the year, yet the profit be made on his lambs had more than compensated for the loss on his wool. Under these circum- stances I cannot agree that there is anything to regret in our policy, or that there is any warn- ing to give to the people other than that I have given them-to beware of the honourable gentie- man and all his works. The sun of this colony is high in the firmament. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Time is up. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce). - The honourable gentleman who has just spoken is a lawyer, and one would have expected from a lawyer that be would have analysed the words used by the Premier more carefully than he did. He told the House in the course of his speech that the Premier denied the statement he is reported to have used to a deputation of West Coast mem- bers. If the honourable gentleman had. lawyer- like, been more careful he would not have said so ; what he should have said was that the 