obtains a million of money? If he raises a million during this financial year he will have $500,000 more than I have stated ; and what is he to do for an investment of that large sur- plus over the actual necessities of the depart- ment ? Are we to assume that the Treasurer can see his way to find a profitable investment for the surplus money-that he can at a flash find some other profitable investment for it ? If so, that fact indicates that there is some- thing in the contention of the member for Hawke's Bay, myself, and other members, that what the Premier wants this larger amount for is to be able to use it in case the necessities of the colonial finance render easily raised accom- modation necessary. And, when you come to think of the enormous amounts of money that are being spent by the Public Works Department, no doubt the Premier, if he intends to keep up this vast expenditure, is wise from his point of view in getting all the borrowing.powers he possibly can, for I can assure him they will be wanted. When we come to think that during the last week or two the Government of this country, with all the national wealth and credit behind it, has had to borrow money in small sums to keep the pot boiling ; when we know that during the quarter ended the 30th June the public works expendi- ture was £417,000; when we know, as we do know, that there are persons who state that they have unpaid accounts which they are ask- ing to be paid, and that those accounts are being held back from payment for an unreason- able period, then I say that the Treasurer must be, and must have been for some time past, in a position to cause a good many anxious thoughts, even to so courageous a man as the Premier un- doubtedly is. The honourable member possesses / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero to a remarkable degree the spirit of buoyancy ; he is not depressed for very long. During the last month or so we have seen members of the Government looking very solemn and white both before and after Cabinet meetings, and then we have seen them suddenly assume an airy jaunti- ness and joviality, and we have known that the snag has been got over. But that there have been some snags to be got over there is no doubt, and every one who has come in contact with those honourable gentlemen must have seen that that has been the case. It has been said by the Premier that, unless you had a large sum in hand, public confidence would be shaken in the department. What is the position at the pre- sent time ? On the 31st March the department had less than $30,000 in hand. It is quite true they had unused borrowing-powers. I like to prove my statements as I go along, and I am quoting now from page 4, B .- 13, in which the Superintendent of the Advances to Settlers Department states the liabilities on the 31st March. He there says that the cash in hand in the bank is $29,872; and since then the honourable gentlemen have been able to carry on this department with a small loan of £30,000 ; and yet it is said that the bottom of the whole scheme will fall out unless they have one million at the back of the department. Mr. G. W. Russell £50,000 from the 31st March ? Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I express no opinion as to what you have lent : I am not in a position to judge that. But when we have got the parliamentary papers before us I am able to estimate their value just as well as the honour- able gentleman. Of course, one unfair position in which a member of the House is placed who criticizes the Government and the administra- tion is this : that, after he makes his remarks, based upon the only possible data we have in the shape of Government returns, then the Government produce some private memoran- dum from the department which they say upsets the position we take up, but as to the accuracy and value of which we cannot judge. To come back to what I was saying when the Premier interrupted me : the figures show the depart- ment had less than $30,000 cash in hand on the 31st March. Since then they borrowed $30,000 from the Bank of New Zealand, as stated by the Premier, and no doubt the bor- rowing process is still going on, and debentures being floated for providing money. These figures bring us up to the 30th June. What is unstated I cannot judge. But I was going to say I differ entirely from the honourable member for Hawke's Bay. He has, as the Premier stated, been on principle opposed to the Bill. I have never been opposed to it ; I always supported the Bill. I have supported it right through, and I support it still. I say the cheapening of the rate of interest has been a great work, and reflects greater credit on the Hon. Sir Joseph Ward, who introduced it, than some other measures, perhaps, that his name is identified with. I believe the operation of the Act has been good, and that it has been properly administered. I am not like the honourabie member for Masterton, who denounced and attacked the Government in connection with their administration of the Act. Let any- body read the Speech he made the other night, and they will find he denounced the department time and again. I have not done that, because I believe they have acted pru- dently, and are, I think, wise in not lending out a very large amount when they have to pay 4 per cent. ; because it must undoubtedly be the case that, if they pay 4 per cent. and are only charging 4}, they cannot keep the finance of the institution in a sound condition. In the course of his address the Premier referred to a statement made the other night by the Minister in charge of the department, that -- I think the statement was this : that the lending had been restricted because the Government did not con- sider the time opportune to raise the capital for the purpose of lending it out, although magnit .- cent securities had been offered them. Mr. SEDDON .- I never said anything ap- proaching that, because it was not so. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I did not say the honourable gentleman did. My recollection is that the statement was made by the Minister it. charge of the department, and the Right H n. the Treasurer corrected him. I was not attri- buting it to the honourable gentleman. I sup- 