Moreover, it had been carried by the Committee that they had no recommendation to make, and that decision had been come to with the assist- ance of the Minister in charge of the business of the Council. If he was challenged in this matter he should speak very plainly. It was, in his opinion, wrong that a Petitions Committee should be formed consisting of too many mem- bers from one place, for then they had the power of carrying practically anything they liked. He acquitted of all blame the honour- able gentleman who was the leader of the Council, for he had not been responsible for this ; but he must say that the Petitions Com- mittee ought to consist of members from all parts of the colony, and that there should not be too many upon it from any one place. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said the honourable gentleman who had last spoken had put him in rather a peculiar position by stating that he agreed with him for once. He accepted the compliment, and felt quite certain that this extraordinary coincidence of opinion proved the correctness of the views of both. He did not, however, object to this petition being again considered by the Committee if the Council thought that was desirable. He had voted on what he considered the merits of the case, and had not considered that these petitioners had any claim against the colony. The position, so far as he understood it, was something like this : The municipal authorities of Dunedin, for very good reasons, a year or two before the Legislature had moved in the matter, determined to establish municipal abattoirs ; and - not without meeting with a great deal of difficulty, probably owing to private interests interfering with the intention of the Corporation-they had got that Bill passed. The Corporation had succeeded in establishing abattoirs, which they believed to be for the good of the community. They had to stand the racket of any legal opposition ; and if it had been thought necessary that any individual should be compensated the Act would have stated it. When the Legislature was asked to pass a general Act the position was slightly different, as it was felt that in certain cases, such as Dunedin, there was no necessity to make any special privilege for any one, the common-sense of the Dunedin community having enabled them to establish abattoirs. But when the Act was passed relating generally to the subject it was felt that there were places in the colony where it was neces- sary to extinguish private rights in the manner indicated in the clause relating to compensation. But if compensation were neces- sary in this case the municipal authorities who reaped the benefit should pay it. They had taken the question into consideration, and weighed the pros and cons, and knew exactly what private interests ought to be compensated, and he gave them credit for sufficient generosity to think that they would have had a clause in- serted if they thought compensation necessary. He did not think there could be any claim on the colony in the matter, but at the same time Hon. Mr. Shrimski the Committee had come to a hasty conclusion, to the petition being referred back to them. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY said, if he could see that any injustice had been done by any Committee to any petitioner on any occasion through not inquiring into the merits of a case he would be quite willing to refer the matter back to that Committee. But it appeared, from what he could gather, in this case the peti- tioners had carried on the business of a butchery in Dunedin, and through the regulations passed by the Corporation they had been compelled to close their business. The Committee said,- " With reference to the petition of Samson and Sons and Blackwood Brothers, of Dunedin, slaughtermen, praying that their case may be brought within the provisions of section 58 of 'The Slaughtering and Inspection Act, 1900,' your Committee have the honour to report that they have carefully considered the said petition, and have taken the evidence of the Chief Inspector of Stock thereon, and they have no recommendation to make." This seemed a very plain statement and, so far as he could see, it was unobjectionable. The grievance which was complained of arose some years before the Slaughtering Act of 1900 came into operation. In fact, under "The Abattoirs and Slaughterhouses Act, 1894," there appeared to be provision made for compensation, but of a very limited cha- racter. If honourable gentlemen referred to the Act they would see that it was only in certain cases that compensation was given. In clause 58 there was provision made for compensation when a slaughtering- place has been closed under the Act. The leases under which the person occupies premises may be determined, and half the value of the build- ings owned by him for carrying on his busi- ness shall be paid for, the value being de- termined by arbitration. It appeared to him the only way to do in this case was for the friends of the persons concerned to bring in a Bill, and let it come before both Houses. What was the good of referring the matter back to the Committee ? They could do nothing, as legislation in some form would be required in order that compensation could be obtained. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON said he would be sorry to let it go forth that due consideration of this matter was not given by the Petitions Committee. The Committee had given full consideration to the matter, as it always did. and a certain amount of evidence was taken : but the facts were so simple that it did not take long to grasp the facts of the matter. The facts were very much as had been stated by the honourable gentleman-that these persons had no legal claim for compensation, but had in equity. They prayed that the Council would legislate in such a way as would bring their case under the same consideration as was shown by the 1900 Act. This meant that new legis- lation would have to be passed. For a Com- mittee to take up the matter and suggest new legislation would be a big thing for them to go 