to the overwhelming majority of the people of New Zealand. I shall deal with one or two points in the honourable gentleman's speech : the honourable gentleman and his party, as I before I refer to the Budget which has been have said, whenever the stress of bad times introduced to the House and the country. The ' came, went to the salaries and cut them down honourable gentleman first referred to the alleged statement made by the Premier that . sible. After referring to this alleged policy of a time of financial trouble had arrived, and . which was reported in the Lyttelton Times. Well, we have the Premier's assurance that he did not make that statement. We know as a fact there were no reporters present, and therefore that the report must have been manufactured -it certainly was garbled-and that no significance should have been attached to it. The honourable gentleman says the Premier should have corrected it. Why, if the Premier were to occupy his time in correct- ing every misstatement that appeared in the public Press of this colony the business of the country would have to wait, because the whole of his time would be occupied in correct- ing falsehoods and misstatements. The honour- able gentleman next referred to a statement in the Budget, which I think he misrepresented. ! That was the reference in the Budget speech to the possible reduction of salaries in the event of the ordinary expenditure exceeding the ordinary revenue in the future-a mere note of warning which was issued by the Premier in his Budget speech. The whole paragraph is to the follow- ing effect - the honourable gentleman used some of the words, but apart from the con- text :- "Coming to the demands upon the consoli- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 dated revenue, the several services of the colony have necessarily increased, and the strictest economy is necessary ; for if ever the time arrives when increased taxation is required to http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero meet the ordinary expenditure, so surely will reductions in salaries eventuate." Now, Sir, I can, perhaps, pardon the honour- able gentleman for his misconception or mis- representation of that paragraph, because, no doubt, there was present in his mind the fact thit reduction of salaries was a cardinal feature in the policy of the Conservative party in the past, and that it was one of the planks of the Atkinsonian Administration to reduce the salaries of the unfortunate Civil servants by 10 per cent. Sir, has the Liberal party ever been guilty of such a reduction of salaries ? On the contrary, the dominant note in all the various Budgets that have been produced to the country since the Liberal party came into office has been this : that ability should be recognised, that salaries should be increased where ability existed, and that the best talent, the brainiest men, should be retained for the public service. It is true that in one or two instances officers have gone to Australia, where they have been tempted by larger salaries ; and I, personally, would have preferred if even still larger salaries had been given to those able men to retain them for the service of the people here. But I maintain that, if you examine the various Budgets and the figures from the beginning of 1891, when the Liberal party Mr. Napier that they have never been guilty of docking the salaries of the Civil servants ; but that as the best and readiest economy that was pos- reducing salaries, the honourable gentleman said that the Premier, in order to keep popu- larity, must continue to bribe the people. Now, Sir, let us examine this statement for a mo- ment. I would ask, With what has the Premier bribed the people ? Is the money that has been expended on public works not their own ? What is the usual form of bribery, and in what does bribery consist ? Is it not the giving to a person as a consideration for doing an improper act something which does not belong to him, but which belongs to the one who offers the bribe? Does the honourable gentleman sug- gest that the expenditure of public money upon our public works is a bribing of the 1 people? I would ask, Is he prepared to advocate a policy of cessation of all public works? That is what his speech implies, and that is the predominant feature of his speech to-night-namely, that we should discontinue our policy of public works, because, according to the honourable gentleman, wherever money is being spent upon public works the public are being bribed. The honourable gentleman cannot possibly be misunderstood, for time and again he said that the expenditure of public moneys on public works was bribery. Will the honourable gentleman specify in what form the bribery took place ? Does he suggest that the money was taken out of the public Exchequer and given personally to people in the constituencies for electoral purposes ? Surely that is not what he means. It would be impossible. Captain RUSSELL .- Oh, would it ? Mr. NAPIER .- We have not yet discussed the estimates of this year in detail, but has the honourable gentleman ever suggested that any particular item on the estimates of former years was a bribe? During the time I have had the honour of being a member of this House 1 have never known him to suggest that any item in the estimates was a bribe, and that we ought to strike it out in consequence. Why does he not say that the money for the North Island Trunk Railway, for the Whangamomona, and for other lines should not be voted, for the reason that they are bribes? I am glad that the honourable gentleman made his speech to- night, because it is a clear enunciation of a policy of cessation of public works, and also an enunciation of a policy of running our railways on commercial lines. Sir, I will endeavour to show what running our railways on commercial lines means. Part of the policy of the Conser- vatives of this colony is to make the public services yield such a profit that taxation will be lightened, and the large landholders escape their legitimate contribution to the public Exchequer through the graduated land- tax. The honourable gentleman said in lugu- brious tones, like the lamentation of a Jeremiah, 