nants are implied and set out in that Schedule, and the honourable member who made the statement was in error in saying it was uncom- mon for the buildings on any premises that are mortgaged to be insured in the name of the mortgagor and the mortgagee. I believe that in every mortgage where part of the security is the building it is always required by the mort- gagee that the property shall be insured in the joint name of the mortgagor and the mortgagee ; and it is right that it should be, otherwise there are ways open to fraud that the House should not connive at. Well, Sir, I intend to support the Bill, not from the point of view that it will enrich myself-for as a matter of fact, it will do nothing of the kind - but from the point of view that the measure will do no harm and may help some. I may say that at present Land Transfer mortgage- forms are obtainable at the Land Transfer Office on payment of 1s. The form says on the face of it what is required to be filled in. On the third page there is set out the power of sale, which is also set out in this Bill. I believe that, as the member for Christchurch City has said, the Bill is perfectly harmless, and if the Minister in charge really desires that the Bill should be put through I shall support him, for the reasons I before stated. The mortgagee may be inconvenienced, but no real harm will be done to him. I do not be- lieve that many mortgagees will use this power, for, as the mortgagor has to "pay the piper," https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 the lender will, no doubt, conduct his business as of yore. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) .- Sir, I agree with the last speaker, and with the mem- ber for Christchurch City (Mr. Smith), that this is a fairly harmless Bill. I also agree with the member for Christchurch City that it was hardly worthy of the dignity of a Minister of the Crown to introduce it ; but I cannot agree in the amiable view of the same honourable gentleman that because it is a harmless Bill there is no reason why it should not be put on the statute-book. I think, how- aver, that we are entitled to criticize somewhat severely the action of the Minister who has in- troduced this Bill in putting it before us in such a thoroughly perfunctory fashion. There was no explanation of the Bill clause by clause, and not even in general words was there any exposition of the policy that dictated, or may be presumed to have dictated, the introduc- tion of the measure. Of course, we know that the real author of the Bill is the honourable member for Waitaki. On previous occasions that honourable gentleman has made it plain enough, as he did this afternoon, why he had been promoting the measure. He said it was with a view to assist the mortgagor, and to reduce the cost of preparing mortgages. Well, there is no doubt whatever that on that par- ticular matter the interests of the legal pro- fession and the interests of the public are antagonistic. No doubt the legal profession is a great burden on the community. There are far too many lawyers, and their charges are Mr. Wilford might do in this House as a member of the House to reduce that burden I am in duty bound to do. But, so far as this Bill is con- cerned, I feel no conflict whatever between my professional interest and my duties as a mem- ber of this House. I quite agree with the member for Egmont and the member for Mars- den, and, in fact, with the majority of the mem- bers who have spoken, that the practical effect of the Bill must be very slight indeed -hardly appreciable at all-notwithstanding the benevo- lent intentions of the member for Waitaki in originally promoting the Bill. Of course, the theory of the honourable member for Waitaki is really this : that the measure, if passed, will enable mortgagees to make their own mort- gages, and therefore to dispense with profes- sional assistance in the preparation of them. Unless that be the effect of it, then the Bill is going to have no effect, as far as I can see, ex- cept for the subsidiary matter of the last three Unless that is so the main or four clauses. provisions of the Bill will be practically inopera- tive. Mr. WILFORD .- The mortgagee would never take the trouble on himself for nothing. Mr. ATKINSON .- No; of course, the mort- gagee would never take the trouble on himself for nothing. It would be for nothing, because at present the professional work costs the mort- gagee nothing, being always paid for by the mortgagor. But, speaking from the standpoint of the legal profession, one is reminded that the most popular toast with the profession is " The jolly testator who makes his own will "; and if this Bill should be passed, another equally popular toast might be "The jolly mortgagee who makes his own mortgage." "Mortgagor " might well be substituted without detracting from the popularity of the toast. Mr. HERRIES .- You might mention the House of Representatives. Mr. ATKINSON .- Yes ; the House of Repre- sentatives is no doubt the greatest benefactor the legal profession have had in this colony during the last few years. But, Sir, from the standpoint of public policy, assuming that the Bill is going to have some practical effect, I wish to take strong exception to it. I re- gret very much that the Hon. the Minister in charge of the measure is not in the House at present, and I regret also that, though this point to which I take exception was expressly raised by me in the House last year when the Bill had been taken over by the Post- master-General, and he admitted there was something in it, he has paid absolutely no heed to it in the present debate. The main objection I see to the Bill is that it is setting up a sort of hybrid registration system between the two systems that exist now. There is the old system under the Deeds Registration Act, and the new system under the Land Transfer Act : A mortgage executed under this Bill will have the covenants mentioned in the Second Schedule, and may be registered under either system. There is, I see, some work for the lawyers in the first operative clause. What, I would ask, is the 