Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) asked the Govern- ment, Whether it is not possible for the Valua- tion Department to complete the local bodies' valuations so that they can have the rolls by the 1st April in each year? He would like to point out that in the case of the Palmerston Borough the Government valuation was not ready till the 1st July, with the result that the rate could not be struck before, and it was estimated that up to the beginning of August there was a loss in interest, through the fault of the Government, of £0. It was unfair that a local body should be muleted in a loss like that. When the Act was passing through the House he suggested that the Government valuations should be made in January to enable the rolls to be prepared and the Assessment Court to deliver its decisions, so that everything would be ready for the local bodies by the end of March. If that were done there would not be the same amount of friction that there now was under the present system. He would specially draw the attention of the Minister to the fact that, while the Government charged heavily for its valuations, there was nothing done to facilitate the work of the local bodies. The local body ought to be able to strike a rate in May, but at .present they could not do so until July, which resulted in a very unfair impost being made on the local bodies. Mr. MILLS (Minister in charge of the Go- vernment Advances to Settlers Office) said that under "The Government Valuation of Land Act Amendment Act, 1900," section 29, (2), the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 following provision was made : That local authorities should levy their rates in accord- ance with the district valuation-roll as cor- rected up to the 31st March next preceding the levy. That being so, it was impossible to let any local body have their rolls by the 1st April. After the valuations had been made or amended the rolls had to be prepared by the office in Wellington and notices sent to the local bodies. The work of the Assessment Court had also to be undertaken, and this work all took up time. The local bodies were asked to say when they would levy the rate, and, as a matter of fact, every effort was made by the department to forward the rolls in sufficient time to enable the rates to be levied without delay or inconvenience. In reply to what the honourable gentleman said about dissatisfaction arising from the valuations, he would read to the House what instructions were sent out by the department. There seemed to be some misunderstanding spread abroad as to what they contained, and if the memorandum was read it would disabuse the minds of those who were of opinion that undue influence was used by the Valuer-General with the object of having the valuations raised to a value beyond what they ought to be. Mr. PIRANI said he never suggested any- thing of that sort. Mr. MILLS said it had been suggested at different times in the House, and it was as well to let honourable members know the position to every District Valuer :-- "From information received by the depart- ment it seems apparent that in some parts of the colony land is selling just now at very high prices, and the difficult question which the department has to solve is as to whether these high prices are likely to continue, or whether they are due only to causes which will not be lasting in their effect. " Without wishing in any way to influence District Valuers in their judgment as to values, I think it may not be out of place to caution them against valuing lands at their current market-value in places where there is any like- lihood that the ruling prices may not continue. I have heard of land selling at :$26 and £28 per acre for dairying purposes which a year or two ago was not valued at half that price. "I think in such cases it will be advisable not to be guided too closely by sale prices. In cases where districts require revision it is better, in my opinion, to raise the values by a gradual process, always endeavouring to keep within the selling-prices. It should be borne in mind that the department does not desire ex- cessive values, and in cases where prices realised are considered by public opinion to be excessive we should not adopt these prices as an unalter- able basis. I prefer that values should be low rather than that they should be in any way ex- cessive." Honourable members would therefore seo that fair and reasonable instructions were given to District Valuers before the valuations were made. Ho was aware himself that the Valuer - General was doing his best to get a bed-rock value for the whole of the colony. Of course, with the many large districts to value, it was a matter that would take some time. Mr. TANNER (Avon) asked, What about the scandalous charges made by the department- most iniquitous ? Mr. MILLS said it was easy for the honour- able member for Avon to use those strong terms, but it was not so easy for him to justify them. Mr. TANNER said he was simply deluged with correspondence with respect to the exces- sive charges. Mr. MILLS said he had also had correspon- dence on the subject from the honourable mem- ber's district, and if the honourable gentleman would put a question on the Order Paper he (Mr. Mills) would tell him all about whether the charges were iniquitous or not. Mr. TANNER said he knew they were. They were three times what they formerly amounted to. Mr. MILLS said no doubt the honourable gentleman only knew what had been told or written to him; but in some cases the local bodies might not have informed the honourable member that they were receiving a certain amount back again for the rolls they issued to other local Boards. Mr. TANNER said the honourable gentleman was speaking of the Sydenham case. He knew what the honourable gentleman meant ; but he (Mr. Tanner) was not referring to Sydenham. 