taxation upon values and the property tax, but there is none between the Bill now before the House and the property tax as we know it a few years ago. Sir, we have also been told in this debate a great deal about what is termed " the fat man." Well, we know that in some parts of the world there are those who have been spoken about- and, perhaps, rightly so -- as "the fat man "; and if a time should ever come when we have large zoological gardens in connection with New Zealand, I think we might well look round and see if we cannot come across such a creature as "the fat man," as others know him, and have him placed in the reserve, so that we may look on him and realise what he is like. At the present time, however, New Zealand knows very little of "the fat man," and as long as the present party remain in power, as long as we are able to pass legislation such as we have passed- An Hon. MEMBER .- The Premier is " the fat man." Mr. SEDDON .- He is still getting fatter. Mr. ARNOLD .- The person I am alluding to will not be known, I trust, in New Zealand. Of course, everybody knows that the honour- able gentleman who was laughed at a few moments ago is received with cheers through- out New Zealand, and that he is received kindly wherever he goes. It is not necessary that we should seek for him to place him in the position I referred to just now ; but, joking apart, Sir, it seems to me there are two sides to this ques- tion. You not only come to the question of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 rating on the unimproved value as it appears on the surface : you not only have to consider the question of that which is fair as between benefits received by one section of land and another; but you must also take into con- sideration the question of ability to pay. Members have used various illustrations in their speeches in this debate. Let me follow their example. We have, in the constituency represented by the honourable member for the Taieri, a large number of small settlers --- men who have a small cottage and five or six acres of land ; there are a large number with even smaller sections ; and right in the middle of this township there is a large factory that occu- pies a few acres of land-a factory that is the property of a large company. Now, I think there is no doubt that while it may be contended that it is right that the settler who has five or six acres, and perhaps a cow and some other stock, should pay as much as the company, for the reason that he has the same amount of : Christchurch City (Mr. Ell), and the member land, nevertheless there is the fact that the for Lyttelton, and one or two other mem- mill-owners are the people who are most able to I bers will understand this question better than pay ; and you must consider that question also. ; they do at the present time. What is the Then you come into the small boroughs. On one side of the road you will find a small house. I have a case in my mind's eve at the present time. The small house is the property of a widow, an old lady, who is struggling to bring up one or two children. Right opposite there is a large house on about the same area of land as the widow occupies : the large house belongs to a gentleman who has a business in the city. Mr. Arnold times greater than that of the widow. Now, according to the arguments of the honourable member for Invercargill the other night, be- cause the parties have cach the same amount of frontage the widow must pay the same amount of taxation as the man who has the large house, and who is able to pay rates much better than she is. Mr. SYMES .- Quite right too. Mr. ARNOLD .- I am told, " Quite right too ;" and I have no doubt it is so from that point of view, because only one side of the question is seen. But if you view the whole matter, and look at it fairly, you will find it is not so. Why, Sir, in the constituency of the honcur- able member for Lyttelton- a gentleman who advocates this proposal there is a very large tannery, which is the property of people who do not reside in the constituency, but the re- turn from the output of that tannery is very considerable indeed. The buildings are con- tinually being increased. The value of the buildings upon that property shows that the tannery is paying : and not only the buildings but the machinery that is being placed in them show that. But we are told that under this system it is right that a person owning the same area of land, with hardly any improvements upon it, should pay precisely the same amount of taxation as those people who own this very valuable property. Then, you come to the case of a large city. Why, Sir, you have a large pro- perty in the city- perhaps some large insurance building, bank, or warehouse and you go out into the suburbs, perhaps not very far away, and there you find some little building upon the same amount of land these important buildings stand on. We know there is not the same amount of traffic on the road in front of the small building. We know that the Municipal Council does not expend the same amount in the upkeep of the roads, channels, and foot paths in the two cases. It is always the centre of a city which is the best looked after. Yet under this system those residing outside the city, and who do not receive the same amount of benefit, have to pay precisely the same amount of taxation as those in the centre of the city. An Hon. MEMBER. - NO. Mr. ARNOLD. - I say. Yes. An Hon. MEMBER. What about the differ- ence in the value of the land ? Mr. ARNOLD .- I can only say that I hope. by the time this delate closes, the member for unimproved value ? Is land in a main street the same value as land in another street perhaps only 100 yards away ? Certainly not. The un- improved value of land is the prairie value ; yet in those two cases the owners would pay pre- ciselv the same taxation. But I do not wish to be misunderstood. I simply want to point out that there are two sides to the question. I do not say that the unimproved value is a wrong 