very of the Auckland mail in Wellington ? There had been frequent irregularity in the delivery of the mail from Auckland. No longer ago than last Monday the letters which arrived on that day at New Plymouth were not de- livered in Wellington till Tuesday morning, and some of them not until midday on Tues- day, and others on Tuesday evening. There must be something wrong with either the Rail- way or Postal Department. He believed it was the case that, although a steamer left Onchunga on Sunday, catching the through train on Monday morning at New Plymouth, the mails were sometimes sent by slow boat on the East He Coast, arriving here on Tuesday night. hoped the Minister would be able to see that some arrangement was made by which the mails would come to hand in proper time. Sir J. G. WARD ( Postmaster-General) said he would be very glad, and the department was only too anxious, to see every despatch in the delivery of mails, not only to members but to. every one. The circumstances at the time the honourable gentleman referred to were very exceptional, because there were two heavy mails -one Australian and one ria Brindisi-coming down on that occasion, with the result that the ordinary sorting, which took place in the train, could not be overtaken, and the officials of the department had to work through the night till the following morning. As soon as the sorting was finished the letters were sent on delivery. This was one of the few occasions when complaint had been made about the de- livery from Auckland. It was quite right to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 inquire, however, and it showed the watchful- ness of honourable members ; but when they had the congestion of two heavy mails on the same day no ordinary arrangements could over- take the work. The honourable member having drawn attention to the matter, and having heard his answer, would see that the Postal Department was not more lax than in the past, and that every attention was given to insure the prompt delivery of letters. # CASUAL RAILWAY-HANDS. Mr. COLVIN (Buller) asked the Minister for Railways, If it is correct, as reported, that the number of casual hands employed on the West- port Section of the New Zealand railways is in proportion to the number of permanent em- ployés as five is to one ; and, if so, will he take steps as soon as possible to appoint to per- manent positions all those casual hands whose length of service exceeds twelve months? It had been represented to him that the number of casual hands employed on the West Coast Section of the railways was out of all proportion to the number of permanent hands, and he hoped the Minister would at once take steps to place those casual hands who had been over twelve months employed on a permanent footing. He understood that some of the casual men had longer railway service than some of those em- ploved permanently. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said he would make inquiries into this matter. He honourable gentleman was right in what he said, because in such cases as he alluded to there must always be a large amount of inter- mittent labour, and a large number of tem- porary as against those known as permanent hands. It would not do in any administrative department of the Government to make a hard- and-fast rule as to the number of casual hands to be employed in proportion to those who were permanent, and he was quite sure no member of the House would desire to force the Ministry into any such position. On the other hand, casual hands who had been in the service a certain number of months were given the same privileges as permanent men. He would point out that converting casual into permanent hands would not, in the event of a general reduction in the number of hands, give them any more right to remain in their position than the casual hands; because throughout the colony some of the best men in the work- shops, and some of the best in the department, were casual hands, and in the event -which appeared to be in the minds of those who wished these hands to be made permanent-of reduc- tions being made, it would require to be done fairly and impartially, and quite irrespective of whether they were permanent or casual hands. The casual men would be treated throughout the colony with equal fairness, and they had the same privileges after the short time he had spoken of as the permanent men. # TELEPHONE AT KIMBELL. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Com- missioner of Telegraphs, When he will fulfil the promise made on 6th July, 1900 (see Hansard, Vol. 111, page 307), to establish a telephone bureau at Kimbell ? He would refer the honourable gentleman to the specific promise made last year in this matter. He presumed it had been overlooked. and hoped the Minister would inform him when the work would be carried out. Sir J. G. WARD (Commissioner of Tele- graphs) said he would be very happy to give effect to the promise that had been made. The department had been waiting for suitable free accommodation to enable the bureau to be established. If this could be obtained, it would be done at once. # BULL'S POST OFFICE. Mr. STEVENS (Manawatu) asked the Post- master-General, If he will place a sufficient sum of money upon the estimates this session for the purpose of erecting a new post-office building in the Township of Bull's ? The present build- ing had for a number of years been unsuitable. An application was before the Colonial Secre- tary for the purpose of having the name of Bull's changed to something more euphonious, and he hoped the Postmaster-General would see his way to place a sum of money on the estimates for a new post-office, so that it might be opened with the new name of Rangitikei or Arataumaihi. 