capital value." He could see there was something not quite right in regard to the Advances to Settlers De- partment. He knew the office was very careful, and would make sure in every way before ad- vancing money. It was a hardship for these people that when they went on to bush land and improved it they did not receive more con- sideration ; and he was of opinion that if they got assistance from the office they would stay on the land and improve it, instead of running away from it. He did not think the Board was always judicious, although they erred on the right side in being careful. At present he did not see how anything could be done in the way of revaluation without throwing the sections open again, as it would not be fair to those oc- cupying adjoining sections. He would, how- ever, make inquiries into the matter. LIME-BURNING, ALBURY ESTATE. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) asked the Minis- ter of Lands, Whether anything has been done in the matter of establishing a plant for the purpose of burning lime on the Albury Estate for the use of the settlers and Government tenants in that district ; and, if not, will he obtain a report on the question at an early date ? This question was very easy to answer, because it would take very little to accomplish what he wanted. On the last occasion he put the question the Minister said the Government kilns were about to be opened near Palmerston https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 South, and after the returns had been got from them he would see what could be done. There was no analogy between the two cases ; the one cost thousands, and the other could be done for less than hundreds. It was necessary that the settlers should have lime on some parts of this estate, and the question ought to be gone into at once. The settlers would reap great benefit as well as the Government, who owned the estate. He did not wish to cast any reflection, but it had come to his knowledge that, while lime was carried free on the railways, in some instances the lime-burners had raised the price to the consumer, and it was therefore necessary that the kilns should be opened for the settlers' benefit. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said no further arrangements had been made for burn- ing lime on the Albury Estate. An offer was made by Mr. Thompson to establish a kiln, but his terms could not be accepted. He would make inquiries and see what terms had been offered, and if they were at all reasonable he would be inclined to give him the opportunity to see what he could do. He did not think the Government should go further into the matter of lime-burning than they were doing at present. They had a new style of burning under trial, and expected to be able to burn it much more cheaply ; but it was necessary to find out whether they were right or wrong be- fore advancing any further. If Mr. Thompson's scheme was at all reasonable, he would give him, at any rate, a lease for a time to give him a fair trial. Mr. E. G. ALLEN (Waikouaiti) asked the Minister for Agriculture, What has been done towards giving effect to the promise of the pre- vious Minister-the late Sir John Mckenzie- to make experiments to discover the most effective means of destroying small birds, that are so injurious to the agricultural farmers' interests? He had brought this 5.0. question before Ministers on two or three previous occasions. Last session the Minister brought in a Small-birds Nuisance Bill, but it was not considered. He hoped the honourable gentleman would deal with it this year. But that Bill did not go as far as he should like. The object of the Bill was to com- pel people to endeavour to destroy the birds ; but the object of his question was to inform the farmer how to destroy them. He believed the officers of the Stock Department. would do good service to the country if they made experiments to ascertain the most effective kind of poison to be used in destroying small birds, and also the kind of seed that the birds took most readily. The County Councils were spending a lot of money in trying to keep down the small-bird nuisance, and they distributed poisoned grain to the settlers, but it was not effective. The sparrows especially were very clever with their bills. They shelled off the husks and only eat the kernel of the poisoned grain, and, of course. the poison was on the outside. They wanted to have experiments made with some kind of shelled seeds, such as shelled oats, pearl-barley, or sago, or something of that sort, poisoned either with phosphorus or strychnine, or some poison which the department could ascertain would be the most suitable. There was no doubt these birds were a very great curse to this colony, especially in the South Island, where there were blue-gum and other planta- tions near the cornfields. Acres of crop were destroyed ; as soon as the seed was sown the birds attacked it, and they kept on feeding on it nearly the whole time until it was finally threshed. It would confer a great boon on the settlers if the department discovered some way whereby these small birds could be destroyed effectively. He thought, in connection with the Bill, which he hoped the Minister would re- introduce, that some information of the kind he had indicated should be given, and also a de- scription of the poison to be used, so that there could be a systematic process of poisoning at the same season of the year. He believed if the matter was taken in hand in this way we could practically get rid of the small-bird nuisance. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister for Agriculture) said it was perfectly well known that poisoning would effectually deal with these birds, but the trouble was that farmers always neglected the oppor- tunity at the proper season of the year. Gene- rally in the winter time, when feed was scarce, the birds would take poison greedily, and the nuisance could then easily be dealt with. But then the birds were not doing any harm ; and the farmers forgot about their troubles, and the birds were not molested. One man would take the trouble to poison, but two or three of his 