House a return showing, for the year 1901, the particulars of the public debt of the colony, in continuance of B .- 18, 1900. # GOVERNMENT ADVERTISEMENTS. On the motion of Mr. MASSEY (Franklin), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing, -- (1) The amount paid to each newspaper in the colony for Go- verminent advertisements during the year ended the 31st March, 1901 ; (2) the amount similarly paid for Government printing, stating to whom paid : (3) the amounts expended for advertising New Zealand scenery (+) in the colony, and (b) outside the colony, stating to whom the same have been paid. # ROADS AND RAILWAYS EXPENDI- TURE, ETC. On the motion of Mr. PALMER (Ohinemuri), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a comparative return between the North I-land and the South Island, showing respec- tively for each Island up to the end of the last financial year, -- (1) The total expenditure for roads and bridges : (2) the total cost of railway-construction ; (3) the acreage of land acquired under the Land for Settlements Acts, and the total cost to the Crown in settling people upon these lands ; and (4) the total amount paid by the New Zealand Govern- ment for all other lands acquired by the Crown, and the total amount received by that Govern- ment for all of these lands disposed of by them. # CONCILIATION AND ARBITRATION CASES. On the motion of Mr. MONK (Waitemata), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing all cases cited to ap- pear before the Conciliation Boards and Arbitra- tion Court, giving details of the claims made by the unions and the result of the awards, the re- turn being from the time the Act was brought into operation until now. RAILWAY DEPARTMENT REVENUE. On the motion of Mr. G. W. RUSSELL ( Riccarton), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing the amount of revenue received by the Railway Department from each department of the public service during the financial year ended 31st March, 1901, showing in different columns the amount for (a) passengers, (0) season tickets, and (c) goods traffic. # PRIVILEGE. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston). -- Sir, before the reports of Select Committees are considered I desire to raise a question of privilege. This morning I was in attendance at a meeting of the Counties Bill Committee in the Joint Com- mittee Room. When that Committee had ter- minated its deliberations a meeting of the Pub- lie Accounts Committee was held. I did not upon public accounts -- which is not very much -as one can get in this House. The Clerk commenced to read the minutes, when the Premier interposed and said that he ob- jected to any member of the House being present while the Committee were hearing the minutes read, and he proceeded to elaborate at some length his objections to my presence, in a way I considered to reflect upon me as a mem- ber of the House. He said, if a member was not on the Committee and was present when the minutes were being read he would know what had taken place at the previous meeting, and he might thereby become acquainted with matters which it was not right that those outside the Committee should know. He thereupon asked the Chairman, Mr. Fisher, to order me to with- draw. In accordance with his desire, the Chairman did so. Mr. SEDDON .- You are leaving out the resolution as passed by the Committee. Mr. PIRANI .- I am coming to that. I am giving you an accurate account of the pro- ceedings. I refused to withdraw, mainly on account of what the Premier had said, and I stood on my right as a member of the House to be present during the deliberations of a Com- mittee of the House. The Premier then moved that the Committee proceed to deliberate on the 1st clause, as he called it, of the minutes. The motion was solemnly put to the meeting by the Chairman, and a division was taken, when, I think, three or four members voted for it, and two against. The Chairman then ac- quainted me with the decision of the Com- mittee, and said they were deliberating, and that in accordance with the rule I should with- draw. I again refused to withdraw from the Committee-room, standing on my rights as a member of the House, and I said I would not leave the Committee until the Chairman produced a Standing Order showing his authority to order me to withdraw. The Com- mittee looked around and up and down, and did not seem to know what to do. The Premier then proposed another motion -that the Com- mittee should proceed to deliberate on clause 2 --- I think it was --- of the minutes. This was also solemnly put by the Chair, although, with the exception of the Premier, all the other members treated it as a great joke. That was again carried with the same numbers as in the case of the previous motion, and the Chairman very politely acquainted me with the resolution, and suggested that I should withdraw. I again stood on my ground, and pointed out to the Com- mittee that my action was not without prece- dent -- that at a meeting of the Bank of New Zealand Cominittee the same attitude was taken up by a member of this House, and that attitude had been upheld. The Chairman of the Bank of New Zealand Committee, who is a member of the Public Accounts Committee, was to-day asked by Mr. Guinness what his opinion was of my action, and he very clearly and unmistakably said that I was right. After a lot of trouble a 