further heading that was not included in the original return-namely, the lowest tender re- ceived for the construction of the work. So that the return would include four headings instead of three. He hoped, at all events, that the discussion that afternoon would have the effect of hurrying on the Public Works Depart- ment, so that trains would be running over the line at the earliest possible date. Motion, as amended, agreed to. # CONCILIATION BOARDS. Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City). - I beg to move, That there be laid before this House a return, in continuation of H .- 17, 1900, show- ing,-(1) The number of Conciliation Boards elected or appointed in the colony since March, 1900, and the present total number of such Boards ; (2) the total cost of all such elections ; (3) the number of disputes referred to Concilia- tion Boards, and the trades and industries in- volved ; (4) the number of persons cited to appear as parties in such disputes : (5) the number of disputes in which the awards were agreed to by such parties to such disputes ; (6) the number of disputes in which the parties failed to agree to such awards: (7) the scale of fees paid to Chairmen and members of Con- ciliation Boards for their services, and the total sum of such payments ; (8) the scale of pay- ments for travelling and other expenses, and the total sum of such payments ; (9) the num- ber of persons to whom such payments have https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 been made ; (10) the total cost to date of administering the Act, as far as Concilia- tion Boards are concerned; and (11) the number of days each Board has sat during each year since the passing of "The Indus- trial Conciliation and Arbitration Act, 1894." This, Sir, is simply a continuation of an almost identical return that was asked for and granted without discussion last year. The only differ- ence is that in the return now asked for the number of persons cited to appear as parties in disputes before Conciliation Boards is required to be given, and the number of days each Board has sat in each year since the passing of the original Act. The return, which will be useful and instructive, will be neither lengthy nor difficult to furnish, as shown by the return granted last year, and, as I have no doubt the Minister will be prepared to agree to the motion, I shall refrain from provoking discussion and simply move the motion. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - It is perhaps opportune on this motion to place on record the position, and I think it is scarcely just or fair that there should be that wholesale con- demnation that at the present time has been made. For instance, it is sought to make a discrimination as between the various workings The mem- of the several Conciliation Boards. ber for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) naturally desired to know, and may possibly question the Minister of Labour in the House, as to whether something that I said applied to the Concilia- tion Board at Dunedin. I do not know that he is justified in asking the question, and I might the time I made the statement-and I have nothing to withdraw-in Auckland, there were four hundred people cited in connection with the carters' dispute, and the question naturally arose in my mind, What necessity was there for four hundred persons being cited to appear before the Conciliation Board to deal with a simple question as to whether the wages paid for cart- ing was fair or otherwise. I subsequently re- ceived a telegram from the secretary of one of the unions, and he said it was not the union that did it ; but that after the union had cited the number they thought fair and sufficient, the cited parties insisted upon a large number of others being brought into the fold, and it was they who were responsible for the situation. This is not the only case ; and where you find that interested parties, with a view to discredit- ing the legislation and of causing friction, take an action of that kind, then I say we ought to put the blame upon the right shoulders, and say to the persons who do that that they must take the responsibility. Coming back to the Con- ciliation Boards, I have no hesitation in saying that, to my mind, in some respects the conduct of their business is unbusinesslike. An Hon. MEMBER .- A guinea a day. Mr. SEDDON .- No; I do not think we should attribute to men intrusted with such responsi- bilities that they are acting from sordid or selfish motives. I think we ought to be fair and generous, and give them full credit, because their position at the best is a most unpleasant one. We should not forget that one side is elected by the unionists and the other by the employers ; and it is the same as the Arbitra- tion Court : as a rule, each one goes there to do his best for the particular party or section that he represents. I say that the construction of the Board, under these circumstances, is open to question, and that we should not there- fore blame those who have been intrusted with this responsibility. It may be that they are lacking in experience, and I think they are somewhat blamable. Witnesses come forward, and it is easily known if their evidence is simply a repetition. Take the evidence of Smith, Brown. Jones, Robinson, Williams, and others : their evidence may be similar to that previously given by Roberts. It is only when a witness has something fresh to say, or can throw new light on a subject, that his evi- dence should be taken. I have read in the papers time after time - and I have carefully noted what is going on -- that many witnesses are heard who simply repeat, parrot-like, what has been already said by others. I say, in such cases the Board has a duty to perform, the same as a Magistrate or a Judge. In such cases I say the Boards have something to answer for. An Hon. MEMBER .- That would have the effect of reducing the number of sittings. An Hon. MEMBER. - And the number of guineas they get by it. Mr. SEDDON .- It would facilitate business. An Hon. MEMBER .- And facilitate reducing the cost. 