Mr. W. FRASER said the areas had not increased. Mr. SEDDON said he was not saying any. thing about the areas; but he would like to call members' attention to this fact : that this was the case in regard to these estates of $50,000 and over, notwithstanding that the Government had bought so large a number of estates. At all events, there was the fact as given by this return. It would not make any alteration if we got the area, because if a man had bought a piece of ground he would keep it as a separate estate; unless we had them jointly as landowners we would not be able to trace them by the area. However, taking it any way we like, there had been an increase in these estates during the last ten years. SOCIETIES FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO WOMEN AND CHILDREN. Mr. TANNER (Avon) asked the Premier, If the Government will consider the propriety of subsidising the revenues of the New Zealand societies for the prevention of cruelty to women and children ? He asked the question in con- sequence of the statement in Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge's report, that there had been a marked increase in the number of criminal assaults on young children. Owing to the helplessness of this section of the community, and the fact that the police were overburdened with work, and the difficulty of moving the police to take action in many cases of this kind, the prosecution had to be left largely to the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 initiative of these societies, and they had done well so far as they were able. There were many cases of which we heard little because of the utter lack of method or means to bring them before the Court. He would be glad to hear what the Premier said as to the advisa- bility of giving assistance to these societies. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said his colleague answered a similar question the other day. Mr. TANNER said. That was about bullocks and dogs ; this is about women and children. Mr. SEDDON said it was well known that the legislation and administration of the Go- vernment had had in view the improving of the condition of the women and children of the colony. No one regretted more than the Government the increase of the trouble that the honourable gentleman referred to. But, in his opinion, we would have to look to another source entirely, and one which the public, either wilfully or blindly, refused to recognise. He said this Legislature was a good deal responsible for what was going on in that respect. Mr. TANNER .- What are the Crown Prose- cutors doing ? Mr. SEDDON said the Crown Prosecutors would not stop it ; the Legislature had a good deal to do with it. An Hon. MEMBER .- How? Mr. SEDDON said he would not say how now, but there was no doubt about it ; and to stop it, in his opinion, we would have to go back. But so far as the punishment of the wrongdoers was concerned, in the face of the advice given by those intrusted with the re- sponsibility he thought he should have to do something. It was a question, of course, whether the law at the present time gave us sufficient power. He was inclined to think himself that it did. However, if it did not, it would be the duty of the Government, unless there was an alteration, to do something in respect to it. We must have our children and women protected from the gross outrages that were occurring. "MUNICIPAL CORPORATIONS ACT. 1900." Mr. HALL (Waipawa) asked the Premier, If the Government will introduce an amendment to section 91 of " The Municipal Corporations Act, 1900," so as to permit special rates to be banked to the District Fund Account of boroughs? He had been induced to ask this question in consequence of a communication he had from a Borough Council in his district. The Borough Council in question complained that, notwithstanding they had a very consider- able amount of revenue on hand, they were not allowed to place that money to the credit of the general fund. Consequently, they were paying interest on an overdraft, and at the same time they had a large amount of money in the shape of separate rates in the bank, which for the time being would wipe the overdraft out. He wanted to see if the Minister would amend the Act so that a Municipal Corporation would not have to pay interest on an amount of money on over- draft when they had funds lying in the bank. The honourable gentleman would know the section he referred to. It was section 91, which read as follows :- "(1.) All moneys belonging to the Corpora- tion shall be paid into such bank as the Council from time to time appoints and publicly notifies (hereinafter called 'the bank'). (2.) Moneys in connection with the general account herein- after mentioned, and all such fines and penal- ties and amounts of fines and penalties as mentioned in section ninety hereof, shall be paid into an account at the bank to be called the ' District Fund Account." " He wanted to say that, notwithstanding the fact that a Council might have a large amount of money at credit, it might at the same time have a large overdraft. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) scarcely thought there was sufficient to warrant an alteration of the Municipal Corporations Act. They only passed the general Act last session, and he thought something more should be required than was now asked before an amendment was made. He believed that a great deal depended upon the Borough Councils themselves. There was a danger of getting accounts mixed up, and of moneys being used for purposes other than those for which they were in ended. A good deal could be said on both sides. In any case, he did not think an amendment was required for the purpose mentioned. Other alterations might be necessary, and, if so, the whole question could then be dealt with. 