tion, because, if the money is advanced to im- prove the property, as the Government are the owners of the property, the State is benefited in every way. I entirely disapprove, as may be conjectured from my remarks, of the ideas pro- pounded by the Hon. Colonel Pitt, because I think it would open the door to speculation. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- I intend to vote against the amendment, for this reason : that this clause 11 which forbids the mortgage, I am informed, only takes effect after the passing of this Act, and does not affect any person who holds a lease now under the principal Act. He can still obtain a mortgage. It simply stops the mortgaging of a lessee's interest who be- comes a lessee after the passing of this Bill ; it stops it for the future ; and, that being so, it is a very good proposal, and really in the interest of the lessee. It is not an advantage to the lessee or the colony to give facilities for borrowing by way of mortgage, for if a person cannot go on land and cultivate it without a mortgage he would be better without it. In the event of financial impossibility to carry on the work of the section, the tenant can surrender under clause 12, and any improvements made by him will be valued, and he will receive the benefit from the incoming tenant. Well, I think that will enable the tenant who is not financially able to hold the land to receive the value of improvements. It is very evident that if a man is financially unable to farm his land properly he has no business to be there, and the sooner he goes and gives place to some one who can pay his way the better, and clause 12 enables him to do so without loss. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- Sir, I think the paramount object of any legislation providing land for the people should be the proper settle- ment of that land-of giving opportunities to those who so desire to settle on the land ; and therefore I consider there should be the greatest care taken to insure that they do stay on the land-that is, a limit of time should be pro- vided within which each person who goes on that land should not part with it, and clause 11 effects this. If you fail to do that you will find a repetition of the many cases which have taken place, I believe, in the past, of specu- lators and dummies taking up land for the express purpose of making a quick profit out of it by sale of their interest in it. Now, the sup- posed severity of this clause, as the Hon. Mr. Shrimski has pointed out, is very much modi- fied by clause 12, which will enable a settler who is in difficulties to go to the Board and represent to them the circumstances of the case. It will then lie in the discretion of the Board whether the circumstances are such as to warrant a breach of this clause 11, and I do not think you can have a better protection for your Bill than to get it in the position which this Bill provides for : that is to say, that there shall be no going in for leasing a section merely for the purpose of speculation ; but in cases where men who are in difficulties, or for some family reason, such as illness, or anything like that, wish to be relieved of their holdings, then Hon. Mr. Jones of getting out of their sections by the means which section 12 provides. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I would like to point out that dealings with these classes of land acquired under the Land for Settle- ments Act have been specially safeguarded already in many ways. Any one who will turn up the Act passed last year will find that the dealing with this land to individuals is specially hedged round with provisions which absolutely prevent any one going on the land who is not able to cultivate it with advantage to himself and to the State. Special provisions have been made enabling the Land Board to inquire into the circumstances of the applicants, and to see whether they are suitable or not for going on the land, because the blocks of land acquired under the Land for Settlements Act have got to bear their own burdens. It is not intended that they should be either rack-rented on the one hand, or that they should be occupied by tenants who are not able to pay their way, because each estate, as purchased, has got its own burden to carry; and hitherto there has been no default made in any one of them. They have been able to pay their way, and the land, so to speak, has cost nothing to the State. The tenants pay their interest and their sinking fund annually, and at no cost to the State, except the bare fact that the State borrowed the money and was able to acquire the lands. But after that the provisions of the leases have been such as to absolutely take away from the State any liability whatever, excepting the very remote one of the whole country becoming insolvent, which, of course, is a contingency we need not consider. We know very well that these tenants in their early days may have struggles, and may require assistance until events improve : but we have also to consider the difficulty of whether, if too great facilities are given for mortgages, we are not defeating the original intention of the Act. I admit that when I answered the question of the Hon. Colonel Pitt yesterday I was not very clear in my own mind as to what was the intention of the clause referred to. I believed its operation would not be so stringent as it is, and as it is intended to be; but I only beg to assure the Council that it is the deliberate result of experience that it is most desirable to prevent any dealing with these lands by mortgages in the initial years of the lease. It may seem hard in some cases, but still in the long-run it will be found that the State will secure a more permanent class of settler on the land and a more satisfactory kind of close settlement. It is very difficult indeed to confine the advances to be given to settlers only to the Advances to Settlers Board. There might be less objection, perhaps, if the advances were limited only to that Board ; but still at the same time I do not see how it could be done. It would be restricting settlers in their negotiations for financial assistance. In fact, I know that many institutions are willing to meet settlers on very liberal terms now, and I should be sorry to appear to prevent the settlers 