the people in this instance then? I do not think it should be made compulsory. 1 assert again that there are arguments both for and against the principle of the Bill. some instances it is obviously fair that land which is lying unoccupied and unimproved, and which is held for speculative purposes, should bear a higher proportion of taxation than it does now ; but in other instances rating on the unimproved value would not be fair. For instance, there is the case of the property in the country with fine buildings -- residence, stables, et cetera. The owner of that build- ing uses the roads more, he receives more in the way of protection from the police, and in every way, I say, he ought to bear a larger pro- portion of the burdens of the State than his poorer neighbour. The more costly the works are that are being protected the more they should bear their fair share of the cost of pro- tection ; but in such instances the rating on unimproved value would not provide for this. I do not wish to say more about this matter. I have here a report by the Town Clerk of the City of Wellington, which was made some years ago, and his conclusions are very much the same as mine. He says that house property generally would in all proba- bility have to pay a little less, and that, while several of the larger institutions would pay more, some would pay less. I have come to the conclusion that, as a general principle, no conclusion can be drawn from his report or from any other report. The best people to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 decide these matters are those living in the particular localities, and who know all the conditions. They are the people to say at the ballot which system of rating would be the most desirable. With regard to uniformity, I hope we shall not adopt a scheme under which we shall have a Road Board having a system of rating on unimproved value and a County Council having another. True, the compulsory scheme would do away with that ; but, after all, it is best to leave the matter to the voice of the people, for they are certainly the best able to decide what system would suit parti- cular localities. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) .-- Sir, I rise to make a personal explanation. The honourable gentleman said, with regard to the number of proposals that had been rejected, that I had misled the House with respect to the number of polls carried in favour of rating on land- values. I said all the polls had been carried on the voting with the exception of three. Mr. J. ALLEN .- You said three boroughs. Mr. ELL .- I said that in only three districts had the proposal been rejected on the votes, and they were Picton, Timaru, and Woolston. It was carried in all the others on the vote. Mr. J. ALLEN .-- The honourable gentleman, in his supplementary remarks, adds words which make a considerable alteration. He now says, " Rejected on the votes," but in his first remarks he only said " Rejected." I quote the return to prove that I was right : The proposal was first carried ; rejected in Petone Borough, and still rejected ; rejected in the Picton Borough, and still rejected ; rejected in the Raglan County, In and still rejected ; rejected in Stratford, and afterwards carried ; rejected in Sumner Borough, and still rejected ; rejected in Tauranga, and afterwards carried ; rejected in Timaru, and still re ected ; rejected in Waimate Borough, and afterwards carried : rejected in Wairarapa North County, and still rejected ; rejected in Woolston Borough, and still rejected. Mr. TANNER (Avon) .--- I would like to say a few words on this subject, because it is one of considerable interest, and, whether for good or for evil, it will be altogether a ne . departure in fixing the basis upon which local taxation is to be levied. The principle of rating on unim- proved value, as a basic principle, had my sup- port five years ago, and will continue to have my support. I am not, however, in the least degree satisfied with the Bill now before the House, because it proposes to make rating on unimproved value compulsory throughout the colony, without any exemption, without any differentiation, and without any consideration for the different classes of people it will touch. I think it is rather an exaggeration to say that the polls on the subject of adopting the pro- visions of the Act on the statute-book, the results of which have been laid before this House in a recent return, prove that the com- munity at large approves of the principle of the measure generally. If one analyses the polls which have been taken he will see that the adoption of the principle has been carried in many places at lamentably small polls, which we so much deplore when any question is remitted to the public vote. It is, however, the business of the ratepayers in the various localities ; and we may regret, but have no right to blame them if they allow such ques- tions to be settled by small minorities. I have nothing to say with regard to the principle itself; that was adopted by this House five years ago, and it is not for us now to advance arguments either supporting it or detracting from the principle. The only matter which is dealt with in the Bill is, in effect, the question, Shall or shall not rating on the unimproved value be made compulsory throughout the colony? A great many illus- trations have been given, and a good deal has been said about the small cottager, the pro- prietor of a large mansion worth $10,000, or the owner of a large mercantile establishment, all of whom occupy land of equal value in im- mediate contiguity to each other, being rated alike under this Bill, no matter what the value of their total possessions might be. As I listened to speaker after speaker the other night on this Bill, each speaking from his own point of view, I thought that a political kaleidoscope was passing before me. For instance, it seemed to me that the speech of the honourable mem- ber for Manawatu was far more against the present system of valuation in the colony than in support of rating on the unimproved value. 