munities, boroughs, or country or town dis- tricts; but I say the people in those districts are the best able to judge whether it should apply to their district or not. In certain dis- tricts it may be a good system of taxation, but I say the Act we have at the present time is sufficient, inasmuch as it permits each district to decide whether it will adopt the system or not. Since this discussion commenced it has been shown that, in the opinion of some mem- , they have just rejected, and which they do not bers, it is not applicable to all constituencies. The honourable member for Avon has given notice to move in Committee that those who have leases shall be examp . Then, there is another amendment which says that all agri- cultural show - grounds, racecourses, football- grounds, cricket-grounds, c. cle-tracks, bowling- greens, reserves or other lands used solely for purposes of public recreation shall be exempt from this mode of taxation. An Hon. MEMBER. - Why ? Mr. ARNOLD .- Why I cannot tell. Simply, I presume, because this mode of taxation is not fair in all cases ; and if it is not fair in all cases, then, Sir, I contend that it should be left in the hands of the people to decide whether they will have it or not. But now we come to a larger question, and let us see what we purpose doing. We have in New Zealand 101 boroughs, 35 town districts, 87 counties, 231 road districts, 35 river districts, and 15 drainage districts, making a total of 504 districts in all, and out of this num- ber there is something like thirty-three that have decided that they will adopt this system of taxation ; and because thirty-three districts have thought it wise to adopt this system of taxation. we are told that almost five hun- dred other districts should be compelled, per- haps against their will, to accept it also. The Premier says that when this Bill goes into Committee they may not be compelled to accept it, because a clause will be placed in the Bill which will enable them to vote themselves out of it. Why, Sir, it seems to me that such a chiuse as that is most absurd. At the present time any constituency who desire to go to the expenditure of having a poll upon this ques- tion can do so. But what are we proposing now? We propose, Sir, to compel about five hundred districts to take a poll, to go to the expense-and in some cases a very large expense -of taking a poll before they can be exempt from this taxation if they so wish to be; and I consider that is a most unfair thing. Then, Sir, take the example which has been given us during the past week: If there is one live organization in the City of Auckland it is the organization known as the Single-tax League. It is not only a live organization now, but it has been for very many years. It was in 1894, and I believe it was previously. It certainly has been so ever since that date ; and, though this organization is so thoroughly alive, the poll which was taken there last week was defeated, and we may take it for granted that the result of it shows the feeling of the people - as far as those who voted in favour of the proposal are con- cerned, at any rate. And yet, after all the work, after all the publications, we find that only 753 persons voted in favour of the measure, and that there were 1,697 against it, or a majority of 944 against-more than two to one. Not only so, but the proposal was rejected in every ward in the city. Why, Sir, in the face of that, I say that we cannot in fairness pass a measure here which will com- pel the people of Auckland to accept that which think it wise should be brought into operation in their city. I thoroughly agree with the honourable member for Masterton, where, in the course of his speech last week, he said, speaking of taxation, that if it had to be altered ! it should be altered by slow degrees. Now, Sir, at the present time what have you ? You have an Act upon the statute-book which compels any borough, by a certain proportion getting up a petition and presenting it to the Council, to take a poll of those upon the roll as { to whether they will adopt this mode of taxation in that borough or not. They are compelled to take that poll, and, Sir, when the poll is taken it is carried by a bare majority. I sav, can we have anything more fair than that ? We talk about "government by the people and for the people"-why, Sir, this matter is in the hands of the people already. Why not leave it there, and not strive to take it out of their hands, as we are attempting to do by this Bill? There was a time, perhaps, when it might have been said that the workers had no vote in connection with these matters ; [ but, thanks to the legislation of last session especially, the franchise has been so enlarged in connection with municipal polls that we have now almost all got this. I should line to see the franchise still broader, although at the present time the great majority have a vote on questions such as this In my opinion, the present law is quite sufficient the people have the mitter in their own hands, where I think it should be left. I think that when we have that which is good it is well that we should leave well alone. Mr. FOWi DS (Auckland City). - Sir, I ought to know something about this subject. It is a subject to which I have given some con- siderable stud., and during a recent visit to Auckland I had the benefit of nightly instruc- tion from the men who consider themselves to be the wisest men in that community. The result is, I have come back to this House more convinced than ever that the only just and equitable method of levying local taxation is by levying i on the unimproved value of land. When speaking on the Address in Reply, at the beginning of the session, I intimated that I believed in the principle of local option, and I still believe in that principle. I am therefore glad that the Premier, in introducing this Bill, expressed his willingness to insert a local option clause in it. Hon. MEMBERS .- You have got that already. Mr. FOWLDS .- Honourable members say that we have got that already. Yes, we have it the wrong way about. Some forty-five polls 