sent up to report on the whole matter, and he hoped they would be able very soon to hand over a site to the Board. # MAKURI-PONGAROA ROAD. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) asked the Minister of Lands, If he will cause inquiries to be at once made into the quality of metal placed on the Makuri-Pongaroa Road, as it is alleged that mud and useless material is being used ? He had no desire whatever to cast any reflection on the gentleman who was in charge of the Roads and Bridges Construction Department, who was undoubtedly a capable man. But at the same time he thought it was his duty, as representing an important electorate, to enter his protest against the way in which money was being absolutely squandered in the construction of roads in his electorate, more especially in connection with the Makuri-Pongaroa Road. In this particular portion of that electorate they had an Inspector. Settlers had come down and waited on the Minister, and had protested against the rubbish which they were placing on this road. He might say the Minister, imme- diately his notice of question was placed on the Order Paper, took steps to have it stopped, as they were simply taking mullock out of the ditch and placing it on the centre of the road, and terming it " metalling." Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said that inquiry was being made, as suggested by the honourable member, but his remarks were sup- pr sed to refer to a species of sandy papa which had had to be used sometimes in that district, owing to the difficulty of obtaining hard metal at a reasonable cost. In some portions of the http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero distric; this sandy papa, or whatever they might call it, was of some value if it were put in the right place so that the sun got at it ; but if they put it on the dark sides, where the sun did not reach it, it was of no value at all. He had seen. in travelling through the country, por- tions of road between Stratford and Whanga- momona where sandy papa had been used for making an excellent road ; but then care was taken to place it on the sunny side, where it had every opportunity to dry. Had it been placed on the lee side, and away from the sun. it would, of course, have been useless; and he believed this must be so in similar cases elsewhere. In the case referred to by the honourable member, they had either put the wrong material on the road or else they put it on in the wrong way. He must say, with reference to this district, that the man he had selected to look after its roads, Mr. Robinson, was taken away for other important work. It was to see about those lime-kilns, as he was an expert in that way, and he did not get to work there until the beginning of this winter. But he was now in the district, and he hoped that the honourable member and the settlers generally would feel that they had an officer in charge that would do ample credit to the Roads Department, and he was hopeful himself that # RATING ON UNIMPROVED VALUE BILL. ADJOURNED DEBATE. Mr. ARNOLD (Dunedin City). - Although this question has been debated at considerable length, and from various points of view, I feel it would be unfair to let the matter go to the vote without saying a few words upon it. We have at different times various questions placed before this House, that are dealt with from a theoretical point of view by certain members, who, it appears to me, look at all questions from one side only. It is necessary that every mem- ber should strive to look at all sides of this question, and to weigh it well before they come to a conclusion as to whether it is well to place it upon the statute-book or not. Many ques- tions seem correct in theory, but in practice they do not apply they do not work out ; and yet a person who speaks against some of those questions, or dares to vote against them, is con- sidered by some members unprogressive, or perhaps to have leanings towards Conservatism. An Hon. MEMBER .- Hear, hear. Mr. ARNOLD. - The honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell) says " Hear. hear." Of course, he knows that I allude especially to him and to one or two others in this House ; and, Sir, I mention especially the question of the elective Executive, the ques- tion of the single-tax, and other questions that are mentioned at different times. Mr ELL .- I am not a single-taxer. Mr. ARNOLD. - I presume if the honourable member for Christchurch City is not a single-taxer he will be considered by some as leaning towards Conservatism, as he considers I am, because I find it impossible to support this measure and some others that he looks at and sees from one standpoint only. But, Sir, on this question we have had a great deal said that does not seem to be in any way related to the subject before the House. For instance, since the commencement of this debate we have had various members of the House quoting the poor working-man. The poor working-man is brought in on almost every question before this House. Now, it is true that the working-man has very much to complain of. It is true that the working-man has certain rights, and has to ask and protest until he receives them. But, Sir, we realise this : that the majority of those who upon questions such as this are continually speaking about the poor working-man are those who do not support the measures likely to benefit him when they come before this House ; and numbers of those who have spoken so much about the poor working- man during the last four or five sitting-days of this House, when questions arise shortly that affect him, will be voting in the " Noes " lobby. Then, we have been told a great deal about the property-tax. We have been told that those who vote against this Bill are practically voting in favour of the old property-tax. Why. Sir, there is no relation between the property-tax and the Bill now before the House. There may 