in question there were no reporters present, and whatever was given out was given out by some member of the deputation. An Hon. MEMBER .- By yourself ? Mr. SEDDON .- No, not by myself. I saw something in the paper that that was inspired, but, I repeat, it was never inspired or seen by me, and no one was more astonished than I was when I saw it in print, because I never made the statement at all. What the deputa- tion came to see me about was an increased public works expenditure-in fact, they wanted another railway ; and I could not possibly, see- ing the heavy public works expenditure, and the importance of some of the other works, give them any encouragement, and I told them so very plainly. I at the same time said that in respect to this money, amounting to two millions, at the present time that would leave a burden of £70,000 by way of interest on the consolidated revenue, and that the con- solidated revenue had enough to bear at pre- sent, and that the estimates of receipts and expenditure as submitted, and as then be- fore me, gave me some anxiety. I might have gone further. But it was simply the first blush, and when the matter was considered it proved-and you have had the result-that there was no cause whatever for anxiety. As to sayi. g that there was no money available for public works, that is absolutely incorrect, and I take this opportunity now of stating so, and I thank the honourable member for mention- ing it, as this gives me the opportunity of re- futing it at once, and, I hope, for all time. The honourable member has also learned another lesson. He has learned the lesson that when he receives letters from his constituents, com- plaining of hardship and injustice at the hands of a department of the State, he should always make inquiry before he uses them. Probably a settler whom he may know sends a letter of this kind that seems very hard at the first blush, but time after time things are kept back and public departments and the heads of depart- ments are misjudged. I stand here in defence of the departments, and I say that, as many members know, communications are received which would bear a very different complexion if members had before them the information which is before the department and before the Minister. From these letters you must always subtract a good deal. In the case the honour- able member referred to, and which has got into liunsard, what were the facts? An ap- plication was made, an advance was asked for, and there was a second mortgage on the pro- perty that was never disclosed at all. The department could not with safety have lent the money ; and the declaration made might, if extreme steps had been taken, have landed the applicant into trouble. However, the depart- ment, as is the case with all lending depart- ments, is of a somewhat secret character, and the Government do not intend to take further action, therefore, in respect to the matter, although we have been called upon to clear ourselves and to vindicate the depart- ment. I hope the honourable member for Patea will take a lesson from this, and will be very careful before he again quotes a communica- tion of this character, or suggests that the lending department does not lend except to parties of the "right" colour. I take my stand here, Sir, and I say, without the least hesitation, if a return were produced of those who have received the greatest benefit from the advances to settlers it would be found that those have most benefited who have voted against the Government and have opposed the passing of this legislation. That, Sir, would be the undoubted result. I now come to the ques- tion raised regarding voting upon the third reading. I am told that unless the people who object to a measure call for a division on the third reading the question should be allowed to be taken on the voices. I say it is the inherent right of any 2.0. honourable member, if he wishes & division on any question, to get that division. Our Standing Orders provide for it, and those who are afraid to go into the lobbies and have their votes recorded are afraid to meet the people, and are afraid of their own actions. The time-honoured custom was a vote on the second reading ; the time-honoured custom was a vote on the third reading, and you could then always trace the members and their works, and their works went before the people. And to say now that they are afraid of the third reading of the Bill proves that they are not sincere. They fought the Government in Committee ; they endeavoured to prevent the measure going on the statute-book ; but let me tell them it is here to stay. There is a million of money to be borrowed, and we shall prove to New Zealand and to the world that, with prudence and care- ful administration, the result will be that the private lenders, the lending institutions, and the capitalists must admit that the Legislature of this country fixes what the interest shall be on borrowed moneys. Motion agreed to. The House divided on the question, "That the Bill be read a third time." AYES, 30. Allen, E. G. O'Meara Hall Palmer Hall-Jones Arnold Herries Seddon Barclay Bennet Hornsby Symes Ward Collins Lawry Wilford Duncan Lethbridge Ell McGowan Willis. Mackenzie, T. Tellers. Field Millar Flatman Hogg Fowlds Mills Laurenson. Fraser, A. L. D. NOES, 4. Tellers. Haselden Carncross Massey. Stevens. PAIR. Against. For. Bollard. Carroll. Majority for, 26. 