House when the Colonial Treasurer is present, and then we could have a full discussion on the document in the ordinary way. I suggested at first that the consideration of the report should be postponed until the Colonial Treasurer's return, but the honourable gentlemen opposite opposed that course ; and when I moved a resolution on the lines indicated by those honourable gentlemen, they then wanted some- thing else. They evidently do not know their own minds. I hope the House will get the matter out of the road, so as to allow us to pro- ceed with the next business. I think I would not be doing my duty, in the absence of the Colonial Treasurer, were I not to refer to one remark which was made by the member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson). That honour- able gentleman assumed, from the remarks uttered by the Colonial Treasurer a few days ago-and here I might say, Mr. Speaker, the honourable gentleman was referring to a former debate-that the Colonial Treasurer referred particularly to this document. When the Colonial Treasurer is here he can answer for himself. I do not know that he was referring to this document at all. I do not believe, myself, that he was referring to it ; but, as I say, I do not know what was in his mind. I believe he was referring to another matter, and to say that because of the introduction of this letter and this correspondence the Colonial Treasurer was paving the way on a former occasion for what is contained therein is not a fair state- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 ment to make in his absence. Mr. HUTCHESON .- It fits in all right. Sir J. G. WARD .- I do not know that it does. I have not read the documents. Honourable members may have had the opportunity of reading them, but I have not. The fair thing to do is to refer this matter to the Public Ac- counts Committee, allow the Committee to re- port on it, and then afterwards take the debate when the Colonial Treasurer is present. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- I wish to point out to the Minister for Railways that he makes the very same mistake the Premier makes, through an excess of courtesy, in endeavouring to please the honourable gentle- men opposite. That is where the Premier always fails. If the honourable gentleman had stuck to the course he originally proposed he would have done what I consider to be the proper thing. There is no question that it is the intention of the House to refer this report from the Auditor-General to the Public Accounts Committee. That is the course which ought to have been adopted. My colleague, Mr. Hutche- son, said the Premier a few days ago stated that within forty-eight hours the House would be called upon to consider another such report as the House was then dealing with, and the honourable gentleman said he knew this was the very report the Premier was re- ferring to, and that therefore he ought to have been here to deal with it. Well, suppose the Premier did know that this report was coming up from the Auditor-Gene- ral, he could not have known then of the death of the Hon. Mr. Kerr. The honourable gentleman's absence is thus easily accounted for. But I do not think the Premier, when he spoke the other day, was referring to this matter at all ; and it does appear strange that the report of the Auditor-General was not presented to the House before to-day. And it appears still more strange that certain members of the House are so familiar with the contents of this report. Every time a report from the Auditor-General comes to this House certain members of the House seem to know all about it ; while the members on the Government benches know absolutely nothing of what is contained in the report. I undertake to say, from something that has passed under my observation to-day, that the gentlemen in the newspaper gallery are cognisant of the contents of the report already. The medium of com- munication between the Auditor-General and this House used to be the member for Patea, Mr. George Hutchison ; but although he is not here the information still comes round in the same way, for, when a report reaches Mr. Speaker from the Auditor-General, immediately certain members are ready to take action on that report. I would be sorry to balk those honourable gentlemen, or to step in and inter- fere with them in any way. If the honourable gentlemen wish to spring a surprise on tho Ministry I have no objection, the House has no objection, and the Public Accounts Committee can have no objection. Let the honourable member for Palmerston amuse himself in his ordinary way, but I hope the Acting-Premier will not fall into the error of the Right Hon. the Premier, and fail through too much excess of courtesy. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- I would just like to say a word or two in reply to one or two statements that have been made. There is no desire on the part of any member on this side of the House to take advantage of the absence of the Hon. the Treasurer. We feel that he ought to be here in connection with this matter, and I point out again that the effect of carrying this motion will be to prevent any member who wishes to refer to this matter in the course of the financial debate from doing so. I think the proper thing to do in this connection is to carry the amendment proposed by the honourable mem- ber for Eden, Mr. Bollard, to omit all words after the word "printed." It will then read, "That this paper lie on the table, and be printed," and when the Treasurer comes back to Wellington it will be competent for him to give notice of motion to bring it before the House in the ordinary way. I think that is what ought to be done. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- The honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) told us a few days ago he was going to mend his ways, and insist on the Government taking the proper measures to carry on the business of this House according to the Standing Orders. He was going to keep a stiff backbone, and was going to insist on the Government carrying out the Standing Orders, and, if the Opposition had not the backbone, he was going to show them 