purchase the improvements afterwards, he would get a very cheap bargain. These are two points. Captain RUSSELL. - I can assure the honourable gentleman I had neither of those cases in my mind's eye. Mr. STEVENS. - Well, I am merely pointing this out as a circumstance which did occur in the locality of Marton, to which the honourable gentleman referred. Now, another point : There is a portion of land belonging to the same estate which is leased at present to the firm of Walker and Nolan. The area is about forty acres, and so far as I know, the value per acre put on that property for rating purposes is about $6 or $7 ; the last valuation I remember was €6. Now, all round that property are small holdings be- longing to small settlers, who have good improve- ments on their land, and pay at the rate of ₺14 or £15 per acre. So if the principle be right that we should have a land-tax based upon the unimproved value of the land for general taxation, it must necessarily follow that the principle should apply to all kinds of taxa- tion, whether for local or general purposes. It is absolutely impossible to say you can make a division in a great principle. Are we to levy our taxation on the improved value of the land, or upon the unimproved value of the land ? The honourable member who spoke last said it was impossible to ascertain what the unimproved value of land is. I admit that it is impossible to ascertain it to the finest point. It is impossible to ascertain what a straight line is, but it is as nearly possible to ascertain what the unimproved value is as it is to ascertain what a straight line is. If you take a piece of prairie land of, say, a hundred acres situated in the centre of a large block which has been cut up and subdivided, im- proved, and roaded, does the honourable mem- ber mean to say that the unimproved value of that land to-day would be what it was valued at many years ago before the improvements were made? Therefore, I say that the un- earned increment brings that land from, say, $1 to $10 per acre, and that the unimproved value to-day would be £10 per acre. as compared with €1 per acre before any improvements were made in the vicinity of the land. That is what I call the unimproved value. Some members say that is the unearned increment. So it is. The owner of that hundred acres of land would have received, if he were to sell his land, the unearned increment, and he would be one of the leeches who live and fatten upon the thrifty and industrious settler. The honour- able member for Hawke's Bay said that the Gear Company used the roads very largely, and it made an enormous sum of money, therefore why should they not pay more than a small holder who only owned a cottage or small holding ? If the honourable member had reflected a little he would have seen that the Gear Company does pay a great deal more, because it is a great business concern, and it pays taxation upon its annual income, whereas the small person who makes no profit pays Mr. Stevens with the valuation of land which I have always held to be right and correct, and that is, whether it be for local taxation or whether it be for general taxation, the House should insist that whenever a valuation is made in a locality the settlers in that locality should have a time of rest ; the value fixed for the locality should be fixed for a definite period, irrespective of isolated sales. It matters not whether a property be sold in the immediate vicinity at, say, £10 an acre, the original value should stand. Although the land was valued by the valuer at #7 per acre, and the property was subsequently sold at $10 per acre, the new purchaser of such property should not be compelled to pay more than his neighbour. To my mind, it is vexatious, it serves no good purpose, and it discourages people from pur- chasing land and going into the country and settling there, believing, as they do now, that they are to be pointed at and spotted for the purpose of -- what ? Increasing by a few pounds the land-tax. All taxation, in my opinion, should be levied, as it were, for a fixed period. It matters not how long the period be, but within that period the owner of this land should be able to feel that he will be at rest. Let him rest for that particular period-let it be one year, two years, or three years. I shall not define the period ; but I do say that one of the greatest complaints I have heard from the settlers throughout the district I have the honour to represent is that immediately a pro- perty changes hands and the purchaser of that property wishes to become a thrifty settler - after he pays a high price for it and is willing to improve his property-he is immediately penalised as against his neighbour who has not sold his property. I think that is un- fair, and I hope the Government will take into consideration the necessity of fixing periodically what the valuation shall be. and that, in the event of the property changing hands within that period, there shall not be any change made in the valuation. For ex- ample, say there are a number of properties valued at $7 per acre in a certain locality, and three days hence one of those properties is sold for €10 per acre. The purchaser of that pro- perty at $10 per acre is compelled to pay on the $10 per acre for the period for which the original valuation was made, whereas his neigh- bour, who owns land of equal value, gets off \-- with £7 per acre. If, on the other hand, the sale of one of those properties for $10 an acre raises the value of the whole of the properties to £10 an acre, it is not logical, it is not reason- able. that the proprietor of one property which is of equal value to the other should pay from 25 per cent. to 30 per cent. more taxation than the proprietor of the other property in the same locality, and having the same valuation. I have nothing further to say other than this: that I have always held that, if the unimproved value be correct in respect to general taxation, it must necessarily follow that it is right and correct with respect to local taxation. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- Sir, I 