hospital shall not entitle the holder thercof to registration unless a course of at least twenty- five lectures has been delivered in that hospital in each of the three years' residence therein of the holder of the certificate, and unless the matron of the hospital is herself a registered nurse." Mr. HALL - JONES moved, That the word "twenty-five " be struck out, with a view to sub- stituting the word "twelve." Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) moved to report progress. Progress reported, and leave given to sit again. # FINANCIAL STATEMENT. [ For all Tables and Returns referred to in the State- ment, see Appendix, B .- 6.] The House having resolved itself into Com- mittee of Supply, Mr. SEDDON (Colonial Treasurer) said,- Mr. Guinness, - The people, and especially honourable members, are naturally anxious at any time to have the Financial Statement, and this, my sixth Budget, is, owing to various causes, awaited with more than passing in- terest. In this, as in other preceding State- ments, I will without reservation endeavour to place the finances of the colony before members in such a way that all may understand the National Account. The revenue received last year exceeded my most sanguine expectations. Notwithstanding the remissions granted in Customs duties, rail- way freights, passenger-fares, and the reduction in postal rates by giving the penny postage, there was a pleasant surprise in store, for, after meeting all current obligations, there was a balance on the credit side amounting to £532,564. The pessimistic criticism of our finance during the last few weeks has almost verged upon the ludicrous, and thereby a feeling has been raised in the public mind that additional. taxation was imperative. The financial hotch- potch created by some of the critics in mixing the ordinary revenue with the loan account proves gross ignorance, and the necessity for a better education in respect to public finance ; whilst the great ingenuity and industry dis- played in endeavouring to prove that this year the balance must be on the wrong side of the ledger may be appreciated by the few who desired such a contingency. I am glad to say that the few must be disappointed and the many pleased, for it is certain that the revenue this year more than meets the expenditure, and that there will be no deficit. It has been stated in several newspapers that it is proposed to meet the estimated deficiency in part by an additional land-tax, and also by some slight rearrangement of the Customs. It was further alleged that some stringency has occurred in the finances through the claims for old-age pensions being much more numerous than was anticipated, and our detractors have even gone the length of cabling this nonsense to the London journals. The credence given to the imagination of the penny-a-liner should not be found fault with by me, for, with a patriotism that does them infinite credit - which as Colonial Treasurer I very much ap- preciate-merchants have risen to the occasion, cleared kerosene, sugar, and tea, with the result that the Customs revenue this month is buoyant in the extreme, and contrasts very favourably with the same month of last year. The only possible foundation that could give rise to what appeared in certain papers was a statement made by me warning a deputation of members and other gentlemen against pressing for an excessive public works expenditure, thereby entailing borrowing and squandering. Incidentally I stated that the revenue returns, as furnished by the departments, did not warrant the suggested expenditure, and that this caused me some anxiety. Again, in respect to the increase of the graduated land-tax, I stated in the House some weeks ago that, if the Government was to keep the pledge given last year in granting the reduction of {d. in the pound on the mort- gage-tax, the graduated tax on land would re- quire to be increased so as to yield an amount equal to that conceded by way of reduced mortgage-tax ; and, after carefully reviewing the position, I now find that the views ex- pressed have been verified, for a reduction in revenue to the extent of $25,000 could not pru- dently be granted unless otherwise recouped. The announcement that revenue cannot be given away without a necessary recoupment will very naturally and properly lead to the conclusion that revenue and expenditure are fairly evenly balanced. This conclusion is cor- rect ; but it is owing to the inclusion of nearly £120,000 of abnormal and non-recurring expen- diture this year, and to the increase in the Education and Technical Education votes, which are in excess of those of last year by no less than £67,000; also, to an increase in the vote for the Colonial Secretary's Department, which exceeds the vote of last year by £69,300, caused by extraordinary services. The vote for Defence, including the capitation payable to our Volunteers, is also largely increased, owing to the number of Volunteer corps being more than doubled. Even with these exceptional demands upon our resources there will be suffi- cient to meet every requirement, and, at the risk of disappointing the pessimistic alarmists, I am able to announce that there will be no deficit, but a reasonable surplus. It is well, however, that I should, in respect to the expenditure, urge the absolute necessity for prudence and economy, for, although the revenue is buoyant and increasing, yet, owing to reductions in the Customs tariff, the conces- sion of penny postage, remissions in railway charges, and other concessions, there is this year, as compared with last year, a decrease of only £9,500 ; correspondingly there should be a jealously guarded expenditure, for a restricted population can only bear a limited and reason- able impost of taxation. Luckily for this colony all our eggs are not in one basket, and the curtailed spending-power owing to the low price of wool is counter. 