Personally, I have a great objection-and I think the objection is of a serious character-to the parents of children being dragged to the Magis- trate's Court. I hope the time is not far off when we shall do as is done in other places --- namely, institute educational Courts where these cases may be adjudicated upon. From every point of view it is bad that parents of children should be dragged to the Police Court. Honour- able members who, like myself. have frequently adjudicated upon such cases know that perhaps from twenty to thirty parents come into Court, where all kinds of cases are being heard, and they have to stand about the Court waiting for their cases to be called on, and they thus become Most of those familiarised with the Court. parents have a wholesome dread of the Court, and I think that wholesome dread ought to be main- tained, if possible. But when they are brought into the Police Court, even if it is only on account of a truancy case, that wholesome dread is apt to be lessened, if not altogether destroyed. I think that matter is worthy of the serious attention of the Government : and I hope the Government will see its way, in con- nection with our educational system, to intro- duce some mode of dealing with these cases so as to avoid dragging parents before the Police Court. I would like, also, to support the con- tention of the member for Kaiapoi, who sug- gested that it is necessary to increase in some cases the fine at present imposed in connection with truancy cases. Justices have now to impose a fine of 2s. where such breaches of the law are proved. I admit that a fine of 2s. may https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 be a heavy enough fine in many cases, but there are cases where the parents are wilfully neglect- ful, and where they absolutely fail to realise their responsibilities as parents and their duties as citizens of the State; and I think that in such cases it should be left to the discretion of the Justices to inflict a heavier fine if they I shall cordially support deem it necessary. the Bill, and I sincerely hope it will receive the assent of the House. Mr. HASELDEN (Patea) .- I shall oppose this Bill, for three reasons-first, for the reason given by the member for Palmerston with re- ference to increasing the distance to four miles. Take the case of a child that has to travel four miles to a school and four miles back to his home. That means about an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half each way-say, three hours a day. Then, there are four hours of education in the school. That makes seven hours. Then, there are perhaps two hours for milking in country districts, which makes nine hours, and at least one hour for home lessons. We prevent a working - man from working more than eight hours a day, yet child- ren are made to work practically ten hours a day. Then, I ask, what is the use of com- pelling a child to learn the population of such a town, for instance, as Timbuctoo? How does that help that child in the future, when his work is perhaps bushfelling or Mr. Collins That is the position that a child, when it has grown up to manhood or womanhood, would be placed in. There are many ways of looking at I remember an old story which education. illustrates what I mean, and I dare say most. honourable members have heard it. A vessel was wrecked, and a sailor, a university pro- fessor, and a business man were cast off in an open boat. The sailor said to the professor, " You had better be captain : you are the best man here, and you ought to be the boss." "But," said the professor, "I know nothing about the management of a boat." The busi- ness man, when appealed to, made the same rejoinder. The sailor replied, " Well, you are a pair of duffers." So, of course, the drunken sailor had to take over the control, because he was the best-educated man there. That, Sir, is my idea of education. In the olden days the Maori was the educated man in this country. He knew how to get his living. He knew how to overtake and capture the moa. He knew how to fight his enemy. We do not want to raise a lot of weak and sickly children by a system of cram, and a system of passing which is equally bad. Under the present system the schoolmaster crams the children in order that he may place a certain number of passes to the credit of his school, and the consequence is the children are overworked, because in the agricul- tural districts the children must help their parents with the milking, and so on. Where a boy or girl is endowed with great talents, I believe such children should have every advantage- they should be sent to the higher schools, and thence to college; but to attempt to stuff and cram the ordinary child with book-learning only must be injurious to the health of the child in every possible way. Then, I would not raise the standard of education any higher than the Fourth Standard, nor would I raise the age above thirteen years. Hon. MEMBERS .- Oh ! Mr. HASELDEN .-- I say, if a boy desires to learn anything after that he can do so without staving at school ; but if they have to earn their living with their hands, as I have had to earn mine, they do not require to be crammed with Latin and Greek. If a child of tender age is to be compelled to go four miles to school, then the Government should find means of conveyance The children of poor parents have not horses or ponies to ride. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City). --- Sir, when listening to the honourable member for Patea I wondered to myself whether I was living in the Georgian era. It is very refreshing some- times to hear antediluvian opinions resurrected for the benefit of the modern democracy. Need- less to say, I differ absolutely from almost every syllable the honourable gentleman uttered. The only safety of the democracy is that its people shall be educated, and I think it is rather late in the day for any one to get up in a British Parliament such as this and to say that the education of the people should be restricted to 