that they were to be taken. One was a pro- perty belonging to an absentee, and the other the case of a very old settler in Hawke's Bay named Rathbone, whose property was not more than five or six thousand acres. Neither of the properties contained much agri- cultural land, but were pastoral country; and he held that it was never intended that this Act should be worked in such a way that the ·Government could give risky prices for pro- perties of that sort. He might tell the Council that, since the Hatuma Estate had been taken over, there had been very strong feeling through- out Hawke's Bay in every little settlement and township, that they would like, as the people near Hatuma had liked, to have places sub- divided ; and in many little towns meetings had been held at which the storekeepers and residents passed resolutions declaring that they desired that such-and-such a place should be taken. This sort of thing was promoted by the compulsory clauses of the Act. He would like to tell a little story, which was perfectly true, about something which took place at one of those meetings not very long ago. At this meeting it was resolved that property " A " should be taken. This was rather a good place near the township, owned by two old gentle- men who had been there a large part of their lives, and who would soon, in the ordinary course of events, be departing this life, and, when they did, no doubt the land would be cut up in the ordinary course ; but that was not soon enough, so the land had to be taken. Then, some persons who resided in another part of the same little township said, " That is all very well, but there is another property near here we would like taken," and a resolution was proposed to move the Government to take that also forthwith. But a man present got up and said, " Stop ; this is a very unwise proceeding. These settlers who own this property are spend- ing large sums of money, and are improving their property. They have been very useful to the township for the last few years. This pear is not ripe. Let them go on and spend more money on improvements, and when the property is ready then it will be ripe to take." There was a nice sentiment! And that was the sort of sentiment that was being promoted by the compulsory clauses of the Land for Settlements Act. "Naboth's vineyard " was a very poor story compared to that. They had all heard about " Naboth's vineyard," but, in his opinion, this beat it a long way. He had said, perhaps, all he desired to say in endeavouring to show-so far as the information at the disposal of Parlia- ment enabled him-that the Act was not being worked to the best advantage of the colony. A study of the various properties that had been acquired would show that a very large propor- tion consisted of pastoral land pure and simple. This was never intended by the Act ; there was plenty of good agricultural land to be got on which the class of settlement desired could be carried out. He also urged that the provisions of the Act which were provided to enable homes to be procured for workmen were not being taken proper advantage of. Very little was being done in this direction. If he erred in his facts it was not his fault ; it was the fault of the Government not providing proper informa- tion to enable him to collect statistics. Had it not been for that he would have placed statistics before the Council to bear out what he was saying ; and if he got the return he was asking for he would make it his business to see that the figures should be made public, so that the people might see how the administration of the Act was going on. As a supporter of, and as one who believed in the usefulness of the land- for-settlement policy, if properly worked, he very much regretted to think it had not been used to the advantage of the colony. The information he had given would enable the Council, and others outside the Council, to judge how far his contentions were correct. But there was one thing in connection with the Land for Settlements Act he ought to mention, because he believed in the freehold tenure. His firm conviction was that, as the operation of the Land for Settlements Act extended-as it would doubtless extend-it would Jargely increase the number of persons holding lands under the Crown under leasehold ; and the day was not far distant when they would say, " We will have the freehold." That day was fast coming on, and the proper adminis- tration of the Act would create a large class of people in the country settled on the land as leaseholders, who only wanted to be numerous to put down this wretched system of leasehold, and insist on having a freehold. That would be the outcome of the Land for Settlements Act. He hoped the Council would agree to give the return he asked for. The information he asked for was information the Council and the colony was entitled to. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said they had just listened to a very extraordinary speech, because he did not believe such a speech had ever been delivered by an honourable gentle- man coming from any other part of the colony. The strange thing was that he came from the part of the colony where the Act was required, absolutely, to assist the district through its troubles - that was a district where the popula- tion had been stagnant for years, where the capital town was being strangled by outside towns, and where the trade and commerce and population were at a standstill because of the large amount of land held in a few hands. The great difficulty the Government felt was to get into this district, and open it up, because they had received no assistance from the people who owned the lands, or from the public spirit of the district. The honourable gentleman had made an indictment against certain villages and towns that were bold enough to hold public meetings, with a view of asking the Govern- ment that certain properties be purchased for close settlement. Well, was there anything wrong in that? He (Mr. Walker) would have thought from the necessities of the district, and certainly from the exceedingly well expressed sentiments of the honourable gentleman himself as regarded the propriety of close settlement, that 