an exception to that rule it was shown to exist in warehouses which carry on partly wholesale and partly retail trade ; but as to bona fide wholesale dealers there was no departure from the testimony I have alluded to. With regard to the offices and banks, this Bill does not provide anything which is not now the law. As a matter of fact, the whole of the provisions of the Bill as they affect banks are now included in the existing law, with the exception of clause 25, and new clause 22A, which reads,- " Payment of wages or salaries shall be made in full at weekly or other intervals as agreed on, being in no case longer than fortnightly inter- vals." The other new matter affecting banks is found in clause 25, which is a new provision put in by the Committee. Clause 25 pro- vides,- " (1.) The occupier of an office shall at all times keep a record-book, called the ' Extra- time Book,' wherein shall be entered a cor- rect record showing, in the case of each office- assistant who is employed under the last pre- ceding section, the name of the assistant, and the respective dates, periods, and purposes of such employment. "(2.) The extra-time book shall at all times be open to the inspection of the office-assistants and of the Inspector. " (3.) The Inspector may at any time require the occupier to verify the entries in the extra- time book by statutory declaration in such https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 form as may be prescribed by regulations." With the exception of these two clauses, the whole of the provisions of the Bill are now law, and have been law for some time. I am satis- / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero fied, however, as some honourable members have already stated, that the introduction of this Bill, and the discussion which has taken place on it, more especially as it affects those working in offices, will have a beneficial effect ; and therefore I would have no objection to striking out the whole of the clauses with re- gard to banks, with the exception of the clause rendering it necessary for employers to keep an " extra-time book," which should be retained. I think it is a proper thing that a book such as is provided for in the clause should be kept, not only in banks, but in warehouses also. The Labour Bills Committee were of that opinion, and they kept the clause in, so that by-and-by it could be seen to what extent extra hours are worked in these institutions. There is one point I wish to correct the Minister on, and that is when he made the statement that this system of clerks getting away on an afternoon and going back at night to make up for the time so lost was in vogue in the warehouses. As a matter of fact, no warehouse allows it, and it did not come out in evidence that such was the case in connection with the warehouses, but that it was the case in connection with the banks; and I look upon it as being a very im- proper course of conduct to take place in con- nection with any institution. I think that the clerks and others who have to conduct the business of such institutions should do so within the ordinary working-hours. To do otherwise leads to laxity of life and unsteadi- ness of conduct. You cannot allow young fellows to loiter about the streets during the time they should be at work, and then permit them to go back at night to make up for it, without undermining their perseverance and sense of the responsibilities of life's duties. I do not know that I need say anything more with regard to warehouses. I have heard it has been lately noticed that warehouses have been work- ing late. I am very glad that that statement came to my notice, because I can offer some explana- tion of it. There are two seasons in the year, and only two, in which the warehouses have to work late. That is on the 1st August and the 1st February. During the months of January and July the stock-stocking is going on, and at the end of the stock-taking -which is at the end of those months-the new season's shipments come to hand, and they have to be opened up at once. That duplicates the work of the warehouses for about a fortnight; in each of these two half-years the work is no doubt very heavy and the hours long, but, with the exception of those two seasons, there are no late hours to speak of. In connection with this, I made it my business to call on the store- man of Bing, Harris, and Co., and I asked him what number of hours he had had to work in the way of overtime during the last twelve months; and after carefully considering the matter he said he was certain he had not worked fifty hours' overtime during the whole twelve months ; and that, of course, includes the two busy seasons I have just referred to. I therefore think there is not the slightest ne- cessity for keeping warehouses in the Bill; and, if unnecessary, why have them in it? If we look around we shall see that this is certainly a very inopportune time to introduce legisla- tion having an irritating or vexatious tendency. We should, I think, rather do the reverse. I may say, if the Council thinks it desirable to strike out all the clauses relating to offices, as has been done by the Labour Bills Com- mittee with regard to warehouses, I shall have no objections, and shall vote for this to be done, provided that the clause enacting that the extra-time book shall be kept is retained. I think that would be a very proper check on the overtime system, as I believe the system hitherto in vogue in banks of allowing their young men to get away for two or three hours in the daytime should be stopped whenever it involves night-work. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON .- I had not the opportunity of being present at the last two meetings of the Labour Bills Committee. I have attended as regularly as possible-and I endeavour to attend Committees as far as I can -but I have read the evidence given before the Committee on this Bill, and, in my opinion, the Bill is not wanted at all. I do not know what the Bill is brought down for. We are told that the relations existing between employers and emploved in the cases of banks, warehouses, and offices are of such a nature that they desire to be left alone : and, if they desire to be left alone, why should we interfere with them by 