is not being used for the purpose of the dock, | the Corporation of the city. To the other point but is being sold and leased. Does any one mean to say that a public body ought to allow lands to lie idle until they are in a position to use them ? The part they have reserved for the dock the Board has made no effort to get rid of, and it will be used for the dock as soon as everything is ready. The honourable member for Wellington Suburbs can tell you far more about the intentions of the Board than I can, and, as far as that matter is concerned. I will leave it to him. But there is one thing I would like to correct the Premier in. This land is not vet let for a profit. Mr. SEDDON .- I said they had advertised it. Mr. PIRANI .- Why not wait until it is let ? Why anticipate what a public body is going to do ? As a matter of fact only one section has bien let. The whole point of this turns not on the administration of the Board, but on the ad- ministration of the Public Works Act; and I say that if these men have not got value for their lands it is the fault of the Government of the day who put that legislation on the statute- book, and it is they who ought to obey the legislation or amend the Act, and put it on the lines of justice they think it ought to be. But I know others who know the pro- ferty, and they say that the men got good compensation for all the property was worth. The property was wanted for the best of public purposes-clearing away slums, widening streets, and constructing a dock; and I would like to know for what better purpose you could use money and acquire land for. And yet you talk of dispossessing tenants. The honourable https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 member for Bruce (Mr. Allen) pointed out about the Dunedin Railway-station, and I can point out in Palmerston a whole street of cottages that were taken by the Railway Department for railway purposes, without any attempt being made to provide similar accommodation for the same tenants elsewhere. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- I desire to mike a personal explanation. I understand that, in referring to my remarks upon this Bill, the honourable member for Palmerston twitted me with having been an ardent and warm sup- porter of the original Bill when it was before the House. Mr. PIRANI .- I said you supported the second reading. Mr. FISHER .- Oh. I see; the honourable member wishes to modify what he said. With your permission, Sir, I will read what I did say. it only shows how careful one ought to be in accepting the representations of certain mem- bors in this House, particularly when they profess, as some acute lawyers do in Court, to In: reading something from a book which is not in the book at all. In Vol. 101 of Hansard, of Ius, page 489, speaking on the Wellington Harbour Board Bill, Mr. Fisher said : - "The unanimity arrived at between the bodies interested, referred to in the concluding remark of the honourable gentleman, might be taken to mean that the Harbour Board of the City of Wellington had again absorbed some other valuable portion of the assets and properties of \-that the Bill had been before the Local Bills Committee-he attached no importance what- ever, because every member of the House must know how little the general body of members of the House understood the contents and far- reaching provisions of such a Bill as this. He had no objection to any of the provisions of the Bill except to the one which enabled this, a local body, to raise a further loan of $150,000. He had a standing objection to local bodies in any part of the colony being allowed to burden themselves with loans of such a magnitude ; but in this case he intended to interpose no objection, because, on the one hand, in the case of the Harbour Board, they had a pro- gressive, virile body : on the other hand, they had an inane and inert body, the Corporation of the city." Mr. PIRANI .- Read page 500 ; you have got the wrong Bill. Mr. FISHER .- Well, at page 500 Mr. Fisher said,- " He was a little amused also at the honour- able gentleman who introduced this Bill calling it the supplement to the other one. Why, this was the Bill. The local knowledge and the knowledge of the legislation on the subject dis- played by Mr. Duthie was to him not only astounding but amusing, and he was sorry the honourable gentleman was not present. That was not his fault. He was supposed to be there in his place during the discussion of such an important Bill. He thought the honour- able gentleman said just now that he was Mayor of the city when this Te Aro Reclama- tion was carried out, and, if his recollection served him, the honourable gentleman made much the same statement during that now cele- brated by-election for Wellington City. The honourable gentleman had as much to do with the Te Aro Reclamation as many of those mem- bers who did not live in Wellington at all. At the initiation of that great scheme-for it was a great scheme-the honourable gentleman was vegetating somewhere in the neighbourhood of Wanganui, and he would tell the honourable gentleman - for he was sure the honourable member did not know it to that moment-what the history of that Te Aro Reclamation was." And then I gave the whole history of that reclamation, which I carried out from beginning to end. Mr. PIRANI .- Read page 502. Mr. FISHER .- Does the honourable gentle- man want me to read the whole volume of Hansard ? I supported the second reading be- cause it is always invidious of a member repre- senting a city to oppose a Bill promoted by a local authority. Mr. PIRANI .- You opposed the previous Bill. Mr. FISHER .- I think the honourable mem- ber is somewhat confused about these Bills. I am acquainted with the history of most of them. I may say that it has sometimes hap- pened that I have been unable to approve of all the provisions of these Bills, and, although I have often found it impossible to bring about an 