shell be obliged if the honourable gentleman will strike out the word " un nimbus." Tho Hon. Mr. JENNINGS. - I am quite willing that the word should be withdrawn. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- I may say that I am placed in a difficulty with regard to this. do not think it has at all be on unanimous. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS. -- I have just stated that I am willing that the word " unani- mais " should be exeised. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY. - Of course, it is a very desirable thing, if we could by any posible means effect it, that the lads who are inclined for a serfaring life should get the necessary training for it. Bot. Sir, the difficulty at present is that, although there is a great do mand for boys in the country districts, it is impossible to get them to leave the towns, and therefore I would ask, What boys are we to put in the training-ships ? Are they to be the boys who are sent there by the Magistrates, or are they to be volunteers. Then, I ask again, Whatt is to be the age for admission ? I do not think that any boy under the age of sixteen years is fit to go to sea in a training-ship. Well, then, boys who are sixteen years of age will get far better wages on shore than they can possibly get on any ship or stenner or training-vessel, and they would be far better treated. In any case, the life on a coasting boat is a very wretched one, and unless the boys prefer a seafaring life to a life on shore, then I do not think the training-chips as now con- ducted are of any use to the boys who wish to adopt the sea as a life work. Now, supposing that there is a training-vessel, as my honourable friend suggested, which is simply to be anchored in the harbour, how are the boys, under such cirounistances, to have the opportunity of ob- taining the training that will make them efi- cient sailors? I contend that they cannot be taught seamanship under such conditions, and that the only way to make them good sailors, and be taught practical seamanship, is to send them on a vovage. That is the proper training for sailors, to my mind, and in the absence of such training I fear my honourable friend's aspirations will not be realised. I do not object. at all to the establishment of a training-ship for boys, either as sailors or in any other way, but I think we will not get the boys to volunteer for these ships. I quite agree that boys should not have a stigma attached to them because they may have committed some offence which huis brought them into the hands of the police and before the Court. I think these boys ought to have another chance in life when they have committed some minor offence, and that thev should not be treated through life as criminals. I am afraid that this training ship will not re dise all the anticipations of my honourable friend. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON .- Most of this debate has turned on the question of boys ; but, Sir, boys become men after the lapse of a few years, and we have to consider this matter from that point of view as well. I quite agree VOL. CXVII .- 10. should be the thing. I also would like to say that, because a boy may have stolen an apple or a piece of bread, it would be unjust to have him branded as a criminal, and not allowed to earn his own living at sea or anywhere else. Of 1 course, we cannot after the rules of the British navy, but surely it is a very hard thing that, because some unfortunate bey may have been badly brought up and got a sentence for some minor offence, he cannot enter the British navy, no matter how exemplary a youth he may turn out to be. I say such a thing would be very absurd. and if the law is as has been stated, then the sooner it is altered the better. There is one thing I wish to point out, and that is this: Boys, in the natural order of things, become men in a very few years. Supposing, then, a boy. no matter how he has got into the training-ship. becomes a respectable man and leads an entirely respectable life, why should he not be allowed to join the Navy ? Ho is a man, and is doing well, and surdy there is nothing that should prevent that man joining a ship because at some time of his life he had a little black mark against his name. If a lad goes on board a training-ship, and receives there the advantage of the valuable training which I understand the Hon. Mr. Jennings has in view, and is able afterwards to take his part in the British navy, or in the mercantile marine, or in any other way, there should, and I presume there will, be nothing to prevent him joining any ship. But the argument has been, seem- ingly, that these lads must be drafted from the training-ship to the navy, and that because a lad has a little black mark against his name, according to the evidence of some, he must not be taken there-that he is on a prison-ship, as the Hon. Mr. Gourley said, and therefore must not be allowed to join the navy. Now, I think that it is altogether a mistake, as I have said before, that because a young lad has stolen an apple he should be branded all his life as a criminal. He may become a very good man- and these lads very often become good men- and as such they would have all the privileges of citizenship. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .-- Sir, a few minutes will suffice me for reply, and I shall deal with some of the objections raised by my honourable friend Mr. Scotland first. A ques- tion has been raised about boys of criminal taint not being admitted to the navy. I never urged that they should be : I endeavoured to prove to honourable members that many boys in industrial homes were neglected children, truants, and absconders from work, but they were not criminals. Why, no less a personage than Captain Cook, who is revered as one of the world's greatest navigators, has been instanced by the Hon. Mr. Scotland as one who had run away from home, and was a sort of ab-conder. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN. - . Not an absconder. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- Well, he ran away ; he shipped without the permission of his family. Sir, if any boy in this country were to do the same thing the chances are that he 