give adequate representation to the vast number of settlers who have settled in the Wellington District since the Board was constituted. To say that because of attempts in the past to delude the House, and to seek for power that was not for the public good, sufficient ground is shown to warrant a close inspection of any future legislation emanating from the Wellington Harbour Board is by inference and insinuation saying what is not in accordance with fact. Probably, Sir, 1 will find another opportunity to refer more explicitly to a particular statement made in this House, which was not only unwarranted, but which was absolutely at variance with the facts. I trust the House will pass the third reading of this Bill, and other Bills having for their purpose such fair and equitable purposes as the present Harbour Board Bill. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Inferentially the honourable member who has just sat down refers to what I said this morning in answer- ing a question. I know what he is driving at, although he has not answered the question de- finitely. I repeat that the object of the Bill of 1898 was not accomplished. Poor people were ejected from their buildings, and the land taken from them was vested in the Harbour Board ; and as far as I can hear-and I believe it is true -the Board is going to let the same land to other people, instead of using it for dock purposes, or in connection with the docks, as was stated when the Bill was passed. Mr. TANNER .- Without making any pro- vision for them ? Mr. SEDDON .- Without making any pro- vision at all. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is exactly what you are doing under the Land for Settlements http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Act. Mr. SEDDON. - No : we put and increase the people on the land. If that statement be true, then I say that a fraud has been perpetrated upon Parliament, for they got that land for the pur- pose of docks. Mr. HUTCHESON .- You do not know any- thing about it. Mr. SEDDON. - If they did not do it for that, then what did they do it for ? I can only go by the speeches, and the reasons given. If the House had been told that it was only in- tended to put tenants upon the land the Bill would never have got through. Mr. PIRANI .- It is incorrect, and you know it. Mr. SEDDON .-- All I know is that the re- ports of the Select Committee that dealt with the petitions which have been before the House stated that the people suffered an injustice, and the Committee reported that they had been un- generously dealt with. I will not use a stronger term. Those people who were cleared off the land alleged that it had not been used for the purposes for which it was taken, and they natu- rally complained that they should have been ejected from their premises, and the land cut up and was to be leased or sold for purposes similar to those for which they held it. They Mr. Hutcheson utilised for the purposes that Parliament in- tended. I will not myself go between the parties ; all I do say is this: if the land was taken for dock purposes and it has not been so utilised -and it looks very much as if it is intended that it will be simply used as an endowment to bring in rents-I say that if this should prove to be the case, then Parliament passed the Act under a misapprehension. So far as local legislation is concerned, such action will cause Parliament to be careful in regard to what powers they give local bodies in the future. I was referring to "The Wellington Harbour Board and Corporation Empowering Act. 1898." Two Acts were passed, but I think this is the one. The preamble says, -- "And whereas by an Act of the General Assem- bly of New Zealand intituled ' The Wellington Harbour Board Loans Consolidation and Em- powering Act, 1884,' the Board was empowered to construct within the Harbour of Wellington a basin, graving dock, wet-dock, or slip, and also all works necessary for the convenient, proper, and efficient working of any such basin, graving-dock, wet-dock, or slip : And whereas it has been ascertained that, owing to the recent increase in the size and number of the vessels trading to the Port of Wellington, the land described in the said Thirteenth Schedule is insufficient in area for the purposes for which the same is vested in the Board : And whereas. for the purpose of obtaining a sufficient area of land for the construction thereon of the said works, and of other harbour-works, the Board and the Corporation on the thirteenth day of June, one thousand eight hundred and ninety- eight, duly entered into the agreement set out in Schedule A hereto : And whereas it is ex- pedient that the necessary powers should be granted to enable the Board and the Corpora- tion to carry out the said agreement, 3.0. and that further powers should be re- spectively vested in the Board and the Corpora- tion." An Hon. MEMBER .- Read the rest. Mr. SEDDON .- I have read the preamble. and evidently, according to that. it is clearly set out that the land was required for dock pur- poses. Why should they want to take the land for any other purpose ? An Hon. MEMBER .- Read the clause dealing with the land. Mr. SEDDON .-- I do not know what clause the honourable gentleman wants read, but the Government department would never give power to a Harbour Board to remove people from land unless the land was really wanted for Harbour Board purposes - never simply to form an endowment for the Board ; the thing would be monstrous. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is what you are doing every year. Mr. SEDDON .- No, we do not. I have no- thing to withdraw, and shall have something more to say. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) .- I do not in- tend to take up the time of the House in regard to this Bill, but I wish to take this opportunity 