Government may choose their own time for using it. I arose, however, chiefly to draw attention to what some might perhaps call a small grievance-I say a small one, although it is a very annoying one, and one very wide- spread - in connection with the department. What the Law Officers or the Board who has charge of the advances do is this: When a mortgage is to be discharged by the Board their officers say, " We will not issue the discharge of mortgage until we actually have the cash in hand." Now, supposing a borrower sells his property to a purchaser, he has to pay off his mortgage and hand it over to the purchaser on payment of the purchase-money. The pur- chaser says, "All right, you produce your release of the mortgage. produce your convey- ance to me, and I will hand you over the money." The Advances to Settlers Depart- ment says, " No, we will not sign any release ; we will not even execute the discharge of the mortgage until the money is actually in our possession." Well, of course, honourable mem- bers who know anything whatever about busi- ness know that this is an impossible situation. The ordinary way in which these things is done is that the discharge of mortgage is prepared, the conveyance to the purchaser is prepared, and then all the parties meet at some office on a particular day, the purchase-money is handed over, the mortgage is discharged, the deeds are released, and the whole thing is settled. But this Board says, "No, we will not do https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 business in that way at all ; we will not even execute the discharge of mortgage until the actual cash is in our possession." Of course, the purchaser says, "I am certainly not going to hand over my cash until I get my convey- ance executed, and until I see the discharge of the mortgage executed." There can be no ob- jection to the execution of the discharge of the mortgage, because, at all events, under the Land Transfer Act until the discharge is registered it has no effect. If the release were executed and the money was afterwards never paid it would make no difference, because, in the first instance, the receipt or discharge would always be retained in the hands of the Advances to Settlers Department ; and if it were not regis- tered, then even if it were in anybody else's hands it would be of no avail. Now, this that I have been speaking of is a case which actually occurred. There was a hitch, of course, and the result was that the solicitors acting for the mortgagee had actually to finance the matter . themselves, to find a considerable sum of money in order that the cash might be handed over to the department before they executed the release. I have here a considerable amount of correspondence on the question, which took place between the firm of solicitors who were engaged in the transaction and the Advances Department-the firm of Messrs. Bathgate and Woodhouse, of Dunedin-and I shall be happy to show the correspondence to the honourable gentleman in charge of the Bill, or to any other members interested. It is, of course, too long to read just now ; but I would ask the attention of honourable members to one passage. The solicitor wrote to the officers of the depart- ment, and said,- " For example, if the discharged mortgage be sent to the Crown Solicitor, to be handed over to us on payment of the money to the Postmaster, we shall gladly pay his costs of attending at the post-office to settle." Practically the solicitors say. "Sign the dis- charge and let the Crown Solicitor take it to the Postmaster in the district. We shall pay the money into the post - office, and we shall pay the costs of the Crown Solicitor attending at the post-office and receiving the same " ; but the department writes back and says, " On no account can we see our way to do anything of the sort, or to depart from the rules." And then the solicitors write and say,- " If the matter cannot be arranged as we re- quested in our last, we suppose we must take steps to find the money temporarily for Mr. So-and-so, and it will facilitate matters if you will at once send the certificate of title," et cetera. And steps have to be taken to find the money temporarily. Then, here is what the Superin- tendent writes :- "I have to inform you that I cannot see my way to depart from the ordinary rule of the office requiring loans to be repaid before the discharge of the relative mortgage is executed by the Board." Now, did anybody ever hear of such a thing ? It seems to me, as it must to any man of business, to be quite indefensible, and I am quite sure that the Minister will consider whether some more businesslike method of arranging this matter cannot be adopted. The solicitors, in replying, again say, -- "Supposing, however, in this instance we send the money belonging to the lender to Mr. - to pay off the mortgage to you, and before the discharge came to hand a writ of sale at the instance of some creditor of Mr. - was lodged, we should look very foolish if all we could give our client were nothing but the un- registered discharge of your mortgage for his money. We say unregistered, for to register the discharge would only put Mr. - 's creditor in a better position." And this rule is generally adopted by the department as far as I can gather. These trans- actions are continually occurring, and they pro- bably will continue to occur more frequently in the future. I suggest, therefore, and I am sure the suggestion will receive due consideration from the Minister, that the matter might well be looked into, and a more satisfactory method of arrangement come to if possible. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- Sir, in listening to the lengthy speech from the honour- able member who introduced this Bill we heard very little of argument in favour of the Bill. The Bill, as I take it, is an amendment of the prin- cipal Act in order to allow the department to borrow a fresh sum of $2,000,000 before spend- ing the original $3,000,000 granted to them by the Act of 1894. Now, it seems to me that the Hon. the Minister did not show any reason or cause-in fact, I do not know that he addressed 