tenants can borrow on their improvements, it is our duty to give them every assistance we can to enable them to get the money on the best possible terms. An Hon. MEMBER .- Where can they get the money from ? The Hon. Mr. W. KELLY .- From the people living in the district. They do not need to go to the large cities to get it. There is plenty of money in the districts to lend to the small settlers. I know settlers who have applied to the Advances to Settlers Department and have been refused, and have got the money from people in the district. I intend to support the Hon. Colonel Pitt in his proposition to have this Bill recommitted, so that the clause may be altered ; and I hope honourable gentlemen will think well over it, and give the small settlers an opportunity of getting money on the most reasonable terms. The Hon. Mr. LOUISSON. - I think we should be very careful, and that every restric- tion should be placed in this Act against any trafficking in this land. The principle of obtain- ing land by the Government to sell in small sections is a very good one. and has been found to work admirably in the past; and the Government or Parliament has surrounded the Act with certain safeguards to prevent those people who have obtained the land from parting with it very casily, and I think it is only right that that principle should be continued. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 I am not aware, Sir, that there is any alteration of the present law involved in this Bill. Clause 11 seems very drastic at first, but it is con- siderably modified by the second portion of the clause, which provides that "on the death of a lessee, or on the happening of any ex- traordinary event which. in the opinion of the Land Board of the district in which the land is situated, renders a transfer necessary or ex- pedient. a transfer of the lease may, with the sanction of the Board and the Minister of Lands, be made." That leaves a great deal of power in the hands of the Land Board, which up to the present time, I believe. they have used very carefully and very legitimately ; and there is no reason to believe that if any particular circumstances occurred which they thought would entitle the holder of the land to transfer they would put any technical ob- jections in the way. If a lessee, after having been on the land a certain time and having made certain improvements, finds that he is not in a financial position to carry on, he can go to the Land Board, and he can surrender bis lease and get value for his improvements. What can be fairer than that ? It seems to me, Sir, that if a man goes on to a section of land with the idea of his ability in the first instance to carry through, and he finds afterwards that he is not in a position to carry on without going to the money - lenders, I think the very best thing he can do is to surrender his lease, and get a return of the amount he has laid out in mprovements, and let some other man try if he can carry out the lease successfully. In the first instance, the Land Board, I understand, Hon. Mr. W. Kelly takes every precaution to see that the appli- cant is in a fairly good position to carry out the conditions of the lease; and I suppose it would only be in exceptional instances where their opinion will prove erroneous, and the man will not be in a position to carry out the conditions of his lease. But if you relax any of the restrictions which now surround the prin- ciple of the Bill, I think you will open the way to a lot of trafficking in these sections which was never intended when this principle was first adopted in the Acts that are already in force. Then, as regards this Bill itself, there <!-- PageHeader="\- --" --> is nothing in the measure which absolutely prevents a man borrowing money on his lease. It simply says that he shall not transfer his lease. There are many ways of borrowing money on a lease without absolutely trans- ferring the lease. An Hon. MEMBER .- The Government do not want him to transfer his lease. The Hon. Mr. LOUISSON .- Exactly. This clause simply says that he shall not transfer. Unless you are going, in the proposed new clause, to empower the lessee to borrow money, I do not see that it affects this clause any more than any other clause. I think the best policy would be to adhere to the principle upon which these Acts were passed in the first instance. I think the principle was that the holders of these leases should not be allowed to part with them very easily, except through the Land Boards themselves. The machinery has been provided that where a lessee finds himself in difficulties the Land Board may deal with the matter ; they can take over his lease on the most liberal terms-that is, give him full value for his improvements. Now, I will ask honourable members whether the lessee is likely to get such liberal treatment as that from a mortgagee or money-lender. Supposing the lessee borrows, and goes on for another twelve months, and then finds himself in further difficulties, is it at all likely that he would receive the same liberal treatment from the lender of money as is held out to him under the Bill ? I think not, Sir. I think the result would be that he would lose his land and his improvements also. Apart from that, I think. if you once introduce the principle of allowing lessees to deal with leases outside the Land Board, you are simply introducing the principle of trafficking in the land, which was never in- tended. I shall certainly oppose the recom- mittal of the Bill if it is for the purpose of introducing any means of allowing lessees to deal with the leases outside the Land Boards. \- The Council divided on the question, "That the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the question." AYES, 19. Kelly, T. Shrimski Arkwright Smith, A. L. Parnicoat Kerr Bolt Smith, W. C. Louisson Feldwick Pinkerton Swanson Reeves Jenkinson Tomoana Walker, W. C. Jennings Rigg Jones 