was an absolute necessity. The provision was avowedly and designedly inserted to enable the Government to transact the business of the country-to prevent the ordinary daily business of the country from being " bailed up " by the Auditor-General. I have not the least desire to make any attack on the Auditor-General. I speak without the least warmth of feeling, but I say, and I say it strongly and with full deliberation, that the idiosyncrasies of that gentleman are such that it would be impossible to transact the business of the country unless the Government were armed with such a power as is contained in the Act of last session. Now, speaking from a knowledge of the history of this Parliament for the past thirty years, I say there never was a time when the tension be- tween the Auditor-General and the Government was so great. I am speaking now in quite an impersonal sense. I am not speaking of this Government or of this Auditor-General. Sir, we had in the predecessor of the 10.0. present Auditor-General a man of commanding intellect-a man who took a high and broad view of his duties and responsi- bilities. He did not take out his magnifying- glass to see whether there was a comma here or a comma there. He took from the spirit of the Act its broad interpretation. He applied to the machinery of the Act the hand of a master, so that the Government could carry on the business of the country with justice, with facility, and with ease. In the case of such a man, I would give him all the powers the Act intended him to exercise as a patent officer, with the view of assisting the Govern- ment and protecting the Parliament; but I would not confer those powers upon every man, / http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero irrespective of the capabilities and the tempera- ment of the individual. I would not grant those powers to a man of peevish nature, who would suddenly call upon the Government to back engines - to stop the machinery of government-in order to consult Parliament upon some pragmatic or pernickety point which any large-minded man would settle In the case of a man in a few minutes. like James Edward FitzGerald, I can under- stand that he should have power to say " No," as the member for Wakatipu puts it, and that when he said "No" the Govern- ment should understand that the interests of the colony demanded that the dictum of the Auditor-General should be respected. I draw a wide distinction between the character of mind and the qualifications of the two men. Now, the honourable member for Bruce, in speaking of the $40 vote and other votes, said that these things could not have been done except for the alteration of the Public Revenues Act, by which the Governor in Council was allowed to step in and say that certain payments should be made, notwithstanding that Parliament had made no provision for such payments. Sir, it was a wise act on the part of this House to empower the Governor of the colony so to intervene. The honourable member for Wakatipu also told us that the Auditor-General was a person whom Mr. Fisher My contention is that the point of impingement is as to the qualifications and the temperament of the man. We have it said that the Solicitor- General and the Public Trustee are against the Auditor-General. That is true. The Solicitor-General and the Public Trustee are barristers of the Supreme Court of New Zea- land. Why are they against the Auditor- General ? Is it suggested that they oppose the opinions of the Auditor-General to gratify some personal feeling ? Surely that cannot be. They have given their professional opinions with a due sense of their professional status, and without any regard to their personal or pri- vate feeling toward the Auditor-General. The fact that these eminent barristers are op- posed to the views of the Auditor-General goes to show-and their view is confirmed by other able lawyers - that indubitably the Auditor-General must be in the wrong. And then comes the consideration which ought to guide the House in this matter. It is this: In a nutshell, the Auditor-General declines to accept the decision of any lawyer in this land. What, then, is the position of the Government ? They take the opinion of the Law Officers of the Crown. That is of no avail. They are so hampered by these tags and interrogatories which come from the Auditor-General's office that the business of the Government is brought to an absolute standstill. To strengthen their position and to insure that they shall do nothing wrong they take the opinion of emi- nent counsel outside the Government depart- ments. Well, what effect has that upon the present Auditor-General ? Mr. SEDDON .- None whatever. Mr. FISHER .- And yet one can plainly see. from what takes place at the meetings of the Public Accounts Committee, that if the Govern- ment-and I am very careful not to give any personal tinge to what I say- if the Government had not incorporated that power in the Act of last session it would have been absolutely im- possible to transact the business of this country with safety to the country. The time of the Public Accounts Committee is wholly taken up with these needless objections of the Auditor- General - and, at the risk of wearying the House by iteration and reiteration, I am careful to say that I have no personal feeling again i the gentleman who holds this office ; but it is these irritating objections, in which few can ste any point or purpose except to cause friction between Government and Parliament, that ute objects to. Then, Sir, I ask if it is right that the business of the country shall be constantly stuck up in this way? If the objections were urged in any wide spirit no member of the Committee would offer the least objection. The member for Palmerston says that the Public Accounts Committee is the Government's public cemetery. I do not see much point in the remark. The Public Accounts Committee is useful in this sense, if in no other : It disposes of these eccentric points which are continually being raised by the Auditor-General ; it enables the Government to go on with the business of 