the note-issue is on a gold basis. In Belgium there is a bank of issue, which has been in existence since 1850. It is a State bank for public and private business, and the paper there is issued on a gold basis. In Austro- Hungary, the issue there is under Stare control, and the State shares in the profits of the bank. The notes are issued there on a gold basis. In Norway they have two State banks, and they also issue on a gold basis. I might enumerate a number of other countries in which the State has a direct control over the currency with regard to the issue of notes and shares in the pro:its which the bank makes out of the com- mimity. And in this connection, in addition to showing the great advantages and the great profits which arise out of banking, and seeing that the Government policy has been to establish State fire insurance, so that the charges for fire insurance might be reduced to the community, it seems to me that a monopoly of this character should not have the control of our currency, and be able to create loans in favour of the Govern- ment ; and that means the earning of an enormous amount of money, and I hold that it is a mono- poly that the Government of New Zealand should tackle. I firmly believe, if a vote were taken of the electors of New Zealand, there would be an overwhelming majority in favour of the State having the right to issue the notes, and in favour of the State establishing a State bank. At the time of the declaring of a dividend for the April quarter the banks had in reserve profits nearly three millions and a quarter, and the amount of the dividend for the four banks https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1. 32106019788246 -of course, the Bank of New Zealand did not pay a dividend amounted to $242,500. This will give an idea as to the very profitable character of this business. Now, Sir, with / http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero regard to the way the banks act with regard to the currency, if honourable members will take a bank-note from their pockets -- I am sure there are still some in this Chamber-on examination they will find on some of them " We promise to pay on demand here." That is dated Auckland. On others they will see " We promise to pay here . Wellington " ; and on others we find " We promise to pay," without any locality being named. That latter note can be cashed any- where. But suppose a man at the Bluff had ten Bank of New Zealand notes, or notes of any other bank, and they were dated from Auckland, and he goes to the bank and wants those notes cashed. If the bankers are in any difficulties with regard to gold in that particular bank, or if the bank is in any straits with re- gard to redeeming its notes, it may absolutely refuse to cash any one of those notes. That is the position our currency is in, and I say this House has no right to leave the currency in that position -- that private trading institutions can, if they do not conduct their businesses in a careful way, depreciate the currency of this country. And they can do it as things are at present. If notes are dated from Auckland i down (Mr. Ell). I believe the honouralle and are presented at the Bluff, what right have we to give the bank the power of saying, " You must take those notes or post them to Auck- 'terests of the country in which he lives. We Mr. Ell I say we have no right whatever ; and, Sir, I make no apology for pressing my opinion on this question under the notice of this honourable House, and I make no apology to honourable members who have twitted me with having State bank on the brain. It is a question that will have to be faced by this House in the near future, and, if the House rises to the interest of the trading community, it must take steps in the immediate future to have a stronger grip of the currency of the country ; and, in addition to t' at, it must take power to create credit in favour of itself, and that can be done by a State bank. It was done by the Belgian Government. When the Belgian Government started the construction of their railways it had only a small surplus in band. But they had a State bank. There is no neces- sity for flooding the country with paper money. You want to adopt the same practice as the banks themselves. The Belgian bank simply created credit in favour of the Belgian Govern- ment, and the Belgian Government operated on that credit in the same way that the Advances to Settlers Department operated on the $230.0 \*) credit that the Bank of New Zealand created in favour of that department ; and all that I am asking is that the State shall establish a State bank under proper safeguards, which w uld then be able to create credit in the same way and just as readily as the Bank of New Zealand created credit in favour of the Government. To give you an idea that our currency 11.0. is not all it should be now, I went to the Bank of New Zealand to cash my cheque last month. I asked for eighteen sovereigns and two in silver, and I was refused it over the counter. And the late Hon. Mr. Bathgate gives another case, in which he presented a pound- note to a bank, and they said they could not cash it. If it is only in isolated cases like this it would not disturb the position of the country. but if a number took place a panic might arise. As I have shown, we have thirteen millions at call in the Post Office Savings-Bank and the pri- vate banks, and only two millions of gold in the country, and if a panic were to start it might bring about a disastrous result, unless the Government assumed the responsibility and de- clared the notes of the banks legal tender. I do hope that this matter will receive very careful and serious attention of the members of this House in the very near future. So far as I am concerned. I do not intend to leave the matter alone, and I am prepared to co-operate with members to bring about what I consider a very desirable change in the condition of our cur- rency, and our method of creating credit to carry on public works and other institutions in New Zealand. Mr. LAWRY (Parnell) .- I do not suppose i there is any member of the House who does not ; realise the earnestness and honesty of purpose ! of the honourable member who has just eat gentleman is fired with patriotism. I believe he desires earnestly to advance the best in- 