Zealand alike, we shall insist upon that very thing being done. Now, I ask why that should be so in relation to this particular matter. Surely the provisions of the original Act, read together with the amending Act, are sufficiently easy to enable every part of the colony to adopt the system of rating on the unimproved value if it so thinks fit. As a matter of fact, the honourable member for Bruce has shown what is the fact : that in a very large majority of the instances where polls have been taken this system has been adopted. Well, then, it is therefore evidently probable that, in the course of a very short time a large majority of the local governing districts of New Zealand will have adopted the Act. Then, Sir, I could understand, if, say, three-quarters of New Zea- land were under the operation of the system of rating on the unimproved values, the Go- vernment bringing down a provision to make it compulsory, in order that there should be uniformity, and that the minority should be brought into line with the majority. But, Sir, as matters now stand it is only in a minority of instances that the unimproved value system has been adopted, and there is ample power for every part of the colony to adopt that system if it so desires. Indeed, I believe it will not be very long before a large majority of the local government districts in the colony do so adopt it. Therefore I cannot see that there is any justification for the first proposal of the Bill-that is to say, to override the discre- tion of the people, and to insist upon them, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 whether they like it or not, adopting this system. With regard to the second proposal- namely, that when the rating on the unim- proved value system has been by this Act brought into operation all over the colony there shall remain an option to the local governing bodies to bring all classes of rates under it or not-I mean the classes of rates referred to in section 20 of the original Act-I think, Sir, that in this respect the honourable gentleman is inconsistent with himself, that the second is inconsistent with his first proposition. If he desires that the system of rating on the unim- proved values should be compulsorily applied, then, Sir, I think he should have gone the length of making it compulsory as regards every class of rates-that he ought not first of -all to make the system compulsory throughout the c .lony, and then retain the optional clauses in regard to the class of rates mentioned in section 20-namely, gas rates, hospital rates, waterworks rates, electric light rates, sewage rates, chari- table aid rates, and so on. What I think should be done is this: that subsection (1) of clause 1, which proposes to make the system compul- sory throughout New Zealand, should be struck out, and that subsection (2) should be altered, simply to the effect of the repeal of section 20 of the original Act. It would then follow that whenever the system of rating on the unim- proved value was adopted in any district that system would apply to all classes of rates in that district ; and when the ratepayers go to the poll on the question of the adoption of this knowing that they were voting for or against a system which would be applied to all classes of rates in their district. Now, Sir, I wish to allude to one other point, and that is this : that whereas the intention of the rating on the un- improved value system is to discourage the holding of land for speculative purposes, its: operation necessarily is to increase relatively the rating upon unimproved land and unoc- cupied land. Now, that may be all very well,. and, I believe, right within certain boundaries, to the extent that it discourages holding land for speculative purposes; but, while that is so, yet, Sir, this system operates prejudicially in respect to certain other lands which cannot by any possibility be used for building purposes. I allude to such lands as agricultural and pas- toral associations' reserves for showgrounds, racecourses, et cetera. It is impossible to suppose that the intention of the Legislature is to compel lands of that sort to be built upon. These lands would, indeed, be of no use whatever for the special purposes for which they are intended if they were built upon. The same thing applies to cricket- grounds and all grounds used for public recreation purposes ; and how largely the rating on the unimproved value system has increased the rates upon such properties may be instanced by one or two cases in my own district. In fact, my attention has been drawn to this state of things : In the neighbourhood of Waimate there is a reserve held as a showground by the Agricultural and Pastoral Association. On this showground the Association paid, under the old rating system, 18s. per annum, and they are now paying, under the rating on unim- proved value system, which has been adopted in the district, the sum of $4 8s. 7d. per annum. Then, as regards the racecourse, the trustees paid, under the old system, $2 10s. per annum, and they are now called upon to pay no less than $20 10s. 10d. per annum, or nearly ten times as much. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why should they not ? Major STEWARD .- I think it is not at all desirable that they should be called upon to pay so much ; and, moreover, the local governing body does not think so either-in fact, it is, I understand, quite willing to forego the addi- tional rate. I hope that such cases will be adjusted by some such clause as I have given notice of-namely, that where the rating on the unimproved value system is in operation public reserves and lands which are used solely for purposes of public convenience and advantage should be exempt from rating. This would not make much difference to the total rates of the local governing bodies ; and when the Bill is going through Committee I shall endeavour to add a clause to give effect to what I desire. But I think the Government would do well to with- draw that portion of the Bill which proposes to make the system compulsory throughout New Zealand, and to restrict its scope to the making the system operative where the unimproved value system is adopted in respect to rates of every kind. 