consider to be beneficent conditions-benefits that they do not want ? They have told us that they do not want them. The Minister says that we must read within the lines. I say that we have a right to read the evidence, but cer- tainly no evidence has come before us to war- rant us passing such a Bill as this. It has been said already by the Hon. Mr. Lee Smith that he presented a number of petitions against the proposed operation of this Bill, wherein the petitioners asked for relief from the operation of the Bill. I have also presented a number of petitions-not so many as the honourable gentleman-but in every instance these peti- tions were signed largely by the employés, who prayed to be left alone ; they stated that they were very well contented with the present con- ditions, and said, " Leave us alone." As a very old trade-unionist, and one who has taken a lively interest in all measures for the ameliora- tion of the workers, I have always done my level best to procure what benefits I could for all concerned-in fact, I have made it the one rule that any union desiring to be affiliated with a central body, and to obtain the benefits of that central body, should be manly and straightforward enough to say what they wanted. I think the bank clerks and the officers in warehouses are manly enough and firm enough to say what they want. They have done so; and they have told us in their petitions that they want to be left alone ; and if they want to be left alone, and are manly enough to adhere to that request, I think this Council should leave them alone. Why should we endeavour to destroy the relations now existing between the employers and employés so long as both parties are satisfied? If one party represented to us that they were not satisfied, then I, for one, would stretch a point to relieve them from the disabilities they were suffering under; but, as I have said, surely these men know best what they want, and it is not for us to say what they want. We must read the evidence, and go upon the evidence which is put before us. In respect to some cases we may have different information, but reading between the lines it does not appear that there are conditions existing in this par- ticular branch of employment that should not exist. I have heard, and I dare say other honourable members have heard, some com- plaints that have come to them from clerks in offices; but those men have never come for- ward or formulated their complaints in any way, and, as they have said what they wanted, I think it is wrong for us to endeavour to force any conditions on them, or to seek to alter their conditions from what they are at present. I do not see what the Bill is wanted for. I shall not oppose it going into Committee, but there are certain clauses which very likely I shall oppose. With regard to warehouses, I cannot imagine why warehouses should be exempted and other institutions kept in. On going round the town, as most of us do in the evening, we often see lighted windows in warehouses until a very late hour. I was in Hon. Mr. Pinkerton streets at night just to see where the lights. were, and I saw a great many lights in the windows of the warehouses, not only in the offices, but also in the other departments of the warehouses. I could name some of them, but I suppose that would not be fair ; and I say that, if the warehouses are to be struck out, surely the banks should be struck out also. The Shops and Shop-assistants Act is working very well, and I think we are going to do a great deal of mischief to our workers by agi- tating in the way we are doing, and stretching the Act to an extent that was never intended, unless we can show some good cause for it. The Hon. Mr. LOUISSON. - Sir, I must confess I do not like this Bill at all, and my dislike to it has been very much strengthened by the opinions of people I have spoken to. Nearly every person you converse with in con- nection with politics at all will tell you how very much he dislikes this particular Bill, and how unnecessary he thinks it is. There seems to be a general consensus of opinion outside Parliament that this Bill is not required, that things are working very well at the present time, and that there is an excellent feeling between employers and employés, and that it would be injudicious to have any further en- actments which are likely to destroy these rela- tions. Now, with regard to the petitions that have been presented from time to time to this Council against this Bill, the figures given by my honourable friend Mr. Jennings are most extraordinary. He tells us that out of 1,003 bank clerks in the colony, 967 have petitioned against this Bill. Why, Sir, we may say that it is a unanimous vote of the whole staff of the bank officials of this colony. I believe the present policy of the Government, and the policy of all well-wishers of the country. is "Trust the people." Well, here, in round numbers, are a thousand officials-the whole of them -- who tell us exactly what they want ; and are we to turn round and say, "No, we will not trust you. You do not know what you want. We know what you want better than you do." Now, Sir, I could understand that position if there was no unanimity amongst these officials-if there was a small majority of them against the Bill. But I take these figures to mean an absolutely unanimous vote and ex- pression of opinion of the whole of the bank clerks of the colony. Out of all the bank clerks and officials in the colony there are thirty-six who did not sign these petitions, and we may reasonably take it for granted that these thirty- six were either away or incapacitated from signing. At any rate, if it was absolutely necessary to get a unanimous opinion from any section of the people on a particular subject, I do not think you could go very much nearer than you have done here. where you have a vote of 967 out of 1,003. That same argument, I think, refers to the warehouses, because al- though the petitions have not come in so nume- rously from these persons, still, I believe they are practically unanimous. I really think it would be unwise to force legislation of this. 