proper functions and its proper power in the administration of the public funds, that I gave no explanation as to anything of which the House had been deprived. What I was refer- ring to was that for over twenty years the prac- tice had been by the late Auditor-General to accept the general Appropriation Act as a specific appropriation of the items contained in the estimates voted by the House, and the present Auditor-General had taken a new course of not allowing any item to pass which was voted by this House if he considered it incon- sistent with fixed statutory appropriations. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I crave the indul- gence of the House to refer to a remark of the honourable member for Wellington City, Mr. Hutcheson. That honourable gentleman said that I had made a promise which I had failed to keep. When he made it I did not have the Hansard at hand, but I have now got it. The point at issue was the voting of fees to Judge Edwards, and I spoke as follows :- "This was only a temporary arrangement, until legislation could be passed next year to provide for a Judge of this Court. He quite agreed with the honourable member for Riccar- ton that it ought to be done by statute. They ought to have a Judge of the Supreme Court to act as President of this Court, as it gave con- fidence both to the workers and the employers. If you took an ordinary individual and made him President of the Court, there would not be that confidence. The question now was a temporary arrangement pending the Legisla- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 ture dealing with the matter next year. The question would have to be dealt with, either by the appointment of another Judge, or the fixing of the salary to be paid for these services. would have to be dealt with by Act." And after the item had been carried in the House I found that the honourabie member had himself voted for this improper business. I added that it would not continue further until legislation was provided. I provided that legis- lation-not the Public Revenues Act, but the amended Conciliation and Arbitration Act. ] did this as regards the Judges; and under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act we are to-day paying this additional sum-€2 2s. a day-to him for every day he sits. The Act itself fixes his salary at ₺1,500 a year. The promise I made I fully conformed to, and this Public Revenues Act has nothing whatever to do with the matter. The whole thing has been legislated for ; and the House passed it, and, what is more, the legisla- tion referred to was agreed to by the honourable member for Wellington City himself. Mr. ATKINSON .- What section of the Act ? Mr. SEDDON. - I refer to the section of the Act that states that the President of the Arbitration Court shall be a Judge of the Supreme Court. It also states that the President must be paid fees. By two Acts of Parliament you say that the President must be a Judge of the Supreme Court, and, secondly, that you must pay him fees. It would there- fore be contrary to an Act of Parliament if he were to perform his duties without fees. Mr. Napier I rise by way of personal explanation. The Premier accuses me of having voted for this "improper " thing. First of all, I did not at that time consider it was improper, and, further, here is what I said about it :- "Mr. J. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) said it must have been abundantly clear to the Premier for some time that this climax was coming, through the inability of the Judges to keep up to the work. And it was necessary that a special Judge should be appointed for the work." In that respect I agreed with my then col- league for the city, Mr. Duthie, who said : " It appeared to him that if this money were not voted it would render the Judge dependent on the Ministry, and he would therefore rather vote the money." That was the view I took : but that was not where the offence rose. As I said, the Premier promised then nine times that it was only a temporary expedient. That was in 1899. Last year he did not fix by law any increase of salary at all. On the contrary, in the Act that the Premier has quoted to us the only part that makes reference to the payment of fees is section 112, subsection (S), which says,- "The Governor from time to time may make regulations for any of the following purposes : - " (8.) Prescribing what respective fees shall be paid to the members of the Court (other than the President) and to the members of the Board." Thus the wording of the Act directly and distinctly prohibits the payment of fees to the President, because it was thought in- decent to have a Judge of the Supreme Court It dependent upon the Ministry or the House for any emolument in the shape of fees. In-tead of fixing by statute the fees of the Judge of the Arbitration Court, he was deterred by Parla- ment, and what the House objected to was the continuance of the sum on the estimates of last year, which the Premier himself repeatedly and apologetically begged the House to let him get away with. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - I do not know why the honourable member will continue to wil- fully misrepresent. The reason for taking that vote last session was that the Controller and Auditor-General declined to pass the amount. although we had voted it in 1899. It had therefore to be revoted last year. That is why the Conciliation and Arbitration Act was altered. and the Controller and Auditor-General has ! ! since then raised any questions as to the pa :. ment of the Judge's fees. The payments have been made by an Act of the Legislature, and they will continue to be made. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty). - I went; just like to point out that, with regard to what has been mentioned by the Premier in reste: to Judge Edwards's fees, two returns are shown in last year's estimates. The one is a sum of $500, the other a sum of £331. Mr. SEDDON .- One was in 1899, and :be other was in 1900. AMr. HERRIES .- The sum on the 1 .. 