what had already been said by previous speakers. He considered the greatest facility should be afforded parents to protest against their children being vaccinated. Many people believed that the true remedy for small-pox was inoculation, and that it was a sufficient remedy; but he was sorry to say he had seen diseases that had resulted to young children from the effects of vaccination. He did not consider it was fair to cast the duty on Magis- trates of taking evidence and making declara- tions. They were already overworked. It was also unfair to ask that parents should have to travel a long distance, as they would have to do in many cases, to see a Magistrate. A simple declaration by a parent before a Justice of the Peace that the parent was unwilling to have his children vaccinated should be quite sufficient. It would answer all purposes, it would give little trouble to anybody, and it would give satisfaction to the public. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) hoped the Minister would carry the restrictive clause. This was a maudlin age, and anything in the shape of restrictions were irksome to certain people. They all knew the enormous benefit that vaccination had been to the world. Hon. MA.MBERS .- Question. Mr. T. MACKENZIE said it was all very well for honourable gentlemen to say "Ques- tion," but it was beyond dispute that vaccina- tion had been of vast advantage to humanity. Yet now there were a lot of sentimentalists who wanted to extend every facility of evading what had been proved to be of great use to humanity. The whole of the arguments they had used had been directed rather against impure lymph that might have been intro- http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero duced than against the Act ; but it appeared to him that if proper precautions were taken, such as one might expect would be taken by the Health Officer the colony now possessed -- Dr. Mason, a gentleman who was pains- taking in every respect-the result would be to the advantage of the people, and not to their disadvantage, and at the same time a very useful Act would not be evaded. The honour- able member for Nelson City said he had seven children, and that they were grown-up and ex- ceedingly healthy, although they had not been vaccinated. Well, he (Mr. Mackenzie) also had seven children, all vaccinated, and he ventured to say they were as healthy as the honourable member's, or any honourable member's who were vaccinated. It seemed to him that the result of any laxity would be that, if small-pox should unfortunately come to the colony, those persons who were supposed to be more con- siderate to their children than those who be- lieved in vaccination would be the very ones who would spread the disease throughout the length and breadth of the colony. He ventured to say that if they were going to extend the facilities as suggested by the honourable member for Wanganui and the honourable member for Nelson City, it would be better to wipe the Act out of existence altogether. He saw no reason why a minority of the people maintain the health of the country when four- fifths were allowed to escape. The view he held on the matter was that if people wanted exemption, and had conscientious scruples, they should go to a Magistrate. That was done in England ; and he knew that such an exten- sion of facilities as honourable members were urging now had led to very considerable alarm in Great Britain, and, owing to the vast num- ber who now escaped from vaccination, it was feared that if an epidemic broke out to any extent it would have a much more extensive field for operation than would be the case if all these people had been vaccinated. He thought insistence on the purity of the lymph and the way in which it was used should occupy the attention of the Government rather than an extension of facilities for exemption from vac- cination. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) said he would sup- port the opposition to the provision, introduced in another place, that only Magistrates should have power to exempt parents from the obliga- tion to have their children vaccinated. He felt amused at the alacrity with which honourable members had taken the opportunity of adver- tising their contributions to the birth-rate. He was not going to record the self-praise he might But he had been particu- adduce in this respect larly impressed with the silence that had been ob- served by the Minister of Justice on this subject. Science had taught them enough to convince them that every parent ought to be very careful indeed over having his children vaccinated. The remark made by the honourable member for Waihemo -- that the fact that the Medical Super- intendent of the colony was an able man would be a sufficient guarantee that the lymph would in all cases be pure-was sheer nonsense. It was not possible for any medical man to be able to say there might not be bacterial germs lurking in the veins of any individual which might be inimical to the health of an infant who was His vaccinated from such a person's arm. belief in the matter - and he thought it was also pretty well the consensus of medi- cal testimony - was that it would be advis- able for the Government not to allow any child to be vaccinated except with lymph from heifers. There would be a certainty of immunity from disease which was known to lurk in the human subject, even from genera- tion to generation, and he hoped the Govern- ment would accept the suggestions made by the honourable member for Napier, by rather en- larging the opportunities for parents to be ex- empted. He could not but think that members who devised the restrictive forms of interference with the personal convenience of citizens must have an experience that had been limited to city life, for they seemed quite oblivious to the difficulties which existed in some parts of the colony in getting access to Magistrates. In some parts of his electorate it would be a serious task to have to reach a Magistrate to obtain an exemption. These were matters that required attention, and the Minister should feel rather pleased that members had afforded him, 