power in an Assembly like this. Some honour- ! who hold large areas that they are not able able members are unable to withstand the ! or do not care to cultivate, who are waiting chameleon-like influence of a little power and responsibility. Mr. HORNSBY .- I' is the line of demarca- tion. Mr. HOGG .- There is no doubt about it : it is a very strong line of demarcation. The honourable member talked about the small tenants with short leases and very few improve- ments. Has he ever asked himself the reason why there are so few improvements under those circumstances ? Is it not because the landlord . land, and building houses for their families ? refuses to compensate the tenant for his im- ; provements in the first place, and because the local body subjects him to a penalty the moment ! sheds for their cattle and stock, who put up good he effects them? We have this experience ! fences and employ labour, who suffer? These pretty well all over the country. So long as you have the present system of local taxa- tion prevailing over New Zealand expenditure will be discouraged, and we shall continue to have the small tenants with short leases and very few improvements. An honourable member remarked that in large centres one side of a street is found to be worth double or three times the other. This applies to prin- ciples just as it does to property. There are : provisions of the original Act, in several places, always several sides to a question, and we have heard one side very well argued this afternoon. But I would ask members who have made use ! of certain arguments against the principle in- volved in this Bill to seriously reflect. They will find if they do so that beyond their specious pleas there is another very big side to the ques- i now. tion. We fine a man for breaking the law ; we ! https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 fine a man for drunkenness, if he thrashes his ! wife, if he commits an assault, if he perpetrates robbery, or otherwise breaks the laws of the t will be carried, as it would have been before country : but do we not also fine a man im- i had the law been as it is at the present time. mediately he erects a dwelling, a warehouse, a factory, and introduces machinery ? I ask whether it is just or right to continue to act in this extraordinary manner ? Is there any rea- son, I ask, why we should discourage in centres of population the employment of architects, of bricklayers, of builders, of carpenters, of plumbers, of painters, of glaziers, of workmen : of nearly every description ? And that is what i has received a fair trial, and if it was not a suc- the men who are building in Wellington and the other chief centres are doing at present. i Directly they commence to spend money in this way, what happens ? Does not the local body or the Government send a valuer along. ! and up goes the value of their property, and they are penalised and have to pay a heavy perpetual tine annually for daring to erect a building ? Is that fair? Is it just ? Is it reasonable? I contend that it is not. Why not take the rates off labour and put them : ment has proved the success which, I think, on the land - value ? It is one method of getting a little of the uncarned increment | ment endeavour to make it universal ? What for the benefit of the working community. By the existing process of discouraging enter- prise you force down wages and reduce the pro- fits of labour and capital. You force up rents in the same proportion. Then, Sir, with regard to the farmers : If we take the country and leave the towns altogether, who are the men Mr. Hogg for roads to be made, bridges to be built, and all kinds of improvements to go on all round them -- waiting till the population cries aloud for elbow-room owing to the congestion in the cities, and until the value of the land is enormously forced up? Are these men penalised, or do they escape taxation ? Will it be denied that they escape their fair share of local taxation, or that the men who are penalised are the small farmers who are making improvements, residing on the Is it not men of a kind, generous, and enter- I prising disposition, who build good outhouses and men are penalised in proportion to the amount of money and labour they spend upon their hold- ings. These are the people who are chiedy taxed by the local bodies. There is no novelty about this proposal ; the Bill merely proposes to make the system universal. We have had a trial of it now in New Zealand for several years. It has been optional for the ratepayers to bring it into force : but, unfortunately, owing to the such as Masterton, a borough in part of my electorate, although nearly every one who voted at all voted in favour of it, the number of votes was not sufficient to carry the system into operation. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is not the case Mr. HOGG .- No, it is not the case now ; and I believe in a few days it is intended to have another poll taken, when I have little doubt it An Hon. MEMBER .- Why not make it com- pulsory ? Mr. HOGG .- That is what the Bill proposes. We have had these experiments for a number of years. It has been tried by the local bodies at Eketahuna, at Pahiatua, at Palmerston North. and at Taratahi-Carterton, a district represented by the honourable member for Wairarapa. It \-- cess the ratepayers have had an opportunity of altering it or of expressing their disapproval of it ; but they have not done so in a solitary in- stance, and there is no proposal to revert to the old order of things. I have not heard that in any place where it has been tried there is the slightest disposition on the part of the local authorities or the ratepayers to go back to the : old system of rating. If there is no wish what- ever to do anything of the kind, and the experi- is demonstrated, why should not the Govern- does the proposal amount to, after all ? It is i merely an adjustment of the common burden on equitable principles. I am astonished that labour representatives, such as the honour- able member for Avon, should actually wish to retain the huge weight of local taxation on the back of labour. I have studied this ques- 