and I shall accordingly vote in the direction of killing the Bill and keeping our present per- missive legislation in force. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) .- Sir, I shall not detain the House more than a few moments. I feel very pleased at the tone of the debate during this afternoon. The speech of the honourable member for Avon was really concise, to the point, and logical-there is no doubt about it. Very striking examples have been cited as to how this Bill will operate in regard to towns and boroughs. Member after member has risen and pointed out how the Bill will strike at the owners of unoccupied lands in towns and boroughs, but how many have drawn the at- tention of the House to the injustice which this Bill is going to inflict upon a certain class of resi- dents in the country districts? Sir, the honour- able member for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell) ought to know something about the province from which he comes, and I am sure he will bear me out in this : that there are tens of thou- sands of acres in the Province of Canterbury, as well as in other parts of New Zealand, upon which no improvements have been made in the sense usually applied to that term- that is to say, they have not been ploughed. I refer to the shingly plains and terraces. Thou- sands of acres of land of such kind have been ploughed, and it has since been discovered that no greater error was ever made than to so treat such country. It would have been far wiser to have left them as they were. The only way that class of land can be improved at all is by fencing it, subdividing it, and surface-sowing grass upon it. I fear the amount of reduc- tion that would be allowed for improvements of that kind would be very small indeed. Now, http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero in regard to the man owning that class of land, it must be evident that, by so much as his im- provements fall below the average of the im- provements of the district in which it is situated, by so much more will his rates be increased. Why should that be so? I am sure that those honourable gentlemen who advocate this system, while desiring to initiate a system that will be equitable, and remove all inequalities, do not desire to do an injustice in this way. And yet if we pass this Bill and it goes on the statute-book, and thus becomes law, we shall commit an injustice, and a very grievous one, on the holders of land such as I have referred to. Then, again, let me give another instance. To show how extremes meet : The honourable member for Avon referred to the market- gardener of Christchurch. Well, there is at the other end of the pole what is known as the squatter-the pastoral tenant of the Crown. He holds land from the Crown which he cannot improve-nay, more, by law he is not allowed to improve it ; one of the conditions of his lease says he shall not improve it. Instances have occurred over and over again where Land Boards have summoned men for daring to plough their land ; and because these men do not improve their land they are to be penalised . -- that must be the inevitable result. Take the mountainous part of Canterbury and Otago, in- is unimprovable, and the law has said it shall not be improved. Institute the compulsory system of rating on unimproved values in those districts and what must happen? In the counties comprising country of this character the area of the land held under this tenure con- stitutes sometimes a third, sometimes a half, and sometimes two-thirds of the whole area of such county. It must follow that, by the amount you deduct from the improved rateable value of that county-namely, the value of im- provements-by so much you lay a burden on these people, who can neither improve their land nor are allowed by law to do so. Is it de- sired by the House to penalise these people ? I do not believe it is. Yet we are asked to pass a Bill to commit this grave injustice. The honourable member for Avon really touched the crux of the whole matter-that this Bill provides for no differentiation at all. What ground have we to think that, if the Bill goes into Committee, any such differentiation will be allowed? None whatever. If the Bill goes through its second reading, depend on it it will go through in very much the form it is in now. I have very little hope of the House rejecting this measure ; but, knowing as 1 do the injustice that would be done under it, I feel bound to vote against it. because it con- tains the principle of compulsion. We are not asked now to go into the question of rating on unimproved values or on improved values --- that is not before the House. In voting against the" Bill members will not be voting against the general principle of rating on unim- proved values. It is not so. What we are voting against is the compulsory clause, which says that a district, whether it wants it or not, is to be compelled to rate on unimproved values. That is why I cannot support the Bill, and shall record my vote against it. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) .-- I am very pleased to find we have had a good-natured discussion over this measure. It has to me this after- noon been somewhat amusing to listen to the speeches delivered from the side to which I be- long, because I have heard from the lips of professed Liberals as Conservative arguments as I ever heard from the Opposition benches. This is not a question of the " fat man "and the " lean man," nor yet of landlord and tenant. It is simply a question that the whole country can casily understand -- whether we are to re- tain the existing tax on labour and improve- ments, on enterprise and machinery ; whether labour is to continue to wear chains and man- acles at the instance of local bodies, or whether it is to be emancipated. The speech delivered by the honourable member for Avon has been delivered too late; that speech should have been delivered ten or twelve years ago. when the property-tax versus the land - tax was under discussion. It would have been a splendid deliverance from the leader of the Opposition. The honourable member's reason- ing was very cogent and extremely ingenious, and I listened to it with mingled feelings. An extraordinary influence apparently comes over 