who come within the definition of "rate- payers," by actually paying rates, and people having leases. Well, I say the great mass of the people who are rent-payers are as vitally concerned in the method by which taxation is raised as are the ratepayers, because the pre- sent system means increasing the amount of rent they have got to pay. It is exactly the same with houses as it is with hats, coats, or boots. If you tax hats, coats, or boots, or any other article of use, you make them scarce and dear ; and if you tax houses you make them scarce, and the result is that the landless rent- pavers in every community have to pay more for the privilege of living in that particular locality. Now, I say, while I quite agree that in the interests of smooth ruuning it is de- sirable that the I ill as arranged by the Pre- mier should have the local option clause pro- vided- An Hon. MEMBER .- When did he arrange it ? Mr. FOWLDS .- When he introduced the Bill. Mr. HUTCHESON .- He arranged with you before; and you know how he slipped you up. Mr. FOWLDS .- It will be time enough for those who think the Bill should be passed in a permissive form to vote against it if the local option clause is not inserted, as I certainly should vote against it; but I say, at the same time, it will be necessary for the House to con- sider the interests of the rent pavers as well as of the ratepayers. I do not think my voice will carry me much further, but I think it well the House should consider this matter ; and I do hope those who specially stand in the interests of labour will give a wider study to the question of the incidence of taxation, and how it affects / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero humanity. It has been said that the Treasury is the heart of a nation, and if the heart is not supplied with pure blood there cannot be healthy life ; if certain portions of the body have too much blood they become congested ; if too little they become anæmie : so the system of taxation, whether it be national or local, is of very great importance to the well-being of the people, and I hope it will receive the considera- tion its importance demands. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City). - I have only a few words to say on this ques- tion, principally to state my reasons for ob- jecting to the Bill. The last speaker, Mr. Fowlds, commands the attention and the con- sideration of every member of this House by his sincerity and moderation in all the causes that he advocates. He certainly is justified, in my opinion, in stating that he had given con- siderable study to this question. I also believe, with him, that the most just and equitable system of taxation is to levy taxation on un- improved values. That it will create apparent discrepancies and anomalies at the beginning goes without saying. But, taking the colony throughout, and being guided by the principle of the greatest good for the greatest number, I believe in the truth of the statement which he makes. But I also believe in freedom, and I Mr. Fowlds mouth that sentiment and act otherwise. Now, we are asked to pass a Bill to secure volun- tary compulsion. That is the position that the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds) has just advocated : voluntary compulsion. That is, we are invited to come outside and get licked ; but we need not come out if we can resist it and stay in. Now, I believe this City of Wellington will at a very carly date adopt this system of taxation. I be- lieve our City Fathers look upon the prospective change with the greatest equanimity. I believe they have already made the necessary calcula- tions to enable them to adopt this particular new system at a moment's notice. I believe in voluntarily adopting such a system of taxation. Wellington will have a large advantage over every other city in the colony. It will attract population, it will cause an increase in business, and it will give a very material advantage to the people, provided the other cities of the colony do not soon follow suit. But all this can be done under the voluntary system. When the Bill was first introduced it was compulsory and drastic from start to finish. But the member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds) has assured us that an arrangement has been come to to insert a clause setting forth that any local body may take a poll that the law will not come into operation - that is, the new system of taxation will not come into operation. That is shifting the onus of proof to the objectors. Now, I say, where a change is considered neces- sary and wise, the onus of proving it should lie on the shoulders of those advocating the change. Now, consider the peculiar attitude of the very enthusiastic and sincere member for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell). If that honour- able gentleman is anything at all he is a sincere and enthusiastic believer in local option on the licensing question ; but in this case I ask the honourable member how it is that he refuses to believe in local option. Or, to put it in another way, by a scientific adjustment of the Premier we are asked to adopt compulsory option or voluntary compulsion, whichever way it is. But I would recall to the recollection of the honourable member for Auckland City another Bill of a kindred nature that was passed last year, in respect of which the Premier gave him the assurance that he would permit the honourable gentleman and his colleague at the time-Mr. Collins-to move a certain amendment which they desired. They agreed, and were duped by the Premier into believing that he agreed with and would support the motion they were about to make. Not so; they had to learn a good deal about the wiles of the Premier. He moved the amendment it is true, but he whipped up and headed the rest of his party to vote in opposition to the very motion that he himself proposed. And vet there are people in this House who are credu- lous enough to believe that the Premier is always sincere when he has made a promise. Let me also recall the fact that the Premier has made no such promise as that referred to by the honourable member for Auckland City 