Department that they were giving careful attention to the matter, and that if the law was properly carried out-that is, if there was more effective administration - there would be no necessity for further legislation. WAITAKI MOUNTED RIFLES. Major STEWARD) (Waitaki) asked the Minister of Defence, Whether the offer of the services of the Waitaki Mounted Rifles, with headquarters at Kurow, has been or will be accepted ? As the company desired to go on with their organization, he hoped the honour- able gentleman would inform them as soon as possible that their services would be accepted. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said that the company's services would be accepted. FLOUR-MILLERS' ASSOCIATION. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) asked the Go- vernment, If they are aware that a trust has been formed in the South Island for the purpose of controlling the flour output of New Zealand ; and will they introduce a Bill this session to render illegal this and other trusts whose objects are to destroy competition and exact an artifi- cial price from the people for the necessaries of life ? He would point out that very recently an organization had been formed for the pur- pose of creating a monopoly in the flour trade, and it now controlled all the mills in the colony except two in Timaru and three in Auckland. Thirty-six mills were controlled by the syndi- cate, and one of the immediate results of its https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 formation was the raising of the price of flour by $1 a ton. He had received communications both from the United Flour-millers' Employés' Society and the Auckland Trades and Labour / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero Council on the subject, in which strong protests were made against the attempted monopoly, and an appeal was made to him to urge the Government to introduce immediate legislation to deal with it. The Trades and Labour Coun- cil said,- " We think that if this trust is successful it will be able to fix prices of wheat and flour to suit itself-that is to say, that, there being little or no competition in the wheat-market, low prices will rule, while flour will be raised up out of all proportion to the price of wheat ; so that the trust will be bleeding the farmer equally with the consumer." There was also a very strongly worded article in the Napier Telegraph, in which an earnest appeal was made to Parliament to introduce legislation on the subject. He would like to mention that the evil results of powerful trusts in Europe and America were very fully shown in a book that had just arrived in the library. It showed that a large proportion of the earnings of the people were taken by means of artificial prices, in consequence of the enormous power which the accretion of capital gave to those trusts. He hoped the Premier would see his way to give a favourable reply to the question. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, In the Speech from the Throne the Government announced that legislation would be introduced this session Mr. Seddon Since that announcement had been made, facts had come under his notice which made it almost necessary that they should do something in the matter. He had seen correspondence that had passed between the secretary of the association in the South and a flour-miller who had refused to come in. The pressure that had been used and the threats held out confirmed his opinion that it was about time something was done by the Legislature. He believed that the Auckland millers had refused to join the association. An opportunity would be given Parliament to deal with the matter this session. # CONCILIATION BOARDS. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) asked the Minis- ter of Labour, If in his remarks "that the Conciliation Boards sat too much, and were doing the thing to death," he included the Otago and Southland Board in such remarks. His reason for putting the question was that some very sweeping remarks had been made by the Right Hon. the Premier in connection with the Conciliation Boards of the colony. Now, the Board referred to in the question had been admitted by the Arbitration Court, and by the employers and employés and the Press, to be a Board which had done its work in a most satisfactory manner, and in no sense could the remarks of the Hon. the Premier apply to them. Instead of driving the thing to death, these men had sat till ten and eleven o'clock at night so as to get through. If the honourable member liked to have a return prepared, he thought it would be shown that in no one year had the members of this Board been paid for thirty days. Therefore he thought it was clear that the statement that they were driving the thing to death clearly could not apply to them, neither could the interjection that had been made-that the guinea a day had some- thing to do with it. He was not speaking for other Boards, but he was sure the remark did not apply to this one, and therefore he put the question. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Labour) said he was in this position : that if each member who was interested in a Conciliation Board asked the same question he should then have to fix the remark upon some Board, and he was not going to be drawn into that position. His friend could easily see that by this means he would soon get into what the honourable mem- ber for Ashley would call a cul de sac. He would, however, say this: that the Dunedin Board had done really excellent work. He might also say that he had no reason whatever for withdrawing a single word he had said, and that he believed his remarks had done good, and were required at the time. MILITARY PENSIONS EXTENSION ACT. Major STEWARD (Waimate) asked the Minis- ter of Defence,-(1) Whether it is not necessary to amend " The Military Pensions Extension to Contingents Act, 1900," by adding schedules containing the names of the members of the Sixth and Seventh Contingents, in order to in- 