the volume of business has warranted such a ; step. NORTH ISLAND MAIN TRUNK RAILWAY. The central route having been finally deter- mined upon for the North Island Main Trunk Railway, immediate steps were taken to put further work in hand. The formation is now well advanced between Kawakawa and Tau- maranui, while bushfelling, et cetera, is in hand south of the Wanganui River. From the south end the works extend nearly to Turangarere, , the said lines of railway, estimated by you as all the important works on this section being fully manned. The erection of the Makohine Viaduct is progressing satisfactorily, notwith- standing that the work has been retarded by continued bad weather. The viaduct will be completed during the coming summer, and simultaneously the railway will be opened to Mangaweka. The amount voted last session was suffi- cient to cover the requirements for the year, but an increased amount will be necessary for the coming year. MIDLAND RAILWAY. In accordance with the resolution passed by the Public Accounts Committee last session, a Royal Commission was appointed, and, after a very exhaustive inquiry, has reported, prac- tically, that the company and debenture-holders have been very well treated. They find that the total expenditure by the company on the railway was $1,108,628, of which only £654,411 was expended on the actual construction and equipment of the railway, and the balance- -£454,217-on supervision, commission, sala- ries, cost of raising capital, interest charged to capital account, and incidentals. The Commission states that the financial charges in connection with the undertaking were enormous in comparison with the work done, and that the sums paid for the debenture interest, shareholders' interest, cost of raising money on debentures, administration, engineer- | revenue-producing purposes, yet notwithstand- ing, and law-costs were out of all proportion to the amount expended on construction and equip- ment. They further report that the selling- value of the whole railway, based on the revenue earned, and allowing for prospective increase for ten years, is .€192,833, and that the amount realised by the company from the Government land-grant was £313,060, or £50,195 in excess of the value at which the grant was debited to the company. They also find that the Go- Telegraph- Number ordinary telegrams .. Value Number urgent telegrams Value Number Press telegrams Value Number bureau communications Value Total number paid messages .. Total value Number Government messages .. . . Value . . Mr. Seddon tion of the railway to the amount of $38,439. The Commission were asked to ascertain the selling-value, and, on an assumption as to rela- tive losses, to apportion under the following conditions : " The said lines of railway having been constructed by means of moneys provided partly by the shareholders in the said company, partly by moneys raised upon debentures, and partly by moneys provided by us by our said grants of land and out of our Colonial Treasury. in what proportion should the money value of aforesaid, be apportioned among the three said several contributors to the cost of construc- tion ? " The Commissioners, on the hypothetical basis that the several contributing parties towards the creation of this asset should share in its distribution rateably, apportioned the selling- value of $192,833 as follows : To the debenture- holders, £126,788; to the company, nil ; to the Crown, £66,045. It will be seen, however, that £654,411 only was expended on the construction and equip- ment of the line, and of this sum the amounts realised by the company from the Government land-grant formed nearly one-half, whilst taking the selling-value of the line at $192,833, and the amount realised from land-grant at $313,000, it will be found that £120,237 has been pro- vided by the colony in excess of the selling- value of the line. The petitions of the debenture-holders and of the company, presented last session, should be dealt with this session. POST AND TELEGRAPHS. The Post and Telegraph is one of the most important departments of State, and is in- separably interwoven with the public finance. and is one of the barometers that never fails to disclose the progress of the colony and the condition of the people. In character it is more for the convenience of the people than for ing the many unpaid services performed it has proved more than self-supporting. Last year the expenditure was £416,363, and the receipts £503,181 ; this year the expenditure is esti. mated at £441,214, and the revenue is antici- pated to reach £485,800. To show the increased business in connection with the telegraph and telephone services since the year 1890 the following table is submitted for the information of honourable members :- Increase 1900. 1890. per Cent. 1,465,992 2,792,871 90.51 4 31.00 £71,307 15 £93,474 14 2 35,667 154,406 332.91 £10,251 8 9 4 £4,749 17 115-86 267,919 38.9 192,882 £8,785 7 10 £11,866 19 8 35.08 239,432 39,840 500.08 £1,111 4 0 £6,830 10 7 514.855 1,734,381 3,454,628 99-19 £85,954 4 £122,423 13 6 2 42.43 226,780 365,079 60.98 £26,070 12 7 £37,680 1 2 44.53 