on the safe side. As to the Railways, the | legislation has done away with the imposition returns so far show that the splendid revenue of last year is being not only maintained, but is even exceeded. I feel I am therefore justi- fied in anticipating the receipts will reach £1,760,000, or $39,359 in excess of last year. The Stamp revenue remains substantially the same; I estimate this year's receipts at £903,500 : last year they reached £903,935. In last year's Budget I estimated there would be a loss of revenue arising from the adoption of the penny postage to the amount of £80,000 per annum ; but, owing to the great activity of trade generally, I do not anticipate a greater loss than $24,000 from this source. Recent STATEMENT of the ESTIMATED REVENUE of the CONSOLIDATED FUND (Revenue Account) for 1901-2, compared with the Actual Revenue of 1900-1. - REVENUE ACCOUNT. Customs . Railways . . . . Stamps . .. Land-tax Income-tax . Beer duty .. Registration and other fees . Marine Miscellaneous . . . . . . Territorial revenue . . . . Debentures for sinking fund increases Total ... . . ESTIMATED RESULTS AT CLOSE OF 1901-1902. The revenue being estimated at £5,896,000 and the expenditure at £5,763,814, there re- mains a balance of £132,186, to which may be added the balance (£32,564) of the surplus brought forward from last year after allowing for $500,000 to be transferred to the Public Works Fund. These figures produce a balance of £164,750, out of which provision for the supplementary estimates has to be made. CROWN TENANTS' REBATE OF RENTS. Last session the Rebate of Crown Tenants Act was passed. Its working has not been satisfactory, or equitable in its incidence. An amendment of the Act is necessary, and at this juncture it is well to speak plainly, for from facts which have come within my own knowledge it is quite clear that a person taking up bush land, and having little or no capital, cannot pay rent until the land yields a return. There are practically no returns for two years. By that time two years' rent are in arrear, and the yield is not sufficient to maintain the settler and his family. Another two years pass over VOL. CXVII .- 30. of stamp duty upon Native lands : this will entail a loss of some £4,000. On the other hand, there has been a large accession of business in the Telegraph branch, and this, with increasing revenue from other sources, will quite counterbalance any loss which may be sustained by the introduction of the penny postage. Compared with last year's results, there is an estimated increase of some £10,400 to the land-tax and £1,200 to the income-tax. The increases and decreases in the estimates of the other items of revenue are so small as not to call for remark. Differences. Estimate Actual for of 1901-2. 1900-1. Increase. Decrease. £ € € 2,110,000 2,180,862 70,862 .. 1,760,000 1,720,641 39,359 .. 903,500 903,935 435 10,416 305,000 294,584 .. . . 175,000 1,191 173,809 .. 829 86,000 85,171 .. 76,000 67,537 8,463 .. 26,200 29,553 3,353 889 127,300 126,411 270,000 270,203 203 .. 5,839,000 61,147 5,852,706 74,853 57,000 52,800 4,200 . . .. 65,347 65,347 5,896,000 5,905,506 9,506 .. and still find him behind in payment of his rent, or, if he has paid the rent, he has probably had to borrow the money for that purpose. Under these circumstances, it is much better that the State should insist upon the improvement conditions being strictly complied with, and allow the tenant to sit rent-free for the first four or five years. After that time the tenant would be in a position to pay the rent, and the anxiety and worry caused under the conditions now existing would be avoided. There is also another point worthy of being taken into consideration-namely, that, al- though there is a large area of Crown land available for settlement, most of it is inacces- sible and situated a long way from the centres of population, and is not of extra good quality : therefore some inducement is necessary, which, if given, will tend to promote settlement of the people on our Crown lands, and relieve the existing congestion among those who prefer to go upon the lands acquired under the Land for Settlements Act, thus avoiding the hardships which fall to the lot of the pioneer or back- blocks settler. 