self I may say, has since discovered to his cost that this practical and workable measure has been brought to a head by the Government, and has done an immense amount of good to the colony in general. I cannot help thinking of the strong opposition that was brought to bear whilst we were endeavouring to get this measure through the House. I should not have referred to this but for the fact that there has been an all- round discussion this afternoon, in which the principle of the whole thing has been entered into. There was very strong opposition to this measure in 1894. Where is that opposition now-I mean the Opposition arguments, not the individuals, although I might even include them ? The argument was that this was going to be a huge political engine of corruption, that it was an iniquitous scheme for simply one purpose: that the Government might have money to advance to people of the right " colour," and no one else was to get it. Well, that argument has been fairly well exploded by this time. Then, we were told also that not only was this money to be advanced to people of the right "colour " only, but there was to be a general laxity of administration, that the securities would not be properly looked into, and that huge losses would be entailed. Sir, that prediction also has been falsified, as every one of the predictions made concerning the evils that were likely to ensue from the passing of such a measure have been falsified by what has taken place since this-which is one of the finest measures we have ever placed on the statute-book - was passed. I consider this measure has done more good to the agricultural portions of the community than any other measure that has been passed by this Govern- ment. We have been told over and over again that this measure has had nothing whatever to do with reducing the rates of interest, that the rates of interest were naturally dropping, and that therefore it was no thanks to the Govern- ment for passing the measure. Sir, that is the veriest claptrap and nonsense, and is unworthy of credence. I know people who, when their loans came due, simply went to the money- lenders and said, "If we cannot get better terms from you we will go to the Government," and the money-lenders in each instance said, " We shall have to meet the Government in the money-lending field ; we must reduce our rates and fight them on their own ground." But, Sir, they have never been able to go quite so far as the Government : as, for instance, to accept $10, or even smaller, instalments by way of paying off the principal. This is the largest measure ever passed for the relief of the agricultural people of New Zealand. It has come to stay, and I shall not have the slightest compunction in supporting the Government in their proposal to borrow another two millions for this particular purpose. I know, of course, they will only get authority to the extent of one million per annum. I know there is a tendency at the present time for the rates of interest to rise, but I have sufficient faith in the capacity of the Ministry to know that they money on a rising market, that they will seize the proper opportunity for obtaining it, and, I have not the slightest doubt, at reasonable rates. Now, I think the honourable member for Bruce misled us to-day when he was dealing with this measure. He told us that he would, at all events, approach the subject charitably. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I was asked by the Minister to do so. Mr. CARNCROSS .- Possibly so; and you agreed to do it. Well, I admit the Opposition has been charitable to-day. But, Sir, it is the force of circumstances that has brought about this charitable mood. How much charity was shown when the measure was sought to be placed on the statute-book ? Just by way of curiosity I looked up the journals to-day to see how many members of the Opposition were influenced by charity when we were getting the measure through. I see that the "Ayes " in favour of the Bill were thirty-six. An Hon. MEMBER .- On the second reading ? Mr. CARNCROSS .- On the third reading, the crucial test as to whether you are in favour of the Bill or anything attaching to it. I find that only two members of the Opposition re- corded their votes in its favour-namely, the honourable member for Egmont (Mr. McGuire) and Mr. Wilson, who is not now in the House. And in those days I may say Mr. McGuire was not so closely allied to the other side of the House as he is at the present moment. An Hon. MEMBER .- Oh ! was he not. Mr. CARNCROSS .- If you turn up the early speeches of that honourable member you will find that no one spoke so strongly in favour of the policy of the Liberal Government as did the honourable gentleman himself. An Hon. MEMBER. - He gets wiser as he gets older. Mr. CARNCROSS .- Yes, he is wise in this respect : that you will not find him to-day op- posing this Bill ; and a good many of the Oppo- sition have grown wiser in that respect. But where, I think, the honouralle member for Bruce misled the House a little to-day was when he said that the working of the Act, was based upon money at 3 per cent. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I said the scheme was. Mr. CARNCROSS. - Yes, the scheme. Well, Sir, I think he is scarcely correct there. I take this to be the scheme upon which it was based : Turning to the original Act of 1894, you will find that clause 32 reads thus : - "No debenture or other security issued under this Part of this Act shall be sold or otherwise disposed of at a price which will yield to the purchaser thereof a higher rate of interest by the year than four pounds for every hundred pounds of the purchase-money." Sir, it is very plain that the general scheme of this Act was fixed on a 4-per-cent. basis. An Hon. MEMBER. -- What about Mr. Ward's speech at the time ? Mr. CARNCROSS .- I contend that I have nothing to do with the speeches at all. What I am bound by is the Act we passed. There i is the scheme, I take it. It is quite true that 