hoped that these institutions, which had done so much good and were doing so much goed work. would have every assistance to continue, and not be wiped out of existence. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said there was no doubt the honourable member's question touched a most important matter. He agreed that the regulation referred to was perhays rather drastic, but it was framed with a view of preventing young men from forming themy lves into rifle clubs instead of joining some established Volunteer corps. But this did not affect anything outside the five mile limit from the Volunteer contre. It was only within the five-mile limit that the regula- tion obtained at all. He did not say that the distance might not be reduced : but he did not think it would be wise to have rifle clubs formed alongside Volunteer corps, as it would simply mean that there would be all rifle clubs and no Volunteer corps and no drill. However, he would look into the matter again, and see if he could with safety reduce the age and the mileage. Even under the existing conditions he had seventy or eighty applications for regis- tration as rifle clubs. Some of them had not given sufficient information, and that had kept them back ; but he had accepted a very large number the other day. Mr. HANAN asked if they would be accepted as constituted, provided other members would comply with the regulations. Mr. SEDDON said, If they were all rifle clubs and all new members joining, and if they had https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 previously existed as regular constituted rifle clubs. There was something in the contention, and he would look into it. ## LAW CONSOLIDATION. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) asked the Government, Whether it is their intention to issue further volumes of consolidated statutes completing the work begun in the volume recently circulated amongst members, and, if so, at what interval such volumes will be issued ; also, do the Government intend to give legal effect to the work when completed, and, if so, by what means ? He, in common with other members, had the volume he referred to, and he was sure he was expressing the opinion of many honourable members when he said it was most desirable that such a work should be completed. It had always been a puzzle to him to get any- thing like a comprehensive grasp of our statute- law. The way in which fragments of law were scattered up and down our statute-books without any logical or legal connection rendered it impossible for any one to get anything like a comprehensive grasp. One might see there scattered fragments of law buried in masses of statutory matter which would puzzle one almost as much as the notable fly in the amber. One would wonder by what diabolical cunning they had got there at all. They were a puzzle both to the unwary and the wary. He wished to know if members were to regard this volume as a first instalment of a Bill to place the statutes in a less cumbersome form. the codification of the statutes had been done primarily by Mr. Jolliffe, and the draft which had been submitted to honourable members was to show what could be done, and, he might say also, what should be done. The Govern- ment had power to set up a Commission and to make a commencement with what had been submitted to members, and he hoped they would commence it next session. The Govern- ment intended to take active steps to get this matter done. He quite agreed with the honour- able member as to the necessity for this work. Mr. ATKINSON asked what sort of a Bill it would be. Mr. SEDDON said the Commission would decide that ; but he should say that the draft Bill which had been submitted to honourable members would practically be the Bill. The Commission would have to see that the statute- law was complete, and embodied in the Bill. They would have to classify the legislation, put it in systematic order, and bring it right up to date. ## SILVERSTREAM PUBLIC ROAD. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked the Minister of Defence, Whether he will give orders for the immediate removal of a fence erected some months ago by the Defence Department across a public road at the Silverstream, to the great inconvenience of a number of settlers, who have made repeated but fruitless requests to the Government for such removal ? Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said the Defence Department had had this matter care- fully gone into, and they were within their rights in what they had done. It was a ques- tion whether, when publie property had been acquired with public money for the Defence Department, the Defence Department were to be considered, or whether they were to consider the people outside. He did not wish to do anything which would interfere with the public convenience if it did not interfere with the defence work. At the same time, when they had paid $3,000 or #4,000 for land for defence purposes, he did not think they had any right to hand the same over to the public. Mr. FIELD said he would have amplified the question in the first place if he had not understood that the fence was being removed. Mr. SEDDON said he understood the ques- tion about the position of the gate. That he told the department to look into, and, as far as they could. adjust it, but not the fence. ## MIDLAND RAILWAY DEBENTURE- HOLDERS. Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) asked the Pre- mier, If it is the intention of the Government to give Parliament an opportunity during the present session of finally dealing with the sub- ject of the petitions presented to the House last session on behalf of the debenture-holders and shareholders of the Midland Railway Company ? He had placed this question on the Order Paper on behalf of many interested people, both within and without New Zealand. Two petitions on 