for the land. The honourable gentleman con- tended that there was no necessity for com- pulsion because only two estates had been Did the taken - Ardgowan and Hatuma. honourable member forget what was said by Mr. Allan McLean when the Government pro- posed to take his land ? In effect he said this : " I might just as well let the land go, as I know you will compel me to part with it by-and-by if I do not do so now." Then, the honourable gentlemen went on to terrify the Council with the bogey of the freehold. That was another which had been made from prediction time immemorial, and which had not yet He did not think honourable come true. members need trouble their minds very much about that. If the people wanted the freehold let them have it, for they would get it whether members liked it or not, and they had a perfect right to get it if they wanted it. But there was no indication on the part of the people of pre- ference for the freehold. The indications were all the other way. When the land had been set apart by the Government on the lease-in- perpetuity tenure, and land had been offered by private individuals on easy terms and at low rates in order to dispose of it, what had been the result ? The Government land had been disposed of, whilst the other had not. That was what had been pointed out by the Hon. Mr. McLean, who said that since the Govern ment had been carrying on the work of closer settlement-since it had been buying estates and administering them-there had been no https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 chance at all for private persons to get rid of their lands. He (Mr. Jones) maintained that that, again, was a compliment to the policy of closer settlement under the Land for Settlements Act. There could be no ques- tion that the great pastoralist belonged to a dying race, and, of course, one felt somewhat melancholy when hearing their plaint-such a plaint as was uttered by their representative, the Hon. Mr. Ormond, yesterday. But one might just as well attempt to sweep the Atlantic back with a broom as to attempt to prevent settlement going on. It had started in the South and had swept up towards the North, and would carry all before it, in spite of anything that might be attempted to arrest its progress. Nor could he see why there should be any sore feeling on the part of those gentlemen who held large areas of pastoral land in Hawke's Bay, or elsewhere in the colony. In all ages of the world men had been called upon to sacrifice their own interests in the interests of the people at large. They would have the conso- lation, if they had no other, that they would get full value for any land they might have to surrender, and that they would be doing some solid good to the community in which they lived. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH said that the honourable gentleman who had brought for- ward that motion preferred a very strong ndictment against the land - for - settlements policy. There were three main counts : the Hon. Mr. Jones not been carried out as it was intended ; and the third was that he objected to the leasehold system. In somewhat vigorous language the honourable gentleman had illustrated his chief objection to the Act by referring to the com- pulsory acquisition of the Hatuma Estate, but he (Mr. Lee Smith) was not going to speak for one moment against the honourable gentleman in regard to the suitability of this estate for close settlement. In a few remarks he pro- posed to deal with the question from an entirely abstract point of view. The honourable gentle- man had argued very forcibly, and from his point of view very reasonably, that there was no necessity to employ compulsion. He had the history of the Hatuma case as an answer to the honourable gentleman, the truth of which he could not deny. The honourable gentle- man said, first of all, that the cost of the estate was too high ; secondly, he said that the land was quite unsuitable for settlement purposes ; and, thirdly, he said that plenty of suitable land could be obtained without using compulsion. And then he went on to say that he was quite certain, if the tenants of that estate had to pay interest on the roading of it in addition to that on the purchase cost, it would be far more than they could afford to pay. But there was an answer to that, which could be taken in one of two ways. They had been told, on what he believed to be good authority, that the owner of Hatuma had written to the Government offer- ing to buy back the estate, and, in addition, to pay the Government a large sum of money- namely, €60,000-as redemption money. That might be true or false ; he believed it was true. He would ask, What was the position ? The honourable gentleman argued that the price paid, plus the roading charges, would make the rent too high. His argument, therefore, that the estate would have been held at a profit to him for many years by that gentleman, and that it would not have been sold except for compulsion, was unreasonable and illogical. If the owner had rebought it at £60,000 of ransom, then it stood to reason that with the interest of this £60,000 added, the owner, or the tenants he might let it to, would be sitting at a still higher rent ; so that, if it was too dear now, where would the owner's profit be ? The honourable gentleman argued that there was no need for compulsion, and he brought into one of his arguments the question of senti- ment. He said that the owner, having had the place for a large number of years, did not want to part with it. Well, if this argument of the honourable gentleman was good in one case it was good in another. Surrounding that estate there must be a large number of young men, who were no doubt imbued with the same sentiments as the honourable gentleman said the owner possessed. Therefore, if they were going to pay for sentiment, he would ask, Why not apply the same principle in the case of the people surrounding the estate? If the argu- ment of the honourable gentleman held good. the result would be that they would have to 