duty to make them known here, and record them, as I do not intend to let them do my thinking for me. I am rather inclined to lament that the local bodies in my district have been so apathetic in this matter, and have not recognised the disastrous bearing this Bill may possibly have on their own interests. The honourable gentleman, in his opening remarks, referred to clause 7, which declares that the Council shall be responsible for any damage which may ensue in connection with this dam which may be built. The clause reads thus :- " In respect of the said license No. 1 (dam), the said Corporation shall, as from the date when it comes to construct the dam or weir which it is empowered to construct, be deemed to be liable to all persons and bodies, corporate and politic, including His Majesty the King, for any damage caused through the con- struction, breaking-away, or other failure of the proposed works." You see, Sir, by inference it is recognised that there is a possibility, if not a probability, of some day an accident occurring, and this dam burst- ing. Now, Sir, what would be the result that would follow if there were an accident in the shape of this dam bursting ? The consequences would be frightful to consider if there should be anything faulty in the construction of that dam, and there should be a break-away. It is proposed to build a dam that will be 30 ft. high. It will have the effect of damming up the river for three miles, with an average width of five chams. Those are not my own estimates ; they are taken from one of the schedules of the Bill https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 itself. The First schedule says,- " Length of dam wall : 160 ft. " Greatest height of same : 30 ft. above ordi- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero nary river-level. " Breadth of same at base: 30 ft. " Length and width of water area : Length, three miles ; average width, 5 chains." Just imagine, Sir, what would be the result if a dam of that magnitude, placed as it is in a narrow gorge, were to break away. The water would come down in a wall 30 ft. high, and as it emerged from the gorge it would spread over the Taieri Plain and do incalculable damage. It is not within the means of the City of Dunedin to repay the damage that would be done, and the city would be made bankrupt. They could not pay for the damage that would be done if a di-aster took place. Sir, it is well known that the Taieri contains the most highly cultivated farms in Otago. Every farm there is highly cultivated, and there is enormous value in the improvements. The farmers of the West Taieri have for years past spent thousands and thou- sands of pounds in building a wall or embank- ment as a protection for their farms against river floods. In the event of the dam bursting the protective embankment, upon which they have at great sacrifice spent so much money, would be scattered like chaff. and the water would spread over the whole of the West Taieri district. carrying ruin and desolation over thou- sands of acres, and ruining farmers who have reparation for such loss. I referred just now to the fact that it would be impossible for the City of Dunedin to pay for the dam- age that would be done in the destruction of property. But what about the destruction of life? Can you' put a clause into this Bill that will give compensation for the lives that must inevitably be destroyed if there is a break- away there ? When it comes to loss of human life nothing man can do will make reparation for that. I need not do more than remind honourable members of the disaster at James- town. They will remember the great destruc- tion of life and property on that occasion. It is only the other day that we read of the re- sults of a bursting dam in Virginia, in connec- tion with which many lives were lost. I have not the slightest hesitation in saying that the dams at that place were imagined to be per- fectly safe, and the engineers no doubt gave their guarantee as to its safety. We shall be told the same thing in the case of this dam. We shall doubtless be assured that the dam will be most substantially built ; but there can be no certainty about it. I say it would be a very wrong thing to allow a dam to be erected at the proposed site, and I shall do whatever I can to prevent it. Even though we so amend the Bill in Committee that we deprive the Dunedin City Council of getting its water-supply from the Taieri River no injustice will be done, for we are not taking away from them all opportunity of getting a water-power supply. They can get water from the Waipori River, a few miles further on, without building any dam. I am aware that there will be a greater initial cost, but only about $10,000 more ; and, according to the re- port of their own engineer, the annual cost will be considerably less. Their own engineer's figures show that it will save $9 2s. per horse- power if they obtain their supply from the Wai- pori River, as compared with taking it from the Taieri River. In the face of the undoubted fact that they have another source from which they may obtain their supply, and without running the same risk of damage to life and property, I feel more than justified in opposing the Bill. I think it would be a wrong thing to allow this Bill to go through in its present shape. When the Bill reaches the Committee stage I shall do my best to make certain amend- ments in it. So far as my district is concerned, I ask honourable members to place themselves in the same position as I am in. They may have rivers close to a centre of population, and the city may wish to dam up a river in order to get electric power from it. Let them con- sider how they would like the same thing to take place in their district. I intend to record my vote against the Bill. Mr. GILFEDDER (Wallace). - I have no intention of opposing this Bill, nor do I intend to retard its progress by way of stonewalling. I must say I compliment the member for Caversham on being in such good form, and on making the speech he has delivered to-night. 