judicial body had already stated that the whole matter was untrue. It was surely a peculiar attitude for a public body to take up. They settled the case before hearing the other side. They did not even wait for the copy of Hansard to see what my full remarks were on the sub- ject. They demand from the Government an investigation, declaring the whole thing to be untrue, before they ever heard the case stated. They believe in Jedburgh justice if any one dares to touch their institution. I think any one considering the matter will say they did not show that judicial mind they ought to have in this connection. Then, we have the Chair- man and members of the Board stating that they have received extensive communications regarding the kindness exhibited by the nurses to the patients. I do not deny that they are kind in many instances-in most instances ; but this proves nothing in regard to the case. I have here a whole batch of letters, which I do not intend to read, which assert that their treatment has been unkind to people in the hospital ; but this proves nothing in connection with my case. I maintain that letters relating to either the kindness or neglect on the part of the nurses have not the slightest influence on the case. It must stand alone on its own merits; and in quoting these one would be quoting what has no bearing on the case what- ever. I merely refer to the matter to show that letters come spontaneously from both sides. Then, the Chairman of this body stated that Mr. John Mackenzie, whom he refers to as " this man Mackenzie." was a cantankerous patient. Now, if I had time to quote the obituary notices from the Clutha Leader and the Free Press I could show that he was one of the most kindly and generous of men - one of Nature's gentlemen ; a Highlander who loved his country, and was kind to every one with whom he came in contact-a man greatly be- loved by all. An Hon. MEMBER .- His name would show that. Mr. T. MACKENZIE. - Yes. I believe the motto of one branch of the Mackenzie family is Amore vice-" Conquered by love." When, therefore, the Chairman declared that he was cantankerous, and a disagreeable patient, he stated what was absolutely incorrect ; and if he wishes a judicial inquiry to take place he had no right to prejudice the case or prejudice the public mind previous to the investigation that was to take place: and. in his calmer moments, when his dignity has been soothed, he will probably admit that. The Dunedin Hospital has had investigations before, and it has been shown that faults can occur there: yet. at the beginning of the matter, no doubt, Mr. Millar was quite pre- pared, as in my case, to give it a direct and circumstantial denial -- I think he was the Chairman then. I refer to the case of a Mr. Cusack, a friend of Mr. Sontag's, who some few years ago entered the Dunedin Hospital with a slight injury to his little finger. As his friends had not heard about him they made and buried. His friends, like myself 7.30. perhaps, were unusually troublesome to the trustees and the doctors. They insisted on knowing what the man had died of, and where he was buried. They were told by one doctor that he had died of blood-poisoning, and by another doctor that he had died of throat disease ; and then, when an investigation took place, it was proved that he had died of neither of these complaints. Then, they put questions for the purpose of knowing where the man was buried, but received evasive answers. His friends, however, still kopt annoying these trustees, and finally they discovered that the man had not been buried at all, but that his body had been sent down to the dissecting and lecture-room at the University. Not only did they state what was incorrect, but their action was an evasion of the Anatomy Act. Now, since the dinner adjournment I have got the Otago Daily Times containing a report of the meeting of these trustees to consider my statement regarding the ill-treatment of my friend John Mackenzie. The Chairman first of all imputes motives -- that my motive must be to damage the institution, and to injure some of the people connected with the institu- tion. Sir, that is an unworthy insinuation. My only motive was to prevent others from suffering similarly. Would it not be much pleasanter on my part to go there and come away and be friendly with every one? But my sense of duty required that I should disclose what went on regarding my friend ; and then, Sir, he declares that I and others took shelter under my parliamentary privilege, and savs, " It is only Irishmen that shoot from behind." I should think that an Irishman would not feel very highly complimented by this statement of the worthy Chairman of that Board, because all history proves that there are no more brave or valiant men in the British army or in the British Empire than Irish soldiers. However, that is by the way. Sir, he stated that I did not name the nurse who struck him. If the man had told me the name of the nurse I should have named her ; but it occurred at night, so he told me-I do not vouch for the accuracy of the statement; 1 simply state what the man told me-but, as the man was groaning, he probably did not know who did it. In that connection a very interesting letter appears by one of the defenders of the institution. He first of all donies that the patient was struck, and then states that, if he was struck, no woman would do that unless he richly deserved it. Then, Sir, regarding the utensils that I said were absent, the Chairman declares that they were always there, and then he goes on to narrate the circumstances of my making some strong statements with regard to the hospital. This is what he says: "This is a public institution, and he would see that the public were better served in it, and that he would see the authorities and make them all 'sit up.' " And then Mr. Carroll, one of the Board, ejaculated. " What check !" Of course, Mr. Carroll should have felt angry that I should 