Mr. FISHER said there could be no possible doubt about what actually took place in Court -namely, that the challenges were made by the Crown Prosecutor. Mr. SEDDON .- They were not challenged by the Crown because they belonged to a cer- tain section of the community. Mr. FISHER said he was surely entitled to believe what he had seen with his own eyes. The right to challenge was very freely exercised by the Crown Prosecutor, and the jury as em- pannelled might be truly said to be absolutely free from bias or prejudice of every description. These trials were instituted in deference to a strong public demand, and, having regard to the severe ordeal through which the Brothers passed and the extreme importance of the trials themselves, the State being as much interested as the accused, the costs of the several trials ought to be returned to the persons who had been charged. He need hardly say that in re- gard to the matter a strong feeling existed in the minds of a large number of people in all parts of the colony-not only of those of the religion of the persons charged; it would be a great mistake to think that-but of New Zealand colonists of all shades of opinion. The verdicts in all the cases bore one interpretation -namely, that there was no ground whatever for any of the charges. That was the result of the trials, extending over twenty-one days, be- fore two Judges-the Chief Justice and Judge Edwards - and six separate juries. Having regard to the importance of the trials, and the importance to this colony of the in- terests involved, and the accused having been proved clearly not guilty of the charges made against them, it would be only an act of be- coming generosity on the part of the Govern- ment to repay to them the actual expenses to which they were put. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, In his opinion, the Stoke Orphanage matter was one of those unpleasant episodes in our Parliament and history about which the least said the better for all concerned. It was an unfortunate in- cident, and the sooner it was forgotten the better. No application had been made to the department for the repayment of these costs, and, presuming such an application had been made, it was unusual for the Government in such a case to refund them. RETURN RE LARGE ESTATES. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked the Premier, Whether he is correctly reported in the New Zealand Times of the 1st August as having stated, in answer to a deputation on rating on unimproved values, that "a return just laid on the table of the House showed that large estates were increasing, despite the num- ber which had been acquired for settlement" ; and, if so, whether he was aware that the return alluded to was ordered in August, 1899, and was returned as at 31st March, 1899, and is therefore two years old and out of date? The question had been so long on the Order Paper that the return alluded to by the Premier was the return laid on the table to the order of Mr. Millar : "That there be laid before this House a return showing-(1) The value of all freehold lands in the colony at the 31st March, 1899; (2) the total amount of mortgages on freehold registered at that date." This return had been ordered in August, 1899, and was only laid on the table of the House this session. He was aware that the returns had been made, contrary to the order, up to the 31st March, 1900, but even then they were not up to date. These re- turns were always compiled a year late. The land valuations were sent out in May or June, and therefore a return bearing date the 31st March, 1900, would be compiled on information which would be obtained in May or 12.30. June, 1899, and therefore the return which the Premier alluded to would be cer- tainly two years old, and was not a correct statement of the affairs of the colony at the present moment. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, When the honourable gentleman put his question on the Order Paper he was evidently under the im- pression that the return only brought the valuation up to 1899, whereas the return itself was up to date. It showed the classification according to the capital value of the land on the 31st March, 1900, and, so far as the value of the land was concerned, they could not ask for more-they already had what was wanted. When he stated that the number of estates had increased he gave the particulars where the particular increases had occurred. For in- stance, in estates of £1,000 and under $2,000 there was an increase from 6,755 in 1889 to 10,496 in 1900. In estates of $2,000 and under £3,000 there was an increase of over a thou- sand-from 2.299 to 3,680. From £3,000 and under $4,000 there was an increase of over six hundred. From £4,000 and under $5,000 there was an increase of 888. From £5,000 and under $10,000 there was an increase of from 1,237 to 1,900. From $10,000 and under $20,000 they had gone up from 623 to 841. Then, in regard to estates of $20,000 and under $50,000 the total number of owners in 1889 was 338, and in 1900 it was 394. From $50,000 and under £100,000 there was a decrease, from 107 in 1889 to 92 in 1900; in $100,000 and under #200,000 there was an increase of two estates-from 37 in 1889 to 39 in 1900; in $200,000 and over they stood in 1889 at 11 owners, and in 1900 there were only 11, so that there had been no change in that item. As far as the number of the estates was concerned there was an increase in the number of these large estates. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) asked if that had not been brought about by the revaluations. Mr. SEDDON said it mattered not to him how it had been brought about, the fact was that there was the increased numbers. He thought it might have the effect after a certain time of taking them from one scale to another, but still there was the increase of prices all round. 