opportunity to consider the matter, and allow time to obtain a Governor's message or the consent of the Crown, that the honourable gentleman ask to postpone it. Mr. PALMER .- I am quite willing, Sir, and will ask leave to postpone it until this day three weeks. Leave granted, and order postponed. # EIGHT HOURS BILL. The House divided on the question, "That the House do resolve itself into Committee on this Bill." AYES, 20. Millar Allen, E. G. Fowlds Arnold Hall Napier Hall-Jones Barclay Pirani Hogg Smith, G. J. Buddo Collins Tellers. Laurenson McGowan Russell, G. W. Colvin Mackenzie, T. Tanner. Ell NOES, 32. Palmer Hardy Atkinson Haselden Bennet Parata Bollard Heke Rhodes Hornsby Russell, W. R. Carncross Carroll Lang Stevens Lethbridge Steward Duncan Field Symes Massey McNab Thomson, J. W. Fraser, W. Gilfedder Mills Tellers. Meredith Graham Monk Thompson, R. Hanan O'Meara Majority against, 12. Motion negatived. # SHOPS AND SHOP-ASSISTANTS BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 4 .- " Section eight of ' The Shops and Shop-assistants Act. 1894,' is hereby amended by the insertion of the words 'and all domestic servants,' between the words ' bars ' and ' with- in,' in line three." The Committee resumed the consideration of clause 4 of this Bill, and the amendment of Mr. Barclay (Dunedin City) to strike out the words " in line three," with a view to subsituting the following therefor : " in the said section." Amendment withdrawn. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) moved that clauses 4 and 5 be struck out. Motion agreed to. Clause 6 .- Act to be read together with prior Acts. Clause struck out on the voices. Bill reported. The House adjourned at a quarter-past twelve o'clock a.m. Mr. Deputy . Speaker Thursday, 22nd August, 1901. Samson and Sons and Blackwood Brothers-Re- turned Troopers and Public Health-Shops and Offices Bill-Adjournment. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. # SAMSON AND SONS AND BLACKWOOD BROTHERS. The Hon. Mr. BOLT moved, That the report of the Public Petitions Committee on the peti- tion of Samson and Sons and Blackwood Brothers, of Dunedin, be referred back to the Committee for further consideration. His reason for moving this motion was that he did not think the Public Petitions Committee had given due consideration to the equities of this case. The circumstances connected with it were very simple. In the year 1894 an Act was passed which provided that local authori- ties could undertake the slaughtering of cattle and the establishment of abattoirs. These peti- tioners for some years before that, and up till, he thought, 1897 or 1898, were carrying on the business of slaughtering in Dunedin ; and the Corporation of the City of Dunedin were about the first to take advantage of the Act by enter- ing upon the business of slaughtering. The Corporation did so, he thought, in 1897, and the result of their entering upon this undertaking, so far as the petitioncrs were concerned, was that they had to give up their business. The Corporation of the City of Dunedin passed cer- tain by-laws connected with the carrying-on of the Corporation abattoirs, and these by-laws were of such a character that, although they were not prohibitive, yet they really bad the effect of so prohibiting competition with the Cor- poration that the petitioners could not carry on. In the year 1900 the power of the Corporation was still further increased by an Act passed that session, and by the 58th clause of that Act it was provided that any one who was injured or wronged through the operation of Corporation abattoirs should be compensated. It was unfortunate for these petitioners that they had been ousted from their position about a year or eighteen months before the Act of 1900 came into force. Had it not been for that circumstance they would have come in for compensation, as others had. Clearly, in all equity, they should get whatever com- pensation was allowed in similar cases, because it was manifest that if it was right to pass an Act in 1900 giving compensation to people of this class, it was equally right these petitioners who had suffered similar wrong should be similarly compensated. For these reasons, he begged to move that the petition be referred back to the Committee with a view to their giving further consideration to this view of the case. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH said his honourable friend opposite had set out the cir- 