which gives the right of interference to certain officers appointed, and those people are forced to live cleanly and to have their dwellings im- proved. Then, we have a compulsory law deal- ing with the attendance of children at school. The children do not want to go to school, and their parents are indifferent ; but the law says that the parents must send these children to school ; and so in that case, too, we are forcing legislation down the throats of people who do not want it. And so I might point out instances to reduce the argument to an absurdity : for instance, that the punishment provided for every crime is objected to by the persons who are likely to receive the punish- ment. Formy part, I say this : that when I can no longer fight for the interests of the working- people of this country I will retire from Par- liament. But that is not likely to happen. Now, Sir, we are asked why should legislation be forced upon the bank clerks, who say, by their petition, that they do not want it. Well, the reason is that it is for the good of the community it should be passed. Long hours and overwork tend to degenerate the race, and we have a per- fect right to say to any class of the community, " If you are injuring your health, and endanger- ing the physique of the race, by working long hours and overtime, you shall not do it." And it is on that ground, the ground of the general good, that we take our stand in advocating measures of this kind. Now, why should long hours be worked in any establishment ? Either the number of hands employed is insufficient, or the persons employed are incompetent. It may be that in some cases there is not sufficient accommodation supplied, but that shows simply a want of enterprise upon the part of the firm or institution, as the case may be ; because long hours mean greater expense in many directions, and therefore it is not true economy. If it is not true economy, then it is false economy. False economy I regard as a phase of bad management. There is nothing to justify the employment of incom- petent hands. There are plenty of men able and willing to do work in any class of employ- ment. Very often the desire for cheap labour overcomes the prudence of a manager, and he takes cheap labour and indifferent work and long hours in preference to less hours, more effective work, and fair wages. Now, some- thing was said about the number of petitions that have been brought forward, signed by per- sons opposed to this Bill. Well, let us take a sample one. Here is the petition of A. H. Chappell and a hundred other employés in retailers' shops in Auckland, praying the Coun- cil to eliminate from the Shops and Offices Bill the clauses dealing with shops. Now, what does that mean? It means that these persons want the existing law to be repealed, and that they desire to be deprived of the weekly half holiday they have enjoyed for some years past. Does any one believe that the employes who signed that petition knew what they were sign- ing. or, if they did, that they were in earnest ? That, Sir, was a petition which was presented Hon. Mr. Rigg not responsible for what it contains, but, still, he cites the petitions presented as an argument for opposing the provisions of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- I never cited that petition at all. The Hon. Mr. RIGG .- No; you did not men- tion any particular petition, but you referred to the number of petitions. The Hon. Mr. Jenkin son showed pretty clearly there was a consider- able amount of ignorance with regard to the Bill on the part of those members who have spoken in opposition to it. He rightly said that the Bill was a consolidation Bill, and that the greater portion of it is already existing law ; that there is very little departure as regards any extension contained in the Bill, but the main feature of it is that the machinery which was provided to carry out the existing law has been found defective, and this Bill renders it more perfect and effective. There is no part of the machinery under the existing law which has proved so defective as that relating to banks and offices. And who is responsible for the in- troduction of that principle into the Act? That did not come as part of the Liberal policy of the Government. It was not introduced by any Liberal representative in Parliament. It was introduced by the Hon. Mr. Ormond. An Hon. MEMBER .- What is it ? The Hon. Mr. RIGG .- The provision relating to the closing of offices at certain hours. Now, I do not think there are many members of the Council who would not receive a law coming from a gentleman like the Hon. Mr. Ormond with respect, and if the machinery to carry out that law is defective, that they would hesitate to provide the proper machinery in order to carry out what was the intention of the honourable gentleman and of the Legislature. A new principle of some importance in the Bill is the one providing that shops shall be closed on four days a week at six o'clock. Now, that came into the Bill owing to the large number of communications received from employers and trading associations throughout the colony, and from evidence given by employers before the Labour Bills Committee. It was a well- meant attempt on the part of the Committee to meet the wishes of the employers, and that has been referred to, and it has been opposed ; and it has been said by the Hon. Mr. Jennings that the question should be made one to which the principle of local option should be applied. Well, I do not suppose that we would have had a weekly half-holiday now if the question had been left to local option. It was found necessary, then, that the State should make it compulsory ; and therefore I am quite sure that, viewed in the light of experi- ence, it will be found necessary to make this daily closing at six o'clock also compulsory. As regards the warehouses and their exemption from the Bill by the Labour Bills Committee, 1 do not at all agree with it. I was under the im- pression until recently that there was very little overtime worked in the wholesale houses, but I have been very much undeceived. Since this Bill has been before the Labour Bills Commit- 