The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said he thought it had. Once the Government said they would take up certain land, then the owners could not deal with it by subdivision or anything else until the Government released its grasp. . The Hon. Mr. McLEAN said they wanted the time for that to be fixed at six months. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said he was prepared to argue that twelve months was very reasonable. As originally proposed the time was two years, and in the other House it was brought down to twelve months ; and he did not think the Council should insist on its amendments simply because they thought twelve months was too much. He therefore trusted that the Council would carry his motion, and not insist on its amendments. The Council divided. AYES, 17. Arkwright Jennings Scotland Bolt Swanson Jones Kelly, T. .Feldwick Tomoana Pinkerton Gourley Twomey Harris Walker, W. C. Reeves Jenkinson Rigg NOES, 7. McLean Baillie Ormond Shrimski. Barnicoat Montgomery Johnston Majority for, 10. Motion agreed to. The Council adjourned at ten minutes to five o'clock p.m. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Wednesday, 21st August, 1901. First Readings-John Old-Workers' Compensation for Accidents Act-Conciliation Boards-Winter Railway Excursion Fares-Freight on Cocoanut Oil-cake - Accommodation for Passengers on Southern Trains-Hillside Workshops-Railway Concessions to Telegraph Linemen - Kaikora North Railway-station-Hastings Railway - sta- tion - Rolling-stock for Waikato line-Mercer Railway-station-Telegraph Messengers - Maori names of Railway - stations-Oeo Point Light- house-Lunatic Asylum Attendants' Pay-Rail- way Works - Gisborne Anchorage - Unofficial Passengers on Government Steamers-Makobine Viaduct-Lunatic Asylum Employes-Kaikoura Fish Industry-Auckland Public Offices-Railway to Hanmer Plains-Subsidy to Public Libraries- Native Land Administration Act-Manaia Magis- trate's Court-The Police Report of 1901-Terrace Gaol, Wellington-Crown Lands for Settlement- Cable Messages re Frozen Meat - Land for Settle- ments Bill-Rabbit Nuisance Bill-Local Bodies' Goldfields Public Works and Loan Bill - Eight Hours Bill-Shops and Shop-assistants Bill. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. # FIRST READINGS. Greytown Reserves Vesting, Disposal, and Enabling Bill ; Levels and Waimate Counties Boundaries Bill. JOHN OLD. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) brought up the report of the Waste Lands Committee on the petition of John Old, to the effect that no new circumstances having arisen, the Committee recommended their former finding to the con- sideration of the Government. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) said this petitioner had been before the House three times. It was a case of particular hardship. This was a good and deserving settler, who went into the back blocks and took up land where no one thought of going before. The block had been in the possession of the Government since 1856, and this settler had gone there to hew out a home for himself and family, and, through the in- competence of the officials in Auckland, he had been deprived, not only of his land, but of a large sum of money expended in improvements. He and his family went on to this land, felled the bush, and carried grass-seed for twenty- three miles on their backs through bush, and up and down almost inaccessible hills. After all that-after he had been in possession and had the assurance of the officials in Auckland that he could have the land-without rhyme or reason he was deprived of it, and, not only that, but of his labour and the money he had put into it. The Committee, as members could see, saw the injustice that had been done, and recommended that the petitioner should be dealt with in a fair and equit- able manner ; and that, if he and the Go- vernment could not agree in the ordinary way, the case should be referred to arbitration. He thought he was correct in stating that the present Minister of Lands was one of the Waste Lands Committee who had reported on this case, so that he knew the whole of the facts. Some sort of bogey had been set up that he asked too large a sum. He had been asked to send in a claim ; but it would be hard to say the sum to which he was entitled, for there were few who would have liked to undergo the hardships he had gone through with his family. For a considerable time they had been unable to get horses up there, and everything had to be carried on their backs. He understood some time ago that the Government would favour- ably consider the matter with a view of settling it, but it had been put off from time to time, as all these deserving cases were, until the people got weary of bringing their cases before the House. It would be better for the Govern- ment to let people know at once that it was useless for any one to petition the House-that favourable recommendation from Committees would not receive consideration. He trusted something would be done in the way of having justice done to a most deserving settler, who had gone through a great deal of hardship, and who up to the present had not been fairly or justly treated. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said, One would think, from the honourable gentleman's speech, that this was a very deserving case, and that the Government had deprived this man of his land, and given him neither money nor land in return. This showed the honourable gentle- 