which, we will suppose, he gets 3 per cent. in- terest - £90 a year. What taxation does he pay to the colony? Not one halfpenny; he is exempt from all taxation. He is exempt from taxation to the colony ; he is exempt from municipal rates. He does not pay. anything for his capital. Is that fair? Is it a logical Is that not punishing system of taxation ? the man who chooses to be industrious, trying to improve the land, and trying to become a good colonist, and allowing the other man to escape ? And this is to be a logical system of taxation !" Then, just let me say a word or two with regard to the position in the cities. We all know in the large cities -Wellington, for in- stance - there are numbers of buildings, large warehouses, hotels, banking premises, like the premises of the Bank of New Zealand, or like the Government Insurance building ; and I think the Government Insurance building is the type of what I am thinking of. That build- ing, I am given to understand, cost about £40,000, and it stands on a section which is worth not more, at the outside, than .£20,000. Mr. SEDDON .- What ? Mr. MASSEY .- I am simply stating what I am informed, and, I believe, correctly : that the section on which the Government Insur- ance building stands is worth not more than $20,000, while it cost quite $40,000 to put up the building. Now, place the whole of the taxation on the land and it means, of course, that such properties would pay a great deal less https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 than they are paying now-because there is no escape from the fact that the same amount of revenue would have to be raised-while the burden would fall on the shoulders of the very class of people who are much less able to pay than the owners of these properties I refer to. In fact, instances might be multiplied ; there is no end to them ; but I think I have quoted sufficient to show that the Bill before the House is no improvement on the present system. So far as I am personally concerned, I object to the compulsory rating on the unimproved value, and I object to it because it would press heavily on the owners of poor land, of land incapable of improvement, and on men in straightened cir- cumstances who are not financially able to improve their land, and because the passage of the Bill will bring us just another step nearer to the single-tax. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) .- Sir, from the tone of the various speeches delivered by mem- bers on this Bill, I have come to this conclu- sion : that while the Bill might not be received with satisfaction in one part of the colony, still it is thought that it is necessary legislation to pass in the interest of other parts of the colony, and, consequently, although the Act in force is permissive, I believe that the permissive power begins at the wrong end. I mean this : that if the Premier can see his way to introduce a clause allowing those who object to compulsory rating on unimproved value an opportunity of voting against this measure being put in opera- tion in their district-say, three months prior would meet any opposition. Mr. SEDDON .- I said on the second reading that I would agree to that. Mr. FLATMAN .- Then, certainly I think no right-thinking person can object to the passing of the second reading of the Bill, if that per- missive clause is inserted. An honourable mem- ber says it is permissive now. Yes, it is, but in the wrong way ; it gives the initiative to people who do not generally take an interest in local matters. By the method I suggest it would rest with those who are in a better position to initiate and put in operation the permissive clause. That is my way of looking at the matter, and I think that is the way that an Act should work. Well, Sir, some honourable members may dissent from what I am stating, but still at the same time those who are not in power do not care to initiate these matters without a lead. It is said that this Bill is in the interests of the wealthy. Now, Sir, if it had been in the interests of the wealthy, seeing that it has been in force for the last five years, I would ask why it is that the wealthy have not moved to put the Act into operation ? They have had the opportunity to do that, and I am sure they understand how to vote for their own interest ; and, as I say, the permis- sive clause of the present Act has been in force for the last four or five years, and vet we find the initiative is not coming from the wealthy but from the middle class; and therefore I think that is an argument that the Bill is not in the interests of the wealthy, but in the interests of those to whom justice should not be denied. I would like to instance from my point of view a case of a farmer who has 200 acres of land, and who would probably be obliged to put up buildings to the same extent for working those 200 acres as the man who owns 300 or 400 acres, and the assessment under the present system on the buildings for working the 200 acres will be practically taxed the same as those for working the 400 acres; consequently it must be apparent to honour- able members that the present system of rating is an injustice to the small man. And although my honourable friend the member for Avon speaks of the tenants having to pay the rates imposed on land which they hire in the suburban districts, still I may tell that honourable gentleman if they did not pay the rates imposed they would have to pay an extra rent, for the landlord would look after his own interest when leasing the land. An Hon. MEMBER. - They are not under lease. Mr. FLATMAN .- Perhaps all the holdings are not leaschold ; but some are, and the tenants understand the terms of the agree- ment. They have signed with their eyes open, and know perfectly well they are liable for rates levied on the property. You cannot get at the "fat man " in that way, and the "fat man " will still stroke his corpulent stomach, as the honourable member said ; you cannot get him that way. 