Mr. MASSEY asked, Could not the honour- able gentleman obtain puriri sleepers for the curves ? Sir J. G. WARD said his answer to the honourable member was that they had invited tenders from all over the colony at different times, and if the people in the district repre- sented by the honourable member for Franklin could provide a sufficient supply of sleepers of the class of wood which the department could use, why did they not send in their tenders ? They were prepared to take New Zealand wood of proper quality where it was possible to use it, but they were not prepared to take for par- ticular purposes a class of wood that might contribute materially to the danger of the people who daily travelled over our lines. # VARNISH INDUSTRY. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) asked the Government. If they will give a bonus to encourage the varnish industry ? He was very pleased indeed to note the energy displayed by the Minister for Railways, and in certain questions in particular showing he was quite up-to-date. As for himself, he did not think the Government would be quite up-to-date until as a Labour Government they could find pro- titable work for every able-bodied man in the colony who required it. The Minister for Rail- ways, in reply to the last question. had said that he was prepared to use New Zealand wood wherever it was right to do so. This being so, he wished now to know if the Government were prepared to take New Zealand varnish as well ; and in this connection he would remark that, when it came to a question of bonus, they said they would not give a bonus to the local article. But what were the Government doing in using the imported article? Were they not paying a bonus to the foreign producer in buying his goods? That was why he asked why, in a country like this, where there was such an abundance of raw material for the manufacture of excellent var- nish, something should not be done to en- courage the varnish industry. In this case it was not a question of the safety of the pas- sengers by railway-trains. It was only a question whether we were to keep in the colony the money expended upon varnish ; whether we should employ our own labouring men in the manufacture of this product, or send away the raw material and the money to build factories and employ the labouring people in other countries. That was why he asked the Government, Would they give a bonus for the encouragement of the varnish industry, so as to assist in building it up? Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said his answer to the honourable member was that wherever it was possible for the Government to assist in the building-up of a local industry he thought it was the duty of the Government to do so, and if the selection of particular indus- tries for bonuses was to be undertaken, as his honourable friend suggested, then he thought it were to give a bonus to the varnish industry, why not also give a bonus to the coffee industry, to the spice industry, the coal industry, the glue industry, the twine industry, the saddling industry, and every other industry of the colony? If they were to take up one particular industry for assistance in this way, then they opened the door at once to a system of bonuses which would of necessity mean the imposition of heavy taxa- tion on the people who provide the money with which to pay these bonuses. Now, let them take the case of this varnish industry. The duty was 2s. the gallon, and the freight of bringing it from the Home-country to New Zealand would probably be about $2 5s. a ton. There was thus a heavy impost of duty and freight against the imported article, and to that extent it took the place of a bonus in favour of the local article. That certainly was of some con- siderable advantage to the local people who were making the varnish, and it ought to assist them very materially in building up their in- dustry. While the honourable member was anxious to see local industries built up, he was afraid they would have to devise some other way of bringing that about than by the grant- ing of bonuses. If the Government undertook to pay a bonus in one instance, they would have to consider at the same time how many other industries they would extend the same kind of help to. # WOOL-MARKET. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked the Go- 4.0. vernment, Whether consideration has yet been given to a scheme recently furnished to the Government for the improvement of the wool-market of the colony, and to follow on and fit in with the appointment of a wool expert or experts for the instruction of farmers ; and, if so, whether the Government approves of such scheme, either wholly or in part ; and whether it is intended to set this or any other scheme on foot for the benefit of the wool-growers of the colony ? The very serious drop in prices in the wool-market would at once make manifest to the House the necessity for some such scheme as had recently been suggested to the Government -the scheme referred to in the question. It had been stated by a Minister outside the House that the scheme had been put forward by some person who was in want of a billet. That might be so, for all he (Mr. Field) knew ; but whether it was so or not, he thought it behoved the Government to do everything possible to improve the condition of the wool-market. As he understood the scheme, it provided for the classification by a Government expert at Wel- lington of all the wool exported from the colony, and the shipping of the wool, not as at present, to the London market, there to be purchased by the merchants, and by them distributed to the manufacturers; but the shipping of the wool to the various textile districts, classed so as to suit the requirements of those districts. It was a scheme that had for its object-an object to be sought in the case of all our 