qualified be allowed to nurse. The Bill would then have some effect. The Bill provides for an examination and for registration. In one case it provides that every person who has had four years' training as a nurse in a hospital, and has passed an examination in theoretical and prac- tical nursing by examiners appointed by the Go- vernor under this Act, is entitled to registration. And then we come to the curious case of those who, after the 1st January, 1902, hold a certificate as having had three years' training as nurse in a hospital - these may also be registered, but without examination. Perhaps the Minister may say that the certificate gained in this case is equal to the examination. I do not know that it would be. I am referring to section 4, which provides that nurses may be registered without examination ; while in the other case although a nurse may have served four years she has to pass an examination. hold that if the examination is good in the one case it is good in the other. The Bill does not provide that although a nurse may be registered either she or the public is to receive any benefit. Of course, the Minister may argue that the fact of the nurse being registered would be sufficient inducement for the public to employ her. That may or may not be so. If the Minister wishes to do any real good he ought to go further. Although in two cases those desiring to be registered have to pass an examination, the Bill goes on to say that a certificate given after the passing of the Act by the medical officer of any hospital shall not entitle the holder thereof to registration unless a course of at least twenty- five lectures have been delivered in that hospi- tal. I go further, and say there ought to be some kind of reward, and yet there is no re- ward in the Bill. What are these twenty-five lectures to be ? I dare say the regulations will provide for that; but who is to deliver them, and will they be paid for delivering them ? All these things, no doubt, are Committee objec- tions, but at least they deserve consideration. And when the nurse gets on the register what does she get? She gets a certificate, and the privilege of wearing a badge on her arm. But what is the good of it ? I do not see the good of it at all; and I hope the Minister will go further with his Bill, and say that no nurse whatever shall serve the public as a nurse un- less she has a badge on her arm, and a certifi- cate in her pocket, and then we shall under- stand where we are. But, as it is, this Bill means nothing. It says there shall be a regis- ter of nurses, that the registered nurse is to be subject to certain penalties if she does not do certain things ; but the nurse who is not regis- tered, I suppose, is free to do as she pleases. What are these penalties ? " Any registered nurse who is convicted of any indictable offence, or is proved to be guilty of misconduct, is liable to have her name erased from the register by order of the Governor in Council." Poor nurse. And then, I suppose, she becomes a common nurse, and not a registered nurse. Of course, there is the usual provision at the end Mr. J. Allen nurses are to be paid into the Consolidated Fund. I do not know whether this is another means of assisting the Consolidated Fund, but I do not think it will assist it. It is a worthless piece of legislation and not worth going to a second reading, and it is a matter of no conse- quence whether it goes on the statute-book or not. But for a Government that talks about having the power of initiation to bring down a Bill of this sort, to my mind, is absurd. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston). - It is a satis- factory thing to find that the Ministry is re- cognising the necessity of providing some means for the examination and registration of nurses. While there is a great deal in what the honour- able member for Bruce said against the Bill, I think the measure can be easily improved so as to make it a useful Act. In the first place, the provisions about what I may call the service certificates are not very clear. It is evident, by I subclause (1) of clause 4, that it is the intention to issue certificates to nurses who have served a certain time in public hospitals when they can get a certificate of competency from the head- nurse or the matron. It is not very clear from the wording whether they would have to pass an examination as well, and I think the Minis- ter might amend the Bill by making that plain. He might go a step further - not as far as the member for Bruce says, but, still, a little further than he has gone-by providing, in the first place, that the authorities of public hospitals in the colony shall give preference of employment to registered nurses. It would give some inducement to nurses to qualify for examination and registration, and by assuring them that, at any rate, they would have the pre- ference of public employment over nurses who are not qualified in the same way. If the Minister would consider these two points he would improve the Bill very much, and it would be of some use. I certainly think there should be some system by which the public could be satisfied that all nurses are fully qualified ; but I doubt whether any member of the House is prepared to go to the length of saying that any nurse who has not passed the examination or got the certificate provided for in the Bill shall not be employed. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) .- I think this is a very useful Bill, and one that should have been placed on the statute-book years ago. The Bill will provide for a long-felt want if it is passed into law, inasmuch as there will be a register of properly qualified nurses, and when persons require the services of a nurse to attend any ailing member of their family they will be able to go to the register or to the Gazette and find out who are duly qualified and who are not. Now, there is a great difference in the examina- tions passed by nurses in this colony. In the hospitals of the four large centres the training provided for the nurses is very much superior to the training obtainable in the hospitals of the smaller boroughs throughout the colony. The four larger hospitals are affiliated, or the training there is affiliated, to the British Nurses. Association, and these are the only hospitals in 