control of a work that is going to cost close on a quarter of a million, deemed it their duty to take the line through the district that was going to give the best results. That was the only object in taking it through the Gardens. honourable members only saw the line which the tramway will now have to follow, they will find that there was a great deal of force in the contention that it should be kept in as straight and level a line as possible, because, in order to obviate the necessity of taking the tramway through the Gardens the line will have to be taken at two right angles and join, because in an electrical tramway you must have a con- tinuous circuit. That was the only object, and it is only fair to the City Council to say so. They had no desire in any shape or forin to spoil the Gardens or to infringe on the right of the public in connection with the Gardens, but, in view of the position taken up, and because their desire is to get the work started as soon as possible, they have agreed to put in a proviso that the present Botanical Gardens shall be exempt, and that the tramway-line will not go through them. In the proposed line there is another reserve which will be of some use in the future. On the other side of the road to the Gardens there is a piece of land which for some time has been wanted for a reserve, but the Council have not been able to take it because there has been a road running through it for forty years -not a surveyed road, but one which by use has come to be a public road. Under the new proposal this difficulty will be got https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 over, because the objectors to that road being closed will likewise be met. The only other clauses to which objection was taken were clauses 17, 18, and 19, with the exception of the objection of the honourable member for the Taieri. But, Sir, there is no force in his objec- tion, because if, as the honourable member for Bruce pointed out, that was carried to its logical conclusion there could not be any such thing as a waterworks or reservoir in any part of the colony, and there could be no such thing as a dam site granted by the Warden's Court anywhere, because the risk of a dam breaking away and flooding will always exist, and I think ample precaution has been taken. When honourable members read that the pro- posed dam is to be 30 ft. at the base, they must admit that it is going to be a substantial struc- ture, and that there will be very little risk. But without any dam at all the district which the honourable member represents is some- times flooded. It is not so very long ago since it was a sheet of water all over the plain, and no greater force of water can come down with the dam than if there was no dam there. I think the House will agree that, so far as the honour- able gentleman's objection is concerned, we cannot give it much weight. Now, Sir, to refer to what was said by my friend the honourable member for Caversham. In his speech he said that he would always endeavour to give me every assistance in the passage of the Bill. I Mr. Millar will withdraw it altogether-I will move to have it struck out. There was no idea on the part of the Council to take any advan- tage of any of the suburban boroughs. It was If intended to deal with the tramways as a whole. There are about eighteen miles of tramway in the proposed scheme, of which two miles and a half run through the Borough of Caver- sham, and the rest runs through the city and other boroughs. It was thought it was only fair that the City Council being the promoters, and being the ones who were taking the risk of the whole thing, that it should be treated as if two-thirds of the length of the tramway were in the City of Dunedin. I will, however, in Com- mittee move to strike out clause 19. Then, with regard to clause 17, the honourable member spoke on that under a misapprehension I think ; but, seeing that likewise there has been some feeling in connection with that, I am prepared to withdraw the clause. But I will show the House that that clause has nothing to do with suburban districts at all. It was simply to en- able the City of Dunedin to extend the tram- ways without taking a poll. The reason for that was that technically, by the Bill, a voto has to be taken for every extension. But the poll has already been taken. A poll was taken on the proposal to borrow $200,000 as stated in the Preamble,- " For the purpose of completing the said pur- chase, and for other purposes mentioned in the proposal submitted to the said electors, the said Council has raised the sum of fifty thousand pounds, part of the said sum of two hundred thousand pounds, by means of deben- tures in the form set forth in the Second Schedule hereto, and contemplates raising the further sum of one hundred and fifty thousand pounds authorised by the said Act and sanc- tioned by the said vote, either in New Zealand or the United Kingdom, or elsewhere : And whereas futher sums may be from time to time required for the completion or extension of the said system of tramways and for other purposes connected therewith, and with the use and enjoyment of the said mining privileges," et cetera. An Hon. MEMBER .- Subject to the Act of 1884. Mr. MILLAR .- This poll was taken under the Dunedin City and Suburban Tramways Act of 1900. An Hon. MEMBER .- Subject to the general Act. Mr. MILLAR .- Yes ; but the object of putting this clause in here was that the citizens of Dunedin, having had the oppor- tunity of voting on the whole of the proposal, and having carried that poll. it should be un- necessary again to ask the citizens to reaffirm their previous decision. I could not accept the proviso that was inserted by the Committee. The new line along George Street has been sanctioned, and is recognised as the route, yet it has not been sanctioned according to the 