he will not. A good deal of the matter that ! pendent of any Government, and who can do has been introduced into this debate is a little foreign to the report of the Public Accounts Committee. In the first place, I want to say why I have risen. I have risen to enter my protest against this report. The report itself is a reflection on the action of the Auditor- General. The fifth case reads as follows: "That, in the opinion of this Committee the action of the Controller and Auditor-General was unnecessary, as the moneys were pro- perly paid into the Treasury." Mr. SEDDON .- You voted for it. Mr. W. FRASER .- The honourable gentle- man can surely carry his memory back to the last meeting of the Committee, when I raised my voice as loud as I could against this resolu- tion, uttering the word "No." I was the only one who raised his voice against it ; and that being so, I did not see the use of having my vote recorded, but I made up my mind that when the matter came before the House I would express my opinion about it. This House should be very careful how it passes votes of censure on the Auditor-General. It is to the Auditor-General that the House looks to be assured that the payments of the Govern- ment-not of this Government only, but of any Government who sits on those benches-are payments in accordance with the law. What is the use of having an Auditor-General at all, I would like to ask, unless you are going to leave him the powers the House has given him. Mr. SEDDON .- You had better put a lawyer there. Mr. W. FRASER .- The honourable gentle- man, for years past to my knowledge, winced under the restraint put upon him by the Auditor-General, and it was only last year, when the Public Revenues Act was passed, that he effectually clipped the wings of the Auditor- General ; and it is only since then that he can do whatever he likes. The House knows it, and it is right that the country should know it as well. The Bill we passed last year says this: "If a difference of opinion arises between the Treasurer and the Auditor-Gene- ral." Now, in the past the Auditor-General was supreme, and he could say "No," but he cannot say "No " now. All he can say is, " I disapprove of it." What does the Treasurer do ? He then gets the Solicitor-General to give him an opinion that the course he pro- · poses to take is a proper one, and he gets a warrant from the Governor, and the thing is done. Mr. SEDDON .- And why not ? Mr. W. FRASER. - " Why not ?" says the Pre- mier, and I suppose the House will agree with him when he says "Why not?" But I hope before long there will be a House of true repre- sentatives here who will say that the Govern- ment is bound by the decision of the Auditor- General. It is no use for the honourable gentleman to laugh and make interjections. I say the only safety the House and the country has-I am not saying it in respect to this Government, but of any Government -is to have an Auditor-General who will be inde- his duty fearlessly. He has done so fearlessly, and reported to the House what he thought was a breach of the law. The House referred the matter to the Public Accounts Committee, and the Public Accounts Committee now bring down a report that the whole thing was un- necessary-that is to say, that the Auditor- General was interfering improperly. I say he was not interfering improperly. Mr. MORRISON .- Which question are you referring to ? Mr. W. FRASER .- I am referring to the whole of them. I say he was justified in every report he has made to the House in regard to these payments, and that the money could not. have been paid but for the Public Revenues Act of last year, giving power to the Government to. defy the Auditor-General. The Premier told this House that the opinion of the Government, fortified by that of the Solicitor-General, should rule in all these matters. Well, what next. shall we learn ? Mr. SEDDON .- In the interpretation of the law for the last twenty years we have acted on the opinion of the Law Officers. Mr. W. FRASER .- I say it is a most extra- ordinary statement to make to the House. Surely the Auditor-General is the person whom the House should rely upon, and not the Soli- citor-General. What has the Solicitor-General got to do with it? If that is the case, of what use is the Auditor-General? Abolish the depart- ment of the Auditor-General, and leave the whole thing to the Solicitor-General. That is the logical deduction from the Premier's state- ment, and that is virtually what the Premier has got through the pliancy of the House last year when they voted for the Public Revenues Bill : and the country has got them to thank for it. Mr. SEDDON .- It has been the position for the last twenty years. Mr. W. FRASER .- Does the honourable gentleman mean to tell me that the Auditor- General is bound by the decision of the Solicitor- General ? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes, for the last twenty years. Mr. W. FRASER .- The honourable gentle- man knows perfectly well that he is stating what is not the case. To show, Sir, that the Auditor-General had reason for the objection he raised, when the Public Trustee was up for examination the question arose about the pay- ment of this particular interest that has accrued since. I asked him, "Have you paid that money ? " and he said, " Yes." I said, "Has the Auditor-General objected to it?" and he said, " Not officially, but I understand he has objected to it." The truth of the matter is that the money was paid by the Trust Office to the Treasury. Mr. SEDDON .- No, it was not. Mr. W. FRASER .- What is the use of the Premier saying that, because in the evidence ho read to us just now the Trustee told us so. He told us this : that as far as his office was concerned they paid the money, but the Trea- 