to have the work done at Home. GARRISON ARTILLERY OFFICER. Mr. NAPIER ( Auckland City) asked the Minis- ter of Defence, If any steps have been taken by the Government to appoint a garrison artillery officer from the Imperial army to succeed Major Madocks on the staff of the Commandant ? He would like to point out to the Minister that, seeing the new Commandant was an infantry officer, it was essential that the gentleman who was to be appointed to succeed Major Madocks should be a garrison artillery officer, otherwise the expert knowledge of the garrison artillery officers of the colony would be seriously diminished. Captain Mackenzie, who had had charge of the Auckland forts, had left the colony ; and the gentlemen in charge of the other forts of the colony were men who had, no doubt. done excellent service in the colony, but at the same time they had not had opportunities for modern instruction in garrison artillery work. For the most part they were officers who had served in the Maori war -- men whose credentials were high, but who were not the most suitable for maintaining the most modern system of defence. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said the honourable gentleman would no doubt be pleased to learn that a garrison artillery officer had been appointed. Captain Moore was the officer who had been chosen, and he was about to leave London for the colony. There would be a further question as to whether or not the staff officer of the new Commandant should not also https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 be an artillery officer. It was his ( Mr. Sechion's) opinion that he should be ; but, of course, it was a matter for the Commandant himself to settle, and in a matter of the kind the Com- mandant would be left to judge. ## IMMIGRATION OF DOMESTIC SERVANTS. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) asked the Colonial Treasurer, Whether the Government will make provision on the estimates to provide for assist- ance being given towards the immigration of girls suitable for domestic purposes ? He be- lieved it was admitted that there was a great dearth of girls in the market at present. It was caused, no doubt. by a very large number of girls entering the factories of the colony, and taking up other avocations. Mr. SEDDON (Colonial Treasurer) did not think it would be necessary to place any sum on the estimates for the purpose. When the fact reached Home that the colony had placed on its statute-book a law which allowed domestic servants a half-holiday weekly any amount of girls would come out to the colony without assistance from the Government. ## COMPENSATION TO TROOPERS FOR LOSS OF HORSES. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked the Govern- ment. Whether they will compensate for the loss of their animals those troopers belonging to the New Zealand contingents who supplied Mr. Seddon paign? A large number of members of the various contingents, especially of the Fourth Contingent, had supplied their own horses. At the time there was an idea prevalent that the horses would be returned to the colony, but it had been found it was not possible to bring them back. It was, he thought, too much to ask men who had risked their lives, and many of whom had suffered injury to their health, to suffer pecuniary loss also. He hoped, therefore. the Government would see their way to com- pensate these men for the loss of their horses. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the position to- day must be gauged as it was when the men left the colony. In order to be taken at all many men had offered to take their own horses, and they were therefore given the preference. and he did not think it was right for them to expect compensation from the Government. Some of the men of the Contingents had made claims against the Imperial Government for the loss of their horses, and the New Zia- land Government had not stood in their way. At the same time he was not sure it was right, seeing that it was an inducement for the Government to take these men that they offered their own horses. Committees al-o had been finding horses, and it was a difficult point to determine. It was only where he knew there was a clear case that he had given his consent. He regretted the mon were not able to bring their horses back with them : and it was a decided hardship in several cases where officers' steeds had been with them through the whole campaign : but at the same time the danger from rinderpest was too great to allow of their being brought back to the colony. In cases where he was satisfied that the men did not understand they were going to lose their horses, or where their taking them had not been an inducement to the Government to accept their services, he would not object to compensation being given : but he did not pro- pose to take a vote of the House for the pur- pose. . ## MUNICIPAL MARKETS. Mr. HOGG (lasterton) asked the Govern- ment, If, in any amendment of the municipal laws that may be proposed, they will consider the desirability of requiring that in all muni- cipalities containing a defined population publie markets for the sale of farm, station, and dairy produce, fish. and other perishable articles, shall be established and maintained as neces- sary public conveniences ? While we were en- deavouring to expand our commerce abroad. the question arose whether we should not pay a little more attention to markets within the colony. The complaint of the producer for vears had been that both in the colony and outside it they were suffering from the opera- tions of the middieman, whose profits, they asserted, were considerably greater than those of the producer. It was well known that a great deal of fruit sold in Wellington and the other chief centres of population was not grown in New Zealand. He ventured 