ing from ? Mr. SEDDON. - From my notes. "-that if the Government is invested by the House with power to borrow one million in addition to what they hold in hand, the effect will be to give them a thorough and an assured finance so far as next year's Advances to Settlers Department finance is concerned, and the probable necessities of borrowers, there is no chance of people coming and asking for money and not being able to obtain it. I shall therefore vote for any motion that may be made for the purpose of reducing the amount borrowed under this Bill to the sum of one million." Now, did the honourable member vote for one million? No, Sir. Although he said it was necessary for an assured finance that a million of money should be taken, we find him voting for the motion of his namesake the honourable member for Hawke's Bay for half a million. So much for his consistency, and as to how much you can rely upon any- thing said by the honourable member for Ric- He is absolutely unreliable. carton. 11.0. He cannot help it, and I am sure that no one regrets it more than himself. At all events, it is only right I should put on record the honourable member's statement on the second reading of the Bill. and compare it with his actions in Committee. And if any honourable member will look at the votes given in Com- mittee it will be seen he voted not only to reduce the amount to half a million, but that he wished to further embarrass the department, and put it in such a position that it would not https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 be able to raise the money it required. We also found him proposing that we should not borrow more than half a million in any one year. If that had been agreed to, and a favourable oppor tunity were to arise at the end of this year for raising one million, we were not, according to the honourable member's view, to take advantage of it. I will now take the honour- able member's figures, as given by him in Committee and on the second reading of the Bill. Hesaid that between the 31st March this year and the 31st March next year there would be $795,000 available. The total he gave was $935,000, less £140,000 of temporary advances, leaving available $795,000. That was the honour- able members statement on the second read ing, and he repeated it in Committee. anything, I think that the sum grew larger in Committee. The fact of the matter is that, when the honourable member com mences to deal with figures, they grow with him until he is surrounded by them. He has them from the crown of his head to the soles of his feet, more particularly if their enlargement will tend to depress honourable members, or to make his arguments conclusive. It seems to me he speaks for the sake of argu- ment, and cares little or nothing for the figures. Ho . ever, I can only repeat what I said at the commencement of the debate. Some members attempted to make capital against my colleague who is in charge of the Advances to Settlers Well, although he administers Department. I would point out that this is really a question of finance, and, this measure being truly a financial one, I am supposed, as Colonial Trea- <!-- PageHeader="\--" --> surer, to know the financial aspect of it. I stated on the second reading, and also in Com- mittee, that there was a sum of £760,000 of the last loan-money against which debentures had not been issued. I spoke the truth; it was absolutely so: but honourable member. either <!-- PageHeader="1" --> cannot or will not realise that you can olxtain temporary advances against any advances you have the power to raise, and there have been temporary advances obtained against this 1 amount. An Hon. MEMBER .- What amount ? Mr. SEDDON .- To the amount of £140,000. I told the House there was a sum of $560,000 available. An Hon. MEMBER .- That will not add up. 1 Mr. SEDDON .- I will show you in a few 1 minutes how it will add up. The member for Riccarton also said that a sum of $200,000 had gone missing. "If they have that £200,000," he said, "it means they have more money available. They have taken that £200,000 and used it for other purposes." Well, I have \-- - already told the House, and I now repeat it, that £140,000, and subsequently amounts up 1 to $90,000, were advanced to the Advances to Settlers Department for the purposes of the department. I have said so repeatedly, and I cannot understand how it is that members will not understand that. It was not money advanced by the Advances to Settlers Depart- ment to any Government department or to the Treasury, but it was money advanced by the <!-- PageHeader="1" --> Bank of New Zealand against temporary ad- vances, and in anticipation of our raising the #160,000. Some members said they wanted to know about that. I assured the House on the second reading of the Bill that there had been no advance to a department. I said that the money had been used for no other purpose than i the Advances to Settlers Department, and this money has been advanced to the settlers. That is where the money went to; and there is the complete answer to what was stated by honour- able members opposite and by the member for Riccarton. There was a further advance of $90,000, another temporary advance of $40.000. Now, you see, I put it against myself. There If was an advance of £140,000, then amounts up ! to $90,000-that is $230,000 -- temporary ad- vances made by the Bank of New Zealand to the Advances to Settlers Department, because we did not think it wise or prudent to issue the loan for the full amount available-$760,000 debentures - permanent loan. The honour- able member will see that, with all his astute- ness, he lost the run of $30,000. At all events, I have now brought it down to $530,001, instead of $560,000, as I stated. So I was ¥30,000 against myself. There was $760.000 of the unraised loan available that we could have raised; but against that we had s temporary advance amounting to $140.0001. and this was made on the authority of short- dated debentures. That reduced the amount 