agricultural land. He knew that there were some very successful settlements in the South. He did not know the name of one property-he thought it was bought from Mr. Allan McLean -and that property, he believed, had proved everything that was desired, and that was the close settlement he thought Parliament meant should be largely instituted under the grants which were made. But his study of the ques- tion, so far as he had been able to follow the information given in the returns, was that a very large proportion of the money which had been spent on acquiring land for settlements had been devoted to the acquisition of sheep- farms; and he was one who thought that Parlia- ment never meant, when it appropriated these moneys for the purposes of close settlement, that settlement of a kind which could not be called close was to occupy the chief place, and that the moneys which were being yearly spent on land for settlements were not intended to be devoted to providing sheep-runs for a very limited number of people in the colony. That was his opinion, and why he said this subject deserved the consideration of the Legislature, and why it would have been well had the Parliament had before it, before the Bill was passed, such information as would have enabled it to deal with this very important subject, and why he suggested that they should insist upon such amended administration of the Act as would fulfil the objects for which he claimed the Bill was originally contemplated .. He had just stated that he was one of those who were strongly in favour of the Land for Settlements Act when it was first brought in, and so he was ; http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero but he had always disapproved of what were known as the compulsory clauses. He held that they would work, as they had worked, with great injury to the colony, and he knew that they were even now working with still greater injury to the colony than when they were first started. He held that the compulsory clause was alto- gether unnecessary ; that there were heaps of land then ready to be sold as there was now, and that the effect of this clause would be to unsettle the people, to stop improvements, and in various ways be prejudicial to the best interests of the colony. His contention that the compulsory power was unnecessary was proved, inasmuch as between 1894 and the year before last, when the estate well known as Hatuma was taken, not a property was acquired under the compulsory clause. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- Yes ; the Ardgowan Estate, at Oamaru, which was taken with the concurrence of the company. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND said he was obliged for the illustration, which he had overlooked. There were only two in the whole of that time taken compulsorily, and Hatuma was by far the largest. Well, his opinion was still that the mischief done by the bad influence of this compulsory clause, which was unnecessary, had been infinitely greater than any good that could be derived from it ; and how much worse it was working now than it was at the begin- perty first taken-Hatuma-which he knew very well, and as well probably as anybody in the colony. He said that was a property which, in the interests of the colony ought not to have been taken, and that the colony would sustain a serious loss by the acquisition of that property. That was his opinion ; and he felt satisfied that in the course of a very short time we would see that the price paid for the Hatuma Estate, and the terms on which the Government had been able to dispose of it, were such that the settlers would not be able to pay the rentals they were called upon to pay for that property ; and that, therefore, it would be as undesirable a purchase for them as it was for the Government who bought it. In no sense could Hatuma be spoken of as agricultural land. It was purely pastoral country, badly watered, but a good sheep-run. Now, he had taken out from this little book, describing Hatuma, a few figures to show how in this particular case his representation that the Land for Settlements Act was being worked in the direction of making sheep runs for a few people was being given effect to. He found in this book that the Hatuma Estate contained altogether 25,737 acres. He might say he had no feeling at all in this matter, or in regard to what had taken place. The estate belonged to an absentee, who was not an improving settler. He was only taking this case to show that in his opinion the colony had made a bad bargain, and that it was an undesirable thing to have exercised the power. Now, he found, on going through the list of lots put up at the Hatuma sale, that there were fifteen lots that could be properly described as small sheep- runs, the largest of which was 1,509 acres, and the smallest was 584 acres, the next being 612 and 651 acres, so that of these fifteen lots every one except two was more than a square mile in extent. He wanted to quote that area, because it would convey more clearly to those outside the fact that this could not be regarded as an instance of close settlement of the land. These were estates. He knew from his knowledge of the country that these bigger lots were really the best of the property ; and the smaller sec- tions, although more level land, were inferior to these larger blocks, and that the only people who would get any good out of Hatuma (if anybody did) were those who had these larger sections. And it would be seen at once, when he gave the figures, as follows : 1,509, 1,158, 1,134, 1,217, 716, 774, 878, 701, 584, 782, 676, 612, 651, 704, 926 acres. So that each one of them was a considerable property. An Hon. MEMBER .- How many sections are there altogether ? The Hon. Mr. ORMOND said he had taken out fifteen of the larger sections. Of course there He was only giving were smaller sections. members an instance how far the money which Hatuma cost went towards the purchase of what he said were a class of property which was never intended, from his point of view, by the Land for Settlements Act. These fifteen properties averaged 868 acres apiece. 