regard to shop-assistants any different. That is the most drastic proposal we have in this Bill-the fact that we, for the first time, inter- fere with the hours of adult labour. There is another new phase in this Bill-that which gives hotel-servants a half-holiday. That is a very good thing, and I do not think there should be any difficulty in getting that. I hope that portion of the Bill will become law, and that the hotel-servants will have a half-holiday every week. An Hon. MEMBER .- They get more than that now. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- That is the honourable gentleman's opinion, of course, and perhaps his servants do ; but we have the evi- dence of a good number of witnesses, and we have our own opinions about it, which tell us that the honourable member is quite wrong as regards the usual rule. Then, we have another proposal that payments of wages and salaries should be made weekly, and in no case longer than fortnightly. A few sessions ago we passed a Bill called the " Limitation of Imprisonment for Debt Bill," and in consequence of that the fact has been brought home pretty forcibly to traders that monthly payments go a long way towards encouraging credit and keeping it up. I think that one and all of the traders who came before us, and I think every trader you may ask on the matter, will tell you that the payment of monthly salaries prompts and en- courages credit ; and I think if you enact in this Bill that all shop-assistants, and all bank clerks, and all warehouse assistants-and Go- vernment officers too-shall be paid weekly or fortnightly, you would do a great deal to http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero eradicate this credit system that is in vogue at present. Then, there is another phase in this Bill by which we are interfering with adult labour in a way that I do not think we should do, and that is that payment for the half-holiday shall be enacted. It is quite true that, generally speaking, the half-holiday is paid for in the same way now as the other holi. days are paid for. and all shop-assistants get paid for their half-holiday and for the other holidays ; but in this Bill, as it came to the Council, it was provided that it should be enacted by law that they should be paid for the half-holiday. I do not know that we should go so far as to affirm that. I think if anything will tend to disturb friendly relations between man and master this would, and in some instances it might act harshly on the employer, and we ought to consider the employer as well as the employé. I shall vote against stating by Act that holidays must be paid for. There are several holidays mentioned in the Bill for guidance in reference to the statutory half- holiday. It also says that wherever the Go. vernment think fit to proclaim a holiday such holiday may also be taken as a guide for the half holiday. Now, Sir, a clause has been put in by the Committee that those holidays shall be paid for. As a matter of fact, they are paid for already; but I am altogether opposed to its being laid down in the Bill Hon. Mr. Jenkinson may seem inconsistent on my part, but I can- not help that, and I will oppose that clause when it comes up. If it passes into law we must also enact that these holidays are to be strictly observed, or else the employer will in some cases compel his assistants to work on these days, and so far the law will not prevent him doing so. There is another proposal which, so far, is not in the Bill, but which I would like to see and will try to get in the Bill, and that is that it shall apply to Government offices. That is the only point I wanted in the Bill to make it acceptable to the whole community, and I hope all honourable members will vote for that clause going in. I am not quite sure that the Minister did not have those very Govern- ment buildings in his mind's eye when he talked about some buildings in town being lit up almost every night. Whether that is the case or not, it is a fact that those buildings are lit up almost every night. Members will bear me out in saying the Government are the greatest sinners in this respect. And it is not the under- paid clerks who suffer in this matter. It is the higher-paid officers. An Hon. MEMBER. -- The overpaid officers. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- No, not the overpaid officers. I do not think there are any overpaid Government officers, nor overpaid members either. Almost every night you will find a light in the office of the heads of the de- partments up till two or three in the morning. An Hon. MEMBER .- During the session. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON. - And during the recess too. All we want is to get this grand proposal of mine in the Bill and I am sure the Bill will pass both Houses without trouble. If honourable members will study the effect of this Bill I think they will find that it will do a great deal to bring about uniformity-at any rate, in the hours of employment-and so pre- vent the great amount of time that is spent by the Conciliation Boards in dealing with the ques- tion of hours of employment. I am quite sure that if this Bill passes, and also other Bills in the same direction for making the hours of labour uniform, it will go a long way towards keeping a number of cases from the Boards and from the Arbitration Court. The question of wages I do not know that we can deal with in the Legislature, but the question of hours can be laid down, and not be a sore and constantly recurring point of dispute to masters and men. There is a good deal to talk about in the Bill if one went through it : but I am quite sure that if this debate is held over till to-morrow, and honourable members take the Bill home and read it carefully, they will find that there is not much new matter in it. I think they will find that the Labour Bills Committee dealt with the Bill as they have dealt with the warehouses-namely, on pretty fair and reason- able lines, with the exception that the Govern. ment offices should be included. As I said before, the antagonism to the Bill simply arises from the fact that a great number of the mem- bers do not know that the bulk of the Bill is already law. 