penalise the man who improves. I need only take members down Molesworth Street here, and they will see a lot of old buildings which are a discredit to a town of such importance as this city. I will not call them "hovels," but they are buildings which were erected some forty years ago, and that land is now worth from $50 to £100 a foot, and to see buildings of that class on land which is of such value seems to me to be monstrous. An enterprising owner of land, of course, erects a magnificent building, and gradually the land is improved in value ; but under the present system the person who takes an up-to-date shop that has been erected on that land has to pay five times the rates that his neighbour has to pay who is utilising one of these poor buildings. Now, that man gets just as much from the use of the street as the man who has erected these fine buildings, and carries on his business year after year to a great advan- tage in regard to the payment of rates. Mem- bers would scarcely believe it, but I am told that there are three or four of these buildings in Molesworth Street-and I do not know that you can have a stronger argument-that at the time of the plague scare were condemned and had to be pulled down as being insanitary and unfit for occupation. Therefore, if you have such a condition of things in your prin- cipal city of this colony, and in its main thoroughfares, it is worse really than to have the vacant plot ; and I say that the time has arrived when you should put your rating for local purposes on a fair basis, for all that land will then be improved, and the man who owns it will have to do the same as his neighbour, because he cannot very well afford to con- tinue to maintain the tenements that now exist on the land. Mr. BOLLARD .- Punish the man, and make him erect new buildings. Mr. SEDDON .- No, I do not punish the man at all. I simply say, Why should he reap the advantage of other people's expenditure ? Why should he not be rated for local purposes the same as the other, because his property is in the public avenues, and his premises com- mand the same amount of public conveniences, pathways, streets, lighting, et cetera, as the premises of the man who has put up a magnifi- cent set of buildings ? Mr. W. FRASER .- You cannot apply it to the country-apply it to the towns. Mr. SEDDON .- It applies to the country too. You will find that, if it is in a distriet where they cannot improve, the property-owners will always be on the same footing. At all events, I will come back to the other matter and deal with the local plot question, or the vacant plot question. As members are aware, there are in towns vacant plots of land where in some instances the owners are absent from the colony. Sometimes you cannot find their addresses, and it is only when a boom commences and high prices are ruling that the owners turn up. Some, to their sorrow, have taken these sections as being ownerless, but events have subsequently proved that the owners were there, but were lying back quietly allowing the thrifty and the enterprising residents to go on making improve- ments, paying all the time rates and taxes, and after the land had quadrupled in value, although during the interval the rates they had paid had only been one-fifth of what was paid by the other improving ratepayers, they quietly dis- posed of those vacant plots at a very large profit. I say a large share of that profit has been made out of the enterprise of their fellow-ratepayers, who have been penalised. That has been and is the existing system of our rating on the capital values, taking the improvements into considera- tion. At all events, after carefully noting what has been going on throughout the country, I am pleased to see that where the experiment has been tried in the country districts-in the counties-they are all well satisfied with the results. Hon. MEMBERS .- No, no. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, I would like any member to stand up in the House and give us a case where it has not been so. Mr. MASSEY .- I will give you one. Mr. SEDDON .- All I know is that wherever they have brought the Act into force they are very well satisfied-in fact, I have not heard of one to the contrary. If the member for Franklin has met with an isolated case which he can give to the House, that will be good reason for say- ing its application should not be general, because the exception proves the rule, and there may be local conditions in perhaps one isolated case that may militate against this system being fair in its incidence. Probably the remedy in that case would be, if we carried the Bill and made its application general, that in a case such as the honourable member referred to we might give them, on the vote by the rate- payers, the opportunity of coming from under the Act and reverting back to the old system. An Hon. MEMBER .- How? Mr. SEDDON .- By making the same pro- vision that there is under the Act now for bringing all the rest in : reverse the position. Mr. MASSEY .- That is not in the Bill. Mr. SEDDON. - The reverse is in the Bill. Mr. MASSEY .- You do not say so. Mr. SEDDON .- I have said you can amend the Bill in that direction if there is an isolated case that you know. If you made the law general in its application, that all local bodies should rate on the unimproved value, and there was a local authority, or those within the bounds of a local authority, whose conditions and the incidence were such as not to make it fair, then they, on the votes of a majority of the ratepayers so desiring it, could come from under the rating on unimproved value and go back to the old system. That is what I men- tioned could be done. Mr. MASSEY .- Will you put something of that nature in ? Mr. SEDDON .- I shall have no objection to the honourable member moving in the matter. If you have a special case where there was hardship, and they want to come from under it, and by a majority of votes the ratepayers and burgesses decide to do so, then 