Fraser, A. L. D. Wilford Symes Palmer. Willis. Tanner Thompson, R. Majority against, 28. Amendment negatived, and proviso negatived. Bill reported. The House adjourned at twenty-five minutes to eleven o'clock p.m. # LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Wednesday, 21st August, 1901. Firat Reading-Sire Horses imported by Govern- ment - Land for Settlements Act - Wellington Harbour Board Bill-Land for Settlements Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Gaming and Lotteries Bill. SIRE HORSES IMPORTED BY GOVERN- MENT The Hon. Mr. ORMOND .- I move, That there be laid on the table of the Council a return of the thoroughbred, draught, or other sire horses imported by the Government to present date. The return to give the total cost of each horse https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 landed in the colony, what class of stock each horse is imported to improve, where each horse is to be stationed during the ensuing stallion season, and the fce to be charged. I was induced to put this motion on the Paper in consequence of this : While I was lately on a visit to Christ- church, having heard a great deal down there about the animals which have been brought out here from England-sire horses-by the Govern- ment, I went to look at three of them which are there on view. I went with some persons who are supposed to be excellent judges of horses, and I know a little about such things myself ; but we were unable to think for what purpose these animals have been imported. They are a sort of nondescript-looking crea- tures, with no clear characteristics, and that is why I have put this motion on the Paper. Sir, I would like to know, and the people of Canterbury where these animals are would like to know, for what particular purpose they are intended-that is to say, what class of animal they are supposed to produce. The opinion of a great number of persons whom I saw was that the animals would not be of any use or service in New Zealand-that they were very in- ferior animals, and would not in any way tend to improve the breed of horses in New Zealand. I heard it said by a great number of good judges that if these animals were put up for sale at Tattersall's down there, or at any other place in the colony, they would not realise $25 apiece ; and I do not believe they would. In other words, they are animals which, if they had continue as sires, but would have been rendered of the neuter gender, so that they could not perpetuate their species. I am giving the opinion of a large number of experts. If that is so, it is a great pity. Sir, I am told that these animals cost some hundreds of pounds; and it is a great pity if we are doing this kind of thing, when we have in the colony any number of horses alongside which these creatures could not be put for an instant. You might have bought horses for $50 apiece in New Zealand far better than any of the three horses I myself saw. I do not know, nor do I think any one knows, how we have become engaged in this importation of horses. But I know this, from a little incident that happened to myself : that the Government are taking very great interest in this question. Rather an amusing little thing happened a little time ago. I noticed in the papers that a sire draught horse had been imported, and it was said to be a very fine animal. It was known by the name of Danger Signal. It was a Shire horse. Well, I am a breeder of draught horses, and have a number of mares of that class, and I thought that I would find out whether this horse was at the disposal of the public, and, if he was, I should like to have sent a first-class mare to him, and I made application accord- ingly. It was just after the session, when my honourable friend and his colleagues were fully engaged by their official duties. I made a written application to the department to know if it would be safe to send a mare down to this horse, and I got a very polite reply that the matter was not yet settled, but the Cabinet were going to be engaged shortly in determining how this animal was to be employed and the fee to be charged. My honourable friend has the onerous duty of conducting the business of this Council, and if his colleagues are similarly engaged, they must have very arduous duties without holding Cabinet Councils on such matters as this; and I should have thought that it would have been competent for the Minister in charge of the department to have decided this little matter. However, that shows the interest the Government are taking in this question. I desire to know what is to be done with these animals-there are a number of them, I believe. I should like to know what they cost, and I should like to know for what purpose they have been imported. An Hon. MEMBER .- What kind do you call them ? The Hon. Mr. ORMOND .- They are thorough- bred horses, I suppose. They are said to have pedigrees. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. - I am astonished at the honourable member who has just spoken. We all admit his intimate know- ledge of the subject of the breeding of horses ; not only is that knowledge his forte, but probably it is his foible. But I defy any man to judge a horse when he has come fresh off a voyage. I remember myself- The Hon. Mr. ORMOND .- It is the best time. 