ber, the courtesy of leave to introduce a Bill. He therefore did not oppose the introduction of the Bill at all; but when it came down from the Local Bills Committee it would be his duty as member for the district to do his very utmost to persuade the House not to pass it into law. Mr. HALL-JONES said he had informed the honourable member that he would not press the Bill before the Local Bills Committee until the honourable member had an opportunity of producing any witnesses he desired to bring before that Committee. Witnesses could pro- duce evidence regarding any statements made in the petition, and for that reason there was no necessity for the petition itself being referred to the Local Bills Committee. The honourable member said the statements contained in the petition had been drafted on the authority of the Mayor of Waimate, and, if that was so, all he could say was that he was sorry for the Mayor. Bill read a first time. BIRTH REGISTRATIONS. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) asked the Colo- nial Secretary, Whether the Government will this session bring in a Bill to amend the law so that parents may register the births of those children whose registration has not been effected within the statutory period through neglect or inadvertence ? This question was one that was periodically brought under the notice of the Government. Through inadvert- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 ence or forgetfulness, or not knowing the law, persons were in the habit of neglecting to register their children within the time required. In 1882, and again in 1892, amending Acts were passed allowing persons, by giving special proof of the date of birth and by paying a special fee for that purpose, to come in and register their children. He hoped the Government would see their way now to pass this short measure giving relief in the manner indicated in his question. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) said there was a good deal of force in what the honourable gentleman represented, and as from time to time we were in the habit of introducing a short Bill, so as to give an opportunity to those who desired to register in the way the honourable gentleman indicated, to do so- usually every ten years - it appeared to him desirable to again amend the Act in that direc- tion. He would go into the matter to see what could be done. AUCKLAND GOVERNMENT ARCH. Mr. PALMER (Ohinemuri) asked the Go- Vernment, As the Government arch in Queen Street, Auckland, not only impedes the traffic, but has become very unsightly since all the paint has been washed off, will they take immediate steps to have it re- moved ? He would point out that if there was any expense incurred in removing this arch it would have to be paid later on if not now. The arch was very unsightly now that the paint had been washed off, although its removal was as that it was really blocking the traffic. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) said that when recently in Auckland he was asked that this arch should be given to one of the local bodies, so that it might be removed and erected at some other spot. He had no ob- jection to that course being followed ; but he understood there was a difficulty in the arch being removed as a whole, and that it would have been necessary to have taken it to pieces before it could have been removed. That the local body could not see their way to do. In- structions had, however, now been given to have the arch removed. UNIFORM SET OF SCHOOL-BOOKS. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Education, If he will cause instructions to be issued to the Boards of Education throughout the colony to introduce one uniform set of books, such instructions to take effect on and He had been after the 31st March next ? requested to ask this question by those inter- ested in education matters and who were asso- ciated with the administration of regulations. At present, if a family removed from one educa- tion district to another, it was often necessary for the parents to purchase a new set of school- books, because those used in the previous school were not in use in the new district to which they had removed. This was felt to inflict needless cost and to be oppressive. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) said that some time ago in the House the Government were charged with trying to supersede the functions of the Education Boards, and if they were to adopt the suggestion of the honourable member it would lend colour to that. He might say that nothing the Govern. ment had done had been done with a view of taking away the work of the Education Boards. The honourable member was well acquainted with educational matters and with education opinion, and, for the purpose of placing on record, he would read a circular issued by the Minister of Education on the 4th July, 1899, concerning this very matter :- " Education Department, Wellington, 4th July, 1899. "Circular to Education Boards. "The question of uniformity of school-books has been brought under the attention of the Minister of Education. "The Minister deems it unlikely that the want of uniformity in school-books would often create serious inconvenience through removal of children from one education district to another ; on the other hand, he thinks that hardship might frequently be caused thereby through the removal of pupils from one school to another within the same education district ; and he wishes to point out that this matter would be set right if every Education Board would see that the chief books, especially the Readers, were the same in all schools under its jurisdiction. " Under the regulations just issued the num- ber of series of Readers authorised has been 