tunity of entering the British navy if of good of them. And the report of the officer in charge character, according to a statement made by Captain Leah before the Select Committee that was set up some two years ago. Sir, I have found out that the number of boys in rsidence in industrial homes in this colony - and at first I could hardly understand what that meant -- is as follows : At the end of the year the number was 337, and the cost per head per annum for each boy was from $18 to $21 10s. I have also a return from the Customs Department, which gives the figures of registered vessels employed in home -that is, coastal- and foreign trade at the 31st December, 1900. They are as follows : Sailing- vessels. 301; gross tonnage, 43,585 : steam- vessels, 219; gross tonnage, 94,182. These figures do not include steamers in river service. Sir. I may say that the Ports of Auckland and Dunedin stand out distinctly in the Customs returns, as I find that, out of a total of 520 vessels registered throughout New Zealand, 350 are registered in the Ports of Dunedin and Auckland. The number of persons employed in the vessels registered total 3,704. This does not in any way fully give the number of persons connected with marine occupations. Let me instance the fisheries, and the Jumpers, and men connected with shipping offices. I think I am safe in saying there must be fully ten thousand persons gaining their living in this colony from being attached to maritime pursuits. Sir, I will not trouble this honour- able Council any further. The question has been debated fully on previous occasions, and it has always met with the acceptance of mem- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 bers of each branch of the Legislature. I submit the motion to my honourable friend who represents the Government, hoping and trusting that something will be done in regard to this important question, which is of very great interest to many in this Colony of New Zealand. Sir, I move the motion standing in my nanie. The Hon. Colonel PITT .- Sir, I have much pleasure in supporting the motion of the Hon. Mr. Jennings, to which he has just addressed himself. I, probably with other members of this Council, had the opportunity when in Sydney lately of being on board the "Sobraon," and witnessing the great success that ship is in dealing with the reformatory question in that State. There are, I understand, some three hundred and fifty boys on board the vessel, and each of those lads has been committed by a Magistrate. Any one seeing them must be struck with their cleanliness, with their discip- line, with their health, and with the general good that is aceruing to those boys through the manner in which they are dealt with on board that ship. Their education is attended to. They are taught some part of a sailor's life, not. perhaps, so much as might be were they on board a different class of ship, for it is more a school than a naval training-ship, but their physical development is attended to. They have their cricket-ground, their football-ground, their swimming-bath, and everything that conduces VOL. CXVII .- 6. of the ship, Captain Mason, is such as proves incontestably that the very greatest benefit is derived, not only by the lads but by society, from the establishment of that ship. And, Sir. it has this advantage, to my mind : it is the best solution that I have heard of vet of the indus- trial school difficulty. On board that ship these lads are mixed together. all creeds are there, and the spiritual instructors of all the denomi- nations go on board that ship - - Roman Ca- tholies, Church of England, and other denomi- nations visit the ship at different times and give religious instruction there. The lads are also taken ashore from time to time to attend their different places of worship, and there is no difficulty whatever ; the whole thing goes on in perfect harmony. They have a splendid band on board, and the perfection of the drill on the "Sobraon " is such that I venture to say I have not seen better anywhere. If you speak to the officers of the ship they will tell you that very few of these lads ever relapse into crime, and that a great many of them have turned out really useful members of society. I believe the proportion of them who go to sea is, perhaps, not so large as might be expected. Probably that is because the "Sobraon " is simply moored in the harbour, and they are not trained to the more active portions of a sailor's life. They are taught knotting and splic- ing and sewing canvas, and other things of that kind, and manning the yards, but they are not exercised in the practical working of a ship. Now, what I think we ought to do in this colony - what, with all respect, I think the Government ought to do ; and I suppose that no time in our history have we ever been in a better position to do it- is to ask the British Government to place one or two obsolete sailing.vessels at the disposal of our Government, and then all the advantages which are enjoyed by the lads on board the "Sobraon " in Sydney could be en- joyed by lads placed on board those vessels here. And, more than that, if a vessel of the class of the "Skylark " or the " Nautilus," naval brigs which, probably, members have seen sailing out of Plymouth -- if one of such vessels was engaged here the lads could be put on board and taken short cruises, say, from here to Lyttelton and back, or elsewhere. Then, our mercantile marine could be recruited from these boys ; and, as the Hon. Mr. Jennings has said, the Imperial navy would probably draw a great many very useful recruits from our training- ships. I know it has been asked, Why cannot all the advantages boys get on board a training- ship be obtained on shore? Well, perhaps that is a difficult question to answer. I merely answer it by the light of our experience. Our experience shows that it cannot, for I venture to say that our experience of industrial schools throughout the colony has not been that they are a very pronounced success ; but if we get from a training-ship the same results that they have got in Sydney from having a training-ship there we ought to be satisfied, and it is no answer to say that you could get the same 