Insurance Act of 1899 he has authority to borrow $25,000 : making a total for the cur- rent year of £5,100,000. I allude to this in order that honourable members may see how largely we have come to depend upon borrowed money, and to show that the State now is living upon borrowed money. If a check takes place now or at any time upon our power to borrow, our whole scheme falls to the ground, and this from a Government which professes to be a non-borrowing, self-reliant Govern- ment. They have led us into a greater scheme of borrowing, into wilder schemes of borrowing, and into a greater reliance upon borrowing than any Government that has existed in this colony before. I also referred to the question of the present being an unfavourable time for going upon the money-market. The Premier has taken great credit to himself for raising a loan of half a million at 4 per cent. locally. Now, I calculated the interest that that loan would yield for the first year, and I find it amounts to over 44 per cent. I looked up the Act and found that we are only authorised to borrow this money on such terms that the debentures would yield to the debenture-holders only 4 per cent. They have sold those debentures to yield to the purchaser 4} per cent. for the first year- illegally, I say. Honourable members will find on page viii. of this Statement this curious expression : " To complete the security required by the investors, 1,658 debentures have been printed," and I wish to know why those words "have been printed " have been inserted. One would think that if the security was given to the debenture-holders the Premier would have used the word "issued." The fact is that they are illegal, and that is why they are not issued. Sir J. G. WARD .- What debentures ? Mr. J. ALLEN .- The debentures to secure the half-million loan borrowed in the colony. I wish to find out what the effect of this loan has been. The Premier said the best thing would be to borrow locally, and to a certain extent and under certain conditions I admit it. But it has its evil effects, and the effects have already been felt by the banks and those requiring money. I will just give one instance. The Corporation of Wellington were trying to secure a loan from the Australian Mutual Pro- vident Society, and the only one condition on which they could not agree was this : That the A.M.P. Society desired the Corporation of Wel- lington to pay the interest in Australia. Upon that point they did not agree ; and there was a chance of their coming to some agreement until the A. M.P Society got their money lent to the Government at 4 per cent., the interest to be paid on the other side. And now the Corpora- tion of Wellington, I have no doubt, will be left in the lurch, because this money has been taken by the Government at a higher rate than the Corporation were making terms for with the A.M.P. Society. I could give other instances of the effect of local loans being raised in New Zealand and on the "other side." The Bank of New South Wales, for instance, is now raising their rate of interest upon de- their interest upon advances lent to their cus- tomers. The Government have been preach- ing about cheap money, but this is not the way to obtain cheap money. Now I have to refer briefly to the London issue, in order to show how unfavourable the times are for raising money at Home. During the June quarter we find that £500,000 of money was borrowed at par, the cost being £3,160, while the loan locally raised only cost £1,650. And I have a few words with regard to the £500,000 which has been borrowed from the Public Trustee, being moneys repaid on account of the Bank of New Zealand pre- ference shares. I want to ask why it is that in one of our Public Accounts this money is put down as invested by the Public Trustee in Government securities at 3 per cent. In B .- 10 of this year, being a return showing the public securities of the colony, the investment of the Public Trustee is put down as a security of the colony at 3 per cent., and that return is signed by the Controller and Auditor-General ; but there is another return, B .- 11, which is not signed by the Auditor-General, but which is signed only by the Public Trustee, where we find that very sum put down as a security at 3} per cent. I have but little time to refer to the Bank of New Zealand and the question which the Premier has raised with regard to the Bank of New Zealand dividend. If I had time I could show that the Minister for Railways, when the original Bill was before the House- and the Premier too-made it one of the con- ditions of the agreement that this dividend should be paid as soon as it possibly could be paid ; and yet the Premier the other evening said that action would be taken which would deprive the shareholders of the possibility of securing the dividend. I wish to refer now to one more point with regard to the raising of money in London. The Colonial Treasurer some years ago denied a statement of Mr. Duthie, then member for Wellington City, that the Stock Exchange were not quoting our 3-per-cents, which was partly true and partly untrue. They do quote a certain number of our 3-per-cents ; but even to-day they do not quote the whole of our 3-per-cents. They do quote the whole of our loans on the Stock Exchange in London, except $2,526,620 of our 3-per-cents, which they do not quote at all ; and I say these difficulties will have to be removed be- fore we can hope to go successfully on the Lon- don market and secure our money, even when the better times do come. Then, I will also refer to the fact of the non-settlement of the Mid- land Railway question, and its effect upon our position in London. The time has come when the Premier ought to deal with this question, and settle the matter honourably for the colony, so that there may be no drawback in this respect to our borrowing money in London. I will refer only for a few moments to the question of old-age pensions. The Premier originally, speaking on this question, estimated that the amount required for old-age pensions for the first year would be $90,000 ; for the second year, $90,000; third year, $108,000; 