tween $400,000 and $500,000, and we have still got $760,000 in hand, and no reason has been shown why we should borrow more money at all. Mr. MONK (Waitemata). - There is one matter, Sir, which excites my interest, and upon which no satisfaction has been afforded by what previous speakers have said. It is proposed to borrow this two millions of money at the high rate of interest which the lenders will now demand-not less than 10 per cent. If so, will the rate at which the Government will lend the money under the Advances to Settlers Act be sufficient to cover the cost of the lending under that Aet ? These are questions which I should like to have answered. I know the Premier does not expect me to vote for this measure. He knows that in such matters as this I go upon principle, and my belief is that we are unnecessarily interfering with private enterprise under the Advances to Settlers Act. No statement made by the supporters of the Government or by those who have advocated the Act-audaciously made, I might say-as to the lowering of the rate of interest, has affected my mind in the slightest degree, because I know that many money-lenders have been advertising and continuously lending money at a lower rate of interest than the Govern- ment have been doing under the Advances to Settlers Act. And, as I have mentioned before, the Government are operating at a very unfair advantage over private enterprise, as these private money-lenders have to pay 1d. in the pound, or equivalent to land-tax, upon their loans. The Government are announcing that they are lending money at a lower rate of interest than private enterprise, but they exempt themselves from the land-tax which is paid by the private lenders, who, on the two millions of money, would have to pay not less than $8.300 per annum. I say, therefore, it is inequitable in principle and it is unfair in its practice; and, while I objected to it from the very first. I more especially do so now, when I believe the Government cannot borrow money at a sufficiently low rate of interest to advance to settlers without liability of loss to the tax- payers. There is no doubt that this borrowing . of two millions of money will bring capital into the country; and no doubt it will enable the Minister for Railways at some future function, such as he was at the other evening, to announce the increased amount of money lying at deposit in the banks, and the plethora of cash there is at the present time. Of course, the sixteen or eighteen millions of money that we have bor- rowed of late years must of necessity be added to the deposits in the banks - a bad sign that they cannot put it to better use-and this money will help in the same direction. Then, I want to know whether this two millions of money is merely for the purpose of keeping the banking account free or in credit with moneys received under this Bill. There is no doubt that they have already sated with their advances to settlers those who are needing to borrow on the kind of securities which will induce the Go- Mr. Herries opportunities of lending money against private enterprise in the future than in the past. But I admit the Government will be able to confer this benefit on the country : that they will be able to keep buoyant their public works policy by the lending of this money on short-dated securities, and even keep advancing in abeyance. There is nothing easier, as we have seen in many instances, in the case of persons who have applied for loans and have been refused on the plea that the security was not sufficient. The would-be borrowers have afterwards dis- posed of their properties at a much higher rate than the security which the Government professed to require, and they were forced to place themselves in the unfortunate position of having to sell their homesteads. This I know to have taken place. But, while I say the Go- vernment has not been lending money at as low a rate as private enterprise, there has been this feature, and the only one that I will allow to he of advantage to settlers: that they have lent money in the country districts where the ex- perience of private enterprise is adverse to placing loans, because in the past many have been unfortunate in so doing. We know there have been times -and we cannot be sure that those times will not come again-when country securities have fallen, and the money-lenders have been surprised at the shrinkage of their securities ; and there only requires to be a lower- ing in the value of land for the Government to find out that their securities may be too near in value to the amounts loaned upon them. In the first place, as I have stated, I consider we are without benefit in interfering with private enterprise, and it should be the policy of any Administration in any country to as far as possible avoid interference with private en- terprise, provided it does not in any way encroach on the interests and well-being of the community. We knew money is being bor- rowed at the rate of 4 and 4} per cent., and that the money-lenders have to pay land-tax. And mark the difference between the 5 and 6 per cent. which the Government must neces- sarily demand for the advances they will make under the Advances to Settlers Aet and the rates demanded by the private money-lenders. Those are a few of the questions which I should like to have fairly answered. No doubt the Right Hon. the Premier will endeavour to obscure the issues, as we know he is so clever in doing. Why can he not give us a genuine exposition of the state of affairs ? We want to know whether this money is required for th . purpose of keeping his banking buoyant. and in the hope of postponement and to cover the tightness which he neces-arily has to suffer under the present condition of the country, or whether he really believes it a benefaction to settlers. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - Probably it might. facilitate the passing of the Bill, and allow the [ House to get on with some other business, if I say now that this is purely a borrowing B.Il. It has nothing whatever to do with the adminis- tration of the Advances to Settlers Depart- 