in the necessity of witnesses being allowed to | Standing Orders, do away with them utterly, correct their evidence given before a Committee if the reporter of that Committee is a com- petent man? There is no necessity whatever for witnesses to go over their evidence and correct it if the reporter is competent, and there is no necessity for allowing that work to go out of the hands- An Hon. MEMBER .- What about Hansard corrections ? Mr. HORNSBY .- So far as I am concerned, I never want to see my Hansard proofs ; but I do know this: that many members of this House copiously interlineate, and some of them rewrite their speeches : and in one instance recently an interpolation was made by a member of this House which reflected very gravely upon another member, and which was never reported by the Hansard reporter, but appears in Hansard. That was a breach of the privileges of this House, and a very serious matter, and it was brought before Mr. Speaker, but nothing has been heard of it since. Sir. J. G. WARD .- What did it refer to ? Mr. HORNSBY .- It referred to the inter- polation of particular words by a member of this House into his speech, although the matter was brought under the notice of the Speaker. But, coming back to the question of this breach of privilege, I am of the opinion expressed by other members who have spoken before me on the matter. Suppose that we bring to the bar of this House the publisher of the paper- for that is about all we can do - we cannot https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 touch the reporter. It is the gentleman whose name appears on the imprint of the Star who will have to be brought before the bar of the House, and possibly he may know nothing about it. Well, if this gentleman is brought to the bar of the House, it is possible for this House to fine the gentleman for what has ap- peared in his paper. Possibly, as one honour- able member said, we might put him in the cellar of Bellamy's ; but that is not the point I want to come to. The point is : that, so far as I am concerned, I do not want to go any further in regard to giving a gratuitous and very valuable advertisement to the estimable people who own the Dunedin Star. My opin- ion is that it would be far better, and would be consulting the dignity of this House, if we simply record the fact that a breach of privi- lege has taken place, and if we give the officers of this House to understand in the future that there must not be so much laxity in the con- duct of the business of the Committees which are set up by this House. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) .- I am afraid the last speaker has not been consulting the dig- nitv of the House, or, indeed, his own, judging by his remarks. He has spoken as a journalist in this House, and not as a member. He has forgotten that, while he is in this House, what- ever profession he may follow privately he is here representing a section of the people of New Zealand. I am sorry to hear the light tone in which honourable members have spoken in regard to this question. Well, I say that we ought to do one of two things : either burn the Mr. Hornsby or else strictly enforce them. That is what we ought to do ; but, Sir, to treat the matter as a huge joke is not consulting the dignity of the House. I am very, very sorry indeed, to see the tone which this debate has taken. The member for Wairarapa assumed that the whole fault lay with the members of the Committee. The honourable gentleman, surely has not read the Standing Orders. The breach of privilege lies in publishing the information quite as much as in giving it to the paper. Probably all that will result from this motion will be a certain amount of no- toriety for the paper, and an intimation to the members of the Press gallery not to do it again : but I say that the matter ought not to stop there. This House ought to put its foot down and say, "These are our Standing Orders, and we shall insist on their being respected in the future." It is simply bringing ourselves into contempt to bring up motions of this kind un- less we are prepared to take some further steps. For my part, I shall be quite prepared to go any length, and show people that they cannot break those Standing Orders with impunity. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin). - There is no doubt. Sir, that in this instance a breach of privilege has been committed, and I agree with previous speakers that the whole matter of the reporting of the proceedings of the Select Committees is in a most unsatisfactory position. Time after time we have seen the reports of the procced- ings of Select Committees reported in the Press of the colony in a way which was contrary to the Standing Orders, and yet no notice what- ever has been taken by this House. Sir, I do not blame the pressmen in the very least. It is their business to obtain information in every possible way, and we all know that the repre- sentative of the Dunedin Evening Star is one of the most enterprising occupants of the Press gallery ; but I do blame the parties, whoever they were, who divulged the information. And, in this connection, I would like to call your attention, Sir, to a ruling of the Speakers, as reported on page 155, No. 2. It is as follows : - " Members disclosing proceedings of a Select Committee before it has reported have been committed to the custody of the Sergeant-at- Arms, and the publishers summoned to the bar." Now, Sir, we want to find out who were the parties, members or otherwise, who divulged this information. If this House decides that a breach of privilege has been committed, what is to happen then ? Are we going any further ? An Hon. MEMBER .- No. Mr. MASSEY .- Some one says "No." I think we ought to go further. But it is not possible for this House, as a whole. to the roughly inquire into the matter. I was going to suggest to the leader of the House that be should set up a Committee of Inquiry for this purpose. And there is a precedent for what i suggest. I would refer the leader of the House to the Journals of the House of Representatives, year 1874, page 74, on the question of privi- lege :- 