settlers of New Zealand resemble the king, the Advances to Settlers Office is the miller's daughter, and Rumpelstiltskin is the honour- able member (Mr. Ell), who intends to show us how to manufacture money at will. No doubt, if his sanguine anticipations can be realised, he has made a splendid discovery. We have been told that sunbeams may be made out of cucum- bers, and in these days of science and enlighten- ment some very wonderful developments occur, but I doubt whether capital can be manufac- tured by the easy process suggested. But, leav- ing this abstract question altogether aside, I should like to say a word or two for the honour- able member for Waitemata, who has been at- tacked by some members in the House this afternoon. I rather admire the honourable gentleman ; if he is characterized by one pecu- liarity more than another it is that he has the courage of his opinions. There is no more valiant man in the House. He says exactly what he thinks. When I listened to him I was reminded of the old Scotchman who went to church and heard the clergyman constantly denouncing the enemy of mankind, till at last his heart melted, and, turning round, he said, " Let's say a guid word for the puir auld deil.' The honourable gentleman has been saving a good word for that man of large private enter- prise, poor old Shylock. Sir, the honourable gentleman shakes his head, but I am certain if no other man in the House or in the country would put in an ingenious apology for poor old Shylock that he is prepared to do so. He https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 has been telling us that we are interfering with private enterprise. There is not a re- form you can establish that does not tread on the corns of this ingredient called private enterprise. We are constantly disturbing it. I have no doubt the honourable gentleman must be horrified at the fact that the private money-lender is going to the wall. We only have to go a step further and take the advice of the honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell), and we will be able to grow our own money in the same way as we grow our corn and wool and dairy produce. It is out of this that money is made. Our produce is the source of our wealth, and there is no part of the world where wealth can be more easily grown than in New Zealand. It does seem an anomaly to go abroad for our money. But has not the Gio- vernment recently been floating a loan in New Zealand ? They floated it most successfully. They have shown there is plenty of money in the country ; and, if money can be obtained easily at 4 per cent., surely it is the duty of the Govern- ment to keep their departmental money-lender - the Advances to Settlers Office-in easy cir- cumstances. If we raise money within New Zea- land at 4 per cent. and lend it to the settlers at a slight advance, are we not assisting those who wish to invest money ? They could not have better security than that of the State, and the Government can make good use of their money by advancing it to the men in the back blocks and Crown tenants who require it. Mr. HORNSBY .- But they do not. Mr. HOGG .- My honourable friend the mem- Mr. Hogg | ber for Wairarapa says they do not. I sympa- thize very much with him, but at the same time I recognise that the Government Advances to Settlers Office must exercise caution. The Act has been doing extremely useful work. It is doing more to help the prosperity and progress of the colony than anything else that has been attempted in past times. If our settlers had to depend on the private money-lender, do you think we should find the huge amount of work and the advance of colonisation that is going on in the bush districts? What hap- pened yesterday at the Wellington Land Board, of which I am a member? There were no fewer than about sixty applications to mortgage Crown leaseholds, and of these-Iam only speak- ing from memory - about fifty were applica- tions to mortgage to the Advances to Settlers Office. This is about double the business of the kind in one month that has yet been done by this office. I am pleased to see it. The present is the season when the settlers have to carry out bushfelling and spend a good deal of money in improvements. I am pleased to see the business of the office growing so rapidly, because it indicates conclusively that the country settlers are displaying plenty of energy and enterprise. In the face of facts like these, and seeing that the Crown tenants are taking such advantage of the office as they are doing, I consider it is our duty to see that the office is well supplied with capital. I am sure that that is the feeling of members on both sides of the House. I was very pleased to hear the remarks made by the member for the Bay of Plenty, who has plenty of settlers in his district requiring the assistance of capital. He knows they are getting that assistance to a very large extent through the medium of the Advances to Settlers Depart- ment. This department has been the means of keeping down the rate of interest and building up the country for years past. It is quite immaterial whether the office advances half a million a year or one million. It is doing a useful work in keeping the rate of interest within fair and reasonable bounds. The ques- tion of valuation having been raised, I would like to suggest to the Minister in charge of this department that it would be a very great im- provement on the present system if settlers who pay to have valuations made were supplied with the particulars of those valua- tions in every case, whether the loan applied for is advanced to them or not. There seems no reason why they should not be sup- plied with the information, and it would be a source of great satisfaction. If their applica- tions are refused, they should be supplied with the value that is placed upon their property. As it now happens, they are left entirely in the dark. They may meet with a refusal, or be told that they can have a reduced amount : but they do not know what valuation has been placed on their improvements. Having paid a fee to get the valuation made, they ought to be supplied with the information. I can assure the Minister that it would give a great amount of satisfaction to settlers generally, and it would also be a matter of justice to the valuers con- 