Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) .- I think every honourable member can bear testimony to the great care which the last speaker exercises in every matter that comes before him. Honourable members know, of course, the attention he gives to every matter that comes before this House, and they can readily understand that, as Chairman of the Local Bills Committee, much greater care and responsibility is cast upon him. On that Com- mittee I can assure honourable members that he acts as our guide, philosopher, and friend. But. Sir, I should not have risen but for a re- mark dropped by the honourable member that no work would be undertaken under this Bill unless it came before the House again. Now, I should not like any member of the House to misunderstand the position. The Premier said, and correctly said, there was a conflict between the Act of 1878 and the Act of 1883. One of those Acts prescribes that no work shall be undertaken unless plans of the work are de- posited with the Marine Department three months before the meeting of Parliament. Well, in this case the Chairman of the Local Bills Committee has informed you-and, of course, we know what he states is correct- that the Bill could not have proceeded under the Act of 1878. But there is a conflict between the two Acts, inasmuch as the Act of 1883 allows the work to be done. This being simply a borrowing Bill, then the local body is to have its plans prepared and sub- mitted to the Marine Department, advertised in the local papers for a certain time, all the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 local bodies interested are to be notified, and then only when the Order in Council is issued can the work be proceeded with. There was some doubt in the mind of the Chairman and others as to what was the intention of the pro- moters of the Bill ; and when we were waited upon by the Chairman, Mr. McKenna, and the secretary, they made the matter very clear to us, and I can assure the House that, so far as the forms of the House having been complied with, they need have no hesitation in allowing the Bill to proceed. Then, as to the nature of the work, I know something about Patea, and something about the enterprise of its in- habitants. I know something about the needs of the district, and I know that that district, and from there on to New Plymouth, is one of the most prosperous parts of the colony, and I agree with the honourable member for Wa- nganui, who says it behoves us to enable those people to tax themselves in order to carry out the required works. I believe this will be of . great service to the town, and I hope honourable members will allow the Bill to proceed. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) .- I do not rise to oppose the Bill, Sir. On the contrary, I am quite prepared to support it. But I wish to draw the attention of the honourable gentleman in charge of the Bill to the fact that there is an omission in its provisions, which should be supplied in Committee. Of late years, in all borrowing Bills that have passed this House, be borrowed. Last session we passed a Bill relating to Westport Harbour, and another relating to Greymouth Harbour, and in both of them this proviso occurs :- " But no money shall be borrowed under the authority of this Act which shall produce to the lender a higher rate of interest than four pounds per centum per annum, anything in the last-mentioned Act notwithstanding." Then, in the Dunedin City and Suburban Tramways Bill the limit was made 5 per cent. It is quite possible that in the case of a small loan such as is proposed to be authorised by this Bill 5 per cent. would be the limit inserted in Committee. It is quite clear that, unless the House is going to depart from the rule that it has laid down during the last several ses- sions, it will be necessary for the honourable gentleman to accept, or himself incorporate in Committee, a clause limiting the price at which debentures may be sold. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo). - This question of harbour expenditure is one that I think the House should exercise very consider- able discretion in connection with. I believe, however, so far as Patea Harbour is concerned, that that is a modest work, and will probably repay interest on expenditure; and from all that we have heard to-night there is every justification for this measure going on, subject, of course, to the very important provision which has been so ably laid before the House by the honourable member for Waitaki, the Hon. Major Steward. I took a very keen interest at the time of the discussion before the House re- garding the limit of interest that should be per- I mitted on loans to be raised by local bodies. did that because I recognised that the time was coming when the colony must take over the responsibility of sound harbour loans. It is absurd to think that for all time we shall go on paying 6 per cent., as is the case on many of these loans, of which 90 per cent., and in some cases only 80 per cent., was contributed. I say it is the duty of this House before sanctioning a single loan to see that the expenditure is a wise one, and that adequate revenue will result. If that is so, the colony will come in a very practical way to the rescue of the people who are going in for harbour expenditure. We had the Minister of Marine stating that it was right and proper for the Government to assist the harbour-works; but the greatest assistance that can be extended to local bodies at the present time is to give a guarantee to their loans, which will enable them to gain their money at the lowest rate of interest. And that principle should extend further, and we ought to have the Imperial guarantee behind genuine colonial loans, so that when money is raised for this colony for defence purposes and for other colonial purposes the people of this colony should obtain the money at the lowest possible rate of interest. I regard the proposal suggested by the Hon. Major Steward, that 5 per cent. should be the limit, as far in excess. Now, I do not believe, except in cases 