provision whatever made for the physical train- ing of girls. This Bill, therefore, makes special provision for the physical training of girls, and the Education Boards have to report to the Minister of Education that the requirements of the Act are being complied with. As re- gards expense, I quite agree with the Hon. Colonel Pitt when he says that physical drill can be taught without any heavy expense. am indebted to that honourable gentleman for the manner in which he has interpreted clause 85, and also for his support of the Bill. The Minister of Education probably thinks that this Bill should have emanated from himself. I can only say that it passed the other House, and that I was asked by the honourable member who introduced it there to take charge of it in this Council ; and surely the other House must have seen some virtues in it, otherwise they would not have passed it. When a Bill has been passed in another place, I do not think that it is reasonable to come to the conclusion all at once that it should be thrown aside here. I do not approve of work being performed in that way. I think every Bill sent to this Council ought to have the fullest consideration. As I said before, I quite agree with the Hon. Colonel Pitt, that if this Bill is passed great good will result to the girls of our public schools in the matter of deport- What is not provided for ment and discipline. in the original Act is provided for in this Bill. Clause 6 states, " Upon the principal teacher of any school being satisfied that any boy or girl is unfit to undergo physical drill, such boy or girl shall be exempted from being instructed in such drill." I hope honourable gentlemen will vote for the second reading of the Bill. Bill read the second time. THE WELLINGTON HARBOUR BOARD ACT 1879 AMENDMENT BILL. The Hon. Mr. JOHNSTON .- This Bill origi- nated in another place, and is promoted by the Wellington Harbour Board for the purpose of restoring representation to those districts which at one time formed part of the County of Wai- rarapa North and the Hutt County. It also proposes, by the addition of one member, to give representation to the counties in the Manawatu district, which they did not enjoy under the principal Act ; and, further, by clause 7, it is proposed to alter the date of the annual ac- counts from December to September, Decem- ber being found to be a very inconvenient time, both on account of holidays and the press of work at that period. I beg to move the second reading of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- I do not want it to be thought that I am showing captious opposition to this Bill when I point out that there is a clause in it amending " The Harbours Act, 1878," while the measure itself is called "The Wellington Harbour Board Act 1879 Amendment Bill." This may not be thought to be very important, but it is one of those things that give rise to the suspicion that Bills emanating from the Wellington Harbour Board watched in both Houses of the Legislature. This happened in reference to a Bill that was passed two years ago called "The Wellington City Reclamation and Public Baths Bill." It was a very harmless little measure when it passed through the Council. It gave power to the Harbour Board to grant permission to the Wellington City Corporation to build a reclama- tion wall some distance along Clyde Quay, and I also to build baths, the cost of which the Har- bour Board, I think, was to share to the extent of one noiety. Some time before a vote of the ratepayers was taken regarding the borrowing of money for this work, and the proposals as put before the ratepayers were, along with other works, the widening of Clyde Quay to a distance of 100 ft., building a retaining wall for some quarter of a mile along the front of it, and to build baths. Now, these proposals went to the ratepayers, and the result was that the ratepayers gave permission for the money to be borrowed, and the work was gone on with. Several hundred feet of the wall had been built, and some reclamation done, when, a few weeks ago, a paragraph appeared in the Evening Post to the effect that after the wall was finished it was intended by the Harbour Board to enclose about five acres of water, by building another wall, or rather two walls, overlapping at the ends, some 250 ft. outside the wall now being built, to serve as a breakwater, and to put up boat-sheds against the inner wall, and also on the skids on the inner side of the outer break- water. When the plans came before the Local Bills Committee in 1898 dealing with the recla- mation and public baths, there was absolutely nothing to show that a boat-harbour was going to be formed, or that boat-sheds were going to be built outside this wall. I venture to say, if such a project had been shown, the Bill would not have passed through this Chamber without alteration, and this objectionable proposal elimi- nated. And I am quite sure that, when the proposal was put before the ratepayers, there was not one ratepayer in a hundred who bad any idea that the Harbour Board or the Cor- poration had any intention that these boat- sheds were to be placed outside the walls. The ratepayers understood, and the general citizens of Wellington also understood, that it was to be a promenade -- an esplanade, such as exists at Thorndon-and that it would form one of the very few walks in Wellington. They are now startled with the proposal that im- mediately outside the wall these boat-sheds are going to be built. If the ratepavers had known of this ridiculous proposal they would, I am sure, have never given their sanction for the work to be done. When the Corporation was approached on the matter, a few days ago, they got out of the question very quietly by saying that the Harbour Board was well within its rights in building the boat-sheds, and that the roofs of the sheds were not to extend more than 4 ft. above the top of the wall. Well, the top of the wall is about 3 ft. 6 in. above the level of the road, so that another 4 ft. makes it 7 ft. 6 in., which will absolutely prevent any view of the 