Committee the Hon. the Minister in charge of | for the half-million. It seemed to us that there the department gave us the sum of £590,000 as being the amount available, and which he made up as follows : namely, £620,000 not raised on 31st March, from which he deducts £30,000 for expenses, and that leaves $590,000. Now, the Premier on this motion on the report gave us the sum of #620,000, from which he sub- tracts £90,000 so far as I understood him, making $530,000 at the 31st March. He said afterwards, in connection with a remark made by the honourable member for Riccarton, that he did not mean on the 31st March ; but he induced the House to believe there was only £530,000 available on the 31st March. That was the intention. Well, now, Sir, which of these statements are we to believe is correct ? Besides, Sir, nothing has been said about the $200,000 which the Premier admitted was miss- ing. Mr. SEDDON .- I never mentioned it, or said it was missing. Mr. HERRIES .- The Premier on the second reading did mention it. Mr. SEDDON .- No. Mr. HERRIES. - I have got a note of the Premier's own words. He said, as an interjec- tion in the course of the member for Bruce's speech, " Not to be raised, but $760,000 yet to be raised under the authority of the principal Act. Of this, only £560,000 now remains avail. able for investment on mortgage." The Minis- ter in charge of the department said on second reading, " There is a balance to be raised under the last statute of #760,000, but there is a sum of $200,000 already pledged against that amount." Mr. SEDDON .- I did not say that ; you put / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero that into my mouth. Mr. HERRIES .- Sir, the right honourable gentleman said £760,000 was yet to be raised, of which only $560,000 was available ; and I sub- tract the one from the other, and get £200,000, which bears out the contention of the Minister in charge of the department. Therefore we may safely assume that £200,000 has been pledged. I believe the Minister in charge of the department, because he gets his figures from the officers in charge of the department, and I believe there was $200,000 pledged, because he says there was. Well, that was one of the reasons why we considered there was not suffi- cient reason shown for advancing more than $500,000. If the department could go and pledge £200,000, apparently, they were not very much in want of funds, and what still further impresses me in that view is the Premier's own statement this evening, that the Superinten- dent of the Advances to Settlers Department had told him that there would be $100,000 available at the 31st March next. That is to say, after paying out all the moneys likely to be lent. Well, Sir, if there is $100,000 available on the 31st March next, if we had voted half a million this year there would be $600,000 left for the next year, and therefore it seems to me that half a million would have been quite sufficient for the purpose of advances to settlers. And that is why I and others voted Mr. Herries was not suthcient explanation of what hap- pened to the $200,000 which the honourable member in charge of the department said « as pledged somewhere or other, and it seemed to us also that there was not sufficient reason given why more than $500,000 should be ad- vanced. That is the reason why we voted against it. Sir, the Premier is going to call for a division on the third reading, and I very strongly object to this practice of calling for divisions which are not called for by this side of the House. Mr. MILLS .- You do not like them. Mr. HERRIES .- No, Sir, it does not affect me as, I am going to vote for the third reading, and I think a great many of those on this side of the House, if they were present, would also vote for the third reading. We have done our best to reduce the sum of money to be hor- rowed, but having failed in that, I intend to vote for the third reading of the Bill, because I believe in the principle of advances to settlers. I always have done so, and shall continue to do so. I believe the advances to settlers legis- lation has done a great deal of good to the country. I admit that, and that the measure has come to stay. I have always believed in it, and shall continue to vote upon it, but I do not believe in raising money when it is not wanted, or in trying to raise more than is also- lutely necessary. And in regard to the practice of calling for divisions when they are not called for by the other side, that only makes me feel the utmost contempt for those who call for them. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) .- Sir, I have not taken up much time this evening. We listened a short time ago to a twenty-minutes speech from the Minister for Railways, which was mainly repetition, for nearly every state- ment he made had been affirmed by the Pre- mier and by the Minister in charge of the department, and, in addition to that. rive minutes was thrown in with regard to "pairs." Sir, I do not propose to touch any of those ques- tions. I think they have been dealt with over and over again, till every one almost is sick of hearing the arguments for and against. The Minister for Railways mentioned, referring. I understand, to my friend the honourable memu- her for Lyttelton, that the honourable memir had opposed and was against State borrowing altogether. The Minister for Railways stat. d that without this credit the colony would not have had the many advantages it now enjoyed. But my honourable friend, Mr. Lauren- c. said nothing of the sort. What he called attention to was, and, I think, properly, this: that we had paid away in interest no less a sum than forty millions sterling in the last twenty-six years. It was a valuable statement to make. and it was one the honourable member mad. only after a deal of research for the necessary figures. We had piled up a debt of forty-nutie millions, with an annual charge of intensi of over two millions, on the shoulders of the people of the colony, and it was about time we tried if some other means could not be adopted 