honourable member for Bruce if it did not come on. As amended, the motion was fair, and he had not the slightest objection to give every item as he had intimated. He believed the honourable member for Franklin was satisfied, but the honourable member for Bruce - suspicion was familiar to him-wanted to make out that something was underlying it all. Some six or eight months ago the statement had been made that the Makohine Viaduct had then cost $43,000 more than the lowest tender that had been received. He had no hesita- tion in saying that a man who could make a statement such as that was only fit for one place, and that place was a lunatic asylum. He would give honourable members the in- formation as desired by the honourable member for Franklin, and it would be information that would satisfy every member, with the exception of one, and that one member was the member for Bruce - no man on these benches could give information that would satisfy him. If he gave the exact information he would be satisfied, but if the return showed something wrong he had no doubt the honourable member would get such a return as he desired. He could assure him and other honourable members that he would be pleased to give all the information that had been asked for, to show that the absurd rumours concerning that particular work had no foundation whatever. As to the question of the honourable member for Pal- merston, he did not care how the matter was https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 put. What he said before he would repeat : If the honourable member for Bruce were to pro- vide an engine and rolling-stock to take coal from a coal-mine, he would not charge the cost of that engine and rolling-stock against a certain quantity of coal carried, but would distribute the cost over a certain period. There was no doubt that some of the machinery used at the viaduct would be almost as good as when it was first purchased, and would be used to manu- facture a quantity of ironwork for other bridges. He maintained that it would be grossly unfair to charge the whole cost against that one work, when it was to be used for other purposes. That was why he asked the honourable mem- ber for Franklin to agree to a fair proportion of the cost of the machinery being charged against this viaduct. He did not object to the sugges- tion to have the machinery valued on the com- pletion of the work, and to make that a set-off against the work. As to the time that had been taken over the erection of this viaduct, he did not think it was excessive when compared with other works. It was true they had sent Home for the machinery some time in 1898, but the last of it did not arrive in the colony until June, 1898 ; and without that machinery they could not start manufacturing the iron- work. On the 14th September, 1898, that work was begun, and his colleague had stated he desired to have trains running over the via- duct within three years and a half from that time. It was not an unusual thing for con- tractors to be behind time in completing their work. The Commissioner of Customs could Mir. Hall. Jones other members could do the same. The mem- ber for Waitemata had not forgotten the con- tract for a certain tunnel that was going on in his district which was finished three years after contract time. To show the difference between the contract and the system adopted in that case, he would say that the contractors for that tunnel, on the recommendation of a Committee of the House, were paid something like $3,500 in settlement of their claims; and in a Dunedin case the contractor was two years over his contract time. It was not done by the Public Works Department ; but it was the result of insufficient experience on the part of the contractors, for they did not make themselves acquainted with the nature of the country they had to pierce through, and they were not experienced in tunnel-making ; they came across a class of country most difficult to deal with. However, they were doing very well at Makohine, and honourable members must not think the time engaged in the work was excessive. When honourable members got the return they would be satisfied, and would see that the work has not eight months ago cost $43,000 more than the lowest tender. He hoped the honourable member for Bruce would be more cautious in the future, and, as one of our rising statesmen, he should show more faith in human nature. When the return was laid on the table he hoped the honourable member for Bruce would apologize for what he had said. Mr. HASELDEN (Patea) said the member for Bruce only asked for a plain answer to a plain question, and had the Minister given a plain answer it would have saved considerable time. Mr. HALL-JONES .- That is what I did. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) did not think there was very much that he had to reply to. He should have preferred to get the return in the form in which it was originally moved, but if he could not get that he was willing to take what he could get. The return was asked for under three headings, namely : "That there be laid before this House a return showing the expenditure incurred in connection with the construction of the Makohine Viaduct up to the 30th June last." The Minister offered to give the whole return if he would consent to amend the first part of it in this way : "allowing a fair proportion of the cost of machinery for the manufacture of ironwork." He under- stood that certain machinery had been pur- chased for the construction of the Makohine Viaduct, but it would also be used in the con- struction of other viaducts. He (Mr. Massey) thought that a fair proportion of the cost of such machinery should be charged to other viaducts-that was to say, that only a part should be charged to the Makohine Viaduct. He thought the suggestion of the honourable gentleman was not unreasonable, and on that account he agreed to it. The other parts of the return were not interfered with. We were to have the estimated cost of the viaduct when complete; the date upon which it was expected 