looked upon with the greatest disfavour and suspicion by many people in this country ; and those measures which are asked for by the people have been passed in this Council. The legislation, which was experimental to a great extent, is spoken of in the highest terms all over the world. Sir, I again think that a measure such as this is not demanded by the country at all. If any such wish should be expressed, the Council, I believe, will be fully equal to recog- nising it. With the Hon. Mr. Scotland, I think the word "referendum" will be one of those choice expressions to roll about the tongue somewhat similar to that comfortable word " Mesopotamia," which gave so great a relief to that respected old dame mentioned in one of Dickens's novels. I shall support the amend- ment moved by the Hon. Mr. Arkwright, that the Bill be read this day six months. The Hon. Mr. RIGG .- Sir, I should be sorry to allow this measure to go to a vote without saying a word or two about it. I intend to support the amendment of the Hon. Mr. Arkwright. At the same time I disagree with the length of time given in his amendment- that is, six months. I think it would have been sufficient for the purpose I have in view if the honourable gentleman had moved that the Bill be read this day three months, and then we would have saved a certain amount of time. The honourable gentleman who represents the Government, in introducing the Bill, told us in all seriousness that it introduced a new prin- ciple. I think the honourable gentleman would have been much more correct and accurate had he said it contained a bit of a principle. That is where I have some fault to find with it, because when you speak to a person of ordinary intelligence regarding the referendum he under- stands at once that it is a great principle be- longing to a great country-great, at any rate, in this respect : that it is one of the purest and greatest of democracies in existence, and one also that has existed for many centuries. Therefore I regard the statement that this Bill introduces the principle of the referendum as known in Switzerland as an insult to that great democracy. Sir, the Hon. Mr. T. Kelly told us that the referendum was not applied by the Federal Parliament in Switzerland. Well, I think the honourable gentleman's memory is at fault in that respect. In Switzerland they have the optional referendum and also a compulsory referendum, and the compulsory referendum takes place when any matter affecting the Consti- tution of the country is dealt with. Such ques- tions must then be referred to the referendum. The optional referendum is brought into force sometimes on what is known as the initiative- that is, by a petition of fifty thousand voters and a majority of the cantons. But the most im- portant point in regard to the referendum is this : that laws, after having been passed by the Parliament, may be annulled by the vote of the people, and the people may demand a referendum in regard to them. So when we look at what "referendum " really means, and then compare it with the apology for a refer- time, it becomes difficult to identify it in any sense of the word as being a referendum. There are two clauses in the Bill which might be used under certain circumstances, and, I think, with- out any great danger. These are the clauses which provide that the two Houses may by resolution submit a question to the electors. Well, I can understand that before a resolution of that kind is passed by both Houses the ques- tion must have been very fully discussed, not only in Parliament but throughout the country, and the people would be educated enough in regard to the proposition to give an intelligent vote upon it. Therefore I think it might be possible to retain these clauses with advantage. It has been my fortune to have had an oppor- tunity of seeing a practical test of a modified referendum. It was introduced into the Typo- graphical Society of which I was a member, and all matters of importance were referred to the members for a direct vote. It was found in a very short time that the intelligence of the members of the union was not shown in the result of the voting-that in most cases the members voted without thorough knowledge of the merits or demerits of the question, and very often voted at the instigation of a person who opposed the proposal, and who did not take the trouble to enlighten them as to the true merits of the question they had to consider. Another thing we found was that, in many instances, where members had voted on a question of great importance to the union, and voted against the proposal, they would have been very glad after- wards if they could have had an opportunity of reversing their vote. Then, another matter which has been alluded to in taking theso votes is the question of expense. Well, it was found in the Typographical Society that that was another great disadvantage. We could not vote #1 to a charity without making use of the referendum, and the result was that it cost us $1 5s. to issue the voting-papers. Now, having seen it at work in a practical way amongst a body of men who are considered, amongst artisans at any rate, as those possess- ing the highest intelligence, and, seeing the dissatisfaction which existed in its working there, I cannot see how it would be possible to apply it to a great country like New Zealand, with its scattered population, with anything like advantage. or with any hope of obtaining the true intelligence of the people on any ques- tion. If we look at Switzerland we shall see there certain conditions which might make it possible to carry out the referendum satisfac- torily, but which do not obtain in New Zealand. Switzerland has an area of 16,000 square miles, and it has a population of about two hundred persons to the square mile. We have six times that area-that is, without counting our out- lying islands, we have over 100,000 square miles, and we have a population of eight per- sons to the square mile ; so honourable gentle- men can see that, where you have a population drawn together so closely and intimately as in Switzerland, it might be possible to put a question before them and get a satisfactory 