Taiaroa Baillie Montgomery Twomey Gourley Pitt Scotland Williams. Johnston Kelly, W. Majority for, 9. Amendment negatived, and Bill read the third time. On the question, "That the Bill do pass," The Hon. Colonel PITT said-After the vote which has been taken, I do not propose to delay the passage of the Bill, excepting to say that I am surprised at the arguments which have been used against the recommittal of the Bill in the debate just concluded. In reply to those honourable members who discussed the clause in question and opposed the recommittal, I desire to point out to them that they do not appreciate the position one iota. Section 60 of " The Land for Settlements Act, 1900," says,- " Except on the recommendation of the Land Board and with the approval of the Minister, it shall not be lawful for any lessee to transfer, sublet, or in any way part with, mortgage, or charge his lease, or any portion of his interest therein, until the expiration of the fifth year of the term of his lease." Before the lessee can attempt to mortgage his lease he must have the recommendation of the Board and he must have the approval of the Minister. Now, I would like to ask honour- able members, are they not prepared to trust the Board, and are they not prepared to trust https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 the Minister ? I am ; and I venture to say that this is ample protection to the lessee in the matter, and ample protection, too, to the State, against what appears to be feared by honourable gentlemen-namely, dummyism. The clause / http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero that has just received the approval of the Council-clause 11-I think will be found to be harsh in its operation, and it will not be many years before Parliament will be called upon to repeal it. Bill passed. SHOPS AND OFFICES BILL. On the question, "That this Bill be com- mitted," The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI .- I would ask the Minister to allow the Bill to stand over until some honourable members who have taken a deep interest in the matter have returned. They are now absent, and, as this is one of the most important Bills of the session, I would ask that it be postponed until to morrow. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. - I do not think it is necessary to postpone this Bill. has been on the Order Paper for two or three days past, and although I extremely regret that any member of the Council should be absent on an occasion of this kind, I do not think the business of the Council should be postponed on account of the absence of any honourable mem- ber. If the debate goes on until a late hour I shall not object to adjourn it, and thus give time to the Hon. Mr. Shrimski to look up his absent forces ; but I cannot do more than that. I have not pressed the matter until the Council ject, and I hope I am not asking too much of the Council in asking it to proceed with the Bill now. The Council is in possession of the evi- dence, and will be able to see what has been brought up this year that is new matter on the subject. I do not think that members will find a great deal of novelty in the evidence. Of course, there is the old rock against which previous labour proposals have had to stand the risk of being wrecked, and that is that people do not like what is new ; but still it is astonishing after a year or two how people get along with what they do not like at first, and I have no doubt that if the Council in its wisdom passes this Bill it will find, five years hence, that the shop-assistants and the office clerks will be only too glad to acknowledge the service the Council and Parliament have done them by securing them payment for over- time. A few years ago Parliament dealt with the question of a weekly half-holiday, and, as far as I remember, every one in business looked upon it as a terrible attack upon the liberties of the subject, and it was generally resisted up and down the country-especially by employers-and even the employés were not quite certain how to take it ; but now you will find that they would sooner give up their Sunday than lose their weekly half-holiday, and I believe the same thing will occur with regard to this Bill. I refer to the payment of overtime, because that really is the only new departure which the Bill contains. Every- thing else in the Bill, excepting the matter of detail, is pretty well affirmed already, and can almost be said to be at the present time an established law or custom. But it has not yet been established that in shops or in offices the services of clerks or shop-assistants, if required after hours, should be paid for at a reasonable rate of overtime. Well, Sir, I must say that I think it is only fair to both sides that there should be a payment for overtime. I am not sure exactly, as regards Parliament, if this Chamber would gain much if it was extended to us, because we, as a rule, do not sit very late ; but I am quite certain that the other Chamber might with advantage have something of the sort applied to them. At the present time the evidence of the witnesses is very instructive, be- cause, apparently, if the witnesses are to be re- lied upon as thoroughly representing the classes they come from, they are perfectly satisfied with the present conditions, which, I must say, as- tonished me, because I have been used in my nightly walks to notice with a considerable It amount of concern that certain establishments kept their lights going very late, and I presumed, of course, that that meant that a certain num- ber of young people were destroying their health. An Hon. MEMBER .- Are you referring to the Government Buildings, or the Government Printing Office ? The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. - No, we do not do that there; and in the Printing Office they are paid overtime. However, I admit that the evidence, unless you read between the lines, goes to show that the clerks do not want much 