opinion of Mr. Inspector Pender is not of much greater value, because he is a police officer. Then, I will give the opinion of the Rev. Mr. Paterson, Presbyterian minister of this city, and I ask whether his opinion is worth con- sidering ? What does he say? Examined on the same day, he says, -- " I have been a minister of the Presbyterian Church in Wellington for nearly thirty years. I do not think we can judge of juvenile de- pravity by merely the reports in the newspapers. I regret the publication of these cases in the papers. These reports have a most injurious effect on the minds of the youth. I do not think that juvenile depravity has increased more than the increase of the population. The immorality of Wellington is not to be compared with that of the large cities in Britain. 1 bave had experience in Glasgow, Edinburgh, and Liverpool. Two or three years ago there was a charge of immorality against our public schools. The Education Board made strict inquiry, and found that the charge was groundless. I think gambling is far more prevalent amongst the boys than immorality. I think the Bill will serve a good purpose in checking the young people going on the public streets in the even- ing. I do not think the Bill will cure the evil. I think one of the evils of colonial life is a love of pleasure and of attending entertainments at late hours. There is not the same home-life as at Home. Where you get drunken parents you may get immorality, but there are exceptions to that. There is a little less parental control here than at Home. I would stop the Courts allowing these depravity cases to be made public. I think the putting-down of brothels has been beneficial." Now, there is the opinion of one of the oldest and most respected ministers of the Gospel in Wellington. Is that opinion to be believed ? Will any member in this House, will any person in this community, deny the truth, the perfect accuracy, of what the Rev. Mr. Paterson says. I accept his statement fully and implicitly, and I add to that statement much experience of my own. Now, the honourable member for Wellington Suburbs said that most men were concerned only with what came under their observation during their walk from their home to their office, and that they saw none of these immoral scenes. Now, it so happens that when Parliament is not sitting I cross the reclaimed land nearly every hour of the day and nearly every hour of the night, and I have not on any one occasion witnessed any of those things which the honourable gentleman says he has so often witnessed. An Hon. MEMBER .- You are fortunate. Mr. FISHER .- I do not contest that point with my honourable friend, but I am con- cerned about the moral reputation of the people of the City of Wellington; and I say to the scoffers-some who sit on my right and some who sit on my left- I say to them, and I say it proudly, and with a feeling of dignity, that the morals of this city are as much in my keeping as they are in the keeping of Mr. Commissioner Tuubridge or the social purity Mr. Fisher is my answer. Why am I, without interrup- tion, returned to this House, election after election ? That effectively answers every sneer. What use is it, then, for the Ministers' Associa- tion of Wellington, or anybody else, to point the finger of scorn at me? Some time ago I attended some anti-gambling meetings at St. John's Presbyterian Schoolroom, Wellington. Some parents there were who remarked to their offspring, with an awesome, gruesome feeling, " That Think of the s George Fisher."" pity of it! Why should young children have such small-souled bigotry instilled into their minds? Think of the prejudice of parents being carried from one generation to another. I pray that some day their minds may be enlightened and enlarged. Here is another and a novel phase of the morality question : Among the evidence taken by the Young Persons Protection Bill Committee was a statement given by some ladies who occupy very high social positions in this city, and they are ladies in regard to whom it would be possible only to speak with feelings of the very highest respect, and yet they speak of subjects here which I would domand that no daughter of mine should either speak or read about. I am the father of a family, and I have daughters whose purity and chastity I would not volunteer to exchange for the purity and chastity of the ladies who sign this document. An Hon. MEMBER. - Whom are you refer- ring to? Mr. FISHER .- I will not answer that. An Hon. MEMBER .- When was it ? Mr. FISHER .- I will not answer that. But, because of their social position, these ladies carry with them a great influence, and I regret that in this matter they exert such an influence, because these are subjects so repulsive-re- pulsive to me, a man of the world-that I wonder that any female, of whatever station, should touch them at all. But I suppose, for people who like this sort of thing, this is just the sort of thing those people like. What would be said, I wonder, of the lower classes of society if they unthinkingly touched such a subject-if they attached their names to statements such as these? These very people would say, "What can you expect from low, ignorant people such as they?" And have these people heard nothing of immorality among the higher classes in Wellington ? Strange, if they have not ! Sir, it is better that this whole subject should be attacked boldly by men of robust mind. Let the sub- ject be dealt with openly by men who under- stand what the virtues and the weaknesses of human nature are. I do not claim to possess more or greater knowledge upon this sub- ject than any other man, but I do know the regretful consequences of flaunting the subject before the public as we have done to- day, and as we did in 1897. What good comes of it ? Let the temperance people, let the people who wish to advocate moral purity and the elevation of the people to the higher grades of intelligence, give effect to their views in any way they please ; but I protest against them 