question to the country, and one on which various opinions had been given. He thought the majority of the opinions were that the agriculturists were included in "The Workers' Compenstion for Accidents Act, 1900." He was rather of opinion that he would get an answer from the Premier to the contrary ; but he might say that he had a legal opinion, that although the farm labourer might not come under the Act, still, at the same time, farmers were liable for all contractors who worked on their farms. Now, he thought that the Act should be amended and made clear, so that every agriculturist and pastoralist would have the opportunity of providing for That was why he accidents by insurance. asked the question. He had no objection him- self to agricultural labourers coming under the provisions of the Act ; in fact, he thought it would be a very good thing, provided that em- ployers could get a covering rate in accordance with the risk, which was not the case now with the Government Accident Insurance, at least, who were charging the farmers three times as much as they should do at present. He trusted the Premier would see his way to make this clear to the country, so that the country-people might understand the position they were in relative to the workers in their employ. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) understood the honourable gentleman had told the House that he had received a legal opinion that the agri- cultural labourers were not included in the Workers' Compensation for Accidents Act. Mr. FLATMAN said the legal opinion was that it was not clear as to whether agricultural labourers came under the Act or not, but that, at any rate, farmers were liable for all con- tractors that worked for them. Mr. SEDDON said, That was exactly the position. The opinion was that it was not clear whether or not they came within the scope of the Act ; but the advice the Govern- ment had got was that it was clear they did not. Of course they would be told, If there was a doubt, why not remove it. He was going to show why. They had in New Zealand a tran- script of the Imperial Workmen's Compensa- tion Act. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. Mr. SEDDON said that with respect to this matter the law was the same. He had himself had charge of the Bill, and had given instruc- tions for the drafting of it, and was responsible for it, and surely ought to know better than the honourable gentleman. The Act was in this respect, at all events, a transcript of the Imperial Act; and what did they find ? They found that in the House of Commons a Bill had been introduced extending the Workmen's Claims for Compensation Act to the agricultural labourer. For that purpose a special Act had been introduced. Therefore, if our Act was a transcript of the English Act' in this re- spect, and it was necessary in the Mother- country to pass an Act of Parliament to extend the Act to agricultural labourers, it would re- quire an Act of Parliament here to do the same thing. That, of course, was his contention. If the intention of the Legislature upon this ques- tion had been thwarted - if they had gone fur- ther than they had intended, then it was their place to see that that was rectified. There might be an opinion that the agricultural labourer should be included, and some might think they should let it remain so; but his answer to that was that they ought to keep good faith, and that this had not been intended when the Act passed. Mr. TANNER .- Oh, yes, we did intend it. Mr. SEDDON said the honourable gentleman might have intended that, but he (the Premier) had not done so. Then, what was it that had raised this matter, and had caused all the fric- tion. It was the insurance agents, and he was told even the Government Insurance agents had gone this far : that, with the view of promoting business, they had created a scare, and that they had gone to the farmers and had got them to insure. Was the Legislature, because in- terested companies got up a scare of this sort, to legislate ? If, he repeated, the present law applied to agricultural labourers, he would be the first man to bring down a Bill and to say, If you want to make it apply, do so ; but it was not so intended. An Hon. MEMBER .- Some of the best lawyers in the country say it does. Mr. SEDDON said .- Well, " when in doubt, play trumps," and the trump-card in this case, he supposed, would be to await a Supreme Court decision or introduce a Bill ; and the might introduce one, but they could not at present get it through. However, as he had said, on being satisfied that what the insurance companies alleged was true, it would be the duty of the Government to try and alter it. Parliament ought to come to some decision upon it. . An Hon. MEMBER .- Take it to the Supreme Court. Mr. SEDDON did not know whether they could do that ; at all events, he would see if that could be done. Then, there was the other point, that the farmers were responsible for the contractors. If the law made the contractor responsible, that was right; for he had the machine, the engine, and was the employer, and should be held responsible ; but it would be manifestly unfair that the farmer whose stack would be threshed out in two or three days should be liable to be mulcted in damages amounting to $300 or £400. That would be unjust ; and if the law was such, then they ought to make that right, and to make it clearly so. The man who had the machine and who employed the work- men was the man who ought to be responsible for the workmen : but, that the farmer who brought the machine into his place for a few days should be responsible was wrong, and had never been intended by the Legislature. He thought if they allowed matters to take their course they would find out that he was not asleep, but that he knew what he was doing. He would watch the thing carefully, and if he could be satisfied that there was doubt it should be rectified. What was wanted was to give the country confidence that the Legislature would 