Government will give favourable consideration to the report of the Committee. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) .- I should like to add a few words to what has been said by the last speaker. Knowing the circumstances of the case, I regard this as an instance that should specially appeal to the Government. We all feel proud of brave actions performed by young New-Zealanders upon the battle-field ; but we are very apt to pass over instances of bravery and self-denial when performed at our own doors by unobtrusive public servants such as policemen. But I think the actions and conduct of the late Constable Luke McDonnell in the special instance of the wreck of the "Wairarapa," where a large number of bodies were strewn along the beach by that unhappy and calamitous accident, deserve special recognition. Those bodies were carefully gathered by him under circumstances that must have been specially revolting, which duty resulted in this officer's illness and death. I think it is only fair that some provision should be made for his widow and orphan children. This officer's illness was no doubt the result of the blood-poisoning he received in the per- formance of his duties. The handling of those bodies imposed on him years of wasting disease and suffering; but he died with a sense of having done his duty, commending his soul to God, and his wife and children to the care of the country. I think we should feel proud when we find that we have amongst our pub- lic servants men who are prepared to sacrifice themselves at the call of duty. Mr. LAWRY (Parnell) .- I heartily indorse every word which has been so well expressed by my honourable friend the member for Waite- mata. I would like to urge upon the Govern- ment the necessity of acting promptly in this case. I might state that I have received several letters in reference to this case from influential men in Auckland, and I trust that the Go- vernment will do prompt justice in this case. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden). - I merely rise to indorse what has been said by honourable mem- bers with regard to this constable's case. I knew Constable McDonnell well for many years. I have conversed with him many times on the question of how he contracted the disease which caused his death, and I am well acquainted with all the circumstances in connection with his case. I do appeal to the Government on this occasion, taking all the circumstances into consideration, to give a substantial compas- sionate allowance to his widow, as recom- mended by the Select Committee. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) .- The Government recognises its responsibility in the case of any officer who loses his life in carry- ing out his duty. The presumed blood-poison- ing took place in 1894, and I am not going to discuss the question as to whether it arose owing to the constable's very praiseworthy action, nor am I going to discuss the question as to whether it was the cause of his death. The unfortunate man died, and his widow was left comparatively unprovided-for. The Government has already Donnell as a prison matron, and I think that the salary she receives for that particular office is doing her as good service as a sum of money would. In addition to this, she has also been allowed to retain the house. Every one is anx- ious to do what is right, and I would not like statements to go broadcast that the Government had not been doing their duty in the matter. All through his illness Constable McDonnell had received his salary up to the time of his death, and immediately an opportunity was afforded of giving the widow a position that would provide an income for her family, that was done. The salary was really better than a lump sum. I only mention this so that the House may know the actual facts of the case. It will therefore be seen that the Government had not been neglectful in the matter, as the widow was re- ceiving about #2 per week and a free house. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .- It is not in- tended to cast any reflection whatever on the administration of the honourable gentleman the Minister of Justice. I believe he has done all he could under the circumstances. It is quite true he has provided the widow with a situation in the Police Depot, Auckland, at £2 a week ; but I would remind the honourable gentleman that she is rendering good service for the remuneration. When the Committee, of which I am Chairman, went into this question they had departmental and other evidence before them. I entirely concur in all that the five Auckland members who have just spoken said on the subject. The case is one of the most meritorious cases that ever came under the consideration of the Committee I have the honour to preside over. It was proved to the satisfaction of the Committee that Constable McDonnell in the discharge of his duty contracted the disease which cul- minated in his death, so that practically he sacrificed himself in the discharge of his duty. This being so, I sincerely hope the recom- mendation of the Committee will be given effect to, and substantial compensation be given to this lady for the loss she has sus- tained by the death of her husband, who was only forty-six years of age at the time of his death. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- As an Auckland member, I have had great pleasure in listening to the expressions of sympathy from the mem- bers who have just spoken. The case referred to is a very sad one. Constable Luke McDonnell was a first-class officer-probably one of the best officers in the whole Police Force of the colony. He was a man who put duty before everything else. Those who knew him best, and all the circumstances of his death, have not the slightest doubt that his death was occasioned by illness contracted while in the execution of his duty. McDonnell has done his duty to the country, and it is now for the Go- vernment to do theirs by making some pro- vision for the widow and family of the man who has passed away. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) .- I trust the Government will see their way to carry out the 