ments have been utilising their funds in lend- ing to borrowers, but the honourable member for Franklin would now have us stop the prac- tice, and do a deal of injury, and allow private institutions to have the whole field of mort- gaging large sums of money in their own hands. And, indirectly, he would also cripple the Advances to Settlers Department by giving it too little money. Sir, it is all very well for the honourable member and others to advocate borrowing large sums of money in the colony. To a certain extent I agree with him that it would be quite right to obtain some of the money required for the colony's requirements ; but if you go for the whole of the loans in this way what would be the result? You would bring about a financial crisis before you knew where you were, by creating a shortage in money for the ordinary industrial, agricultural, and commercial purposes. It appears to me that that is what some honourable members would like to see happen. One honourable member said that during the last twenty-six years this colony had paid away £40,000,000 in interest ; but if we take the ordinary revenue of the country for the last twenty-six years at an average of, say, two and a half millions per annum-I have not had time to look the matter up since he made the statement, but I do not think it is an overestimate-it would amount to a sum of $65,000,000 during the period mentioned, to say nothing of the enormous values that the expenditure of the money https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 borrowed has given to both private and public properties. Sir, I would ask what would this colony be now, if during that time outside money had not been obtained - if money had not been got to make railways, roads, telegraphs, and other public works ? Honourable members would have found the colony now in the posi- tion of a sheep-walk-probably one or two in the North and South Islands-with a few people dotted here and there, and sheep and cattle taking the place of human beings. It seems to me that by their actions, even at this en- lightened period, some honourable members would desire this. Such are the deductions from the arguments placed before us in this the twentieth century. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- It was the honour- able member for Lyttelton who made the statement. Sir J. G. WARD .- I do not care who it was. I am dealing with principles, not with indi- viduals. Take the case of Great Britain itself. Where would that great Power have been if it had not borrowed its hundreds of millions of money for the internal and external develop- ment of the Empire? Where would the British navy be-our first line of defence? Where would her colonising policy be? Where would the additions to her immense territory, which have added such enormous strength to her dominions, be? Without borrowing, I say, much of this greatness and prestige would not be hers? I do not believe, myself, that we should borrow more money than is absolutely necessary. I am convinced that | this course, have an excess of money in the powerful nation. Notwithstanding the fact that at the present time it has, comparatively speaking, only a handful of people, yet it has the capacity for carrying a population not far below that of Great Britain itself, and as time goes on and our population necessarily in- creases we shall find that the rate per head of taxation will fall. Mr. MASSEY .- It is going up at present. Sir J. G. WARD .- But the colony is not going to retrogress. I say, Sir, if the whole of our moneys for public requirements were bor- rowed in the colony itself ruin would be brought upon many of its industries. We should borrow locally what we can, and gradually, as money increases, we can doubtless do so more and more, but in this matter we have to be careful. If you ask why it is that the Advances to Settlers Department is going for a million of money at the moment, you have the explanation of the Colonial Treasurer. He has told you that it would not be worth while going on the London market for less than a million of money. Mr. MASSEY .- What about the half-million already floated ? Sir J. G. WARD .- That was at 4 per cent. for a short-dated loan ; but honourable members know perfectly well that we are not going to borrow this at 4 per cent. Our settlers require cheap money, and the advances-to-settlers loans should be obtained at 3 per cent. Owing to the prevailing circumstances in South Africa the price of money has temporarily been increased, but that will not last, and I say that the credit of our colony is so good that we are not going to allow the financial institutions of England, or of the colony itself, to extract from us over 1 per cent. more than we are entitled to pay. An Hon. MEMBER. - Why did you not say so ? Sir J. G. WARD .- Because I assumed that the honourable member's intelligence should have made apparent to him, what has been evident to nearly every one else-namely, that there are exceptional circumstances which have caused the rise in the value of money, and which have entailed the greatest difficulty, not only in our colony but all the colonies, of borrowing at low rates in England, and that difficulty is intensified by the fact that no one is able to foresee how much money may still be required for the South African war. When money was required to the extent of $150,000,000 alone by the English Exchequer in connection with the prosecution of the war in South Africa, and to sustain and consolidate the Empire of which we are all very proud to know that we are one of the great component parts; and when I say that members know these extraordinary circumstances exist now, and which were responsible for the rate of interest being 4 per cent., yet they would, according to their statements, have us go on borrowing millions of money at 4 per cent. in the colony, and this too in spite of the fact that hen the normal condition of affairs arrives money will be procurable at 3 per cent. on the London market, and you would, by adopting 