. It shows to the House that there was a general concensus of opinion on the Committee that these were matters of not sufficient import- ance, or that the decisions given had been in accordance with the law. Now, I come to the case of the steamers, and the charges to the Marine vote. I say there could be no other vote that the money could be charged to, and the House deliberately last session voted the money for the steamers. Let honour- able members look at the estimates, and they will see that we voted the money for the service of the steamers within and without the colony. If, therefore, the House voted moneys for the steamers for services without the colony, I say it was contemplated and un- derstood that if necessity arose to send these steamers beyond the colony the moneys for coaling and for food and equipment of these steamers were provided by Parliament. If Par- liament wishes to insist that they are not to leave the colony, or, if they leave the colony, that the moneys for coaling and equipment shall be charged against " Unauthorised," then let them simply confine the money for services within the colony. Why, then, was the altera- tion made for services without the colony ? The Controller and Auditor-General stuck up the money when the steamers went to Samoa at the time an emergency arose there, because the services had been rendered outside the colony, and on that occasion the expense was https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 charged to " Unauthorised." In another case, when the steamers went to the Cook Islands, the same course was followed. That being the position, I say the question now raised is not as to the charge, but the intention of the Committee was that there ought to be credit taken to refund the steamers for the services performed. That is what the contention was. Then, if that is the case, it is not a question for the Controller and Auditor-General, but a ques- tion of administration. In this case, where is the line to be drawn ? Portion of the coal and portion of the provisions on board would be used, of course, in the services performed out- side the colony. Then, what was contended by the honourable member for Bruce? The honourable member has kept it from the House, and it is a proposal that the honourable mem- ber for Hawke's Bay altogether objected to. The honourable member for Bruce said it ought to be charged against the Defence vote. did not tell the House that was his contention. The member for Hawke's Bay said, "Certainly not; why charge the expenses of men who are sent to take part in a function in Australia against the Volunteers and Defence Forces of the colony ?" Why, the honourable member's contention was simply the height of absurdity and nonsense. By what right should such a charge be made against the defences of the colony ? It forms no part of our defence. It was merely a friendly action. We sent some of our Volunteer Forces and a number of civilians to Australia, and why should the expense of so doing be charged against the Defence Force? That, however, is what the honourable member contended for on the Com- # VOL. CXVII .- 35 mittee ; and when he gets beaten he comes, like a naughty boy who does not like his beating, simpering to the House. The honourable mem- ber was wrong in this respect: he says the expense should be charged to some department. Well, have we a department for intercolonial visits ? I think I know the estimates as well as most people. We have a department for labour, and a department for industries and commerce, and other departments ; but I do not know that we have a department under the name of " Re- presentation of the colony in other colonies at State functions." The honourable member con- tended, however, that the expenses ought to be charged to a department. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Or to " Unauthorised." Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable member is now changing his ground, and says it should be charged to " Unauthorised." Well, the honour- able gentleman is altogether wrong in the position he has taken up. He also says there may have been champagne. I have heard of " Champagne Charlie," but not of " Champagne Charles "; and if it is at any time my good fortune to have the honourable member as- sociated with me in the representation of this colony at any State function I have no doubt he will get his champagne. I would not give him cold water. At any rate, the fact remains that the vote deals with the expenses of a steamer. The other costs, as far as the colony's representation at the Commonwealth celebra- tions are concerned, will come directly under the notice of the House. It is now only a question of whether, having your own steamer, you are to pay a large sum of money-probably double the sum-to private steamers to take your troops and your representative men to Australia. Certainly, the most economical way was to send our own steamer. Mr. W. FRASER. - There is no objection to that. Mr. SEDDON .- Then, why is the motion brought up? If it is on strictly technical grounds, then, I say, that on that technical ground the best judge is the Solicitor-(General ; and if you have any confidence in your Solicitor- General then why do members not take the thing on its merits ? As the honourable mem- ber said, " Has there been a single member of the Committee who has said the Solicitor- General was wrong in his legal definition ? " No, it was never contended for a moment, and He it is not contended now that his definition was wrong in law. Therefore, if he has been right within the law, and his definition is questioned by a layman-because the Auditor-General is a layman-there must be some one to put the matter right. If you do not have that, what is the result ? Your administration is stopped ; and there must be some mode of reference when difficulties arise. If you find fault with your present mode of reference then point out an improvement. If you have no means of settling these differences are you going to have the colony brought to default because there is a difference of opinion on a legal point raised by a layman as against the opinion of the Crown Law Officers ? Such a position would be monstrous, and why 