to do so. I hope, when the Bill comes before the Committee, that members will not put in any drastic imposition in regard to the fines. I hope that there will be a feeling of con- sideration for parents; and we should have that feeling of consideration. I can well sympathize with the statements made by the honourable member for Avon, that there is nothing more painful than to have parents dragged up before Justices of the Peace, and ignominy inflicted upon them, for the purpose of fining them for not enforcing the attendance of their children at school. Let honourable members remember that very largely throughout the country there is great difficulty in making provision for getting to school - I am speaking, of course, of scattered districts of which I have knowledge. This Bill will do well enough for city districts, but, at the same time, even in cities a great many people are subject to fines when they are scarcely in a condition to force their children to attend school. Vice may be the factor, but there are some instances where the mothers are not what they ought to be, and other instances where the fathers are often in a continual state of depres- sion and need ; and then to drag them up before Justices of the Peace and impose a fine upon them (as suggested by the honourable member for Kaiapoi, with a minimum to be fixed) is a proposition which I hope this House will not assent to. I hope this Bill, while its aspira- tions are in the right direction, will have some consideration for the unfavourable conditions https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 existing in many parts of the country over which it will have to operate. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- While I join with those members who congratulate the member for Palmerston on the introduction of this Bill, I feel bound to draw attention to what I may call a surprising anomaly. On the one hand there is a floating, an indefinite, belief that the Education Act of 1877 is a sacred thing that must not be touched. On the other hand, we have introduced into this Parliament session after session Bills to amend and alter that very same Act. These Bills are passed into law. And so we find spread all over the statute law of the colony Bills amending the Act of 1877, in regard to which, as I have said, there is such a fervent belief that it is a thing that ought not to be altered or amended. Sir, all the remarks I have to make will circle round clause 4, which is the pith of the Bill. This clause savs,- "Subject to the provisions of the principal Act, every child between the age of seven years and the age of fifteen years is hereby required to attend some public school." Now, the member for Ashley has already put his finger on one crucial point in that clause, and I am sure he will insist that the word " seven " shall be altered to " five." On that particular point I differ from the honourable gentleman. He holds that the age should re- main as prescribed in section 83 of the original Act. which says : - from the last preceding birthday." Of course, any person who understands the subject sees at once that the honourable gentle- man's objection to the seven years is based on the fact that if the word "seven " is retained in the clause the Education Boards would lose the capitation on all children between the ages of tive and seven. Personally, I indorse the view taken by the honourable gentleman who drafted the Bill. I think, with Garfield and Lincoln, that children ought not to be sent to school before seven years of age. Before that age the mind is unfitted-it is not sufficiently matured -- to undergo study such as would benetit the man in after-life. We have the infant prodigy and the bright example of the kindergarten ; but can any person who has studied the question say what becomes of the infant prodigy in after-life? Few ever reach a strong mental maturity. Coming more closely to the question debated this evening, the whole principle of the Bill is, I take it, directed to the truant or truancy system. Now, I never saw a finer example of an enthusiastic desire on the part of an Education Board to meet that truancy difficulty than was once attempted by the Auckland Education Board. When I occu- pied the position of Minister of Education I visited all the schools in and around the neigh- bourhood of Auckland, and I never saw a finer example of what I may call the missionary spirit than in the conduct of their truant school. Their truancy officers gathered all the street-arabs of the city-urchins without boots or socks, ragged clothing - and took them to the truancy school. It was crammed full of children of that age or status-or want of status, I should rather say -- in society. It was a perfect picture of the ragged school. Mr. MONK. --- Did you not leave anything about it ? Mr. FISHER .- At the time I wrote a short paper upon the subject, commending the laud- able efforts of the Auckland Education Board, and I did so because I knew of no similar at- tempt having been made in any other part of the colony. I also prepared the paper E .- 1c, 1888, " Statement relative to Amount expended upon School Buildings since the Coming into Operation of . The Education Act, 1877.'" The following sentence was part of the introduc- tion to the report :-- " The following tables have been prepared ex- pressly to demonstrate the exact basis upon which our education system rests, speaking of the system only in relation to the number of children to be educated, and the future finan- cial provision necessary to be made for provid- ing building.accommodation for all children of school age.' Pardon the coo: I wish it to be understood that I prepared this paper wholly myself; for I have lived to be told that every paper of mine was prepared by the officers of my de- partment- - that I knew nothing of the subject. and was therefore not competent to prepare my own papers. The assumption appears to 