surer was not allowed to allocate it because the Auditor-General refused his sanction. An Hon. MEMBER .- You are mixing it up. Mr. W. FRASER .- I am not. I know what I am talking about. The Premier then asked the Public Trustee, " If this case comes up again, and the Auditor-General prevents you from paying the interest, what will happen then ? Will you not require a warrant from the (Governor in order to pay the money?" A warrant from the Governor seems to be the panacea for all illegal acts. I suggested to the Trustee, " Would it not be better to alter the law ? " Surely, if the law is wrong, or is doubtful in its meaning, then make it clear, but do not let us have this everlasting inter- ference of the Governor in Council in matters of this kind. I am sure a majority of members of this House agree with me that where a pay- ment cannot be made properly, or any doubt exists, the law should be altered, and that we should not rely everlastingly on that section of the Act of last year by which any illegality can be rectified by warrant from the Governor. The Premier endeavours to make this 4.30. point : Are we to depend entirely upon the decision of a layman, such as the Auditor- General is, on legal points ? I can quite under- stand that difficulties may arise on that point, and I know that the Auditor-General has, perhaps, a very high opinion of his own legal attainments. As a layman, I am not competent to express an opinion on the subject, but I do not see why there might not be an alteration in the law in that respect. I can quite conceive that difficulties may arise between the Govern- ment and the Auditor-General where it would be necessary that some independent person should step in and give an expression of opinion as to what the law really meant. It was sug- gested that the Solicitor-General should do this. Now, can any person conceive anything more ridiculous than that ? I am not talking about the present Solicitor-General-there is nothing personal in my remarks : but we know that the Solicitor-General is the servant of the Gio. vernment ; he is the Crown Law Adviser; and I say that the proper thing would be for us to adopt the same process as that which is adopted by other public bodies, such as the Waste Lands Boards, who, where the interpre- tation of the Act is doubtful, submit a case for the decision of a Judge of the Supreme Court. If some such process as that were adopted in the case under discussion, I conceive there would be no difficulty. A Judge of the Supreme Court is a person entirely independent of any one -- Parliament, the Government, or anybody else. An Hon. MEMBER .- Circumstances might arise when you could not get the opinion of a Judge in time. Mr. W. FRASER .- You can always get the opinion of a Judge within a reasonable time. Before I sit down I desire to enter my emphatic protest against the wording of the last clause of this report, because I say that it is nothing more or less than a reflection on the Auditor- General for having fearlessly done his duty ; Mr. W. Fraser and it will be a bad day for this House and the country if the Auditor General is to be deterred from reporting to this House what he conceives to be breaches of the law. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- The honourable gentleman emphatically contradicted me, and led the House to believe that I made a statement which was not founded on fact, when I said the Act had been passed years ago giving the power of appeal to the Governor in Council. Section 53 of the Public Revenues Act of 1891 says,- " If the Audit Office declines to pass any issue or credit requisition on the ground that the charges therein are not according to law, the matter in dispute shall be determined by the Governor in Council, having before him the opinion of the Attorney-General thereon ; but the objections of the Audit Office shall, together with the opinion of the Attorney- General, be forthwith laid before Parliament, if Parliament be then in session, and, if not, then within ten days after the commencement of the then next session." An Hon. MEMBER .- Is that the law now ? Mr. SEDDON .- It has been the law since 1891, and even prior to that date ; so that. although a good deal of capital has been made out of last year's amendment of the Public Revenues Act, you will find that it is in accordance with the law of 1891. I was contradicted when I said that the opinion of the Attorney-General had to be laid before Parliament with the objections of the Audit Office-and the Solicitor-General-who is a parliamentary officer, and under the Attorney- General, who, again, is generally a member of the Cabinet. With regard to the objection of the honourable gentleman as to the payment of the dividends of $5,600, I say that that money never was paid to the Public Trust Office at all, but was paid direct into the Treasury, and it is on the papers. Mr. W. FRASER .- I never mentioned one single syllable about the $5,600 -- Mr. SEDDON .- You said just now the money was paid into the Treasury. Mr. W. FRASER. - I never referred to that specific sum, but to subsequent payments, and I will give the honourable gentleman the Hansard notes of my speech to prove my statement ; and I say further, with regard to the power to appeal to the Governor in Council, the clause the Hon. the Premier bas just read is a different thing entirely from the clause in the Public Revenues Act of last session, and no one knows it better than the honourable gentleman. The wording 1 of that clause relates to an appeal on a question of law, but the wording of the clause of last session refers to a mere difference of opinion arising between the Treasury and the Auditor- General. They are two different things en- tirely. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) .- The honour- able member for Wakatipu has stated that the Act which this House passed last year provided that in every case of a difference of opinion be tween the Government and the Auditor-General 