the attention of the department had not been drawn to the necessity for a lighthouse at Oeo Point until the recent wreck there of the " Lizzie Bell." He was very doubtful, even had there been a lighthouse there, if the loss of this vessel would have been averted, because there was the vessel supposed to be going in one direction, and afterwards found to have gone in a totally different direction. However, he was not done with that matter yet. Un- fortunately, his Nautical Adviser was at present indisposed, and he had not had an opportunity of consulting him on the question now under reply ; but, with reference to substituting for a lighthouse a bell-buoy, similar to that at Nelson, he was very doubtful if it could be done, seeing the difference in the circumstances. At Nelson the water was comparatively smooth, but on the West Coast there were often very heavy seas. But his attention having been drawn by the honourable member, and also by the Assessors who sat on the recent inquiry, to this matter, he would make inquiries to see if something could be done to avoid a recurrence of such a fatality as that which occurred re- cently. LUNATIC ASYLUM ATTENDANTS' PAY. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Government, Whether they will consider the advisability of increasing the pay of attendants at the lunatic asylums throughout the colony, in accordance with the recommendations of the officers in charge of such asylums ? Every per- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 son, whether a member of the House or not, would admit that great care was necessary in the selection of persons to fill the positions of attendants in the lunatic asylums of the colony, and he must say that, as a rule, a first-class set of men had been appointed in the past. It was, of course, desirable that a high state of efficiency should be maintained, and it followed that, unless the Government dealt more liberally with the attendants than they did at present, the staffs of the asylums would become so de- pleted that the institutions and the patients must suffer. He did not pretend to an exact knowledge of what qualities were required in an attendant, but he held in his hand an admirable letter written to one of the Wellington papers, signed " Ex-Attendant," in . hich the writer, in these words, described the hours of labour and the duties performed by attendants at lunatic asylums :- "The average duty is thirteen hours per day ; dance duty, once a fortnight, two hours extra. Leave consists of three days per month, in- cluding one Sunday, and thirty days' annual leave after each year's service. The only other time allowed for recreation is every alternate evening after duty, from 6 p.m. to 10.30 p.m. ; in the case of married men, from 6 p.m. until 6 a.m. I believe the Act referring to asylum staffs says that one full day's leave shall be given every fortnight. A full day in any other part of the world means twenty-four hours-in the institution referred to it means twelve hours ; and all this for the paltry sum of $70 a and found. An attendant may reach £80 by an annual rise of £5; and charge attendants, of whom there are three, may reach $100 by the same annual rise. A simple calculation of the above facts will prove that each member of the staff works over ten hours and fifty minutes per day for 365 days in the year, even after allowing for all leave. The conditions of labour being so much more favourable outside, men will not stay long under the above conditions, and the patients suffer thereby, as their require- ments cannot be attended to by an ever- changing staff." The whole pith of the argument was that the efficiency of the asylums of the colony could not be maintained, and the exact wants of the patients attended to, where there was, as the writer put it, an "ever-changing staff." That was the actual ground of complaint-that the hours were extremely long, and the pay sur- prisingly small. This, of all subjects, was one that ought to receive the generous attention of the Government, for the case was not over- stated ; and he would like to hear the honour- able gentleman say that he felt himself in a position to announce that a change would be made, and that the Government would not only shorten the hours of labour, but would also increase the rate of pay. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) said the question of the payment to, and the hours of, attendants at the lunatic asylums was now receiving the attention of the Government. In the estimates, as the honour- able member would see, there was an increase provided for the artisan attendants-they were mostly artisan attendants - and the clerks. With regard to the payment, it had also to be taken into consideration what the attendants received in addition to the amounts mentioned by the honourable member. A male attendant started at $70, and worked up by annual increases of $5 per annum to $80. He received his board, lodging, washing, and uniform, and he had equal to a total of some sixty-eight holidays each year, in addition to the evenings they were allowed when off duty. One mouth holiday leave was granted each year, and this, of course, included the days of twenty-four hours referred to by the honourable member. The matter of hours he did not like. To his mind the number of hours worked per day were too many; but it was well known to all who visited these institutions that the attendants had not hard or arduous work to perform ; but he thought it was not wise to keep them on for the long hours for which they had been kept on hitherto. Of course, any alteration mado in the hours of work would affect the holiday leave of the attend- ants, and some attendants had informed him that they would prefer their present hours, leave every year, and the days off that were allowed at the present timo, rather than shorter hours and a less number of holidays in the year. The questions of pay and hours were, however, under the consideration of the Government at the present time. He might 