generous ; because you do not know what you may come to yourself. The senior member for Wellington City is laughing ; he is the first man, I believe, who would be selected as a member of a Board. Proceeding now with the constitution of the Boards, I want to say that, in my opinion, the manner in which the Boards are now selected is defective. You place practically two partisans on the Board in our manner of election, and experience has proved that this does not lead to conciliation. Then, what has been the remedy suggested? One is that there should be a permanent Chairman, and that in respect to each subject coming under dispute you should call in two experts, who shall assist the Chair- man in coming to a conclusion. I see the same difficulty again there, when you bring in these experts .- An Hon. MEMBER .- Not if they have got billets. Mr. SEDDON .- You have to pay them when they sit. An Hon. MEMBER .- Let their own people pay them. Mr. SEDDON. - At present I think the working-men have enough to pay, and it would be an impost they could not bear. That would be the answer to that suggestion. I say the State is the right party to pay. But you would have partisanship in the selection of the experts. Who is going to select them ? The Chairman would select them; and he would select a worker who is an expert, and by so doing https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 please the working section ; and he would then select an employer, and you would have the same trouble with your Board so constituted. What, in my opinion, would be an improvement, / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero and that I think would lead to greater facility and more conciliation and greater convenience, would be to have one or two men with legal training, with experience in taking evidence, and who are beyond and above party, and whose only object could be to endeavour to carry out their duty, and conciliate and give such an award as would meet the case in accordance with the evidence. Mr. HUTCHESON .- It is a question of the right men. Mr. SEDDON .- " It is a question of the right men." Well, I believe some of our oldest and best-trained Magistrates would be the best men to undertake the work. An Hon. MEMBER. - The best for Chairman, anyhow. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes ; that is the view I hold. We have had cases where there has been no trouble at all. But what I ask at present is that there should not be wholesale condemnation or judgment on those persons holding the positions. If there is a defect in the law, Parliament is responsible, and not those who are called upon to administer the law as they find it. The other question is this : It does appear at the present time-and has for some time past-that you cannot take up your newspaper without seeing column after column taken up with some dispute before the Conciliation Board. Who is re- is. And why ? Because of late years we have extended the application of the Act. Under the interpretation of " Industries," the Arbi- tration Court held that two - thirds of the workers were not included under the Act, not being engaged in industry, and, the interpreta- sion being so held, we had then to widen the law to embrace these workers. Now, those in- dustries that came in under the extended juris- diction of the Boards have never had any award at all. An Hon. MEMBER .- They are not creating the trouble now. Mr. SEDDON .- I say now is the first oppor- tunity they have had to come before the Board 1 preparatory to going before the Arbitration Court, and I would say this: With this fact before members, and the people and Press of the colony, we should give time to these indus- tries which came in under the extension of the Act-we should give them opportunity to get their awards; and then, in my opinion, there ought to be a lull-a cessation from what appears to be at present an incessant strife between the employers and the employed. It is scarcely fair to have these adverse criti- cisms. Then, when you turn over your news- paper, you get the Conciliation Board in one column and the Arbitration Court in another. Why is this? Owing to circumstances over which neither the Government nor Parliament have any control, the work of the Arbitration Court has got behind. In some cases men have been nearly two years without getting their dis- putes finally settled. We have it now from the President of the Court, that after a short time every dispute will be settled, and the awards will be made, and I am looking forward to the beginning of next year to find that there are no disputes at all between employer and employed. It is fair to give the return, but in giving it there should be this explanation ; otherwise it might appear by the return as if by comparison disputes were being promoted, and, judging from the return, there would be evidence to support that view. It is not fair to come to such a con- clusion, and it should be understood that by the widening of the law and the enlargement of the scope of its application you have the number of disputes increased, and there has been no oppor- tunity yet of awards being given. When the Court is cleared off I anticipate you will have, to a certain extent, industrial peace. I make these remarks because there has been a certain amount of feeling engendered in respect to the matter. I say to those who are fanning the flame, be careful. There has been trouble before on this matter, and this manner of adjusting the dis- putes is, I should say, very much more satis- factory than the way in which these disputes used to be settled ; and to cause a difference of opinion, and ill-feeling, as between the workers in the towns and the workers in the country is, in my opinion, unpatriotic. And not only that, but it would be almost impossible then to settle the disputes. What is being aimed at by this agitation, I am sorry to say, is an endeavour to create feeling as between the 