any steps in order to preserve to the public the ter of Lands, Whether he has received a petition right of road along all river-beds, and whether he would do this either by vesting the river-beds in local bodies, or in some other way protecting the public privileges. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said that the public had no right of road at all along many river-beds in the colony. In the early days lands were often sold with a river as the boundary, and this by law gave the owners the title to the land up to the middle of the stream, together with riparian rights. The law for the last ten years had been that the Crown should, in disposing of land, reserve from sale a chain wide on the margin of the sea-shore, on the margin of all lakes exceeding fifty acres in area, and on the banks of all rivers exceeding 33 ft. wide : see section 110, " Land Act, 1892." These strips of land were usually shown on the record maps as roads, and, where this was so, they were by virtue of sections 100 and 106 of "The Public Works Act, 1894," "public roads " under the control of the local body ; and, as section 121 of that Act prohibited any road on a river bank being closed, the rights of the public were sufficiently protected. But, as this arrangement only covered what had been done for the last ten or twelve years, he thought it was time the question was considered now whether it would not be right to in some way give the public the right to the bulk of the rivers in this colony, because he held that it never should have been parted with ; and when it was known that a wrong https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 had been done to the public he thought it ought to be righted. However, he had not lost sight of the matter. He remembered bringing it up when he was a private member of the House, that hardships had occurred to some people at that time; but when a matter of this kind was gone into he found it was very difficult to handle. But he would inquire into it, and see whether it would not be wise to take some steps to recover the right to all or nearly all of the rivers in which trout had been liberated in this colony, so that anglers should have the right to go along them for recreation and sport. Major STEWARD would like to ask the honourable gentleman when making these in- quiries to look into a decision given-so he was informed by the honourable member for Auck- land City (Mr. Napier) -- by the Appeal Court in the case of the Crown versus the Ralph Taupiri Coal-mine. It appeared that the Appeal Court had only recently decided that the law was not that the owners of the land owned to the centre of the river, but that the Crown owned the river in every case. The Hon. the Minister might look up that point. Mr. DUNCAN said that applied to the river so far as the water covered it, but we wanted the right alongside the river. He was aware that the Crown had a right to the river itself ; but where the Crown had parted with the front- age up to the river we had no right to it out- side the flood-mark. Major Steward from the Redcliff and Takitu districts praying that the benefit of the 10-per-cent. rebate on prompt payment of rent may be extended to holders of leases of small grazing-runs ; and whether he proposes to amend the law so as to enable this to be done ? Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said it was not contemplated to give the small grazing- run holders this privilege, as some of them only paid 2} per cent. Their case was altogether different from the settlers under the Land for Settlements Act, or even ordinary Crown lands, <!-- PageHeader="1" --> and the leases were generally short. # MR. A. H. CHAPMAN. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Minister for Agriculture, What is the nature of the agreement or understanding, if any, between the Government and Mr. A. H. Chap- man, of Kurow, who has proceeded to the Old Country to exploit a certain invention or process for the thawing of frozen meat, and whether the Government has undertaken to defray the cost of his passage to and fro ? Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said there was no agreement or understanding whatever between Mr. Chapman and the Government to give that gentleman anything, either for expenses or salary. # OSTRICH-FARMING. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked the Minister of Lands, Whether in his next Land Act Amend- ment Bill he will make provision for the en- couragement of ostrich-farming ? Probably the Minister of Lands would remember that he asked a similar question to this last session, and the Minister then expressed himself to the effect that the idea was a good one, and pro- mised to make inquiries during the recess. During the recess the Minister had availed him- self of an opportunity of visiting the Whitford Park Ostrich-farm, in the electorate of Franklin, and he was sure the honourable gentleman was duly impressed with the possibilities of the ostrich-farming industry. He was sure the Minister would come to the conclusion that such an industry was worthy of encouragement under the land-laws of the colony. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) might state that the Land Bill which he intended to bring in last year, and which he had now in preparation with some additions, would provide that the Government might enter into a special agreement with people for this purpose, the encouragement of ostrich-farms. The measure would, he expected, be submitted to the House in a few days. MARUIA HOT SPRINGS. Mr. COLVIN (Buller) asked the Minister of Lands, If he will get an expert report on-(1) The medicinal properties of the hot springs, Maruia district ; (2) the area of agricultural and pastoral land available for settlement in 