hold of. Now, 4 per cent. on money lent to the Government is as good as 4} per cent. on landed security, because there is no mort- i thing is to go on, members on this side of the gage-tax in the case of lending to the Go -! Vernment ; so that the Treasurer is already : allow themselves to be in the position of having coming into competition with those who want to borrow as well as with those who want to lend money; and the latter most unfairly, because the money that comes from England does not pay the mortgage-tax, whereas such money belonging to the people in the colony does pay that tax. Just one other point. I have been given to understand that a division is going to be called for by the Premier through his Whips. Of course, he is within his rights in doing so, but I consider such tactics are most contemptible; and I want to take this opportunity of telling Ministers, as I have told their Whips, that when the Government Whips are put up to call for a division the " pairs" of Opposition members will be considered off. I do not intend to allow Opposition members who happen to be absent, and have given " pairs " in good faith, to be placed in a false position by such tactics as I refer to. Personally, my posi- tion is this : As I said before, I am quite willing to support a Bill to enable the Government to borrow half a million for the purposes of this department, but in taking authority to borrow a million I think they are taxing too much. They are exhausting the credit of the colony, and serving no good purpose. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) .- I think one of the last remarks made by the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 honourable member should be noted. I have never heard since I have been a member of this House a gentleman occupying the position of a Whip make a statement to the effect that because of a division being called for on an im- portant measure he has the right to cancel the "pairs " of members who have made them. Those for whom he professes to speak form only one side of the contract. He has no more right to say he is going to cancel " pairs," without consulting the members on this side of the House who have given their " pairs," than he would have the right to make a " pair" between honourable members whom he had never consulted. The honourable member knows this measure has been determinedly op- posed, so far as the amount to be borrowed is concerned, in Committee, and opposed very strongly by himself and other members ; and, under these circumstances, members who enter- tain strong feelings on the matter in the other direction surely have a right to call for a divi sion, if they think proper, so that they and their friends should place their votes on record. Yet. in the face of that, the honourable gentle- man states he is in a position to cancel the "pairs " of those who had given them without anticipating any such autocratic action. Mr. MASSEY .-- I gave notice weeks ago. Sir J. G. WARD .- Even if the honourable gentleman gave notice, as he says, it is surely a very undesirable thing nay, indeed, an unpre- cedented o 10-to attempt to introduce into the matter of " pairs " such a course - a representa- Mr. Massey ment of that kind without those on this side who are away being consulted. If this sort of House should not give "pairs " at all. but their votes put on record or not as they think fit. I rose more especially for the purpose of placing on record my dissent from one or two observations not only of the last speaker, but of some honourable members who preceded him. They have mostly been exercised about the proposal to raise a million, and all have put a hypothetical case that at a certain date the amount to be lent by the Office of the Advances to Settlers will be so-much. The last speaker made the amount $400,000. On what does he base his calculation by which he arrives at that amount ? It is, of course, mere assumption. If we turn to the report of the department we shall find that the loans applied for in excess of those issued by the office amount to no less a sum than $1,300,000 ; that is, the amount of loans applied for in excess of the amount lent by the office. Does this not clearly show that the demands of borrowers made on the Why, then, do they ask office are very great ? for the amount to be limited to $500,000? The only reason can be to cripple the office, and thus they would injure the settlers. Now, if such a proposal as that of the last speaker, and one or two others, were given effect to- namely, for the transference of money from Government institutions such as the Government Insurance, the Public Trust Office, and the Post-Office Savings-Bank to the Advances to Settlers Department-what would it do? It would withdraw from competition in the country very large sums, which the farmers and others require to enable them to get the money necessary for them to carry on their business. It must be very well known that both the Government Insurance and Public Trust Departments lend large sums beyond the limit of the Advances to Settlers Office. The honourable gentleman would, if he had his way, come down with a proposal that the Government should abstain from borrowing - I understood him to say - any money in the London market at all for the Department of the Advances to Settlers, and to utilise the money of the Public Trust Office and the Go- vernment Insurance. The honourable member must know, if he has any knowledge of what is going on in this colony, that hundreds - ave. thousands-have been dependent on the Govern- mont Insurance Othce and the Public Trust Office for money to enable them to obtain mort- gages, and so carry on their ordinary affairs. The Post Office invests its money very largely with the Treasury in Government debentures. and the honourable gentleman knows perfectly well that indirectly it is a means of assisting the people of this country, by advances from the Treasury to local government bodies, for in- stance. The Post Office does not lend on mort- gage, but I say that indirectly it greatly assists to have a sufficiency of money for local uses available. Notwithstanding this, he would have us give up what has been a practice for the 