mitted success that policy has been throughout the colony. So far as compulsory taking of land is concerned, I suppose there are very few instances in the colony where land has been taken compulsorily. Possibly the Hatuma Es- tate may be mentioned as one ; and nobody doubts the principle the honourable gentleman maintained, that private estates and private rights must be subservient to the public good ; of course always being conceded that proper and reasonable compensation is paid for the private rights which are thus interfered with. Now the honourable gentleman contends that the proposed acquisition of private estates should be submitted to Parliament, and that it should decide the question, and not the Minister. Well that would lead to endless inconvenience. It has been pointed out by other honourable gentlemen that private rights are safeguarded by the Land Purchase Board ; the Minister acts only, or to a very great extent, on their recommendation; and the principal Act provides that, within twenty days of each session of Parliament opening, the Minister has to give an account of what has been done in reference to the purchase of land for settlement-a return has to be laid before Parliament. Now, the honourable gentleman altogether forgets, for the moment at all events, that this principle which he so much condemns is contained in other Acts of Par- liament, and is in operation in many ways. The same right for the Minister to take land https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 compulsorily is conferred under the Public Works Act; and lands have been taken upon many occasions for public purposes, and pri- vate rights interfered with in the same way as / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero they can be interfered with under this Bill, and the parties are sent to the properly constituted authorities to have their damages assessed ; and no one says, or can be heard to say, that that principle which has been sanctioned is any- thing but a proper one. Now, I fail to see any difference in that principle and in the principle laid down in the Land for Settlements Bill. The Hon. Mr. Jones says that one object of the Bill is to prevent dummyism, and that that is a reason why a man who acquires land under this Act is not to be allowed to dispose of it under a period of five years. Well, that may be a very proper and necessary provision for the purpose of preventing dummyism, but I am not alto- gether sure that it is a wise provision ; you may be protecting the system at the expense of the individual-at the expense of the selector. One can very well imagine a man taking up land under this Act who has not very much capital. He is perhaps able to take up the land and to stock it, but perhaps not able to build a house upon it. Well, this provision would prevent him borrowing any money, it would prevent him mortgaging in any way, and it is a matter for consideration whether that is a wise provision or not. That, perhaps, is a Committee objection, or, at any rate, a matter that probably should be considered in Committee. The Hon. the Minister, in reply, or in Committee, may tell us why the Govern- why a man should be prevented from borrow- ing a reasonable amount of money upon his property, for the purpose of enabling him to. develop it. That is the only matter I wish to call attention to in the Bill. As to the general principle of the Bill, of course, that has been settled by Parliament long since. This is merely a Bill to deal with difficulties which have arisen, I suppose, in the administration of the principal Act, and we can discuss this very well when we go into Committee. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- Sir, it appears. to me that the principle of the compulsory taking of land has not been assailed by any one in the Council. As far as I gathered, the objection urged was that the whole power should not be left in the hands of one particular Minister. Now, there is some valid reason for that ob- jection, and it will, I think, be more apparent to honourable members who have read the report of the meeting of the Bank of New Zealand, which appeared in the New Zealand Times of Saturday last. From that report it will be seen that where too much power is given to one or two individuals to dispose of land, a loss may result. I will read what was said by Mr. Kennedy :- " Mr. Kennedy went on to mention estates in the South which were advertised for public sale. but which on the day before the day fixed for the sale were sold by the Board to the Govern- ment for a sum fully £20,000 less than the general manager had reason to believe he would have realised. The Board, consisting of the chairman, a representative of the bank, and the Premier, along with the Minister of Lands (the late Sir John Mckenzie) met, and the estates. were sold at their valuation, whereas the general manager declared that they would have realised $20,000 more if they had been allowed to go to auction. It was for this reason that he (Mr. Kennedy) said they must be patient and allow the management to deal with the estates he had referred to, and not press them to be wound up hastily." The Hon. Mr. LEE SMITH .- That is only the assertion of an individual. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- It is the asser- tion of a gentleman whose opinion is of equal weight to that of the Hon. Mr. Lee Smith. But I read that extract simply to point out to honourable members that if you leave things in the hands of a few individuals, harm, or at any rate loss, may accrue. Now, with the general amendments of this Bill I am perfectly and strongly in accord. I have, during the past fifteen months, been living in a district where the earth-hunger has been very great, and I have heard, in connection with the balloting for lands, of great attempts to revive dummy- ism, of the stuffing of ballot-boxes by people who were rushing to get land that they had no idea of settling on at all, but were simply applying on the off-chance of being successful. and if so, they would sell almost immediately, and make a profit out of the transaction. That is not bona fide land-settlement ; and this Bill is going in the direction of stopping such prac- 