and be compelled to go to some other province -where land could be got-simply because the sentiment of the Hatuma owner was to keep all his thousands of acres in his own hands, although he was an absentee from it for years past. He believed that Hawke's Bay was a very fine province, and a very desirable resi- dential place. Those having large estates there, while getting good incomes from their property, would still not abstract from the land the value that could be got by small settlement. Therefore, if the estate was capable of pro- ducing $20,000 a year, and the owner said that he would be content with £10,000, it would be disastrous to the State that that should be allowed to continue. This sort of policy was not what they wanted in the colonies. He would ask them to look at the census to see what had happened in Hawke's Bay. In 1896 the population was 34,038. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- That is not sheep. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH said he was . referring to the population. In 1901 it was 35,424, and, deducting the one from the other, they would find that the difference was only 1,386, which meant stagnation. Apply that ratio of increase to all the other provinces of New Zealand, and he would ask, Where would they be? The people would be driven out of the colony, and have to go to Australia or some- where else. He thought that he had shown that compulsion was necessary in Hawke's Bay. As to the argument that the Act had not been carried out as it was intended, there were plenty of young fellows who very likely had capital to buy sheep, and who had been brought up on stations and understood sheep. They probably thought they would be able to do far better in the occupation to which they had been trained than in agriculture. Therefore there was a certain demand on the part of those people for the sort of small run which the honourable gentleman objected to. The object and principle of the Act was to give all people a fair chance, and, if they were to give the small farmer an opportunity, why should they not also give an opportunity to the shepherd who had not been a farmer ? If there was reason in the one, so was there in the other. Then, coming to the question of the freehold, the honourable gentleman objected to the freehold. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND .- No. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH said he had inadvertently used the word "objected " -- the honourable gentleman wanted the freehold. Well, he need not say much more than to call attention to the fact that in Great Britain the small holders of land were always getting fewer, and that the large owners were gradually ab- sorbing the whole lot. Every now and again they had instances of large estates being cut up and sold, but in time it all came back again. Take the instance of a large estate in Yorkshire with which he was familiar : How was that made ? By the savings of the annual income year by year for buying every farm in the district which would be an advantage to the estate, and consequence was that prices were given for sec- tions of, say, fifty acres and over far beyond their value, for sentimental reasons. Then, take the case of Scotland, and they would find the same thing. Large owners were buying up the land. What would be the case in New Zealand, supposing they allowed the freehold ? A man with a wife and children wanted to divide his property. Naturally if the estate com- prised his whole assets it would have to be sold. Men in this colony got rich just the same as they did at Home, only in a lesser degree. A man with a small property died, and some rich man with an adjoining estate would most pro- bably buy that lot, so as to increase his hold- ing, and continue the process as often as oppor- tunities occurred. The result would be that in twenty years we would be back again to where the late Sir John Mckenzie started from. That was taking place in Britain - in Scotland - and had taken place in Ireland until laws were passed to induce the people to sell their land. There was no compulsory purchase in Ireland yet, but it would come, because some people would not sell. It was the same in New Zea- land. In some districts bad land was offered to the Government, but in many instances where the land was good the owners would not sell. A man might desire to hold land at a higher value than the Government could afford to give for settlement purposes ; and here sentiment came in. But if sentiment was applicable, and you should indulge the rich man to that extent, you should apply it to the whole of the com- munity, and that was the principle that com- pulsory purchase at valuation provided in the interest of the State. The Hon. Mr. BOLT would say a word or so in regard to this question of freehold. The Hon. Mr. Ormond pointed out that as the number of State tenants increased they would use their political influence to get the freehold. Well, next to State ownership of land he would be in favour of the freehold, and he would say that, if there was going to be freehold tenure, let there be nothing else but freehold tenure. There should then be no leases. He always found that honourable gentlemen like his friend the Hon. Mr. Ormond were not opposed to leasing ; they were only opposed to leasing by the State. The Hon. Mr. Ormond was in favour of the freehold. If they were to have the freehold, let them have the freehold only. Then where would we be? The interest of the mortgagee would be gone, and no man could hold land unless it was absolutely free. If they were to have the freehold in that sense, they would come as near to the principles of State ownership of land as they possibly could. He always found that gentlemen who contended for the freehold only contended against leasing by the State. They were quite prepared that they should lease the land themselves- and leasing was not an improper thing when private people did it-it only became improper when it was done by the State. Then, they were told by the honourable gentle- man that the public debt was increasing. So it 