urgent in complaining of the obstacles that are placed in his way. Sir, I think-and I say it almost with bated breath, and almost with trepidation-it is time that our education sys- tem was reviewed from the top to the bottom. We have in the past been superstitious over it, up to the point of worshipping it almost as a fetish. We Canterbury men above all others are proud of it, because it originated with the Canterbury men of the past. There is no doubt of that. It is one of the boons Canterbury has bestowed on the other portions of the colony ; but it has now become somewhat impaired by the lapse of time, and it is distinctly behind the age. It may have been right enough in 1876 or 1877, but it is a quarter of a century behind in 1901 ; and when this House can lay aside all prejudices, and can calmly and dis- passionately view the machinery, of our educa- tion system from the beginning to the end and put it on a sound genuine footing-a footing that will last another twenty five or thirty years in its revised form -- the House will deserve well of the community and of the people of New Zealand. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) .-- Sir, I do not agree with the honourable member for Avon with re- gard to any great alteration in our educational system, though adjustment may be beneficial, but still I have a considerable amount of sym- pathy with him when he speaks of the bad attendance of the children at the public schools. It is a very great pity indeed that the efforts the State has made to overtake the truancy that https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 exists in our midst should not be better backed up by all concerned. I confess that the Magis- trates are to some extent handicapped by the reasons that have been mentioned by the honourable member for Avon. A sympathetic feeling on the part of the Magistrates towards those parents who, for many reasons, may be unable to send their children to school is, per- haps, a commendable fault, and I think the honourable member for Palmerston has to a considerable extent provided a further means to prevent the non-attendance of the children at our public schools. I see the Education Board of North Canterbury has just recently passed a resolution stating that fourteen years should be the age of exemption for our children at our public schools, and I observe that the member for Palmerston says fifteen years in his Bill. Perhaps this may unduly handicap a boy who has to learn a trade or work for a livelihood ; but, if the parent has not allowed his child to attend school sufficiently to enable him or her to pass the Fifth Standard of education, he should, if he is in a position to do so, be forced by the law to allow his child to attend school until the Fifth Standard is passed or the age of fourteen is reached. It is, I think, a reasonable deduction to be drawn from our educational system. One of the principal reasons given for non-attendance is illness on the part of the child, and it is almost impossible for the Truant Officers to prove that illness has not been present in some particular reasons, such as that some of the older children are required to attend to the younger children while the parent is absent at work, and thus add to the means of livelihood of the family ; that excuse always receives attention, and in cases of the kind Justices of the Peace are lenient. Other parents take a pardonable pride 11.0. in having their children well dressed, and if they cannot be so they are not sent to school. In most cases, however, it is ignorance and pure neglect on the part of parents to give any attention whatever to the education of their children. One other reason. I think. why parents have been lax in attending to the Truant Officer's orders is that the fines have been too low, and that perhaps weeks and months of inquiry have elapsed before they have been imposed. Even then, if the fines were double they would not have been enough. If a parent has been negligent in respect to the education of his children he should be fined as much as his means will permit of, and the Magistrate can, as a rule, easily ascertain his position. The Bill provides that a fine not ex- ceeding 92 shall be imposed, and, if it were not too drastic in some cases, it is almost a pity that a minimum sum is not fixed in the Bill. Mr. PIRANI .-- That is in cases where they do not send their children at all. Mr. BUDDO .-- That is so, and it is one of the blots of our educational system. If honourable members will try to put this Bill into shape in Committee-and there are many good points in it -- they will do a good service to the system. The Hon. the Minister for Public Works has just intimated that its provisions may be incor- porated in a general measure, and I may add that the member who passes a measure giving further power to our Education Boards to compel the attendance of children at school whose parents are negligent of their education will be deserving of the thanks of the community for doing so. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) .--. I have a few words to say in regard to this measure. have no objection to it ; in fact, speaking broadly, I am in favour of the trend of its pro- visions, and any exceptions that one may take may be made in Committee. I am with the honourable gentleman in reference to the com- pulsory attendance of Native children, but would hardly countenance the extreme length to which this Bill goes. That some departure is necessary goes without saving, because I have witnessed, with a great deal of pain, the great laxity shown by Native parents in the education of their children. It seems to me that some system is wanted under which Natives will not exactly be forced to send their children to school, but which will offer them every facility for doing so. It is absolutely necessary that they should reap the advantages of our education system. The time has now arrived when every ounce of knowledge im- parted to the Native children will be of incal- culable benefit to them. I do not say that the regulations in respect to attendance of Native children should be on the same drastic lines as 