not a shadow of doubt about it to my mind. It was not so paid. I do not say but what afterwards the Public Trustee might have trans- ferred it back again to the Consolidated Fund, although there is a doubt about that. I believe the law wants amending both with respect to this initial payment of interest and with respect to future payments that the Public Trustee receives from the investment of this half-mil- lion. At any rate, the law is clear that this sum of interest of $5,657 ought to have been paid along with the capital sum to the Public Trustee; and the Controller and Auditor- General says so. There is a correspondence on the subject which is extremely interesting, be- cause it discloses the real way to interpret the law ; and I propose to submit to the House the new way in which the law is being interpreted by the Solicitor-General. The law was so clear that the Solicitor-General could not get rid of it, and there was no shadow of doubt that this accrued interest ought to have been paid into the hands of the Public Trustee. But the Solicitor-General had to advise the Government by some means or another that the law was not as it was; and how does he do that? If honourable members have the report in their hands-it is B .- 19, "Public Revenues Act, 1900,"- and refer to the Solicitor-General's letter on page 12, they will find these words, which are of interest :- "The Banking Act is, in the language of the Interpretation Act, to receive such fair, large, and 'liberal construction as will best insure the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 attainment of the object of the Act according to its true intent, meaning, and spirit. Apply- ing this rule, section 8 is, I think, to be read as if the words "to the extent of the total capital sum represented by all the securities issued under section 7 hereof " were inserted between "such shares shall " and " be paid to the Public Trustee." We now have a method of interpreting the law by reading into the statutes words that are not there, and never were there; and that is how the Solicitor-General advises the Crown in respect to this payment of interest. Now, Sir, I maintain that the Solicitor-General has no right to read these words into the statute ; that the statute is plain and distinct, to be under- stood not only by any lawyer but by laymen ; and that there was no shadow of doubt that the interest ought to have been paid over to the Pub- lic Trustee. I believe myself that the Premier will yet have to come down with an amendment of the law to provide that the future interest may be paid back again from the Public Trustee into the Consolidated Fund. With respect to the last item I have nothing particular to say, except that the Controller and Auditor-General has been proved to be absolutely correct, because we ourselves this year have passed an amending statute to put this right. It is dealing with the question of providing money for roading lands for settlement. The Controller and Auditor- General objected on the ground that the law did not allow any expenditure to be made, and that he was right has been proved by our having Mr. J. Allen right. Sir, I know it is no use to. move that this report should be referred back again to the Public Accounts Committee, because, unfortu- nately, the Public Accounts Committee is of use only now for the purposes for which the Right Hon. the Premier and Colonial Treasurer de- sires it. It is of no use for searching into the accounts, for directly a member of the Public Accounts Committee puts a question which is dealing with a matter which the Colonial Trea- surer does not want to have any inquiry about the mode of procedure is this : The Chairman is called upon to rule whether the question is in order. And he invariably rules. so far as I know,-if it so suits the Premier, and if he sees the Premier wishes it,-that it is not in order; and consequently any attempt to inquire by the Public Accounts Committee into the public accounts of the colony is, to my mind, a complete farce. Mr. SEDDON (Colonial Treasurer) .- I do not wish to raise a debate and lose time-be- cause it is a loss of time-but I do not wish to allow the honourable member's re- marks to go on record without being met. No one regrets more than I do these continuous objections on the part of the Controller and Auditor-General; and when, as in these cases, the Law Advisers of the Crown advise that he is wrong in his interpretation of the law, what alternative is there but to carry on the public business of the country? If it was not so dead- locks would arise, and the administration of the country would be hampered and harassed. With regard to the functions of the Public Ac- counts Committee of late sessions, our functions have been confined simply to going into ques- tions as between the Treasury and Audit De- partment, and the Legislature has decided that all these papers must come before the House. The proper course is to place these papers before the Public Accounts Committee ; and really all we have to do during the last few sessions has been to inquire into these matters, and the legitimate work of the Public Accounts Com- mittee has had to be set aside. Now, that is the real position of the case, and no one knows it better than the honourable mem- ber for Bruce. Now, Sir, what is there in this case that has just been before the Committee? In all the cases except one the Committee did not think it worth while to call any evidence at all, and the motion was put without a division, and the honourable member for Bruce did not demur to that course. If honourable members will look at the minutes they will see that is so ; it was tacitly and gene- rally understood in the Committee in all the cases except the fourth that there was no neces- sity for the Committee to go into them at all. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. Mr. SEDDON .- I say that was so. Mr. W. FRASER .- They went into them. Mr. SEDDON .- They went into them, but they did not call any evidence cacept in the one case. Now, I say that aspect of the case ought to be put. What does it matter as to the constitu- tion of the Committee if these are your results ? 