other night with a very high jump in financial matters ; but he did not clear the hurdle, and ; marks by saying that if what the member for came down like a load of bricks,-what they call "a cropper." He stated that he had discovered a flaw in the last balance-sheet, and that the ยฃ200,000 was actually required for another purpose for which the Premier had taken it. Now, has the honourable gentleman supported that bald statement in any way in this House? No. He makes these rash asser- tions without reflection, and spreads them broadcast throughout the colony without caring a rap what evil they may do. And then he stands up in this House and tells us he is in favour of assisting and maintaining the Advances to Settlers Office. Well may the settlers exclaim, "Save me from my friends." I have kno n the honourable gentleman some years no ., but I have never known him since the first time he came into the House stick to his professions or to one straight path very long. First he gains entrance into the House professing one line of policy and support to the Liberal party ; then he is in veiled rebellion the next session ; and he is in open rebellion the third, but doing no good by his criticism, and is left out in the cold at the next election Mr. SEDDON. And then he gets a spell. Mr. MILLS .- Yes, and that may come again very soon ; but, at any rate, that is the position. And yet the honourable gentleman assumes to lecture men who have been in the House so long, and borne the heat and burden of the day for so many years consecutively, and ought to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 know something of what they are talking about. An Hon. MEMBER .- You ought to. Mr MILLS .-- Exactly, and I profess to do so. At any rate, I am quite satisfied that the member for Riccarton cannot teach me any- thing in respect to these or any other figures. Mr. HERRIES. - The Premier does not think so. Mr. MILLS .- Yes, the Premier does. The only difference was as I explained the other night. I was informed by the head of the department that $760,000 was the balance of the loan we were empowered to raise, and the Premier has given the same figures to-night ; but the head of the department said there was about $200,000 advanced against it. I tell the House to-night, as I told members the other dav, that the $200,000 was not all a liability as at the 31st March. I was addressing the House in August, nearly five months later, and speak- ing generally when the matter was brought up on the second reading. The same figures that were quoted by the Right Hon. the Premier to- night were quoted by me then, with regard to the sum that was actually the true balance, but not on the 31st March. Then, I took down the figures the member for Riccarton gave, and I | honourable gentleman should study and learn was referring to them when I was speaking. He has given the same figures again to-night, and I was rather astonished that the senior member for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins) should twit the Premier and myself with not having the correct figures, when I was simply | he came to this House. I will not quote the ยก the member for Riccarton. I prefaced my re- Riccarton said was correct, and we did not borrow any more money, there could then be only about $235,000 at the end of March, 1902, and that calculation only left the bare sum of $500,000 to advance on mort- gages -- nothing for expenses in raising the loan, nothing for the Assurance Fund, and nothing for departmental expenses. I did not give my own figures at all at that time; but the member for Christchurch City seems to have thought it was so. However, he fairly acknowledged to me he was wrong on my show- ing him the figures as I took them down ; and therefore I sav now, and I say it emphati- cally, that the figures given by the member for Riccarton are simply misleading- he misled himself and tried to mislead this House; and if the honourable member makes such egregious miscalculation for only one year, where will he get to over a longer period, and I must certainly decline to pay any attention to them. We must make provision for a twelve- month in advance. Never once in his speech did the honourable gentleman allude to the cost of raising this money, or the Assurance Fund which has to be provided, and the departmental expenses ; he said nothing about them, as if they meant nothing. The honourable gentle- man left all these important items out, and then asks Parliament to accept his statement of accounts in preference to the audited balance- sheet as certified to by the Auditor-General. Can anything be more absurd ! An Hon. MEMBER .- How much ; is it not under $30,000 ? Mr. MILLS .- No : the amount for each of these items is considerable, and will mean a large sum in the aggregate, thus reducing the balance considerably at the 31st March, 1902 ; and we must allow a reasonable time for raising the new loan ; therefore I think those members who profess to know all about these financial matters should, at any rate, have given the figures to the House and shown they were dealing with a fair balance-sheet and quoting from both sides properly. Well, Sir, the honourable member for Riccarton then twitted us with being inconsistent. Well, I think it comes with very bad grace from the honourable member for Riccarton to rise in this House and charge any other honourable member with inconsistency. Why, the very name of the electorate that he represents has somehow got converted into a new term. simply because those who know him best think he would represent " Rickety " much better than Riccarton. And to hear him speak about consistency : why, we might as well expect to hear something about loyalty from him very soon ! I think the his lesson better, and not come here and lecture this House about consistency or anything of that kind until he has proved himself capable of faithfully representing and carrying out the professions he made to his constituents before 