Canterbury, to proceed as soon as possible to Waimate, and report on the matters referred to. The other question, of the appointment of a Health Officer, he was looking into, but he could not give a definite answer respecting it at present. # COPYRIGHT ACT. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Colo- nial Secretary, -- (1.) If the Government will consider the advisableness of amending the Copyright Act with a view to providing further protection to authors, dramatists, and musical composers against the piracy of their plays or works ? (2.) Whether, in any proposed amend- ment of the existing law, a provision will be included making such piracy an offence punish- able by imprisonment, with or without option of fine ? The reason for this question was this : There were persons who paid large sums of money for the copyright of plays, et cetera ; and there was a case the other day in which it was reported that $4,500 had been paid for such a copyright, and the proprietor's interests in the matter having been infringed, the only remedy he had was by way of injunction, which was sometimes a cumbersome and expensive process. It occasionally happened that there were persons, who were practically men of straw, who were willing to run the risk of a fine because there was no option of imprison- ment, and further, because they had the chance of making money by their piracy to an amount sufficient to make it worth their while to run the risk of a fine, as they could pay it out of the proceeds. It was, therefore, desirable that a discretion should be given to the Court, which would enable it to hold offenders in terrorem - namely, of imposing imprisonment as the alter- native of a fine, or, in its discretion, without option of fine. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) said there were now before the Imperial Parlament Bills amending the Copyright Act, with regard to, he believed, literature and dramatic works. These Bills had been under the consideration of a Commission of Law Lords, and, as soon as any legislation was passed in the Old Country on the subject, the working of the Copyright Act in New Zealand would be considered. CARRIAGE OF ARTIFICIAL MANURES. Mr. LANG (Waikato) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will take the necessary steps to have bone-dust and other artificial manures carried free on the Government railways? Last year he asked a similar question, and he then pointed out that the free carriage of lime had been the means of doing a large amount of good in some parts of the country : but there were some districts where lime was of little or no value for agricultural purposes, and where it was of far more importance to the farmers that bone-dust and artificial manures should be carried free. By doing so, the railways would benefit ultimately by the increased amount of produce that would be produced, and that would have to be carried over the Bir J. G. Ward that the manures in question could be carried free, he still hoped that the Minister would be able to reduce the freight on artificial manures, and that at an early period he would be able to carry bone-dust entirely free. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) was sorry he could not give the honourable member an affirmative reply, for the simple reason that he did not think the railways ought to be used for the carriage of anything free -- not even for the free carriage of lime. He did not think that anything should be carried over the railways free that required necessarily an initial cost to be provided for by the department to enable that article to be so carried. If the principle were applied to one article it ought to be applied to many more ; but he quite agreed with the honourable member in his desire that manures should be carried at as low a rate as possible, and he personally strongly favoured this. He might say the question of the reduction of the freight on manures was now under considera- tion. # ENCOURAGEMENT TO LOCAL INDUSTRIES. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) asked the Government, If they will consider the ques- tion of giving special encouragement to the wine industry of New Zealand, the manufac- ture of white-lead, and other colonial industries not now being supported by the Government, but requiring support ? He would like to see the Goverment paying some attention to the internal wants of the people, such as providing employment for the returned members of the contingents, and in a practical manner aiding the development of many of the industries which, in the future, were going to make the Colony of New Zealand. There was one in. dustry - the wine industry - in the North Island which was capable of great extension. The district of Auckland was capable of pro- ducing wine in great abundance, and it would be far better for the people to drink good wine than bad whiskey. Another industry that ought to be encouraged was the manu- facture of white-lead. There was a firm in Auckland who, if a bonus were granted, were quite prepared to undertake the manufacture of that article. All these industries would absorb labour, and if the Government would take into consideration the question of offering facilities for and encouragement to the establishment of industries of this nature. there would be no difficulty in finding employment for the re- turned contingent troopers, who, under present. circumstances, it was said, could not get work because the official avenues were all filled up. and there would be no difficulty in a country Co rich in natural resources as New Zealand in finding employment for the whole of the British Army in South Africa if they came to New Zealand. He hoped the Government 3.29. would drop all experimental legislation for a time, and set to work and consider the resources of the colony and the requirements of its people, many of whom were wanting 