siders that there is still ample choice to enable Boards to suit the wants of their respective districts ; and he desires me to call the atten- tion of the Boards to the obligation imposed by the regulations, of confining their choice of books to those contained in the list of authorised school-books. "] might suggest that the hardship that sometimes ensues when pupils are moved from one education district to another would largely disappear if Boards would adopt some such plan as that of buying from pupils second-hand . books in good condition, the books so bought being either sold again or kept to be used as supplementary Readers when the Readers in use were changed. " GEORGE HOGBEN, Secretary for Education." That had drawn the attention of Education Boards to this matter, and he thought they might rely upon the Boards, who were so well and ably represented in the House, to do some- thing. Members might bring it under the notice of Boards, and arrange for one common form of school-book throughout the colony. He would much rather see that course adopted, and would suggest to members of Boards in the House that it might be brought up at any conference, so that we might have uniformity. # MAKOHINE VIADUCT. Mr. LAWRY (Parnell) asked the Minister for Public Works,-(1) Who recommended the construction of the Makohine Viaduct : (2) what Government was in power when the recom- mendation was acceded to : and (3) if subse- quent investigations have not proved that the costly work of the construction of the said viaduct could have been obviated ? He was not in the House at the time the construction of this viaduct was authorised, and his object in asking the question was to bring before the notice of the Minister for Public Works whether it would not be desirable to abandon at the present time the construction of this costly work and put in a concrete culvert to carry the water, which was not of great magnitude, and thus do away with the great danger of crossing this viaduct. His impression, from a knowledge of the country and what he had been told by experts, was that in the end it would be much more economical to abandon the construction of the viaduct, and carry on the work in the direction he had indicated. As to whether there was any object, or whether it would be any advantage to find out who was responsible for the construction of this white elephant, that was a matter at the present time of no great importance. Mr. HALL- JONES (Minister for Public Works) said it was unfortunate for the House that the honourable member came into Par- liament the year after the decision was arrived at to erect this viaduct. After a number of trial lines had been run to find out which was the most suitable, a final decision was arrived at in December, 1886, to carry the line by the Mr. Hail-Jones time was Mr. Blackett. The decision was recon- sidered in November, 1890, but no departure was made from the decision arrived at in 1886. He thought it was the Stout-Vogel Government who were in office in 1886, and the Atkinson Government were in office when the matter was again brought under review in 1890, when it was decided to adhere to the decision of 1886. As he had said, a number of trial lines. had been run, and this was found to be the most suitable. Various engineers had reported on the different routes, and there had been a suggestion made to lay the line lower down the terrace, which would not have required so high or so long a viaduct : but it would have meant very expensive works, and would have led to awkward grades ; and this proposal was condemned by Mr. Blackett, and also by the engineer who surveyed that part of the work. There had since been a question raised to sub- stitute an embankment for the viaduct, but at that time all the cuttings had been completed, and it would have required all the material to be excavated for making the embankment. No doubt large quantities of material in the first instance could have been supplied from the large cuttings. He might say that expert en- gineers said the material was of such a peculiar nature that the bank would not stand-that it was soft, and would run. The member for Rangitikei knew something about the formation there, and no doubt has a good idea of what might happen. His own idea was that there might be some means of keeping it from slip- ping : but at that time the work was too far advanced. With an embankment it was a difficult matter to provide for the drainage of the area embraced by the country in the Mako- hine Valley. It comprised some thirty - six square miles of country, which had to be pro- vided for. and even though culverts were made they would be very expensive in construction. Honourable members could understand that an embankment such as was suggested by the honourable member, 240 ft. high, would require an enormous base, and, as the tunnel would have to be a long one, the work would be very costly. There was no question that to now make an embankment of a deviation would be unwise. He was sorry the House in 1886 had not the honourable member's experience as an engineer. EDUCATION BOARDS ELECTIONS. Mr. FOWLDS ( Auckland City) asked the Go- vernment, If they propose to take any steps this session to provide for the secrecy of the ballot at Board of Education elections? It seemed to him that in these elections there was just as much reason for secrecy of the ballot being maintained as in any other. It was not an in- frequent occurrence that defeated candidates were found tackling members of School Com- mittces a day or two after the election as to why they did not vote in a certain direction. After the recent Board of Education election, a conference of School Committees was held in the Auckland District, and unanimously passed a 