it was common property in the lobby. I do not want to be personal, but the understanding was that that power which the Premier was obtaining over the Controller and Auditor- General enabled him to pay that bonus. And everybody knows that it could not have been paid without that power being taken. If the Premier desired to pay it fairly- and I am not contending that the sum was too much or too little-but it is the manner in which it was obtained. It was given in a manner in which most honourable members felt that they could not satisfactorily apply it to their personal use ; even those who kept it would rather it came in a less questionable form. Mr. SEDDON .- You thought to bribe the Council. They were to receive the money ; and then, if given to charitable aid, Government would have to subsidise it at the rate of £1 4s. Yet the gift was from the Government, not the member. Mr. MONK .-- I do not want to detain the House by explaining that matter, but the state- ment is incorrect. The entire amount was used by a local body, and justly so ; and I should have been laughed at by the Premier if I had left it in the Treasury. I gave it to the local body so that it might be spent equally in the in- terests of all those from whom I held it had been improperly taken - upon those who opposed me as well as those who supported me. I hold that the #40, if it was right to give it to members, could have been given in the same way as the Premier gave an increase to himself and his col- leagues, and also unnecessarily increased the salary of the Governor. Why should members be subjected to surreptitious treatment he would not inflict on his Cabinet ? Mr. Speaker, I do not wish to say anything unpleasant, but I am afraid that the House had got into that condi- tion that it was the incentive of $40 that made honourable members give the Premier that power over the Auditor-General that he now has under the Public Revenues Act. The Premier would never have got it otherwise. am afraid the House has got demoralised. An Hon. MEMBER .- You are getting down. Mr. MONK .- Down, do you say ? No, I want to keep the House and myself up. There are certain principles that are not to be trifled with. The power taken by the Premier has endangered important liberties, and there is no knowing what he will do next. That was an exceedingly dangerous power to be given to the Premier-the power to control the functions of the Auditor-General by enabling him to pay to members money that he could not other- wise have paid. I quite agree with the remarks of the honourable member for Auck- land City (Mr. Napier), that the House can do what it likes. That is so. It can do anything except to make a man into a woman or a woman into a man. Its powers are unlimited. It could even repeal Magna Charta. Sir, we have not a written Constitution, but there is another Constitution in this land which we should try to exalt and improve, and that is public opinion. I say that the public opinion | impersonal sense, but in principle it is correct. VOL. CXVII .- 36. community was not as to whether the £40 was too much or too little, but whether the Premier was endangering the public weal by a dangerous innovation, and they were amazed that the Premier of a British colony could have the temerity as Treasurer to clothe himself with the power to depose or make void the super- vision of the Auditor-General. I do not wish to say anything more upon this matter. I thought it necessary to give reasons for the objections, particularly against the granting of that money. It was a consciousness of guilt that made the honourable member for Auckland City speak as he did, and he it was who first gave the debate the aspect from which I am now dealing with it. There was no statement made by some members who profess to support the Government against the infringement of privi- leges and recklessness of administration. We speak honestly on this side. I do not say any- thing behind the Premier's back that I hesitate to say to his face. I speak in the interest of public liberty, and not from any personal mo- tive. I feel there is a danger to our country if we permit reckless intrusion on those barriera by which great public interests are protected, and if we do not jealously build and support a public opinion that will act as a safeguard, for we have no other. That is the reason why I have made these few remarks. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I wish to say at once that I never said a word that reflected on the honourable member. I only know that he, as usual, signed the voucher, took the money, and said nothing about it. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) .- Sir, I did not intend to speak on this question at all, but when I find that an honourable member will do as the honourable member for Waitemata, Mr. Monk, has done a few moments ago- level charges broadcast and wholesale at his fellow-members-1 felt that I, for one, could not have any respect for myself if I did not deny those charges. And when the honourable I member stands here in this Chamber and draws upon his imagination to cast a stigma upon members of this House who do not agree with him politically, I think it is the absolute duty of every one of us to rise and throw the lie in his teeth. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- That remark must be withdrawn. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- Well, perhaps I have used an unparliamentary term ; but when an honourable gentleman stands up in this House Mr. MASSEY .- Sir, the word objected to has not been withdrawn. Mr. SEDDON .- He said he withdrew it. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I understood the honourable member to say that he withdrew it. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .-- Yes, Sir, I with- draw it, and I at once express my regret that I used language that I should not. But the honourable gentleman should not have made the accusations that he did. Mr. MONK. - I used the language in an 