master the Bill before us. An Hon. MEMBER. - It has not been printed. An Hon. MEMBER. - Do you mean what is recorded in the Press ? Mr. SEDDON .- I mean what has appeared in the Press. There is no necessity to adjourn the debate, because members are fully conver- sant with the Bill itself as it stands. It is not the first time it has been before a Committee or the House, and an adjournment would not facilitate matters. We are bound to have the whole thing in review in Committee of the House ; and if any member says there is an attempt to force the Bill through without due consideration after the Bill has been five weeks before the House he is asking me to really doubt members' sincerity. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why not read it pro forma ? Mr. SEDDON .- Reading the Bill pro forma would not help very much its progress. If members do not want the Bill let them say so, and I will take it that this motion for the second reading is not wanted. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I cannot under- stand the new method of procedure that the Premier proposes to set up under our Standing Orders; for the proper thing to do when a Bill is to be referred to a Select Committee is to move that Bill pro forma, so that there shall be an opportunity when the Committee have licked the Bill into shape to consider its principles. The Premier said just now that we have all read the proceedings of the Counties https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 Conference. Well, I have read the proceed- ings as published in the papers, and that is one of the very reasons why I think we ought to have the debate on this Bill when it comes http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero from the Select Committee ; because, if the re- solutions of the Counties Conference are to be adopted by the Select Committee, then the Bill will be in a different shape from what it is now. At the same time, the Premier is seek- ing to take an undue advantage of the House in asking it to debate this Bill, or to pass it without debate, before it has been before that Select Committee, and I would refer the Premier to last session when the procedure of reading the Municipal Corporations Bill pro forma was carried out, and when it came to a second reading before this House the whole de- bate did not last more than three-quarters of an hour, because the members who were concerned were so satisfied with the Committee's work that they did not want to waste the time of the House in discussing the second reading. There- fore, if the same procedure is followed with this Bill there cannot possibly be delay in passing the legislation ; but if the amendments of the Committee are against the interests of the coun- try then it is quite right that we should have an opportunity on the report of the Committee of discussing the Bill on practically its second reading. But I would like to point out to the Premier that, even if his motion is now carried, the second reading would not carry with it the possibility of doing without a debate when the Bill comes from the Committee ; because, on the Mr. Seddon reading debate can be taken by the members of the House. Mr. SEDDON. -- I want to save two debates. Mr. PIRANI. - The Premier never thought of that at all, and it is as plain as daylight that the Premier wants to waste a day. He wants the discussion on this Bill, in its present form, to last the whole day, but he does not want to say so, and if he had moved the Bill pro forma it could not take the day. If the Premier is allowed to move it as he wishes now, he knows it forces the House into a debate on the merits of the Bill, and the whole day will be wasted. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .-- It is all very well for the Premier to talk about this Bill having been circulated for five weeks, and of members having had ample time to consider it, but the Premier knows that the House has not been sitting for five weeks, and that the Bill was not circulated for at least one week after the House met. When the Bill was circulated a Com- mittee of experts was set up to consider it-a Committee consisting of over thirty members - and we were given to understand that after the setting up of that Committee the usual course would be followed : that the Bill would be read pro forma and referred to the Committee, and that the debate would be taken on the Bill coming back to the House, and on that under- standing I venture to say very few members have studied the Bill in the way they would otherwise have done. In this Bill there are 115 pages, 361 clauses and 10 schedules; but the Premier in introducing it -a Bill of this size -did so in a speech lasting only a quarter of an hour, and I venture to say that the honourable gentleman would have taken his full hour had he himself thoroughly understood the measure he was attempting to explain. Then the Premier talks about the report of the Conference which was published in the papers. Well, I put in an appearance at that Conference in a representative capacity, and I thought the Conference was doing good work and were dis- cussing the Bill in an intelligent manner ; but from what I saw in the papers I venture to say that not one-hundredth part of the proceedings of that Conference was reported, and it was impossible that it could be otherwise. I hope, consequently, the Premier will accept the motion to adjourn the debate and let it come on, say, on Tuesday, by which time members will have had an opportunity of making themselves acquainted with the provisions of the measure. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .-- Sir, I think it is unfair for the Premier, who is in charge of this Bill, to expect members of the House representing country constituencies to swallow the Bill in globo. It is quite true that the Bill has now been in circulation for about a fortnight or so, but the honourable member must bear in mind that honourable members have a great deal to do on Committees, attend- ing to their correspondence, considering the various measures that come before this House, and, in many instances, the Order Paper only gives a very few hours' notice when they are to be brought on for discussion. We have to rush 