give us much. Then, the other question was as to the carriage of the goods. His own opinion was that the subsidies of the German boats by Germany, and the subsidies of the French boats by the French Government, practically handi- capped anything we could do in the way of a preferential tariff, and more than handicapped it. We had all that to deal with before we could bring about what the honourable gentle- man was aiming at. Then, again, by their last tariff the Home Government had put an impost upon colonial products. He did not see much feeling there in the direction of reciprocity on the part of the people at Home so far as colonial products were concerned. He thought if this question was raised at Home the answer would be that free-trade -- the open-door policy-was the policy for England. That was the position. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Have you written to them ? Mr. SEDDON said he did not care about writing ; he did not care about moving until there was a chance of success. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- You promised last year to do so. Mr. SEDDON said he knew what he pro- mised ; and when he found the time opportune, and there was some chance of doing it without receiving a slap in the face, he would do so. But he did not believe in writing simply inorder to receive a slap in the face in reply. He be- lieved in watching his time. The time would come when this would have to be done, and the honourable member or whoever advocated this step and kept it prominently before the public would be doing a benefit to this colony and to the Empire. He hoped the honourable member would still agitate, and would still continue to agitate. ## WORKERS' COMPENSATION FOR ACCI- DENTS ACT. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked the Govern- ment, Whether they will this session introduce an amendment of the Workers' Compensation for Accidents Act, so as to make it quite clear as to whether or not the said Act applies to agricultural operations ? He was asking this question because a doubt had arisen as to whether the Act did or did not apply to agri- cultural operations. Of course, as members of the Legislature, they knew it was not intended to so apply it, because the proposal to insert the word "agriculture" was negatived ; but, seeing that there was a difference of opinion, he thought the Premier would agree with him that the matter ought to be made clear. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Labour) said, In his opinion, they were not intended to be in- cluded, but, while we were all very clear about what was intended when passing Acts, it was for others to interpret them. The interpreta- tion must be left to those administering the laws and to the Courts. He hoped the inter- pretation of the Courts would be in accordance with the wishes of Parliament. Mr. MASSEY said that was not the question he asked. He asked whether the Government point clear, as it was not clear at present, whether the Act did or did not apply to agri- cultural operations. Mr. SEDDON said, In the first place, the honourable member wanted the Act defined. It was unreasonable to ask him to bring in legislation to declare that the law was as he contended it was. He was not going to bring in a law when he believed it was not wanted. Mr. MASSEY .- Then, you refuse to do it. Mr. SEDDON said he had given the honour- able member an answer-that he did not think it necessary ; when necessary, that would be the time to do it. BICYCLES FOR CIVIL SERVICE. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) asked the Premier, Whether, in providing bicycles for any branch of the Civil Service, the Government will in future give preference to cycles of New Zealand manufacture, and invite tenders in the daily papers at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wel- lington, and Auckland for the supply of same, thus encouraging this branch of industry and giving employment to New Zealand workmen ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said this question ought properly to have been addressed to the Postmaster-General, and, so far as that depart- ment was concerned, it was not deemed ad- visable to call for tenders for bicycles within the colony. It was stated by the Secretary :-- "Our experience has been that of bicycles said to have been manufactured in New Zea- land only a small portion of the work is done here, the parts being imported from other countries and put together. Generally, it may be said that a good machine, completely finished, can be imported by us at from 30 per cent. to 35 per cent. less than locally." If that was the case, and the bicycles cost 35 per cent. more, and it was simply a question of putting the parts together here, he did not think it would be fair to put that impost upon the colony. However, that was the depart- mental reply. MANGATORO ESTATE. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) asked the Pre- mier, When the Mangatoro Estate will be ready for selection ? He would also like to ask the Premier if it was the intention of the Government to acquire the eleven thousand acres at present owned by Natives and leased to the Assets Board ? He understood the Natives had offered this to the Govern- ment at a very reasonable price, and, as there were only two owners interested, and those owners already had plenty of land, he did not think the Government would be doing any injustice if they were to acquire this land from the Natives, in conjunction with the rest of the land, and have it cut up by the Government. The present statute did not ap- pear to debar the Government from acquiring this land, and, as the Natives were willing to sell to the Government, he hoped to receive a favourable reply, stating that the estate would be cut up and settled at once, and that the 