how to do it. Here is the very first instance that has come before the House since, and the ordinary course to be followed would be that this communication from the Auditor-General should be printed, so that members of the House would know what it is. Then, the honourable gentleman complains that there are members on this side of the House who seem to be conversant with the correspondence ; but I ask any honourable member to take up that correspondence and look at the last three pages, and there they will get the whole of the dispute nicely summarised. There is no need for any honourable member to take any time over the matter, as it is all set out there in the concluding pages as clear as daylight. It is all very well for the honourable member to talk about our being sharp to follow up what comes from the Auditor-General, but do we not know that in previous sessions questions of this sort have been referred to the Public Accounts Committee without being printed, and they have been buried in that Committee until the end of the session ; and not only was the House prevented from discussing the matter, but members were not even able to read the papers, because the only copies were before the Public Accounts Committee ? It is that necessity that has sharpened the wits of those who think it is right that not only the representatives of the people here, but the country generally, should know what are the disputes that are taking place between the Auditor-General, who is the re- presentative of this House, and the Trea- surer, as the executive officer of the colony. The object for which I spoke has been attained. The Minister has consented to have the corre- spondence printed, although it would have been better if he had not added the tag as to the / http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Public Accounts Committee - a Committee which, from the very fact that the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) is the Chairman, is utterly useless in matters of this kind ; because, if a matter that ought to be dis- cussed by members is considered, he takes very good care that there shall be very little oppor- tunity for such discussion, and in this way does not even attempt to mend his ways. I do say that it is the right of the House to have these matters properly brought before them ; and if less objection were shown to considering questions of this sort, such doubts would not arise in the minds of members as now often do about disputes which arise between the two departments. The House divided on the question, "That the words proposed to be omitted be retained." AYES, 37. Allen, E. G. Fraser, A. L. D. McNab Gilfedder Meredith Arnold Barclay Millar Graham Bennet Hall Mills Hall-Jones Buddo Morrison Carroll Hanan O'Meara Hornsby Palmer Duncan Field Kaihau Parata Fisher Lawry Smith, G. J. Flatman McGowan Steward Mr. Pirani Symes Tellers. Ward Carncross Tanner Willis. Thompson, R. Stevens. NOES, 19. Allen, J. Hardy Rhodes Russell, G. W. Hutcheson Atkinson Bollard Thomson, J. W. Lang Collins Laurenson Lethbridge Ell Tellers. Herries Fowlds Monk Fraser, W. Pirani Massey. PAIR. For. Against. McGuire. Smith, E. M. Majority for, 18. Amendment negatived, and motion agreed to. BREACH OF PRIVILEGE. Mr. PALMER (Ohinemuri) .- Sir, as Chair- man of the Goldfields and Mines Committee, I wish to bring under the notice of the House a breach of privilege. I have been directed by the Goldfields Committee to report that the Committee have come to the following resolu- tion :- "Resolved, That the Chairman of the Com- mittee be directed to call the attention of the House to the publication, on Friday, the 23rd August, 1901, in the Dunedin Star, of evidence given before this Committee, this Committee not having yet reported on such evidence." I have the paper -the Dunedin Star - with me, which I will lay on the table of the House. I move, That this report lie on the table of the House. The evidence is in connec- tion with a petition we are hearing - Mr. Easton's petition ; and Mr. Cook, against whom there are charges levelled in the petition, has complained to the Committee that the evi- dence has been printed, and I am directed by the Committee to report this to the House. As you will know, Mr. Speaker, it is in contra- vention of No. 229 of our Standing Orders to publish any evidence given before a Com- mittee before that Committee has reported to the House. I move, That the petition lie on the table. I may say, in regard to the evidence, I have looked at it, and that it is a full, true, and correct report of the evidence. And not only has the reporter of the Dunedin Star given a very true account of the evidence, but it appears to me that he has been fair to both sides, because the evidence for both sides is published in that report. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Perhaps it will satisfy honourable members if a portion of this extract is read. Under our rules it is absolutely necessary that what is printed in the paper, or some portion of it, must be read. The Clerk will read a dozen lines or so. The CLERK then read the extract, as fol- lows :- " The following evidence has been given during the past week before the Mines Com- mittee in connection with the petition of Mr. H. E. Easton for the setting-up of a Royal Commission to inquire into the flotation and 