the colony would progress to a greater extent than any other British colony. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said one could not but admire the optimism of his honourable friend-a characteristic which it would be a good thing for a great many people in the colony if they possessed. In suggesting that bonuses should be given for the building-up of industries in the colony, his honourable friend, however, was asking for the initiation of a policy which he thought was undesirable, if not impracticable. If industries required to be built up in that way, it was only a matter . of time when they would end disastrously through the withdrawal of the bonus. The proper way to build up industries was by a broader and more natural system, and he thought the fairest way of all was through the Customs duties, and under them they could be built up. If the honourable gentleman asked in what direction the Government could encourage the wine industry, and the manu- facture of white-lead, he must reply that while he would be pleased to see them legitimately furthered in every way, they must be allowed to grow up in the natural order of things under the existing Customs tariff protection. # PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) asked the Government, Whether they will consider the advisability of granting societies for the pre- vention of cruelty to animals subsidies of, say, £1 for #1, thus assisting them in their laudable and necessary work? Speaking from his own knowledge, he could say that a great amount of extremely useful work was done by these societies in the community, and they prevented a great amount of cruelty. He was further quite sure that they saved the police a very con- siderable amount of work. Taking all these things into consideration, he thought the move- ment deserved, more than others, consideration at the hands of the Government. He was not wedded to the amount of the subsidy, but so far all the funds available had been raised by volun- tary contributions, and he thought the time had now come when the Government ought to assist in some degree. If the Government could not give £1 for $1. perhaps the honour- able gentlemen would say how much they would be prepared to give. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said one could not but admire the laudable work carried out by these societies ; but at the same time he had always regarded it - and, no doubt, others did -as a labour of love, and the outcome of a desire on the part of well-disposed people to prevent cruelty to defenceless animals. He did not think it was advisable, however, that these societies, which had for so many years carried on this good work. should be supported by sub- sidies from the Government. There was, he was assured, no very heavy expenditure en- tailed, and, so far as he knew, no representa- tions had reached the Government showing that these societies were so financially weak as work. He hoped the societies would continue their good work in the future without asking assistance from the Government. Mr. COLLINS said he knew in many cases the power for good of these societies was greatly curtailed owing to want of funds, and their work was not supported by the public as it should be ; they as a rule did the work and contributed the money too, and, that being so, he thought they were deserving of some help from the Government. Sir J. G. WARD pointed out that it was the duty of the police throughout the colony to prevent cruelty to animals: and if private societies were to receive Government aid for doing the same thing, it would be better for the Government to set up a department to do the whole business. # RAILWAY CHARGES. Mr. HOUSTON (Bay of Islands) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will reduce the charges on the Opua-Kawakawa and on the Dargaville-Kaihu lines to bring them into con- formity with other lines in the colony ? A great injustice was being done to the settlers on these small lines, one of which was seven miles long and the other about sixteen. A first-class fare on the Opua-Kawakawa line was 3s. for a dis- tance of seven miles, and the second-class fare was 2s. ; the freight per ton measurement was 10s .; and there was not another line in the colony that could show such exorbitant charges. Then, on the Dargaville-Kaihu line the freight was 11s. 4d., while on other lines it was 3s. 4d. The freight on gum on this line was 11s. 4d. and on other lines 9s. 6d. He felt satisfied if the Minister considered the matter he would see the injustice of this, and endeavour to have it rectified. He would point out also that while concessions had been granted on the other lines of the colony no concession had been made in these instances. He hoped to get a favour- able answer, and that the reproach of neglect- ing the far North would be removed. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said this was not a case of neglecting the far North. The difficulty was that these lines did not pay. The working of the Opua-Kawakawa line last year resulted in a loss of €185. The matter was a difficult one. No member of the Govern- ment was desirous of seeing differential rates in operation in any part of the colony. Mr. HOUSTON .- The railway system is a complete system in itself, and one individual railway should not be separated from it. Sir J. G. WARD said, At the same time it would never do, where the traffic on a line was inadequate to give a reasonable return. to charge the same rates as in the case of lines which were assisting to pay their cost. In regard to the Dargaville Kaihu line the ques- tion of rates there were now under the considera- tion of the Government, with a view to seeing whether relief could be given. Mr. HOUSTON said the reason why the traffic was not paying was because owing to 