property, the improvements being valued at $155. It pay 16s. under the present system, and will pay 10s. 11d. under the new system. Now, I will give two or three illustrations in one of the suburbs - in my own district, Spreydon. An Hon. MEMBER. - A sparsely populated dis- trict. Mr. ELL .- There is some of it pretty thickly populated. As an illustration of what will happen in Spreydon, I will take the case of a bootmaker. I know the man. He has a large family, and only earns from 7s. 6d. to &s. a day. He has devoted much care and time to improving his place, and has made it look very nice. The capital value is 9344; the unimproved value $80. Rates under present system $3 0s. 3d. ; new system. 15s. In another case, the capital value is $234, and the unim- proved value $60. Rates under present sys- tom. 91 7s. 5d .; under new system, 11s. 3d. The owner is a carrier in a small way. I will now give the case of a market-gardening lot of about two acres, with a house on it: The capital value is $400, and the unimproved value $200. Rates under the present system, $2 6s. lod. ; under new system, €1 17s. 6d. My next illustration is that of a small hold- ing of about two acres and a half. The owner keeps cows, and is a widow. The capital value is $360, and the unimproved value $200. Rates under present system, $2 2s. 1d. ; under new system, El 178. 6d. My last illustration is that of a carpenter, whose little property is valued at $200; unimproved value, $50. Rates under present system, ₺1 3s. 5d. ; new system, 9s. 4d. An Hon. MEMBER. - Are these town proper- ties ? Mr. ELL .- These are suburban properties, and the illustrations I have given show that a poor man is not going to be injured under this system. The honourable member for Hawke's Bay stated that we were letting off the man with the big mansion under this system, and the large landowner in the country. Captain RUSSELL. No; in the suburbs. Mr. ELL .- I will presently give a few illus- trations in connection with the City of Christ- church, where there are large blocks containing handsome buildings, and from which you can see how the poor man there comes out under this system. I will now refer to the district Mr. Lewis, the late member for Christchurch City. lived in. There are a lot of very fine homes in the district, which is also in the district represented by the honourable mem- ber for Riccarton, and I am going to show the honourable gentleman how it is going to affect his own constituency. I will take the case of a property valued at €125 capital value, with $100 of improvements on the land. This is a small home in the country. Under the present system that man pays 7s. 9d. ; under the new system, 2s. 1d. Here is another case : A property with €180 of capital value and $50 land value ; on the capital value he will pay 11s. 3d, and on the land only 4s. 3d. These be levied on the unimproved value, to bring in the same amount of revenue as collected on the capital value. Here is another case: A man with €175 worth of improvements, on land of the value of $120 ; under the present system it would pay 18s. 4d., and under the new system 10s. 3d. These illustrations will show how in the country districts, where there are some big buildings and some big houses, the small man, or the poor man, is not going to be injured. With regard to Christchurch, I know that it was not out of any feeling of enmity to me, or from any desire to do me any harm politically in my district, that the honourable member for Riccarton referred to Christchurch, but I will discuss his remarks in a kindly spirit. Well, with regard to Christchurch, as the honourable member for Riccarton knows, there are a lot of very fine buildings there. Now, to show that I have worked out my calculations according to the absolute facts, I got the rates levied on the annual value in 1898. I also got the annual value. I got the unimproved rateable value, and I have found that a rate of 4 d. in the pound on the unimproved value would produce to the City Council the same amount in revenue, within a few pounds, of what the rate in the pound on the annual value would produce. Now, how does it work out ? I must tell the honourable member for Riccar- ton that in High Street, Christchurch-I got the figures from the Land Valuation Depart- ment-there is land valued at #135 per foot. Compare this with the value in a poor district, and I take for illustration Aberdeen Street. a street 20 ft. wide, leading off Madras Street, containing a lot of small cottages occupied by working - men and their families. The land there is valued at from 17s. 6d. to £1 per foot, and, as I have said, in High Street it is valued at as high as €135 per foot. The annual values of the properties in Aberdeen Street are £12, €15, £16, $18, and the rates on the annual value respectively £1 9s. 9d., £1 17s. 1d., £1 19s. 8d., $2 4s. 7d. Now, what will be the rate on the land-value under this system which is going to be so injurious to the poor man ? Only 12s. and 13s. 9d. each section. Notwith- standing the fact that the rates are taken off all the huge blocks of buildings in Christchurch, that is how it will operate there. Mr. R. THOMPSON .- You do not say how you are going to make up the loss. Mr. ELL. -- Yes, I will show you how we make up the loss. We have in Christchurch a very large landowner who has grown rich by speculating in land. This man possesses, amongst other properties in the city, a corner section valued at $1,500, according to the Land Valuation Department. He is paying under the present system $9 Os. 5d. a year. The honourable member for Marsden asks how is the loss of rates by exempting big buildings to be made up? Under the new system this owner will pay $25 17s. 6d. This corner sec- tion has not even a decent fence round it, and it is fronted by one handsome block of build- ings, and at the side of it there is another 