object to that provision. Clause 7 provides the procedure when young persons are detained in a shelter; and clause 8 provides that in aggravated cases not only is the child to be brought before a Magistrate, but the parent also is to be summoned to appear before the Magistrate, who is to deal with cases where the parent is responsible for the child having be- come uncontrollable, and, under this, parents will be liable to extreme penalties if they do not as far as lies in their power provide for the children under their control conducting themselves properly. Clause 11 provides power to search for boys apparently under seventeen years of age who frequent places known to be oc- cupied by immoral persons and where gambling is carried on. They will be dealt with ina similar way to that adopted in the case of boys of tender years, with the exception that they will be brought before a Magistrate. That will happen only in the case of their being found in houses frequented by prostitutes or in gambling- dens. Clause 12 provides that any parent or guardian of a girl under the age of eighteen years knowingly allowing her to visit for any immoral purpose any such premises as are referred to in section 6 shall be liable to a term of imprisonment not exceeding two years. The remaining clauses of the Bill are machinery clauses to give effect to the part of the Bill already referred to. Honourable members who have studied this question will recognise that there is necessity for something being done in this direction. If the matter is not taken in hand we shall, in the near future, see the bad effects on the youth of the colony as they ad- vance in life. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) .- I agree with the principle of this Bill, but I ob- ject to certain of its provisions. One has only to look at the interpretation clause and clauses 4, 5, and 6 to see how loosely the measure has been drawn. I cannot understand how it hap- pened that, in the debates on this Bill in the other Chamber, attention was not drawn to the drafting of, I might say, almost a third of the clauses. I propose referring firstly to those clauses which entitle women to act as police- men. I do not believe in policemen in petti- coats. I do not think the power the police- man has under this Bill should be given to women, nor should it be proposed in any other measure to give such power to them. We admire and reverence women because 8.30. they are women. When they put on the breeches we change our opinion. I feel that this particular clause will be viewed with a great deal of disfavour by women as well as by men ; and just fancy the idea of having women who had been created policemen by virtue of this Act parading the town up till four and five o'clock in the morning looking after children in the slums. Just let the Hon. the Minister in charge of this Bill fancy that. The Hon. the Minister need not interject ; he may annihilate me, and absolutely wither me up when he re- plies, if he is able. Just imagine women being appointed what are called in clause 5 " Pro- will be to take the steps provided by the sub- clauses of clause 5, where they find any young person of either sex "habitually loitering" in the streets or in out-of-the-way places at un- timely hours, meaning thereby between nine o'clock at night and five o'clock in the morn- ing. Now, it is all very well for ladies to be travelling the streets at afternoon-tea time, and up till nine o'clock ; but when they start rampaging about at nine o'clock at night and keep going till five in the morning for the purpose of running in loitering children I think the whole thing is a farce. Then, wo have no definition of what "habitually loiter- ing" is. Let us now consider the inter- pretation clause. In clause 2, "young person " means a boy or girl "apparently " not over the age of fourteen years. Now, what is "ap- parently not over the age of fourteen years." It takes a very clever judge of character or age to tell the age of a child between thirteen and fifteen, and I would like to know how any " Protection Officer " appointed under this Act is going to decide for herself or himself whether a young boy or girl seen about in the streets is to be run in as only " apparently not over the age of fourteen years." Again, the gravamen of the offence is, according to the Bill, "the habitually loitering in the streets or out-of-the- way places." Now, what is the meaning of that ? Is the "discreet woman " to have a circuit allowed her in out-of-the-way places ? As far as the cities are concerned, out-of-the-way places are just the kind of places into which I hope no woman would venture after dark. The reason why these Protection Officers are required in a city is because there is, unfortunately, an absence of parental control. The reason that children are seen in the City of Wellington at the early hours of the morning, as reported to the police officers, is because there is an abso- lute lack of home comfort and home control. If home is made pleasant to a child, or if parents exercise that influence over their children which they should exercise, there would be no wandering. But, so far as the City of Wellington is concerned, the history of the Courts show plainly that a Bill of this kind is required. In the present state of the galleries it is impossible to place on record the state of things that has been proved to exist. I need only refer to the hulk cases, and to other cases that have come before the Supreme Court with- in the last few years. I could convince any honourable gentleman who has qualms on the subject that there is a necessity for the Bill. There is the evidence on oath of the children themselves as to the state of things that exists. Sir, there are bands of children in this city who sally out at night ; they meet at different places by appointment, and then separate to meet again. There are children who travel round in the carly morning or late at night and behave in a disgraceful manner, and there is evidence to show that the Police Force as it is at present constituted is unable to cope with it. There has been no way in the past of punish- ing the parents of these children, though in 