however, that such a refund should not be made, as they had an opportunity of taking up the land, and the Government was at consider- able cost in surveying the sections, a good deal more than the amount deposited, and, therefore, the members, having failed to carry out their agreement, must suffer the loss. That was the department's version of the matter. If the land was surveyed in time for the members to take it up. and they refused, then the Government should not be made to bear the loss over the matter, when the land had to be turned to some other purpose. Mr. MASSEY .- The man was anxious to go on to the land, but could not wait for the com- pletion of the survey. Mr. DUNCAN said that if the special case alluded to by Mr. Massey was one of special hardship, then he should petitition the House for a refund, and it could be dealt with in that way. LIME FOR THE WEST COAST. Mr. LETHBRIDGE (Rangitikei) asked the Minister of Lands, If he will take steps to acquire and work a lime-kiln somewhere near the Manawatu Gorge, so that farmers on the West Coast may be placed in a like position to the Olago farmers in obtaining agricultural lime at a reasonable cost ? He understood that the Government had a lime-kiln which they worked, somewhere in the South Island, and that the settlers in Otago and Southland could obtain lime at something like 12s. a ton. On the west coast of this Island they had to pay something like £1 8s. a ton ; and any one who knew anything about the matter could understand how expensive this made it for far- mers who wished to use lime when they had to pay that price for it. There was a limestone deposit somewhere near the Manawatu Gorge, and if the Minister could see his way to send some one to look for a good lime supply near the railway, he thought he would be able to meet the requirements of the settlers. Mr. O'MEARA .- Mangatainoka. Mr. LETHBRIDGE said he thought there was a lot of good limestone at Mangatainoka ; and he hoped that something would be done in the direction indicated. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said the honourable member in asking this question had referred to some lime-kilns in the South. Well, the working of these kilns was not far enough advanced yet for him to be able to say exactly the price which they would be able to deliver lime. They expected to be able to deliver it for about 12s. 6d. Mr. LETHBRIDGE .- They are getting it from private individuals for about that, down South, I believe. Mr. DUNCAN thought the cheapest was about 18s. An Hon. MEMBER. - 15s. to 16s. Mr. DUNCAN expected, when the scheme was complete, they would be able to supply it at about 12s. 6d. But they had been trying improved kilns, and it was a very difficult thing factory commencement in the first instance, but he thought himself it was well worth while to make improvements, and put it in working order. He thought it would be better to await the result of the present operations before going in for fresh works. He might say there was a reserve near Woodville containing 73} acres, situated near the Gorge Bridge. It was offered for lease by auction in 1898, for working the limestone. Opinions differed as to the quality of the stone, and probably that accounted for no one caring to undertake converting it. It was again offered in 1899, but still no tender was received for it. The department would be glad to receive any reasonable offer for working the stone, and making it available for farmers on the West Coast or elsewhere. PAIKAKARIKI ROAD. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked the Minister of Lands, Whether he will have a survey made of a new route for portion of the Main West Coast (North Island) Road which will avoid the present steep climb over the Paikakariki Hill? The Main West Coast Road of the North Island was rapidly approaching completion, thanks to the generous treatment the local bodies had received at the hands of the present Govern- ment ; but the one blemish in that road was the Paikakariki Hill. It was an historic place and a most picturesque spot, but for the pur- pose of a road it was far too steep. He only asked now that a survey should be made with a view of ultimately doing away with that steep gradient, not, of course, anticipating that a new road could be formed at once. He under- stood there were several alternative routes, each better than the present one, and if a survey were made now there would be some hope in the future of getting a more suitable route. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) .- Does the road go through Crown lands ? Mr. FIELD .- In one case it does in part. In another case it is sea-coast. Mr. DUNCAN said this road, when opened, would be entirely under the control of the County Council, the Government considering that they had done with it. As to the ques- tion of making a survey to see if a better route could be found, he would consider the matter, because he himself believed the present route was not the best that could be obtained. He could not, however, hold out much hope of any large sum of money being spent in that direction for some time to come, as there were a good many places further back in the bush that were absolutely without roads. It had also to be remembered that the railway-line ran alongside this road, so that the people in that locality, he thought, might do with the present road fairly well for a year or two. The Govern- ment were, however, prepared to assist the County Council in ascertaining whether a better line of route existed. RUAPEKAPEKA PA. Mr. HOUSTON (Bay of Islands) asked the Minister of Lands, If he will take the neces- 