to that. It might impede matters and prejudice matters, but it would naturally be much more logical and philosophical than to say a certain thing is a breach of the Standing Orders of this House, which ought to carry some penalty at the will of this House as a consequence, and not to carry it any further. Now, to be reason- able and sensible men we ought to declare this a breach of privilege. Consequently, we ought to say we will set up a Committee to discover how the information came to be published and who published it, and to mark the disapproval of the House we should inflict punishment sufficient to prevent a repetition of the offence. I have no sympathy with this vaunted journal- istic enterprise when it carries with it a wilful and predetermined breach of the Standing Orders of the House. This publication, I say, was done with a wilful knowledge, but carried with it a sense of security inasmuch as never before had any punishment been given, and that therefore no punishment would be given in this case. To put it in the classical language of the member for Avon, it was a brutum fulmen. I think, Sir, the House should up- hold the Standing Orders, or rescind them altogether. Motion agreed to. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) .- Sir, the motion having been carried, my col- leagues and other members consider it would not be fair to the House to allow matters to stand as they are; and, under the circum- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 stances, the Government will take the course that was taken some years ago in order to elicit further information on the subject. I think honourable members will agree with me that, http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero to a large extent, the precedents that are on record show clearly that to attempt to bring the publisher of the journal to the bar of the House would be unsatisfactory in the extreme, and that it would be better to set up a Privilege Committee in order to make inquiries as to how the information became public. If the Com- mittee can elicit that information it will pro- bably meet the case. I will move "That a Committee of Privilege be appointed to inquire into and report on the matter of the publication in the Dunedin Evening Star of the 23rd August, 1901, of certain evidence taken before the Gold- fields and Mines Committee, and which evi- dence has not yet been reported to the House ; three to form a quorum, with power to call for persons 'and papers : the Committee to consist of Mr. Speaker, Major Steward, Mr. Fisher, Mr. J. Allen, and the mover." Judging by what has come before me, the House is de- sirous that the mere affirmation by the House that a breach of privilege has been committed is not sufficient, and that it would be well to have the matter inquired into, in order that the Standing Orders of the House may be respected, and that cases of the kind may, if possible, be prevented in the future. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City). - Sir, I desire to say a word or two before this motion House has affirmed that a breach of privilege has been committed by the publication of this report in the Dunedin Evening Star, and it is clear, I think, that a motion should follow to the effect that the proprietor or the publisher of that paper, if it be desired to give him a chance to reply to any charges, should appear at the bar of the House and make what defence he can. After that a motion should follow in- flicting punishment of some kind or another, if it is considered advisable to do do. Let me here remark, as a matter of some interest, that the practice of fining seems to have become obsolete in the British Parliament. A high authority says :- " In former times the House of Commons im- posed fines for breaches of privilege, but the practice has long been discontinued, except in so far as the payment of fees as a condition precedent to release from imprisonment par- takes of the nature of a fine." The House, however, still retains the power of imposing the punishment of imprisonment. A Committee such as the honourable Minister suggests is, no doubt, proper and advisable for the purpose of discovering where the leakage occurred ; but it does not touch the question of the principal offender, the proprietor or the publisher of the Evening Star. And I should like to know whether it is the intention of the Minister to move in the direction I have suggested, after this motion is disposed of, or not. Sir J. G. WARD .- Let the Committee report first. Mr. BARCLAY .- The Committee cannot re- port anything but that the publication is a breach of privilege; and the House has de- clared that it is so. A motion should follow that the publisher or the proprietor of the paper should appear at the bar of the House. I would like to know whether Ministers intend to move a motion to that effect or not. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) .- The course I have followed is what was formerly adopted by this House. Two courses are open -the one is to summon the publisher of the journal to appear at the bar of the House, and the other is to set up a Committee of Privilege to inquire into the matter. After that Com- mittee reports, it will be for the House to con- sider whether further action is necessary or not. Mr. BARCLAY .- I submit that, the House having declared this report to be a breach of privilege, it is the duty of the Government to act on that resolution, and ask the proprietor or the publisher to appear before the bar to give an explanation, and, when the Committee's re- port is submitted, it will be for the House to deal with the culprit who has given the infor- mation. It has been said this afternoon that this House has been a subject of ridicule owing to its weakness in punishing breaches of privi- leges and other offences against it. The news- papers of the colony may well ridicule the House if it does not defend its dignity and 