the land was wanted for general purposes the Act said that the owners must retire on compensa- tion. Where was the hardship ? Where was the iniquity of teaching this doctrine of Naboth's vineyard ? As far as he remembered the story of Naboth's vineyard, it was the big man who wanted to eat out the little man. Now, appa- rently, the story was reversed, and the honour- able gentleman tried to apply the parable to the little man trying to eat out the big man, which was quite different. The big man could not complain, especially as modern sentiment went beyond Biblical doctrine in some respects, and had absolutely affirmed the principle that, for the good of the State and for the good of the community, there was no sacredness in the private tenure of land if the land were wanted for public purposes. The tenure of land was the purest fiction that the ingenuity of man had ever invented, and, of course, it was being made sacred by means of statutes of Parlia- ment. But still all that was necessary was to train up a population to prefer one tenure over another, and the whole thing remains exactly the same. No man could take that land away with him to his grave. He did not require any more when he was dead than his 6 ft. of earth. He could not take away anything more. The land remained, and the land must remain for the good of the country, and all the tenant and all the occupier had to consider was, "Can I occupy a piece of land on a sound good tenure ?" and if honourable gentlemen read up the history of land tenure they would find that the freehold was by no means such an antiquated and vener- able kind of tenure as some of them seemed to think. He was quite certain that in England thirty years ago the freehold was hardly recog- nised as a legal term as to the title of land. It was more a title which had grown up since the colonies had sprung into existence, and after they had had proper Land Transfer Acts passed, and where it had been conveyed direct to the individual from the Crown in the individual's lifetime. But as far as the individual occupier was concerned, he contended that he was just as much able to enjoy the profits and the com- pensation from his piece of land under a per- petual lease as he was under a freehold tenure, and there was no reason on earth why a popula- tion should not grow up with sentiments quite contrary to the honourable gentleman's expec- tation and prophecy. There was no reason why the next generation of people in New Zealand should not grow up absolutely con- tented with the leasehold tenure, and who would refuse if they were asked to go back to the servitude of the freehold tenure. Be- cause, what was the feehold tenure ? It simply gave the opportunity to this man or the other man, or to their sons, to squander and mortgage the property, and to allow it to go away from the family. The old Jews in their Mosaic laws dealt very jealously with all these problems, and specially with regard to this matter of alienating the family lands. They did not allow them to go away from the family for ever; a man could mortgage them the family at a certain date periodically. So that it was only in this colony, he believed, where there was a certain amount of sentiment tried to be invoked in favour of what was called freehold tenure. He was not at all afraid on the one hand that the change would take place which the honourable gentleman contemplated in regard to public opinion as regards this lease- hold tenure. In fact, he believed that the longer the agricultural population in this colony lived, and the longer they experienced the benefit of the leasehold tenure, they would be all the more satisfied with it, and would re- fuse to go back to what was called the indepen- dence of the freehold. The Hon. Mr. Ormond wanted certain returns. Well, he had a com- plaint in reference to the non-production of those returns, and he admitted that what was a valid complaint was that the returns on this question had not yet been placed on the table. He might assure the honourable gentleman that he was informed by the department that, through the printing-office having been so much overburdened this session with the printing of returns and papers, although these returns had been prepared for a couple of months, they had been unable so far to get them done, but they hoped to do so soon. If the honourable gentle- man would look at the returns of last session he would find that, as regards these lands, they were very full and ample, and he was informed that in this year's returns every particular that he wanted would be found, and therefore he trusted that the Council would, at all events, not ask for further returns until it found that those already supplied were not sufficient. They did not want to ask for unnecessary re- turns which would also be very costly, and he would repeat that, as far as he could see, the returns as given last year and those to be sup- plied this year would give the honourable gentle- man pretty well all the information he wanted. Then, the honourable gentleman referred to workmen's homes. Of course, the honourable gentleman must know that this legislation had been progressive. We had been going on from year to year; we hoped, like the honour- able gentleman, that this policy was going to be a sound one, but we were cautious, like the honourable gentleman, too. We therefore did not step too far in advance until we felt our way, and while we have had workmen's homes in our minds for some years, we found year by year, even though Parliament gave us fresh powers, still these fresh powers were not suffi- cient. If the honourable gentleman would look at last year's Act he would see we were obliged to take fresh powers in order to enable the Government to compulsorily take land for workmen's homes. It was a matter of very great moment that we should have workmen's homes in the neighbourhood of our cities, of the best kind of land, and connected by such means of conveyance as would enable workmen to get back night and morning to and from their work. But that there had not been any- thing done in that direction, as the honourable gentleman stated, was an exaggeration, because 