keen to search out for itself the evil where it esiste. Probably, also, the records are better kept. At any rate, we know more about these cases than we need to, even if they are not increasing. But, whether they are increasing or whether they are not, there is sufficient for us, at any rate, to attempt to tackle the ques- tion ; and the Bill proposes to do so. Sir, I believe that the Bill may do some good, and therefore I shall support the second reading. I am not altogether in love with it. I am not altogether in love with the Protection Officer ; but something must be done, and if we do not have a Protection Officer, what are we to do ? Some honourable member has suggested it should be left to the police, and that only those who have a uniform on-meaning by that a police officer-should be authorised to deal with those who are unprotected persous under this Bill. Well, I think that the evidence disclosed in this report points to the fact that a police officer is not the best person to deal with such cases. He will not do it, nor can he do it as well, I believe, as a special person having special capabilities, either man or woman, appointed for the particular pur- pose, and therefore I think that the de- sire of the Bill to appoint a Protection Officer, either man or woman, would be an improvement on the appointment of a police officer in uniform. Sir, I feel that clause 9 is a very serious clause, and one that we shall have to consider with a great deal of care when in Committee. I know that a proviso is contained in clause 9 protecting the parents to a certain extent ; but it does seem a very severe penalty that a parent may be called before a Magistrate, and fined $10 and receive three months' imprisonment. Now, that im- prisonment is not apart from the fine, but is included in the penalty. Mr. HALL-JONES. -. It is an alternative. Mr. J. ALLEN .- No : "such imprisonment being in addition to such penalty." They may be imprisoned as well as having the penalty imposed. Of course, it is right that severe measures should be taken to make parents take care of their children when they are not doing so. And, after all, I believe the greatest sinners in this matter are the parents, and not the children, and the State, if it is to do anything, ought to do something to put the blame on the right shoulders. If parents are neglecting their children, as is apparent, then, if the State is to step in at all it must step in and say, " You parents must do something more than you have done in the past to see how your children are going on." Although the penalty is severe, and may be too severe, that is a Committee objection, and the penalty may be modified when we get into Committee. I do not agree with the honourable member for Wel- lington City that it shows any want of robust- ness of mind to attempt to deal with a serious question of this kind, which is one that has troubled all of the more respectable in the com. munity. It is not robust to sit down and say, " Oh, let things rip "; and I believe the more Mr. J. Allen matter, and is not afraid to come out into the open and publicly speak about it. 1 am quite convinced it is a bad thing to be spoken about, and that it does harm, but it is a much greater harm to let the evil exist and be silent about it, and, even by doing a temporary evil now, by making such things as this public we can eventually do a much greater good. How- ever. I do not know that it is an easy matter to reform the morals of the community by Act of Parliament, and I never believed we could : but there are Acts of Parliament that have been passed that have done great good, perhaps not for the morals, but for the com- munity apart from its morals, and I believe that by an attempt made by the Legislature to do something we shall be quickening the pulse of the public conscience, and helping that part of the public mind that is alive, and stimulating it to greater efforts. I do not know that Acts of Parliament will ever make us moral ; but, if Acts of Parliament induce particular individuals to think more about these things, and to induce people to try to keep their children in the more moral and straight course of life, I think Acts of Parlia- ment ought to be passed. I. at any rate, will do my best to assist the Minister to pass this Bill, and make it a workable measure when we get into Committee. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) .- I cer- tainly think that no greater or nobler work can be engaged in than improving the social and moral condition of the people, and by com- mencing with the children we take a step in the right direction. The honourable member for Riccarton, in the course of his excellent re- marks, referred to Auckland, and I feel called upon to say a word or two in respect to that city. As far as I am aware, Auckland does not need this Bill so much as Christchurch or Wellington, judging by the speeches made by the members representing those cities. I re- spect the motives which actuate the intro- ducer of this Bill and those who support it. I believe that they are conscientious in believing that this Bill goes in the right direction- namely, that of improving the condition of our young people. But I would not like it to go forth that the children of this colony are any worse than children in any other part of the world. I have travelled through many countries. -- I have travelled, probably, as much as the ave- rage member of this House, and I am of opinion that the morality and behaviour of the chil- dren in this country are as good as those of the children in any other country in the world. And in saying that I may say that I have studied this subject. I think there exists a higher moral standard on the part of the young people in this colony-especially in the country districts - than exists in almost any other country. The comparatively small amount of evil that exists in the towns in New Zealand is certainly made the most of. I shall support the second reading of this Bill. At the same time, like many other measures of this nature-for instance, like the measure to stop 