of industry in New Zealand. Now, the last speaker, in the carefully prepared statement which he built up, has practically told us that because it was the intention of the Govern- ment and the members who supported them in obtaining sufficient money to carry on the affairs of the Advances to Settlers Department in a way the responsible people believe to be essential, and because of the intention to go to a division on this question, the honourable member has declared publicly in this House that he was going to take the responsibility of cancelling the whole of the "pairs" entered into by members on both sides of the House who are now absent. He has no right to do that, so far as the members on this side are con. cerned. That clearly shows this: that, having built up on his own assumption that $400,000 is sufficient, he is evidently afraid to put his friends' votes on record as supporting such an outrageous proposal, and he therefore elects to cancel their " pairs." He has made the unreli- able assertion that only $400,000 will be re- quired. He would divert hundreds of thousands of pounds of the two other lending depart- ments of the State- the Government Insurance and Public Trust Departments - from the purposes for which they have always been used, and prevent thousands of people in this country from obtaining the money they re- quired by way of mortgage. He desires to play into the hands of the large private lending insti- tutions as against the State institutions, which they do not like ; and these State institutions https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 must tend to keep down the rate of interest in this country, and thus add very materially to the welfare of the people of New Zealand. particularly those who require to use borrowed money, and this will in a progressive country always be the case. The Advances to Settlers Department was originally decried, and it was freely stated that it was bound to lead to dis- aster. What has been the experience ? Not one pound has been lost by the Advances to Settlers Office of the millions that have been advanced during the last six years. Now, if that department had lost $50,000, or $100,000, or $500,000, one could have understood those honourable members who are so anxious to restrict the Government in procuring sums of money to enable that institution to carry on its good work. But it has not lost one pound, and yet these honourable members are fully prepared, according to the last speaker, to cut the whole of the money of the Advances to Settlers Department down to $400,000; and, in the statement the honourable member has just made, he said that if it goes to a division, and the votes are put on record, he is prepared to go to the extreme, on his own accord, of cancelling the "pairs " that have been entered into by members who are anxious to vote with the Government on this Bill. The ob- ject of " pairs " is to have the votes on both sides on any measure put on record. Some honour- able members, apparently, if they were here, would, judging by the member for Franklin's attitude, vote with that honourable member. Sir J. G. Ward must be afraid to put them in the position which he takes up himself. But I will not allow him to place absent members who favour the proposals in a false position without direct- ing attention to it. If honourable members pair on a particular measure, their "pairs " ought to be recorded as they paired. No member of the House has the right to put mem- bers in the position of not having their " pairs " recorded. It appears to me that this is a new and most dangerous development in this re- spect. It will create a complete want of confi- dence as between members. Mr. MASSEY. - There will be no more " pairs," then, this session. Sir J. G. WARD .- Very well ; members on this side of the House can do as well without "pairs " as honourable members on that side of the House can. The time has long since gone by for the holding-out of these threats that if one will not do a certain thing, then the other will not do something else. We want to main- tain our positions as sensible men dealing with practical affairs, and we do not want to indulge in conduct that will carry us back to the happy days of boyhood, when perhaps occasionally we were in the habit of telling one another, " If you do not do a particular thing I will not do something else." The time has gone by for such exhibitions of childishness, and especially in such a Chamber as this. I only wish to say this : that all through its existence, for some reason a very strong position has been taken up against this advances-to-settlers system by some members of this House. When it was originally introduced by me into the House it was most bitterly opposed, and fought against for weeks and weeks, and, everything else failing, there was then a determined attempt made to restrict the amount of money. There was also an effort made to reduce the maximum amount of each loan to settlers to such an extent as would, had they succeeded, have brought about disaster to the department. They were not, I am happy to say, successful. And now history is repeating itself : you find that there is still that desire to cripple the institution by trying to keep down the wherewithal for the settlers of New Zealand who require the money. They would thus destroy the power, and prestige, and influence of the office to keep down the excessive rate that other individuals and corporations in com- petition with the office would gladly put on. They know the Advances to Settlers Office is the greatest check upon the increasing of in- terest rates that exists in the colony. In face of the advice of the Government, upon whom the responsibility rests in this matter, who say that it would be ruinous, if not disastrous, to the department during the next twelve months if less than a certain sum was granted. von will get some honourable members to say that? $400,000 is enough, another that we ought to. use the #155,000 accretions, another that you may expect to receive repayments next vear of $176,000. One says you have already got $700,000, another says you have got £835.000 