and there being no question of a surprise being sprung on the city or the citizens, he should let the city decide the matter. I said that if there was any argument at all for the adjourn- ment of this Bill for a week it would apply to adjourning any other local Bill for six months. Let me point out to honourable members that if there was any strong section of malcontents to this Bill the House would be flooded with petitions and deputations. It would be a per- fectly easy matter for any constituency to do, and far easier with regard to this con- stituency than any other in the colony. We know that the minority have remained ap- parently in acquiescence. It may be that there is a majority of the city which is ac- quiescent, for the simple reason that it knows it has got the power in its own hand, even if the Bill were passed, to say " Yes " or " No." The last consideration I will urge is this : Three months ago the mayoral and municipal elec- tions were held, and by a very large majority, a record majority in the case of the Mayor- and we have the unsuccessful candidate re- peating almost verbatim a part of one of his election speeches on that occasion - and by large majorities, in some cases by two to one, almost the whole of the old Councillors were re-elected. The Mayor and Council so elected ask us for this Bill. There is no local question affecting any part of the colony on which the people in- terested are better informed than are the people of Wellington on the subject-matter of this Bill. I therefore urge upon the House that this https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 unusual motion of the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay) should not be adopted, and that we should go through with the Bill. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works). - Before the honourable gentleman sits down I would like him to point out in what way the position will be prejudiced if the Bill were adjourned for a week, and the con- tract printed and circulated among the mem- bers, so that the House and the whole of the citizens of Wellington could know the terms of the contract. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) .- We have four large centres in the colony, but I venture this opinion : that there is not a city where there is more interference with local matters than with the City of Wellington. Ever since I have been in this House, whenever anything crops up with regard to Wellington there seems to be a storm raised and an attack made upon some one. Now, Sir. this Bill has been pointed out as being purely permissive. Mr. SPEAKER .- The honourable member cannot discuss the Bill just now. Mr. ELL. - I refer to the discussion I have just now listened to by the honourable memler for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) and the Minister for Public Works, in favour of postponing the second reading of this Bill. Now, Sir, I remem- ber the reports in the Christchurch papers, and also those in the Wellington papers, at the time of the municipal elections in this city. I take an interest in municipal elections, and I know this question cropped up frequently. The Wel- VOL. CXVII .- 11. lington electors, it seems to me, are being treated with scant courtesy, and their intelligence is being discounted by the proposal which is being made. Surely the Wellington electors are suffi- ciently intelligent and alive to their own in- terests to determine on a question like this. An Hon. MEMBER .- Let them know the con- tract. Mr. ELL .- There is ample provision in the Municipal Corporations Act to protect the rights of the public, and the Minister knows it per- fectly well. Before the loan can be submitted a public meeting must be held, which must be advertised for four consecutive weeks, and at that meeting any ratepayer can question the Councillors or the Mayor as to the proposal. They have to be enlightened on every point ; and yet we have the honourable member rising up here, in the face of all the safeguards in the Bill, and saying that a permissive measure like this shall not pass. I have heard remarks hinting that this was a job, and that a little light would be shed on it. It occurs to me that the steps now proposed to be taken are with a view of shedding a little daylight on what is reputed to be a job. I have not heard anything that would lead me to suppose it is a job. I have not heard anything that would justify me in suggesting that the electors are not cap- able of deciding this question for themselves. We all know this Bill was coming before the House, and, as the honourable mem- ber for Wellington City has pointed out, if there had been any strong suspicion in the minds of the local electors we should have had plenty of deputations to members, and we should have had numerous petitions. Local public opinion is very much alive in Wellington. But, Sir, instead of the opposition, and 4.30. instead of the suspicion being amongst the local electors, it seems to me it is simply centred in two local members. That is where the suspicion is, and there only. It is certainly not in the minds of the local electors. Now, a short time ago they voted upon a proposal to spend a very considerable sum of money in this city for the purpose of tramways and other im- provements, and the question now to be sub- mitted to them is for their benefit. It has been a long time before them, and I venture to say that they will be quite capable of casting an in- telligent vote upon it. They know all about it, and they can know all they desire to know about the proposal before they cast their votes. I shall not support the proposal to adjourn this debate for a week. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- Sir, I do not think sufficient argument has been adduced for the adjournment of the debate. I submit that it would very likely jeopardize the Bill, because if the second reading is not taken to-day it will be postponed for a week. I presume the Finan- cial Statement will come down in a fortnight's time, and the opportunity for the committal of the Bill will then be lost. Now, Sir, strong argument ought to have been adduced to induce honourable members to vote for postponing the debate. Sir, the Hon. the Minister for Public Works asked a question of the member in 