Mr. HERRIES .- No; they will clear from { persons have in consequence of this sort of one street to another. The whole city will | behaviour been before the Court ?- Yes, Sir ; have to be studded with Protection Officers in order to catch the boys and girls. That, no doubt, will be a good thing for the Government, because it will make more billets. It seems to me that this Bill will have to be altered con- siderably in Committee before it can be made workable. I think it would be far better to leave the matter in the hands of the police. As, however, there are some good clauses in the Bill, such as clauses 11 and 12, and as the motive of the Bill is laudable, I will support the second reading of the Bill, and endeavour to' have it made more workable in Committee. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) .- I must express my regret that there has been even one speech that has cast ridicule upon this Bill, and it is that of the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty ; and I am glad to find that there was only one honourable member joining in the laughter of that honour- able gentleman, and that was the member for Wellington City, Mr. John Hutcheson. I am obliged to members for the manner in which they have approached this subject-one which it is admitted on all hands is full of difficulties, but a question that must be grappled with; and I am gratified to find that honourable members are prepared to take their share of responsi- bility. The question is, Does the evil exist ? Why, the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) has shown it does exist, although he only mentioned cases which came before the Court, some of which failed. But what of the cases that do not come before any Court ; and what about the evidence he produced to-night ? He quoted from the evidence of two witnesses / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero -- the Rev. Mr. Paterson and Inspector Pen- der. Why, the Rev. Mr. Paterson was one of the best witnesses we could produce to induce this House to pass the Bill. The mem- ber for Bruce has given some extracts from Inspector Pender's evidence before the Com- mittee of 1897. But there has been a later Committee dealing with this question than the Committee of 1897. In 1899 there was a Com- mittee which sat in another place, and Inspector Pender there confirmed not only everything said before the Committee of 1897, but went even further ; and, while I carefully guarded myself against making any sensational state- ments, or giving any portion of the evidence which might be termed in the least degree offensive, that phase of the question has been touched upon by some honourable gentleman, and I will therefore let the honourable gentle- man know what Inspector Pender, his chief witness, said in 1899. And what did he say? He said there were large numbers of these children about the streets at night ; and he was asked,- "6. Do you consider, then, that this kind of thing leads to immorality ?- Yes, I think it does undoubtedly ; young fellows and girls meet about street corners, and so forth. I see a good deal of it going on, and the language used at such times is often extremely bad. "7. Can you cite any instance where such we had several cases brought before the Court of young girls who were allowed to leave their homes at night, and wandering about the streets, ultimately ending in prostitution. We have had a number of young girls up before the Court at different times. "8. More or less, I suppose, under the age of sixteen years ?- Yes, Sır." Now, that is the chief witness brought for- ward by the honourable member for Welling- ton City (Mr. Fisher) ; and, mark you, this is not a case of New Zealand as compared with any other country at all. I honestly believe this evil exists in other countries, and in nearly every other country, and the only question is, Are we going to do our duty, as representatives of the people, by endeavouring to take some steps to prevent what we know to be going on ? If honourable members can suggest any other way of doing it, let them bring it forward in the shape of a Bill or any other proposal, and I, for one, shall be prepared to support them. The section 1 referred to, in moving the second read- ing of the Bill, summarises the whole position. I will again repeat it for the benefit of those honourable members who have been away this evening,- "Where any Protection Officer finds any young person of either sex habitually loiter- ing in the streets or out-of-the-way places at untimely hours (meaning thereby between nine o'clock at night and five o'clock in the morn- ing), and has reason to believe that such young person is there without proper control, or for immoral purposes, the following provisions shall apply." Now, Sir, what man who wishes well to our country can object to the provisions to meet such cases as are referred to in this 5th clause ? Mr. LAWRY .- What about the "discreet woman"? Mr. HALL-JONES .- It is not a question of the "discreet woman." It is a question of pro- tecting young children ; and I hope my friend Mr. Lawry is at one with myself in wishing to see this done, and I look for his support in passing the Bili. Sir, the criticism of the Bill itself has been small. We have had the criticism of the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) as to some reflections which were said to have been made with regard to Welling- ton. I hope that all the member for Welling- ton City says is true ; I sincerely hope so. If it is true, what it means is this: the Bill will not be brought into operation in any county or any borough except by Order in Council. If Wel- lington is as it is represented to be - and I do not say it is not - then the Bill will not be brought into operation in Wellington, and the honourable gentleman may rest satisfied. Mr. FISHER .- My remarks did not apply only to Wellington. I said that New Zealand is the most moral of all civilised countries. Mr. HALL-JONES. - Even so; take it that New Zealand is the most moral of all civilised countries on the face of the earth, and you can- 