take steps to revise the lists, with the view of eliminating from it those persons who are in- capable of fulfilling the duties. Another matter in the same connection that might be borne in mind is this : I believe it is the custom of the Government to hold over all recom- mondations that may be made in the way of Commissions of the Peace until some time, per- haps after a general election, and then a num- ber of appointments are made : and this fact, coming after a general election, gives the ap- pearance of these appointments being political, whereas I am sure in a very great number of cases they are not political at all. I think that if honourable members, or those who are quali- fied to recommend for the Commission of the Peace, were notified a month or two before- hand that the Government were going to issue - a Commission, they could supply the Govern- ment with lists of names of people they con- sider desirable. Speaking for my own district, I think it is necessary for perhaps five or six Justices of the Peace to be appointed in various parts of the electorate -- in fact, the public necessities require that this should be done. I was not aware that the Goverment were going to issue a new Commission after the general election, and consequently I missed the opportunity of sending in names I wished put on the Commission of the Peace. The appoint- ments I desired made were absolutely necessary for the convenience of the public, and I propose at an early date to make certain suggestions of appointment to the Commission of the Peace. I think it is extremely undesirable that these appointments should be held over for two or three years before being completed. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- Sir, the Minister told us that this was a Bill intended to remedy defects, and if there is any doubt as to whether Justices of the Peace should be resworn upon the issue of a new Commission it is necessary that the matter should be put right by legis- lation in the way that it is proposed to do in this Bill. But I want to tell the Minister of the peculiar experience of a Justice of the Peace in my clectorate some few years ago. By a mis- take on the part of the Justice Department his name was struck off the roll. I believe it was owing to the fact that a man of a similar name had died in the same district. However, this gentleman was struck off the roll, and he, in ignorance of the fact, went on performing the duties of a Justice of the Peace, sitting on the bench, and so forth. After the lapse of some two or three years the Justice Department discovered that a mistake had been made, and replaced his name on the roll. I want there- fore to know from the Minister, when he is replying, whether it is necessary for that gentleman to be resworn-whether he should have been resworn when his name was placed on the roll the second time, and what is his position, and whether this Bill is intended to apply to such cases. I want to indorse what has been said by the member for Riccarton with regard to the difficulty of getting suitable persons appointed as Justices of the Peace. So present time there are several large and im- portant districts which are absolutely without Justices of the Peace residing therein, and the residents are in consequence put to in- convenience. I have made recommendations to the Minister, but without much effect. I have made a suggestion now across the floor of the House, and I hope the matter will be attended to at the earliest possible opportunity. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) .- I think this Bill is a necessary one, and I shall support it. I want, however, to say a word or two with re- gard to the delay that often arises in the ap- pointment of Justices of the Peace. Great in- convenience arises from this fact : In districts where perhaps only one Justice resides, and that man happens to die, the district is then left entirely without the services of a Justice of the Peace. Unfortunately, when an applica- tion is made for a fresh appointment a delay sometimes extending to six months occurs. Why should this be so? I am not complain- ing of my requests for appointments being re- fused, but of the delay in giving effect thereto. In past years I remember that one or two persons used to be gazetted at a time. Nowa- days you have to wait a considerable time until a new Commission is issued. Let me assure the Minister that this delay causes very great inconvenience indeed, and I hope he will take the matter into his consideration. There is no reason why a Justice of the Peace should not be gazetted at once, when such appoint- ment has been shown to be necessary. I am sure my experience is that of many other mem- bers of the House. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) .- I only wish to say, in regard to the case put by the honcurable member for Franklin, of a gentleman who some two or three years ago was struck off the list because he was supposed to be dead, and when it turned out afterwards that he was not dead he continued to act, if his name was struck off the list his decisions would be questioned, as he was not a Justice duly sworn. If he was reappointed, I imagine he ought to be resworn ; and this Bill would apply to every case of that kind. Then, the general question of the appointment of Justices of the Peace has been raised, and the honourable member for Wakatipu complained that after the death of a Justice of the Peace his suc- cessor was not appointed speedily enough. Now, I remember some years ago there was a good deal of comment in this House upon the Justices of the Peace throughout New Zealand. They were set upon not only by members of this House, but also by the Press of the colony. Sir, the Justices of the Peace are a body of men who do a great deal of useful and important public service, and very often get little thanks for it. It has always been my aim that only men well qualified for the position should be appointed, and I am not going to take the responsibility of appointing gentlemen to take the position of one who has died imme- diately on the death occurring. It is my duty to make some inquiries first, because it is 