tation which waited upon the Council; and some of the Councillors, influenced by these men, have changed, and are now supporting this spoliation of the Gardens. I could give the list of the names, and even the Mayor, one of the Bond Street merchants, who a month ago was as determined as any man in Dunedin against this iniquitous destruction, is now advocating the spoliation of these Gardens by the sending of a roaring, rushing, noisy, dusty tramway right through the very centre of the place, and, hel it not been for the strenuous efforts of Mr. Cohen, the editor of the Star, who night and day has not spared himself in any way, I hardly think they would have got the reseinding of the resolution to send the tramway through there ; and even now that may only be a temporary change: and, though in the meantime it has been carried, and the proposal to take the line through the Gardens has been rejected. I say we want to place the question beyond the possibility of doubt -beyond the power of the Corporation of the city to alter. I know that the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) labours for the people, and that he will do what is fair and just for them. The honour- able gentleman has been entrusted with the Bill, and is loyal to it, and is endeavouring to secure its second reading, and I also agree that there are good features in the Bill that we can approve of : but there are also others that we as strongly disapprove of, and, unless the pro- moters of the Bill agree to the insertion of a clause protecting for all time our Garden from destruction, we shall oppose this Bill at every stage, and effectually block it; and I believe that the people of the colony, and those of Dunedin, will declare, if appealed to, that these reserves shall not be alienated from them, or tampered with ; and not only from Dunedin, because these reserves are not alone the pro. purty of the people of Dunedin, but they are the property of the people of the colony. They are the property of the people of the suburbs. and it has been suggested to-night that in Dunedin the voice of the people should be taken upon this question. Now, I am quite content to have that done, because I believe the voice of the people would be in favour of preventing that tramway going through the Gardens. But I say this: that the present residents in the City of Dunedin are not the people who should have the power to decide for all time as to what should be done with these reserves. They are reserved for the people of the colony, for the future as well as the pre- sent. It is said, "Trust the Mayor and Cor- poration of the City of Dunedin." What has been the history of the Mayor and Corporation with regard to our endowments and reserves ? I remember the Town Belt and the Botanical Gardens of Dunedin when I was a bos four years of age. and have ever since been familiar with that beautiful place. It is bound to me by ties of interest and affection, and by many happy associations. In those early days it ! the place unfit for people to visit. I refer to the M. T. Mackenzie was then a picture of surpassing lovelies. The Water of Leith meandered through a stately forest - clothed with pines, festooned by clematis, and fringed with the rarest forns. And what has been wrought ? These stately pines were cut down by order of the Corpora- tion of the City of Dunedin. The whole of those magnificent pines, that the artistic people of Dunedin so greatly admired, and fought to save in order that they might be preserved, because they knew they would never have an opportunity of seeing such a magui !:- cent forest restored to them, were cut down for the wretched value of the timber that was in them, and were used for protective work. Should we, after that, trust the Corporation of the City of Dunedin ? What have they done with the beautiful Water of Leith stream ? They made it into a sewer, into which sewage of the most offensive character was thrown. and until the Minister for Railways during the plaque alarm took the matter up, at my insti- gation, it was the great public sewer of some residents at that end of the City of Dune din. And this under the enlightened administration of the city fathers of Dunedin. Then, we have the allusion made by the honourable member for Bruce regarding their attempts on the Belt itself. They did succeed in obtaining a large portion for a cemetery, though he and land other members fought inch by inch against a large portion of that belt being taken away for cemetery purposes. Then the football ground for the town of Opoho was to be taken away to make a gravevard : and what came of the money for the allotments? The Corporation charged as much as $20 per allotment. Thousands of pounds of money taken for the sale of the re- serves of the people were spent on the Town of Dunedin -- the streets of Dunedin -- and not one farthing was ever replaced of that money to beautify the forests of the Town Belt of Dun- edin. Then, there were endowments and re- serves within the city itself. There was that tive-acre block in Great King Street, Cumber- land Street, Hanover Street, and St. Andrew's Street, taken away for the purpose of a hospital site : and there has not been a piece of endow- ment set aside that has not been threatened by the Mayor and Councillors of the City of Dun- edin not one reserve. And what have they done with their drains ? Why, they have made their foreshore nothing but a cesspool. Dun- edin, from being one of the loveliest cities of the colony, has been, through neglect and want of courage on the part of the Mayor and Councillors, almost stripped of its beauty, and has became so offensive through the want. of drainage as almost to be in some parts not fit for occupation. They have not even the courage to face the necessary reforms that are required in that town. They have not yet pro- vided any system of drainage. What are iliv doing now with one of the finest places of resort Dunedin has ever had ? They are taking ali tin wretched offaland exeretia out there, and making 