that it is $590,000 ; the Premier told us that it is $560,000, and the other night he said there were 500,000 liquid pounds available for this Which is right, and which is department. wrong ? Who can tell ? Mr. SEDDON .- All right. Captain RUSSELL .- It may be all right, but certainly I am all wrong when I attempt to understand what it all means. Mr. SEDDON .- Different dates. Captain RUSSELL .- They are all supposed to be balances on the 31st March. That is what made me ask the right honourable gentle- man just now if there were any of these figures antecedent to the 31st March. He replied that they were all available on the Alst March. The Premier charged the honourable member for Patea with change of front on this Bill. do not think there was any occasion to accuse him of change of front. The honourable gentle- man may, in all probability, have said what the right honourable gentleman alleges he did say ; but, like all men when they hear the arguments, they learn what the state of the finance is ; and, having learned that there was a large amount available, and that the House was prepared to allow the Government to borrow a further half a million of money, they are led to suppose that it was all the money necessary to acquire for the whole remainder of the year. Then, I was astonished, too, when the Right Hon. the Premier told us that it was "' a nice cup of tea' for a lending depart- ment to have to depend upon repayments which came in under the Advances to Settlers Act," and that they varied, I think he said, from nothing up to £10,000 a month. Well, all I can say is this : that if the money is lent upon such precarious security that the department cannot make sure that they will get interest repayments at a definite time, the investments must be very bad indeed, which I am glad to say I do not think is the case. The papers in our possession show-I speak from memory that the year before last there was $104,473 ; in 1900, £136,533 ; and in 1901, £155,000, all paid in to the department. Surely that goes to prove that, if the ratio of repayments is to continue in proportion to the new loans, the amount of £175,000 per annum for the next two years is a very moderate computa- tion of the amount which will be repaid, and will be available during the year. 11.30. Whether it is paid in the month of January or February, or whether it even comes in so late as the 31st March, the money which has accrued during the previous year will, if we are to judge by experience, be paid within that year, and therefore that money will be available. Well, then, the reason which caused me to move that amendment was .my firm conviction that there was sufficient money without borrowing a large sum -that there is no necessity for borrowing one million-and that the sum of $500,000 is ample to meet all the demands that can possibly come upon the department during the course of the next year, and after that ; and I arrive at that con- by the Minister in charge of the department, but upon the returns and papers which are laid before Parliament. Here I would say that I was rather astonished to hear the Premier say that he, being Premier, knows the finances of the Advances to Settlers Bill better than his colleague who is in charge of the depart- ment. Mr. SEDDON .- This is a loan Bill, and as Colonial Treasurer I have to raise the money. Captain RUSSELL. - If the honourable gentleman who is in charge of the depart- ment does not understand the finances of the department. I would say that he has no right to hold the portfolio ; and if the department is to be successfully administered the honourable gentleman in charge of it must know the finances of it better than the Premier does now, or it I will inevitably come to grief. However, I take the parliamentary papers which are put into our hands : whether the figures are the same as those quoted by the Minister I do not know, and I do not care ; but it seems to me that any person who wishes to study the finance of the colony ought not to take the spoken words of any Minister, which can easily be wrong, but he ought to examine the authorised returns and tables sent out by the department, and they show that on the 31st March there was ±620,000 available. It is perfectly clear that, as far as we can read the returns, that was so. The re- pay ments for 1902 I estimate at £175,000; and, seeing the increase for previous years has been at that rate, upon the extra amount of money which has been advanced during the past year, and will be advanced during this coming year, it stands to reason that £175,000 is a very mode- rate computation. Then, again, following that up with a loan of £500,000, and a repayment of £175,000 on the following 31st March, 1903- - Mr. SEDDON. - Mr. McGowan says those figures are wrong. Captain RUSSELL. - I disagree with Mr. McGowan, and, as I tate my figures from the papers, I think Mr. McGowan is wrong. The figures he himself puts on the table I take to be his deliberately expressed opinion, and those figures show that there have been repayments from year to year in increasing ratio on the amount of the capital invested under this Act ; and therefore I have every reason to believe that that ratio will continue this year-always supposing, as I do suppose, that the invest- ments have been sound. These figures added together give £1,470,000 which would be avail- able up to the 31st March, 1903 ; and I main- tain that all the money which is likely to be lent during that period will not exceed £600,000 a year, and so will be sufficient until the 31st March, 1903, and leave at that date at least $200,000 in hand to carry on until Parliament meets. Under these circumstances I maintain that it is perfectly right that we should en- deavour to limit the amount. The Premier has tried to explain away the statement he made the other night, in what was unmis- takable language, that magnificent securities have been offered to the department which have 