tion, that probably the honourable member got his information from the man in the street, as to the Government having imported half a million of sleepers from outside the colony. Mr. GUINNESS asked how many had they imported ? Sir J. G. WARD would be very happy to give the information that had been asked for. The department had been importing sleepers from Australia for many years, as far back as 1880, and in some years over 20,000 had been used. Altogether, to the end of last financial year, they had used 172,664. Of late years the im- portations had increased, due to the necessity of providing a better class of sleeper than was obtainable in the colony, and to the fact that the sleeper supply in New Zealand was not equal to requirements. Notwithstanding the fact that the price paid for silver-pine sleepers had been gradually increased from 2s. 4d., the amount originally paid, up to 3s. 3d., the class of sleeper had deteriorated, and the number required had not been offered. As he had stated before in the House, and would repeat now, they required to go abroad for supplies of a certain class of hardwood sleepers that were necessary on the New Zea- land railways at particular portions where there were curves in the line, and, for this kind of work, excepting the best of the known woods in New Zealand, of which they unfortunately could not get sufficient, the woods of this colony were not considered to be perfectly safe. Those members who were anxious to make much of this matter had not the serious responsibility resting on their shoulders that the Minister for Railways had, and if he authorised the using of sleepers of unsuitable New Zealand woods for http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero carrying heavy trains containing human beings around the curves, and other portions of our lines which the responsible officers reported required timber of exceptional strength, he would be guilty of doing a very improper thing, and more especially when it was borne in mind that the General Manager and the Chief Engi- neer, and their other responsible officers whose advice had to guide them in these matters, had advised that it was not safe for the class of sleepers obtainable in this colony to be used in certain places. The responsibility rested on them to adopt every precaution to safeguard the lives of the hundreds of thousands of passen- gers who used our railways. That being so, it was clearly their bounden duty to do all in their power to insure the safety of the tracks, and he would be no party to sacrificing this for any senti- mental consideration, however great the pres- sure. At the same time, he wished to say that the Government gave preference to New Zea- land woods wherever it was possible to do it. They tried to get New Zealand sleepers all over the colony, and found they could not get as many as they wanted. Moreover, he might state that the price for silver-pine sleepers had risen gradually from 2s. 4d. to 3s. 3d. per sleeper, and puriri at 3s. Od. and 4s. 3d., and even at this enhanced price they were not able to get a sufficient quantity of New Zealand sleepers. Sir J. G. Ward large contractors had asked that the conditions should be abrogated altogether; and, whereas the Railway Department had to depend upon a certain number of sleepers being supplied every year, it was obvious that unless they could depend on a certain number of the sleepers coming in, they could not possibly carry out the railway requirements of the colony, and there would, if this matter was dealt with in a slipshod way, be a considerable risk of the traffic on their lines being dis- organized, or even in part stuck-up at various places. He might say that the department advised him as follows :- "Silver-pine and totara sleepers cannot be used exclusively owing to the fact that the class of engine now running on our lines (weighing upwards of 64 tons), and the increased speed of trains, necessitate the department using the strongest timber. Preference is, however, given to New Zealand timber whenever it is practi- cable to do so without affecting the stability of the road." He might tell the honourable member again, that while the Government were anxious to have, and were in fact, asking for supplies of New Zealand sleepers all over the colony, they had been under the greatest difficulty in getting the people of the colony to supply them with sufficient sleepers even at the price he had named-3s. 3d. for silver-pine and 3s. 9d. and 4s. 3d. for puriri. So he said again, and it was idle to disguise the fact, that we must have a cer- tain number of imported sleepers of the hardest quality it was possible to get for carrying heavy engines and trains with safety round railway curves. In different parts of the colony, many of these engines were 64 tons weight, and drew many carriages filled with human beings be- hind them ; and instead of honourable members trying to force the hands of the Government- by asking them to do away with using hard- wood sleepers, and by their advocacy trying to create the impression that in a particular district or districts the Government were not favouring the use of the local article, when as a matter of fact they were doing so in every instance where they could do so with safety-they should rather strive to assist the Government, and especially the Minister for Railways, in seeing that all the materials used on our railways was of the very best quality procurable, so as to render the risk of accidents to human beings as remote as possible in a colony such as this, where the railways were so freely used by our people. He was just as anxious as the honourable member who asked this question to have nothing but New Zealand woods if they could be used with safety ; but as Minister for Railways he had of necessity to give the utmost consideration to the advice of the responsible officers of the department, and where he was advised that for various railway curves a par- ticular class of wood-the hardest we could obtain-must for safety purposes be used, sooner than take the responsibility upon himself of ignoring that advice in a matter of such moment, and thereby imperiling the lives of railway 