people, and prevents them being taxed on or rined for every little improvement effected on their property. It is not a tax on labour or on the man who expends capital in erecting workshops, business premises, or other build- ings in any way whatever. It is not a tax on industry, but it is a tax on value that is brought into existence by the growth of popula- tion, by the expenditure of public money, and the general progress of the colony. As this increase in value is given by the community, it follows that the humblest child has as much right to the benefit of such increased value as the most influential man in the colony. The existing system of local rating offers a premium to the non-improvement of land, while under the one now proposed a man would have the satis- faction of knowing that if he improved his land he would not be taxed for so doing, and conse- quently encouragement would be given to the expenditure of money and the employment of labour in erection of buildings, which was of benefit to the community. Now, Sir, reference has been made to Invercargill by the honour- able member for Riccarton. All the arguments that that honourable gentleman used to-night were used lately in connection with the opposi- tion to the proposal to bring into operation in the Town of Invercargill the system of rating on unimproved value, and I am glad to say they had little weight with the citizens, inasmuch as the proposal was carried in that city by a large majority. I am pleased to say that, although we had a great struggle, we succeeded in carrying that desirable measure of reform in that progressive town. Now, Sir, some time ago, as honourable members will recollect, when this question was first brought before the House, Sir Robert Stout was a very strong opponent of the proposal, and to support his arguments quoted largely from a statement that was prepared by the then Town Clerk of Invercargill (Mr. W. B. Scandrett), with the view of showing that if rating on unim- proved values was carried in towns the new system of taxation would be found to bear very oppressively on the poorer classes. Now, in connection with the discussion on the question that took place recently in Invercargill, Mr. Scandrett again submitted statements almost to the same effect as the first one. It went in the direction of leading people to believe that the poorer classes in the town, or small householders, would have to pay extra taxation, and that many large and valuable buildings in the town would have their taxation greatly reduced. But, Sir, after the matter had been gone into fully it was shown conclusively that if the proposal was brought into operation it would have the oppo- site effect. One block of buildings, situate in the Crescent, was specially referred to by him. They were very valuable buildings, and were of the nature referred to by the honourable member for Riccarton-loan companies' offices, merchants' offices, and banks, all in one block. These, it was alleged, would have to bear less taxation under this system of rating on the unimproved value; but it was actually proved conclusively siderably more taxation. An Hon. MEMBER .- Buildings are all exempt. Mr. HANAN .- True; but if you take the unimproved value of the land in the Crescent on which such buildings are erected, and the proposed rate-44d. in the pound-you will find that, as a result of the proposed system, more taxation will have to be paid. Personally, I shall have to bear increased taxation, but be- lieving as I do that the new system of rating is sound, just, and progressive in principle, and will promote the general advancement of the town and the better interests of the people as a whole, I do not mind paying a little additional taxation under the circumstances. And what did I find on making inquiries on the subject from some members of this House who represent towns in other parts of the colony where rating on unimproved value had been adopted ? They informed me, in reply, that the experience of the working of the Act in their district was that the small householders and the poorer class benefited by its operation. Now, reference has been made by some speakers to-night to the question whether the owner of an empty unimproved section should pay the same taxation as the owner of a section that is improved. In considering that point the view I take is that as a man receives so should he pay. If he receives the same amount of municipal benefits as his neighbour, why should he not pay the same amount of taxation, rent, or interest, as the case may be, for the amount of money expended by the municipal body in improving his property ? What do you find in regard to the owner of an unimproved section ? You find that he has the same muni- cipal service and the same benefits in respect to his land as the man who owns the improved section. Associated with and in front of the unimproved section there is the same amount of gaspipe, the same amount of street, the same amount of waterpipe, the same amount of pave- ment, and the same amount of drainage- work ; in fact, you find all the municipal conveniences opposite this unimproved section as are asso- ciated with and in front of the improved section. Therefore, if, say, £100 of municipal loan-money has been expended in putting municipal services and public improvements in front of the unim- proved section, why should that individual not pay the same amount of taxation or interest into the fund of interest for loan-moneys as the person who has had the same amount-$100 -- of municipal loan - money expended, and conse- quently the same municipal services or public improvements, in connection with his section, which has been built on and otherwise im- proved ? I say, therefore, if a man receives the same municipal service-let his section be improved or not - he should pay the same amount of money by way of taxation or rent for the benefits and service so conferred. So I say, if we have regard to the question of equity and of equal benefits and equal services, the owner of an unimproved section should pay the same as the owner of a section that is im- proved. Moreover, by this system of taxation 