proceedings the restrictions should cease to have effect. The clause as passed by the Council read :- "If the Governor determines not to proceed with the purchase, he shall forthwith give notice thereof to the claimant, and thereupon the restriction on the disposition of the land under subsection one hereof shall cease to have effect." Finality was an essence of the contract. He hoped that the Council would not insist upon the amendment. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why not make it six months ? The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said he thought twelve months was a fair term. As for the other amendment, he hoped the Council would not insist upon that either. It was the addition to a subclause to clause 8, as follows : " (3.) An applicant may apply in respect of more than one group or subdivision." The Council would remember that the intention of its amend- ments to the Bill was to make the procedure simpler, and to make applicants more certain of getting sections. Their endeavour had been to eliminate the element of chance as much as possible from the machinery of the whole thing. The subclause was put in by accident. The object of the Land for Settlements Act was to get settlers on the land who were able to work the blocks in a proper way. It was no use putting men on the land, simply because their names came out of the ballot-boxes, if they were not able to work it. The Land Boards had the power to find out whether they had got enough https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1. 32106019788246 cash to start. It would be absurd to say that a man should, out of speculation, be allowed to put in for a group which he would be unable to work. Things should be kept equal, and the sections properly settled by the right class of men. In fact, he thought it was giving a better opportunity to the right class of persons. He moved that the Council do not insist on the amendments. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY said he thought they intended to improve the wording of the Bill, and to make clear the intention of the Act, and he therefore did not see any reason for insisting on the Council's amendments, which were ob- jected to by the House of Representatives. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN said he thought the amendments should be considered separately. He did not see much objection to the honour- able gentleman's proposal with regard to the last one ; but he would like to point out, with regard to the first amendment, that they might, he thought, get something between the subclause of the House and that of the Council suitable to both parties. He would ask, What object could the Government have in retaining for fourteen months-which was really the effect of the proposal - land which they never intended to take. The business should go through in two months ; and why should they give notice to take land if they did not mean to take it ? He would instance a case at Oamaru, in which the Government offered a certain price for land. Their price was refused, and the land was immediately put on the market and sold for Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker something like an average of £4 or £4 10s. an acre more than the Government offered. The whole estate was sold in farms before twelve months had elapsed. Could the Government have ever held an embargo like that proposed over the property for all that time, when the people wanted to sell it themselves in farms, and so save the Government the trouble ? Then, in the case of trustees, how would they administer an estate if this embargo was kept on it? Both Houses wanted to get at the same thing, and he thought the best way to do was to disagree with the first and agree with the second. and then the Bill could be amended. It was only a matter of the mode of doing it. They did not want to stop close settlement, but to get hold of the land as speedily as possible. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND quite agreed with the Minister that it was more advantageous to the owner of the land to have the amendment. than to have the clause as it was originally, and that fixity of terms was necessary. He thought the Hon. Mr. McLean must agree to that. It did seem unreasonable, however, that this should be held over for twelve months. He thought it might be altered to six months. That would be a reasonable compromise in the matter. What they should do was to disagree with the amendments and have a Conference. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON said they should insist on the first amendment and agree with the second. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER asked if there was any amendment before the Council. The Hon. the SPEAKER said that none had been handed up to him. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said he did not think there need be any trouble on this occasion. After all, what did this proposal of a twelve months embargo mean, in clause 6 ? It was only preventing persons making a disposi- tion of their property among their family. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN said there was another clause altogether. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said he thought he was quite right. If honourable members would look at clause 6 they would see that it was as follows :- "In order to prevent any evasion or avoid- ance of the provisions of the principal Act as to the right of the owner to select and retain any limited part of any estate intended to be ac- quired under that Act, it is hereby declared that the area of the whole estate shall be computed as at the commencement of the negotiations for the purchase under the said Act, and no sub- sequent disposition of the estate, or any part thereof, shall operate to defeat the power of the Governor to acquire the land under that Act." They all knew that in certain cases individuals had avoided, or were supposed to have avoided. the intentions of the principal Act by sut- dividing or disposing of their property in such a way as to prevent the operation of the Act. The only question, then, was as to the length cf time which the property to be acquired was to 1 be under a condition of embargo. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN said it had got nothing to do with that. 