I wish to run over the total to show how borrowing has been growing on us, and how borrowing departments have been increasing like a disease that we never seem to get rid of. In 1891 the actual borrowing for the year, in- cluding the debentures for sinking funds, was only $363,000, and this sum has gone on increas- ing, as shown in the table, till last year it amounted to a million and three-quarters, and a total in the eleven years of $12,649,233, or, for the ten years since Sir Harry Atkinson went out of office, $12,286,233. Mr. SEDDON .- What was the amount for the ten years before that ? Mr. J. ALLEN .- I am not going to bother with that now, but it was nothing like that. $12,286,233 has actually been paid into the coffers of the various departments during the last ten years, and the Premier knows it is time for him to consider whether the policy of heavy borrowing is to continue. It may be right when the markets are good, but when the money-markets fall our whole scheme of finance comes down like a broken reed. Now I come to what, to my mind, is the most serious thing in the whole Budget. The Premier has said, and everybody will agree with him, that the colony should keep the public works expendi- ture within ways and means. Mr. SEDDON .- Hear, hear. Mr. J. ALLEN .- The Premier says "Hear, hear." The total ways and means he had for 1900-1901 were, as recorded on page viii. of the Financial Statenent of 1900 :- £ Cash in hand 139,749 .. Available out of loan 700,000 .. From Consolidated Fund .. 500,000 .. 1,339,749 In addition, the loan granted last 1,000,000 year . . .. Total available ways and means up to 31st March, 1901 2,339,749 And the appropriations from 1900-1 2,196,365 were . . Leaving available ways and means on the 31st March, 1901 £143,384 That available balance we did not have, and I do not know if in the history of the colony it has before occurred that at the end of the financial year the colony had no ways and means to meet its responsibilities. The ex- penditure during the year was $1,307,511, and the liabilities at the end of the year were $1,292,096. The total expenditure and liabili- ties come to £2,599,607, and, as I said just now, the total ways and means available was only €2,339,749, leaving a deficiency at the 31st March last of close on £260,000. Mr. SEDDON .- Why do you not say that is Public Works Fund ? Mr. J. ALLEN .- It is Public Works Fund. There was no money provided in ways and means on the 31st March last to meet our liabilities. We were short of ways and means Mr. J. Allen by £260,000. Now, I ask the Premier, and I ask the colony Mr. SEDDON .- I had a $500,000 surplus. Mr. J. ALLEN .- " $500,000 surplus ! " Yes; the honourable gentleman had transferred $500,000 from the Consolidated Fund to the Public Works Fund during the year 1930-01, and I have given him credit for that. He said he had $500,000 of surplus at the 31st March, 1001, and I know he had. He had no authority to transfer this surplus to Public Works Fund, and it did not on the 31st March last form part of the ways and means of the Public Works Fund. The point is this : that he incurred liabilities without having the money to meet them. It is not honest to do it, and it has been done this year for the first time, so far as I know, in the history of the colony. I regret that it should be so, and I am quite certain it will not add to the facilities we require for borrowing money in London or elsewhere. In other words, I may place the matter in this way: Our liabilities on the 31st March were £1,292,096, and to meet these liabilities we had only available the balance in the Public Works Fund of £232,515 and an unraised loan of £800.000, making together $1,032,515, leaving, altogether, a deficiency of close on €260,000. We have entered into liabilities that the honourable gentleman had no right to incur, and no money to meet. Would any tradesman do that sort of thing without know- ing where the money was to come from to pay for liabilities he was incurring? I come now to page xxiii. of the Statement, in which the Premier says, " In endeavouring to bring our borrowing within reasonable limits, consider- able difficulty has been encountered, owing to the heavy expenditure and liabilities which have been incurred during the last four months "-that is to say, since the 31st Sir, as I say, there was £1.292.006 March. of liabilities, and there was a shortage of i £260,000 of ways and means to meet these liabilities on the 31st March: and the Premier in his Statement says the position is worse still four months later. I should like to see the accounts for the four months, and see what the expenditure and liabilities were, and what were the ways and means. I accuse the Premier of leading the colony into debt without having provided the money to pay those debts. Then I come to the question of loan-money required during the current year. The Premier says in his Statement, "I have some misgiving as to the amount to be asked for which will be suffi- cient to carry us on until next session." And well he may have doubts, as to how much to ask for to carry on till next session, as I nud his balance of Public Works Fund on the 31st March, 1901, was only $232,515, and there is the unraised balance of loan of $800.000, and the $500,000 in the Consolidated Fund, which he will transfer, and he proposes a new loan of one million, making a total ways and means of $2,532,515, and he estimates public works expenditure at $1,950,000, leaving a balance of ways and means on the 31st March, 1902, of £582,515 to meet all liabilities. 1 ask honour- 