Mr. STEVENS (Manawatu) .- I wish to ex- plain that Mr. Carncross and myself called for a division for the purpose of testing the feeling of the House on this subject and not for the purpose of voting with the " Noes." Bill read a third time. The House adjourned at ten minutes past two o'clock a.m. # LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Friday, 23rd August, 1901. First Readings-Second Readings-Third Readings- Disorder in Committee-Victoria College -Shops and Offices Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. # FIRST READINGS. Imprest Supply Bill (No. 3), Rotorua Town Council Validation and Extension Bill, Go- vernment Advances to Settlers Extension Bill. SECOND READINGS. Imprest Supply Bill (No. 3), Rotorua Town Council Validation and Extension Bill, Govern- ment Advances to Settlers Extension Bill. THIRD READINGS. Imprest Supply Bill (No. 3), Rotorua Town Council Validation and Extension Bill, Govern- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 ment Advances to Settlers Extension Bill. DISORDER IN COMMITTEE. The Hon. Colonel BAILLIE .- Sir, I rise to a point of order. An occurrence took place last night in Committee, and I wish to bring up a report on the subject, as follows :- "While the Council was in Committee of the Whole on the Shops and Offices Bill, on Thursday, the Hon. Mr. Jones used language to which an honourable gentleman took objec- tion, and I thought fit to request that the remark should be withdrawn. The Hon. Mr. Jones claimed the right to use the language objected to, and declined to withdraw it. A motion was therefore carried that I should report to the Council the refusal of the Hon. Mr. Jones to obey the Chair." I think that is about what took place, as well as I can put it on paper. I asked the Hon. Mr. Jones to withdraw the remarks which he had made, and he declined to do so, and the Committee then passed a resolution that I should bring it up under the notice of the Council and of yourself. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND .- Sir, ought not the Council to know what was the offence com- mitted before we deal with the matter ? What were the terms complained of for which that honourable gentleman was called to account ? The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I think the question simply was this : that last night the Hon. Mr. Jones, unfortunately, to my mind, did not see fit to obey the ruling of the Chair. I have always been bound to believe that dis- cussions in a Chamber of this kind are only possible when the Chair is obeyed in matters of order. The Chair may be right, the Chair may be wrong ; but, still, if the Chair rules that a certain course should be followed, I think it is the duty of everybody in a Chamber like this to obey the ruling of the Chair. I do not give any expression of opinion as to the language used ; I do not think that enters into the question at all ; but, if the Chair rules a certain matter to be out of order, I think every one of us ought to be able to see his way to obey the ruling, quite apart from the merits of the language used. I trust, therefore, that the honourable gentleman who unfortunately came into con- flict with the Chair in Committee last night will see his way to withdraw from the position he took up. I am not expressing any opinion as to the language used ; but, still, I take it that one of the first rules we have got for the conduct of our business is that in this matter the direction of the Chair should be followed. The Hon. the SPEAKER .- The only point I have to consider is the refusal of the honour- able gentleman to obey the Chair. It is no part of my duty, nor have I anything to do with the decision as to whether the words used were parliamentary or not. There can be no possible doubt that it is my duty to support the Chair- man of the Committee, and I therefore call upon the honourable gentleman who used the words -that I understand were offensive to another honourable member-to withdraw those words : and I am quite sure that he will see that by so doing he will best consult not only his own dignity, but the dignity of the Council. The Hon. Mr. JONES. - Sir, I am willing to accept the position. I am, of course, conscious that, whatever may be the ruling of the Chair in this Council, it is the duty of every honourable member to obey that ruling, for the sake of his own dignity and self-respect and in order to facilitate the proper conduct of the public busi- ness of this Chamber. I therefore submit to the ruling of the Chairman in regard to my conduct last night. But, while I cannot but express regret at the occurrence, I feel it is due to myself to explain that my refusal last night to submit was consequent upon my impression at the outset that the Chairman did not definitely decree that I had committed a breach of the rules which are designed to guide this Council in the conduct of its business ; and also to my conviction that such a decision could not possibly have been intended by the Chair. I was justified in taking this view by the doubts repeatedly expressed and the questions persistently put to the Chair by other When I realised the honourable gentlemen. truth, I had committed myself to a certain line of conduct from which I naturally enough was reluctant to retire. I understand that this explanation and submission to the ruling of the Chair do not necessarily imply any acknow- ledgment on my part that the language I used on the occasion was unparliamentary, and such as I had no right to use in this Council. At the same time I wish to add that I had no in- 