from their different points of view, an oppor- tunity of judging of the merits or demerits of the amendment before them. He spoke as the representative of a very sparsely populated district, and he knew this would inflict hard- ships on many if they were compelled to go before a Magistrate ; they would have far enough to go to reach a Registrar or Justice of the Peace. He did not think, however, that honourable members need be under any very great apprehension as to the large amount of work there would be imposed on country Regis- trars. Babies did not come in a deluge, but were nicely distributed over the roll of time. He did not think, speaking from his know- ledge of his own district, any officials were so hardly worked as the Stipendiary Magis- trates in this colony, looking at the distances they had to travel, and the many places at which they had to sit. Summing up his per- sonal opinion on the matter, it was that the Government should make it penal for any child to be vaccinated from a human subject or arm-to-arm ; and, further, that in the interests of good health they should make it a special duty to see that lym ph fromthe cow be pro- vided, and none other. He did not think the proposed amendment was at all necessary, and he felt it his duty to vote against it. Mr. HOUSTON (Bay of Islands) said the difficulty in this matter arose altogether from the clause in the Act of 1900. He contended that vaccination should be made compulsory on one condition - that the Government should supply pure lymph imported from Germany. He had conscientious objections to arm-to-arm Vaccination as performed by medical men. He had vaccinated all his own children, to the number of ten, and he got his lymph direct from Germany, and be considered the Govern- ment would be wanting in their duty in not providing pure lymph and making vaccination compulsory. All this difficulty about lymph would have been avoided if that had been done instead of inserting the clause in the Act of 1900. In regard to the clause under considera- tion, he thought it would be imposing too much And in his on the Stipendiary Magistrates. district there were cases in which a parent would have to travel ninety or a hundred miles to reach one, and this was an unfair penalty to impose on any parent. Even in the case of Registrars they would have to travel forty or fifty miles. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) said there were two sets of facts to be taken into consideration in connection with this question : one of these proved that vaccination administered carefully under proper conditions resulted in a large im- munity from small-pox, and even in the case of persons being attacked it reduced the death- rate very much indeed. This fact was not to be disputed. But there was also 3.30. another set of facts which caused an agitation against vaccination, and which showed that in consequence of arm-to-arm vaccination there had been transmitted to numbers of indi- viduals diseases not of the nature of small-pox, against which vaccination was used as a pre- ventive, but diseases of an almost equally deadly nature. It was therefore not sur- prising that there should have been an agi- tation against the arm-to-arm transference. The honourable member for Waitemata and the honourable member for the Bay of Islands had hit the mark. If our legislation made it penal for any operator to vaccinate by trans- ference from arm to arm, and then provided that every person should have his children vaccinated by pure calf-lymph, he did not think there would be any further conscien- tious objection taken, and we should have our population almost immune from small-pox. He was old enough to remember that, say, some forty and odd years ago, in England it was the most natural thing in the world to notice the scars of small-pox in the faces of persons whom one met. It was scarcely possible to get a do- mestic servant in the country who was not more or less pitted. Then, there were dreadful cases of blindness caused by this disease, and a large number of deaths, besides various other bodily ailments which small-pox frequently left behind it. Any person who travelled through the same districts in England now would scarcely meet with a single individual who was pitted with small-pox. Now, that change had been brought about by the adoption of the system of vaccina- tion. Only a few years ago, in the Cityof Glasgow, where the practice of vaccination had fallen into desuetude, they were confronted with an outbreak of small-pox which came from outside the city. Attacking only a few cases at first, it spread with almost inconceivable rapidity over a population which had not secured immunity by vaccination. The result was, there was an enormous death-rate, which ran into a per- centage of, he thought, something like 80 among those attacked. Efforts were then made to vaccinate the population. Thousands and thousands of people were vaccinated, and even- tually the disease was stamped out. The ex- perience gained on that occasion plainly showed the benefits of vaccination. It was shown that vaccinated persons were comparatively immune from attacks of small-pox, and that the most recently vaccinated persons were the most im. mune. Therefore the case for vaccination was absolutely complete. He was strongly in favour of vaccination, but he would not have it com- pulsory, unless only pure calf-lymph was used. Amendment agreed to, and motion as amended agreed to. Sir J. G. WARD moved, That Mr. Buddo, Mr. A. L. D. Fraser, and the mover be ap- pointed a Committee to draw up reasons for disagreeing to new clause 2A. Motion agreed to. MORTGAGES OF LAND BILL. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) .- Sir, this Bill has been introduced by the honourable member for Waitaki, and passed through the House upon two or three former occasions. It has also been before the Statutes Revision Com- mittee, and in that respect the necessary con- ditions have been met. I think it will be agreed on all sides that if anything can be done to 