not do what was unjust to any section of the community. Mr. FLATMAN would like the Premier to assure the House that he would endeavour to make it clear before the end of the session, so that there need be no further anxiety regard- ing it. Mr. SEDDON said he had already obtained advice upon the question, and he would take further advice respecting it, and his future action would depend upon that advice. If it was the case that a scare had been created by self-seeking and interested persons, for the purpose of getting business, what he wanted to do was to get hold of those men, because they were really getting money by means of false pretences - by frightening farmers into insur- ance by saying that the law was so-and-so, was, he thought, getting money under false pre- tences. There was a good deal of that going on ; and it was impossible, under the existing law, for what they said to occur. Mr. MASSEY said the farmers were afraid to employ outside labour in case of accidents happening for which they would be held re- sponsible. # CONCILIATION BOARDS. Mr. COLLINS ( Christchurch City) asked the Minister of Labour, If in his remarks " that Conciliation Boards sat too much, and were doing the thing to death," he included the Canterbury Board in such remarks? His object was not to question the justice of the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 honourable gentleman's remarks, but to narrow their application Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he had said what he had with a due sense of responsibility, and with a desire to check what appeared to him to be an unsatisfactory condition of things. He had said the other day it was not so much the Conciliation Boards which were at fault as the law we had given them to work. WINTER RAILWAY-EXCURSION FARES. Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether he will issue cheap ex- cursion tickets in the winter months, to extend over three months, thus allowing the farming community an opportunity of travelling at ex- cursion fares, as under existing conditions they are debarred from taking advantage of those in operation ? He was satisfied it was the desire of the Minister to do even justice to all sec- tions of the community. Farmers and agricul- tural labourers had no opportunity of taking advantage of the summer excursions, and he thought the Minister would be acting in the true interests of the community if he insti- tuted excursions during the winter- time for the farmers and their employés, as " All work and no play made Jack a dull boy." He hoped to receive a favourable answer. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said no class was more deserving of consideration than the farming class ; but very heavy con- cessions had been already made in passenger fares during the last twelve months or so, and the excursion fares were now among the cheapest Nr. Seddon in the world. If anything could be done in the future in this direction he would be prepared to consider it, but nothing immediate could be done in view of the magnitude of recent con- cessions. FREIGHT ON COCOANUT OIL-CAKE. Mr. CARNCROSS (Taieri) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will so amend the railway charges as to permit of cocoanut oil-cake, used for feeding dairy cattle, being carried at the same rates as are charged for linseed oil-cake ? This was a question of some importance to agriculture. At present linseed oil-cake, used for feeding dairy cattle, was carried over the railways at a reason- able rate, whereas cocoanut oil-cake, imported from New South Wales, which was used for the same purpose, was charged 100 per cent. more. He understood it was the policy of the railways to encourage locally-made articles by cheapening the freight thereon, but he would point out that the locally-made article was already highly pro- tected through the Customs. At any rate, they should do all they could to assist the dairy in- dustry, which was acknowledged to be of such vast importance to this country; and this con- cession would only mean a small sum to the department, while it meant something con siderable to the farmer. He hoped the Minister at the head of the Railway Department would give this subject his favourable consideration. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the department did not differentiate be- tween cocoanut oil-cake and linseed oil-cake. Oil-cake, not otherwise specified - that was. imported oil-cake of any kind-was charged at Class D, the lowest merchandise rate in the tariff. New-Zealand-made oil-cake was charged Class E. That was in accordance with the general practice of the department to make concessions in favour of local industries. The same arrangement applied to native coal, which was charged at a less rate than the imported coal. He would, however, be glad to look into the matter and confer with the honourable gentleman. ACCOMMODATION FOR PASSENGERS ON SOUTHERN TRAINS. Mr. ARNOLD (Dunedin City) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will,-(1) Haston on the work of upholstering the seats in all second-class carriages running to and from Dunedin ; (2) have lavatories fitted to all first- and second-class carriages on the said lines : and (3) place a dining-car on the Dunedin- Invercargill express? The Minister deserved every credit for the improvements he had made on the railways during the last two or three years. In regard to the first part of the question, there were already a large number of carriages htted up, and these were very much appreciated ; and he thought the department should issue 'instructions to have the whole of the second-class carriages fitted up in the same way. In connection with the second part of the question, there was considerable incon- venience felt by second-class passengers, esper cially on long journeys, as from Christchurch 