1893 TO 1900 INCLUSIVE. 33.186 1857 . . . . . . .. 1800 99,592 . . . . . 115,254 194 .. .. 108,792 1-95 . . . . 113,784 1596 . . . . .. 113,707 1-97 . . .. 100,383 1848 103,208 1809 . . 83,927 They are the figures I quoted, and the honour- able member has surely made a terrible mistake in saving that I was incorrect- An Hon. MEMBER .- They are the figures I quoted. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Then, if they are the figures you quoted, why do you say that I am wrong ? Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- Before the mover replies, I would like to say a few words. It seems to me that there is a misunderstanding, which was probably started by the Premier, with regard to plans. Whether the Premier was correct or not. others have been confused by him, and this is generally the case after the Premier speaks. The House is probably aware that there are two plans which are necessary, and the plans which have been referred to are not the plans which are supposed to be produced before the Local Bills Committee, but the plans which are required by the Marine Department to show whether the works which are proposed to be constructed in the Bill are works that the colony can approve of, or whether they are works which might be detrimental to the general interests of the colony. Why, I believe that one reason why these plans have not been deposited three months before was because the Works proposed may not be new works, but / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero the extension of old works. It is said by the Chairman of the Local Bills Committee that there was no necessity to deposit them. Well. Sir, his argument is that this Bill which is now before us is not a Bill giving them authority to construct new works. Well, I am not sure of that, and I should like to hear what the Minister for Public Works has to say upon that matter. It is true that in this Bill there is not direct authority given for any fresh works, but under the Bill of which this is practically an amendment there is an authority to construct works. I refer to the Act of 1883. Under that Act, if they get the money they pro- pose under this Bill, I take it they can go on completing works which they have already partially constructed. No doubt the honour- able member in his reply will state whether the works proposed are works in continuation of those works started under the Act of 1883, or whether they are entirely new works. therefore requiring the deposit of plans with the Marine Department, or Order in Council. If these are in continuation of works begun under the Act of 1883, then I should like to ask the Chairman of the Local Bills Committee whether the : not, and it is a little difficult to understand Standing Orders have been complied with, be- ! whether they are going backwards or forwards. VOL. CXVII .- 5. to have been deposited in the Stipendiary Magistrate's Court three weeks before the Bill came before the Local Bills Committee. How- ever, that is a point which the honourable member in charge of the Bill can make clear when he replies. Then, with regard to the Bill itself. I have looked over the Harbour Board accounts, and I find they have, according to the secretary or treasurer's report, from $800 to €900 of surplus revenue. They make the claim, no doubt quite correctly, that they are able to pay interest upon their loan ; but the point is this: that the loan proposed to be raised under this Bill is a loan of $10,000. They have $800 or €900 of surplus revenue --- not €1,000, as the honourable member for Franklin says-and they can pay 8 per cent. upon this $10,000. I should like the honourable member to make clear in his reply why they have asked for $10,000 only. In the report of the Harbour Board Mr. McKenna suggests a loan of $18,000 to $20,000. It will be found in the report of the Patea Harbour Board, laid on the table this session. Under the heading of "Loans," he says,- "This brings me to the question of the re- -newal of the loan of €13,000, falling due in August, 1902, and the obtaining of further money for Heads improvements. It seems to me that the surplus ordinary revenue is sufficient to provide some $800 or $900 per annum for further borrowing, and if we can arrange for a long term of $18,000 to $20,000 we shall be within our means if we can obtain the money (including sinking fund) at 54 per cent." Then he goes on to show the importance of the harbour, and the increase of revenue that will ensue, which very likely is true. But what I want the honourable gentleman in charge of the Bill to state to the House, is whether the plans of which he spoke some time ago, and which ought to have been deposited in the Marine Department three months before new works are started -- whether those plans have been gone into. Has Mr. Leslie Reynolds, the engineer, been at Patea ; has he surveyed the harbour, has he laid out the plans, and has he estimated the value of work it is proposed to do? If so, is his estimate €10,000, or under that, or is it $18,000 or $20,000, as the secre- tary of the Harbour Board says? Well, if the secretary of the Harbour Board is right, then the Bill does not provide sufficient funds for the carrying-out of this work, as evidently it is intended to do. If that is the case, I think the honourable member will have to seek the advice of those for whom he is acting, and to assure the House that if a further sum is required he will put that sum into the Bill at a later stage. With regard to the question raised by the honourable member for Waihemo, and the honourable member for Franklin, I have looked through the accounts of the Patea Harbour Board to see whether they are making progress or whether they are 