member who is here to-day. I am told at every election that I will not be elected, that I have no chance. The tale is somewhat musty. Always wait till the numbers go up, then there is consternation and grief among all my op- ponents. They are a sorrowing band, who would gladly like to see me rejected. But, Sir, I am of the people ; I have lived here for thirty-two years, and have spent all I have earned amongst them ; I am one of them, and they know it. And so I conclude my speech by saying, as I said in this House last session, that as long as Cieorge Fisher has two legs to walk upon there is a seat for him in this Parliament. Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui) .- I think, Sir, it is necessary that a few words should be said re- garding this Bill. I am one of those who de- cidedly dissent from newspapers being allowed in any possible way to use language against in- dividuals which they are not justified in using. But, Sir, I do not consider that by passing this Bill is the way in which we are to overcome those difficulties. I will take, first, clause 3 of the Bill. It says,- " Wherever there is published in any news- paper any statement which injuriously affects the character, reputation, or commercial in- terests of any person." Et cetera. Now, in the first place, who is to be the judge of this? There is no mention in the Bill of who is to say whether the statement has injuriously affected the character or reputa- tion of the person attacked, and I should say, myself, that that would be one of the most important points in the Bill. If the newspaper has made a statement there must be some means surely by which it can be decided whether http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero that does injuriously affect the character of any person. Is it to be left to any individual who fancies he has been attacked? Is he to go to the newspaper and demand that immediately his reply shall be inserted, no matter what the reply may be, and the newspaper has got to insert it under a penalty of a sum not exceed- ing €50? Such a clause as this is simply absurd. The only thing that astonishes me is that the honourable member for Wellington City, with his experience. should ever have put such a clause in a Bill of this kind. Then, it says further on, in clause 3, "If the proprietor of such newspaper refuses or neglects to publish any such answer, denial, or explanation " he shall be liable to a penalty up to $50. Well, the inference is that any answer can be de- manded to be put in that the person who imagines himself aggrieved chooses. It is left to the person who imagines that he is attacked to say whether it affects his charac- ter, his reputation, or his commercial interest. Then, there are those words " commercial interests." We shall find articles in papers that may in a variety of ways affect the commercial interests of people, and yet they are not libellous. Any one who is acquainted with the newspapers at all knows that no matter what trivial statements may be put in people will from time to time fancy they have a griev- ance. No matter how true or how justitied the newspapers may have been in inserting those Mr Fisher statements, you will always find people who think they have good grounds for an action for libel against the proprietor ; and I know in many cases the people attacked have richly deserved what they got. Sir, this Bill actually provides that the person supposed to have been attacked has the right to say, " I have been at- tacked, and you must insert my answer in the same type as you have used in printing your leading article, otherwise you are liable to a penalty of £50." That is a bright specimen of legislation for this House to pass. Then, I will go a little further, and I say clause 5 is equally as bad as the other one. Clause 5 says,- "In any action against the proprietor of a newspaper in respect of the publication of a libel contained in or purporting to be contained in a letter from a correspondent to such news- paper, the defendant, or each of the defendants if there be more than one, shall, on application to the Court in that behalf, disclose on affidavit the true name and address of such correspondent, whereupon such defendant shall be freed from all liability in respect of such libel other than the liability to pay such costs of action as may be awarded against him by the Court." What does this mean ? Suppose some un- scrupulous newspaper-I do not say that un- scrupulous newspapers in this country are common, because, as a rule, I believe most of the newspapers are well regulated-but suppose there was such a case, where a news- paper published a scandalous attack upon some particular individual, and suppose the person who inserts the correspondence is worth no- thing, all he has got to do is, by arrangement with the newspaper proprietor, to have a libel- lous letter inserted reflecting against some par- ticular person or company, and when afterwards the aggrieved persons take action the newspaper proprietor coolly turns round and says, " You shall have the name of the writer," and then all he can be compelled to do is to be made liable for the costs of the Court, and the man who has been libelled comes back on the man who has supplied the libel, only to find that he is a man of straw. He therefore gets nothing. That will be the effect of clause 5. It is only right that there should be some debate on this Bill, because I am quite satis- fied it should not be allowed to pass. I cannot imagine for a moment the members of the House allowing a Bill of this kind to get on to the statute-book : The Bill wants altering. "lock, stock, and barrel." In fact, to be effective, a new measure is wanted of an entirely different character. All the clauses should be knocked out, and then the honour- able member who introduced the Bill is wel- come to what remains. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- There is no doubt that from time to time political men get hauled over the coals by the Press, and in the majority of instances they, in my opinion, deserve the severe treatment they receive, but not perhaps to the extent referred to by the honourable gentleman in his introductory re- marks. On the whole, I consider that the Press of this colony are well conducted, but occasion- 