They have got more power in that direction than any other Upper House in the world. They have got every privilege that an Upper House is possessed of. They have got the big task of protecting the integrity of the privileges of each State on the basis of equal representa- tion. And certainly the last intention of the Commonwealth Act would be to endeavour, by a sidewind, to make it possible to belittle or destroy the Senate. And yet that Common- wealth Act has got provisions in it that are almost identical with the provisions of this Bill, which we have been told right and left in this Chamber are nothing more or less than an attack on the Council, and an attempt to make it possible to destroy it within a few years. The charge is so preposterous, Sir, that I hardly know how to meet it. Certainly I can sas this : that very few mem- bers of this Council have taken the trouble of reading the Commonwealth Act. And I should hope that they would have done it, because it ap- plies so pertinently to the present occasion. I hope the Council will excuse me if I quote just one or two points from the Commonwealth Act. because it is instructive to find how very similar the provisions of that Act are to the provisions of our Referendum Bill. I think I cannot em- phasize too much the point that this Common- wealth Act should be taken with the greatest amount of consideration : that it is the latest exponent of modern legislative machinery ; and that no one can accuse that Constitution of doing anything else except to erect two strong https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 Houses : and if any fault can be found with the machinery, I think it has, if pos- sible, made the Senate a little too strong for the Lower House. But there it is with this strong Upper House. Still, there is here in its provisions a great deal that is very much the same in our Bill. The Constitution specifies two methods by which a proposed alteration may be allowed. In the first place, "it may be formulated, and passed on to the electors, by absolute majorities in both Houses of the Federal Parliament." Well, that is exactly one of our proposals in this Bill. When this Constitution was going through the Conventions and parlia- mentary discussions, when it was passed by the Parliaments of the different colomes, there was no one said then it was degrading to either Chamber that matters of this sort should be remitted to the electors. It was looked upon as a perfectly natural and logical way of getting the views of the electors on certain questions which were outside of ordinary politics -- questions that might be social, that might be more or less political in a certain sense, or, it might be, questions on which it was desirable to get a direct vote of the people as to what they wished and what was their will. And here we see that the Constitution Act of the Common- wealth of Australia begins by establishing that both Houses by resolution may remit certain questions to a vote of the people. In the second place,- Hon. Lr. W. C. Walker posed alteration, with or without any amend- ments agreed to by both Houses, may be sub- mitted to the electors." And this must be dono after an interval of three months. And that is a very different thing. "An interval of three months." I ought to emphasize that, because under this Bill, according to our usual eastem and accord- ing to our Standing Orders, we cannot bring up the same question twice in any one session after it has once been decided. In the Com- monwealth Act, on the other hand, it says after an interval of three months the matter can be again proposed, which means, of course, in the same session, because the sessions there last a very much longer time than our sessions do here. Therefore it is quite possible for a question to be brought up at the beginning of a session, carried, rejected by the other House, and after three months again proposed in the House which rejected it, and sont again to the other House for reconsideration : and that is very much stronger than anything proposed in this Bill introduced by the Go- vernment, which, of course, provides that the proposal must be made in the following session. Then, No. 4 is : "The Governor-General may submit the proposed amendment to the electors in cach State," showing that the procedure under the Commonwealth is very similar to what is proposed in this Bill, and is absolutely the result of the labour of the most mature minds in Australie in regard to its machinery. And, more than that, this Act has been subject to the criticism of all the great minds of the day. It has been subject to Press commentary. Every legal mind which has been dealing with the framing of constitutional laws in all the different law-schools of the Anglo-Saxon world has had this question under consideration, has commented upon it, and has noted where it differs from other Constitutions. All those authorities have expressed themselves strongly in approval of the new lines which have been herein laid down. Sir, I think I have said quite enough on this subject to show that the Australian Commonwealth Act has contained in it powers and opportunities for taking a popular vote of the electors in a broader sense, and at shorter intervals, than we are proposing in this Bill ; and yet I have been told in this Council that this is not only a Bill that is not required, but that it is a Bill which could only be intended as a constructive attack upon the privileges of this Chamber, and even upon its existence. Well, I think, Sir, I have demolished pretty well all those arguments. If this Bill is an attack upon the privileges of this Council, then, I say, the Australian Commonwealth Act contains within itself the seeds of early dissolution, as that Constitution would not hold very long if the two Houses got into antagonism one with another. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND .- Wait and see how it works. <!-- PageNumber="İ" --> 