mation that had been asked for by the Federal Government had been obtained. As honourable members were aware, we must take joint action in the matter, and, as far as New Zealand was concerned, that joint action would be taken to make the necessary representations to the Im- perial Government. Mr. NAPIER understood the Premier to say, "On the basis of the present contribution " the Imperial Government were going to be asked to strengthen the Australasian squadron. Now, he believed there was a unanimous feeling through- out the country that our contribution should be increased, if a demand was made for the increase of the squadron. Mr. SEDDON said it followed as a natural sequence that if we got more ships we would have more to pay. # IMPERIAL OR COLONIAL NAVAL RESERVE. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) asked the Minister of Defence, If he has communicated with the Imperial Government and the Com- monwealth of Australia with regard to the formation of an Imperial or Colonial Naval Reserve, as directed in paragraph 18 of the report of the Secret Defence Committee of the 21st December, 1900? Paragraph 18 of that report was as follows :- " With regard to the subject of the establish- ment in this colony of a branch of an Imperial or Colonial Naval Reserve, your Committee consider the matter to be one of such import- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1. 32106019788246 ance that they recommend negotiations being entered into by the Government of New Zea- land with the Commonwealth of Australia and the Imperial Government with a view of ascer- / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero taining whether some satisfactory arrangements can be made upon the subject." The report which : he right honourable gentle- man referred to in his answer to the last question only emphasized what the admiral on the station had said in New Zealand-namely, that it was useless to have a Naval Reserve which was such only in name. We had a Naval Volunteer Force here which knew nothing about naval warfare. They were really Garrison Artillery Volunteers, and what the admiral wanted was that if there was to be a Naval Reserve it should be a Naval Reserve capable of going on board ships and understanding the working of ships' guns. Now, the Defence Committee thought some steps ought to be taken with a view of forming the nucleus of a local Naval Reserve in fact, one which would be thoroughly ethcient, and which might be prepared to supply men for manning Her Majesty's ships in time of war. It was borne in upon the minds of all those who took an interest in defence questions that if the war-vessels out here had to go fifteen thousand miles to recruit in time of war there would be very little chance of having the ships in an efficient condition. All the principal authorities, he thought he might say, agreed that not only men but stores should be in reserve in various parts of the Empire for the purpose of refitting and remanning; and that Mr. Seddon and which resulted in the recommendation that negotiations should be entered into with the Imperial Government and the Commonwealth to see if some practical scheme could not be devised for the purpose mentioned. He trusted that no time would be lost in carrying out the Defence Committee's recommendation. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said the Government had received a communication from the Secretary of State on this subject, and on the receipt of that communication action was deferred. # RIFLE-RANGES. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) asked the Government, If it is intended to introduce a Bill during the present session of Parliament to legalise the recommendation of the Secret Defence Committee, in the report of the 21st September, 1900, paragraph 10, (/), regarding the compulsory acquisition of land for rifle- ranges ? It was generally agreed that if our young men could not shoot they would be almost valueless for the purpose of defence ; and in order to shoot well they must have rifle-ranges for practice. Now, a difficulty had arisen in regard to the acquisition of rifle- ranges under the present law. The officers of the Defence Department were blocked in the vicinity of Auckland a little while ago, when they wished to acquire a rifle-range, owing to the owners asking an exorbitant price for the land required. There was no power under the Public Works Act, nor was there power under the Defence Act Amendment Act of 1900, to compulsorily take land for rifle - ranges upon payment of compensation at a fair valuation. Singularly enough, the Government had power to take land for defence purposes generally, vet it was not thought that rifle-ranges came under that heading. At all events, there was a doubt about it, and, under the circumstances, the Government had made no effort to acquire land for rifle-ranges. He thought legislation should be introduced at once to deal with this diffi- culty. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the Government were of opinion that, before it was too late, pro- vision should be made to provide rifle-ranges close to every centre of population. He himself looked upon shooting and rifle practice as being of much more importance than the drilling of our Volunteers, and it was quite clear that something would have to be done in this respect. Neither in Auckland nor in Welling- ton was there a suitable range. As regarded Wellington, Trentham was too far away, and the working-men could not possibly spare the time nor incur the expense to go out there. There ought to be some place near Wellington so that the men could get up early in the morning and have their practice, or in the summer they could practice in the evenings. He had in his eye a site for a rifle-range near Wellington, and he proposed to ask the officers to make a report upon the site, and if they con- sidered it suitable he intended to take the land for the purpose. Of course, they could take it 