Harbour Board in the colony has its financial vear defined - when it shall commence and when it shall end ; and it is provided that its accounts for that period shall each year be laid on the table of this House. I wish to know why a special exception is to be made for the Wel- lington Harbour Board. I think that clause of the Bill should be struck out. All the other Harbour Boards have to balance their accounts on the 31st December. I think this matter ought to receive the attention of honourable members. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City). - I tho- roughly indorse the statement of the Right Hon. the Premier that this House is too much in the habit of accepting the representations of local bodies in regard to Bills promoted by them in this House. I have frequently opposed Bills introduced to this House by the Corporation of the City of Wellington, but I am always met by members from other parts of the colony with the objection that the Bill comes here with the imprimatur of the local body. so that anything said by any member of the House in opposition to the Bill carries with it no weight whatever. I will mention one special instance. Some few years ago a Bill was promoted in this House by the Wellington City Council for the purpose, amongst other things, of widening streets and for the purchase of an estate called " Miramar." I showed in this House the whole effect of the proposal to purchase that property, but, notwith- standing all my representations, the Bill, with that proposal in it, passed through this Chamber. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 In accordance with the custom which then prevailed, I reprinted the speech which I had delivered in this House on that occasion, and circulated it amongst the citizens of Wellington. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero The privilege and the right to reprint our speeches in Hansard for circulation amongst the people has since been taken away by the Minis- ter in charge of the Printing Office. But, as the result of the circulation of that speech throughout the city, that so-called Conservative branch of the Legislature -- the Legislative Council-struck out the proposal in the Bill relating to the purchase of Miramar ; and now I understand we are to have the proposal to pur- chase that property again placed before us, with the imprimatur of the Wellington City Corpora- tion. We shall see what happens. The Premier is perfectly correct in saying that the Welling- ton Harbour Board Bill, which proposed to take lands for Harbour Board purposes, also ex- pressed the intention to take the land in Allen and Grainger Streets for dock purposes. An Hon. MEMBER .- The dock is not required. Mr. FISHER .- That is not the question. Now. what has been the result ? The land has not been used for dock purposes, nor was it required for dock purposes. The land was compulsorily taken from the poor people to whom it belonged, and has been turned to profitable account by the Harbour Board. The honourable member for Bruce, who pokes his oar into everything, whether it concerns him or not, says the land was not taken for the construction of a dock, but for street-widening Harbour Board to do with the widening of streets. Then, he says the land was taken to do away with slums, and to make things pleasing to the eye. How touching! How affecting! These slums, the residences of these poor people, who have lived there perhaps twenty-five or thirty years, were removed in order to make things pleasing to the eye. And in order to make things pleasing to the eye you take away from these people more than half their income. $137 a year is taken from one of the petitioners-John Callaghan. If $137 a year was taken from the member for Bruce, would that be pleasing to his eye ? This is the language of the petitioners :- "That your petitioners are wholly unable at their time of life, and having no knowledge of business, to employ the moneys so awarded them in any commercial enterprise, and they are unable to do anything with such moneys except invest the same at the ordinary rates of interest obtainable at safe security - namely, 5 per cent. at the most. It therefore follows that your petitioner Edmond Carrigan will for the future receive, as in return for the money awarded him by the Compensation Court, $115 a year, less mortgage-tax, in place of the sum of €173 12s. 11d. heretofore received by him for his said property ; your petitioner Margaret Donnelly will receive $78 15s. instead of the sum of $136 9s. heretofore obtained by her for her said property ; and your petitioner John Callaghan will receive but $60, instead of the sum of #197 16s. obtained by him for his property." That is to say, the annual income of Edmond Carrigan has been reduced from £173 to $115, a difference to him of $58 per annum ; the annual income of Margaret Donnelly has been reduced from £136 to $78, a difference to her of $58 per annum ; and the annual income of John Callaghan has been reduced from #197 to $60, making to him, a poor man, who owes his subsistence to this property, which represents the whole savings of a lifetime, a difference of £137 per annum. One would not so much ob- ject if the land had been legitimately taken for dock purposes : the objection would not be so strong. But what has the Harbour Board done with the land so taken ? The land has been let by the Board at a profit to the Board. The Board is consequently deriving profits which properly belong to these poor people. And I ask those honourable members who profess to know so much about local Bills if that is a state of things that should result from their legislation in this Parliament. And yet we have members here who profess to know so much more about these things than we who live in the city, we who have studied these questions and have probed them to the bottom. Our opinions are treated as light as air. Honour- able gentlemen who come from the Bay of Islands and from the Bluff, and from the east and the west, know all about these matters, while we, who have the interests of our con- stituents at heart, know nothing. We sit here, forsooth, listening to gentlemen like the honour- 