sider it is one of the most useful that could be laid before Parliament. Mr. TANNER (Avon) .- Sir, I have no objec- tion to the return being furnished which is the subject of discussion, but I think it is some- what unusual, on the question of the ordering of a return, for the House to discuss at large the whole matter of labour legislation in the way honourable members have done this after- noon. Above all things, I deplore the fact that there is revealed in the House a spirit of covert hostility to the machinery this House a few years ago set up to solve labour disputes. I still further deplore the fact that this hostility is apparently shared by men who assisted to put the Act I refer to on the statute-book. Honourable gentlemen must have voted either mechanically or without thought of what they were doing in 1894, when they passed the Act under which the various tribunals were first set up, which have been so much criticized and so much traduced this afternoon. That Act was distinctly intituled " An Act to en- courage the Formation of Industrial Unions and Associations, and to facilitate the Settlement of Industrial Disputes by Conciliation and Arbitra- tion," and members must have been aware of the fact, unless they voted for the Bill without reading the title. The Act had the effect it was intended it should have. It did encourage the formation of labour and industrial unions and associations. At the time the Act was passed there were not more than about thirty-eight or https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 forty organized bodies in the colony that were registered under the old Trade Union Act of 1878; but the means provided by this House in its wisdom, and to its credit, to solve the con- tinual disputes that were arising in the industrial world, were such that from that time to the present more than ninety other organizations have come into existence. They have come into existence expressly for the purpose of having their difficulties solved in a simple, expeditious, and easy manner. No doubt the result has been that the Courts which have been set up have been crowded with work. It is possible, Sir, that the Conciliation Boards and the Court have in some cases been manned by men who had had little experience in such matters ; but where, I ask, were we to look for men with ex- perience in the colony, seeing that no such machinery, no such Boards, and no such in- stitution ever existed in the colony pre- viously ? The legislation was an experiment. We were bound to take the men who were considered most suitable for the new work, as the Government does in creating a new depart- ment and making appointments thereto. As time goes on we shall find whether our antici- pations as to the fitness of the instruments selected are correct or otherwise. But to speak of the way in which the Courts are flooded with applications does not necessarily mean that the entire labour world throughout the colony is in the state of ferment that so many honourable gentlemen are anxious to make others believe, but do not themselves believe. They know very well that the bulk of these Mr. Pirani their lives before had a judicial decision with regard to industrial matters, and who are patiently waiting till their turn comes to go \- before the Board or Court, as the case may be. When the case has been heard by the Con- ciliation Board - often, unfortunately, without success -they have the same right to carry the matter to the appellate Court, and that privi- lege belongs also to the employers. And let me say, that not all the cases of appeal to the de- cision of the Arbitration Court have been made by workmen. We had a case in Christchurch only a few weeks ago in which a gentleman ! at the head of the Employers' Association, whose name is known all over the colony in this connection, and who has been president 1 of the Industrial Corporation of New Zealand, stated distinctly that, whatever decision was come to by the Conciliation Board, the matter would be carried to the Court. How, under those circumstances, is it possible to cast the covert blame which is sought to be cast in this House on organized bodies of labour people because so much time is occupied by the Boards ? They 1 are not in all cases the men who are continu- ally appealing to the Arbitration Court. The employers are doing the same thing -- and, by : the way, both parties have equal rights so to do, and I would be sorry to see either party deprived of them. No doubt we get at times decisions perhaps extraordinary and unusual ; but you will get them under every judicial We get them from the Supreme system. Court and from every Magisterial Court in the colony, and in these instances they come from trained men, not from tiros with two or three years' experience of dealing with cases of such difficulty that the House hesitated before set- ting up the machinery for the purpose. I regret the course the debate has taken, and I vigorously protest against the aspersions that have been cast on the men manning the Boards, 1 many of whom are trying honourably and honestly to do their duty, as well as those in the Arbitration Court. Perhaps we cannot all share the same high opinion of these men, but I think this House ought to refrain from casting blame on the gentlemen who have been appointed under legislation, and with the sanction of the House, for this specific task they perform, or strive to perform-the most difficult functions that could be assigned to any men. We ought to give the Act reasonable opportunity of being worked, and watch its operation, before any further criticism is made. Continual disparagement, or tinkering with the 1 Act, is not likely to bring any beneficial result. One word more before I sit down. Honourable gentlemen on that side or on this side of the House can say what they like, or try to put in motion any inimical agitation they choose, but this is the plain fact : We passed the Act under the pressure of the labour people of this colony, and this House will not attempt to retrace what has been done. That Act is on the statute- book, and will have to remain there. If any attempt is made for its removal there are nine- teen thousand people who are members of these 