Clerk, as follows : - " Petitioners pray -(1.) That they be awarded such sum of money as may compensate them for losses which they state they have sustained through the taking of their land in the City of Wellington under the provisions of .The Wel- lington Harbour Board Reclamation and Em- powering Act, 1899.' (2.) That the House will take steps to secure justice for petitioners. "I am directed to report,- "(1.) Upon the first clause of the prayer the Committee has no recommendation to make. "(2.) As to the second clause : From evi- dence before the Committee it appears that ' The Wellington Harbour Board Reclamation and Empowering Act, 1898,' has resulted in hardship to the petitioners, and the Committee therefore recommends the Government to make full inquiry, with a view to affording the peti- tioners relief." The petition set out -- " That your petitioners are wholly unable at their time of life, and having no knowledge of business, to employ the moneys so awarded them in any commercial enterprise, and thev are unable to do anything with such moneys except invest the same at the ordinary rates of interest obtainable at safe security-namely, 5 per cent. at the most. It therefore follows that your petitioner Edmond Carrigan will for the future receive, as in return for the money awarded him by the Compensation Court, $115 & year. less mortgage-tax, in place of the sum of $173 12s. 11d. heretofore received by him for https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 his said property ; your petitioner Margaret Donnelly will receive $78 15s. instead of the sum of $136 9s. heretofore obtained by her for her said property ; and your petitioner John Callaghan will receive but $60, instead of the sum of #197 16s. obtained by him for his .property. "Your petitioners submit that, in considera- tion of their advanced age, and their having, by dint of sobriety, industry, and saving, accu- umulated the moneys by which they were able to purchase the properties in question, and in .view of the fact that they are wholly unable to devote the amount awarded to them by the Compensation Court to any commercial enter- prise, and will be compelled to invest the money so awarded them in ordinary invest- ments, justice has not been done to them by the Compensation Court. "That, if it is necessary in the public interest that your petitioners should be deprived of their land and property in manner hereinbefore described, it should only be on payment of a full and complete compensation to your peti- tioners." The petitioners requested that a short Bill should be introduced by the Government to give them the redress they asked for in con- sequence of their land being taken compulsorily by the Wellington Harbour Board, which meant to them in each and every case a diminution of their income by at least 50 per cent .. and in one or two cases by more than 50 per cent. That was an injustice which no citizen of New Zea- Mr. Fisher as a matter of justice, the honourable gentle- man should take some steps- by the passing of a short Bill, for instance - to place these peti- tioners in the position in which they sought to be placed. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said there was no doubt, with respect to the power given to the Wellington Harbour Board, that in the exercise of that power, it had been alleged, an injustice had been done to some of the landowners. It was a very large question that this matter opened up-namely, whether, when an award was made under the compensation clause of the Public Works Act, you should re-open those cases in which people were aggrieved. It practically meant an appeal from the Compensation Court, and, as he said, that was a very large question. The only way in which he thought this matter might be dealt with would be by a local Bill, and under a local Bill power might be given for these people who were aggrieved to claim again; and then if the award was not made larger than it was in the first instance they should pay the costs, but if they succeeded in their appeal, then the costs of the appeal should come on the Harbour Board. He might just as well tell the House that Parliament had been grossly deceived ; so much so, indeed, that, in future any legislation coming from the Wellington Harbour Board ought to be looked into very carefully. They took this land and told Par- liament they were going to use it for or in respect to docks ; but they never had any in- tention of using it for docks. They simply took it from other people, and were going to let it themselves for building purposes. He said a more glaring deception was never per- petrated on Parliament, and it was sufficient to warrant Parliament dealing with it, and dealing with it very drastically. If a corpora- tion came to Parliament and asked for certain powers on the strength of an absolute state- ment, and that statement did not tally at all with what was originally intended- Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) rose to a point of order. The Premier was introducing debatable matter in answering a question, and if that were allowed he would like to have the opportunity of replying. Mr. SEDDON said it was not at all de- batable. Mr. HUTCHESON said. Oh! yes, it was. At any rate, the honourable gentleman was making a statement that was entirely wrong. Mr. SEDDON said he had a very good memory. He said the Wellington Harbour Board cleared off the people from this land. They asked for the power, which Parliament gave them. to do this on the distinct statement that they wanted the land for dock purposes. The Board had never shown any intention of carrying out the purpose they had stated they had in view, but were going to lease the land for other purposes altogether. Mr. HUTCHESON asked if this was another vendetta. Mr. SEDDON said it was no vendetta. There 