of which, he was certain, the Minister saw the grave importance. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister of Industries and Commerce) said, Anything that would raise the price of wool by a better system of classifi- cation ought to be supported by every one. The difficulty in connection with such a matter was that the wool was usually baled at the wool- sheds on the ground where it was shorn, and if grading was to take place it ought to take place there. What the honourable member desired was to provide, as far as possible, for the educa- tion of those who baled the wool. Mr. FIELD said that was his own proposal ; but there was a second scheme built on his. Sir J. G. WARD said, At any rate, if anything was done, it ought to be done by the permanent experts who were attached to the Stock Depart- ment ; and if the Inspectors had the requisite knowledge, and could be spared to do so, there was no reason why they should not impart it to those engaged in shearing. The Government were not favourable to the appointment of a number of wool-graders. If a staff of graders were appointed, they would require to travel during a large portion of each year from end to end of the colony. It was a matter that was in the hands of the Minister for Agriculture, and it really rested with that honourable gentleman to take any steps that might seem to him to be practicable. INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) asked the Go- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 vernment, Whether any of the Borough Coun- cils have appointed Inspectors of Buildings under section 318 of "The Municipal Corpo- rations Act, 1900" ; and, if not, will the Go- vernment demand that the section be put in operation at once, according to the intention of the Act ? He thought he was correct in saying that there were many houses in Wellington that took in lodgers, in which there were no means provided of fire-escape. It was an im- portant question, that should be looked into in the interests of the public. An Act had been passed by the House, but had not been carried out, with the result that many of the houses were nothing but traps in case of fire, and the owners of these places, if they had what they deserved, should be put in gaol for their ne- glect. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary), was sorry he could not give any definite information on the matter, for the reason that the Act did not require such appointments to be notified to the Government, and no notifications of the kind had so far reached the Government. He agreed with the honourable member that the subject was one of great importance, and he thought that his department would be justified in calling the attention of the local authorities to it in order that it might receive attention. RAILWAY TRAFFIC ON SUNDAYS. Mr. J. W. THOMSON (Clutha) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether he is aware Mr. Field would be possible to avoid railway traffic on Sundays ? He was not aware from his own knowledge that sheep were trucked at Pukerau on the day named, but a resident of the place had written to him about it and asked him to interview the Government on the general ques- tion of Sunday traffic on the railways, with the view of seeing whether such traffic could not be avoided. As the subject was one of general im- portance, he thought the best thing to do would be to ask a question in the House about it. He did not know whether Sunday traffic was general all over New Zealand, but, at all events, in the southern parts of the colony there was more or less railway traffic almost every Sunday. It was hardly necessary for him to say that this was not in accord with the religious sentiments of a large section of the community. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said that, personally, he was averse to the running of trains on Sundays, except in cases where it was absolutely necessary. There were con- ditions, however, in certain parts of the colony where a number of trains were required to be run every Sunday for the convenience of the people. He might state that only recently a circular had been sent out to the District Traffic Managers throughout the colony calling attention to the running of Sunday trains, and asking that they should not be run wherever it was possible to avoid it. That, he thought, was only right. He would like to say, in reply to the honourable member for Clutha, that the running of the particular train he referred to on the 21st of July was unavoidable. It was not put on for the purposes of conveying the sheep, but had to run under any circum- stances, and he was advised that the owners of the sheep had represented that they were anxious to get them away owing to shortage of food, so that the department gave the neces- sary permission to send the sheep by that train. The Government would not only discourage the carrying on of goods- traffic on Sundays, but they would allow it to be done only in cases of absolute necessity. Of course, cases might arise in any part of the colony where, owing to exceptional circumstances such as drought, bad weather, or floods, trains might be required by people for the purpose of saving their stock or their crops, and in a matter of that sort he thought that whoever was running the railways ought to be guided by the exigences of the moment - by what they considered right under the circumstances. At the same time, he felt that they ought to avoid trains on Sundays whenever it was possible, and he had regularly refused his assent to every application for the running of Sunday trains. There were, how- ever, and doubtless would continue to be, cases where it was necessary to make exceptions. GOVERNMENT BALNEALOGIST. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked the Government, When the appointment to the position of Balnealogist is to be filled ? This position had appeared on the estimates for 