resolution in favour of something being done in this direction. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) said a similar question had appeared on the Order Paper the previous day under the name of the honourable member for Waihemo. This was the first he had heard of an objection being raised by those interested as to the method of voting. It must be borne in mind that this was the first election held under the new Act, and it seemed to him it would be better to give the present system a fair trial before making any alteration. Under the old system, where members voted as a committee, there was no secrecy. It could then be ascer- tained who any member of a School Committee voted for, and the new Act was drafted on the same lines. He did not think members of School Committees would be likely to be in- fluenced by any person outside as to the vote they should give. If there was any feeling against the present system, the better course would be for the School Committees to send any resolution passed on the subject to the department. It could then be ascertained what was the general desire, and whether a change was desirable. BISHOP'S RESERVE AND OTHER NATIVE LANDS, MASTERTON. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) asked the Govern- ment, Whether they propose to take any steps to have the Bishop's Reserve at Masterton, and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 the other Native lands in the Masterton elec- torate, administered and properly settled in the interests of both Natives and Europeans ? There were several blocks of Native land in his district / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero that were producing nothing to the owners. The block known as the Bishop's Reserve was of com- paratively small area, but it could be turned to useful account if taken over by the Government. It was almost alongside the Masterton Railway- station, and would be most suitable for work- men's homes or residence-sites. The revenues that for years had been derived from that re- serve, instead of going to the Native owners, had gone into the hands of the Church. He did not suppose any Church was capable of obtaining money by false pretences, but while this reserve was originally intended to provide for a Native college, the revenue from it, which now amounted to some thousands of pounds, had never been devoted to that purpose. Lately, however, it appears that it has been decided by the Supreme Court that the money could now be devoted to the purposes of a college or school, and, consequently, he wished to know whether any steps could be taken to turn the land to the best advantage both for Europeans and the Natives. There was a couple of other blocks-one, of about a thousand acres, near the Village of Hastwell, and the other, containing about four thousand acres, at Hamua, near Eketahuna. The land was well adapted for dairy farms. Sawmillers had been through both blocks, and the Native owners were anxious that the lands should be administered in such a way as to return them some revenue. The reserves were surrounded by creameries ; VOL. CXVII .- 23. and, as the sons and daughters of the farmers in the district were growing up, he would like to see these lands made of some service to the community. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) said the Bishop's Reserve to which the honourable'gentle- man referred was, unfortunately, in such a posi- tion that it was outside the control of the Government. It was true the title was the same as that of the Porirua Reserve, which had been the subject recently of Supreme Court proceedings; but it was not affected by the judgment in that particular case, because it was not joined in the action. He agreed that it was undesirable that these reserves should be allowed to lie in an unproductive state, and if they could be devoted to the purposes of settle- ment, well and good. If the revenue could be increased in some way so as to enable the owners to get the benefit of it, and have it applied to the purpose originally intended, he thought the interests of the Natives would be amply served. However, this was a large question. The reserves could not be dealt with individually, but as a whole. He was inclined to the opinion that the State should have control of all these old education endowments which had been vested in mission societies, so that practical effect could be given in the direction intended by those who gave those lands under the trusts so declared. What the Government desired was to see the best use made of these reserves in the interests of the beneficiaries and the public good. As tothe lands mentioned by the honour- able gentleman as lying waste, that might be the case in a few special instances, but not generally; the honourable gentleman must bear in mind that these lands he referred to were set apart for the use and occupation of the Native owners, and, though they may not be using those lands at the present time as they should do, they should still hope for the opportunity of inducing them to take up land for settlement side by side with Europeans. If they were to dispose of all their reserve lands for the purpose of European settlement, where would they be when the time came round when they wanted to go on to their reserves to farm and otherwise settle ? Why, we would have no land to give them. In this matter the best thing to do would be to get all the facts in reference to those reserves gathered together, and ascertain the wishes of the owners. If they had sufficient land at present for their use and maintenance, and there were areas lying waste, then such areas should be given over for settlement by Euro- peans. STOATS AND WEASELS IN THE NORTH. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) asked the Govern- ment, If. on account of the rapid increase of stoats and weasels in the North of Auckland, they will put a sum on the estimates to subsi- dise the efforts of the settlers for their destruc- tion ? He had been requested by an important agricultural association in the North to put the question. The manner in which those vermin were taking possession of the country was be- 