capacities, and the more we knew of him the more we esteemed him. I knew him when he first came to Parliament in 1880, but I am quite certain that no one who met him then would have ever dreamt that his life was one of those which would be cut short. Certainly when I first joined Parliament in 1884 I never dreamt that his life was going to be shorter than the ordi- narily allotted span of life, and, if anything is to be said on that subject, I have no hesitation in stating that the late honourable gentleman's devotion to duty and the sacrifice of his health and comfort shortened his days. He was a most extraordinary worker, and after he became a Minister never spared himself night or day to get through his work, and, coming perhaps after many years of open-air work, this devotion to desk-work very likely undermined his health ; so that really we may look upon the honourable gentleman's premature death as being the result of his devotion to duty. However, quite apart from that, the honourable gentleman's life-work in the politics of this country has been written in letters that will always live. I can hardly imagine but that for generations to come the late Sir John Mckenzie's name will be con- nected with the administration of our lands -- not only to-day, but also for some time to come ; and the time he took up that portfolio will be looked upon as the time when the turning- point in the history of land-administration was arrived at in this country. Then, Sir, he was a good friend. Some people might say he was a man who knew his enemies and had animosi- ties. Well, I deny that absolutely. He was a man who believed in principles, and he worked on broad principles. But I deny that Sir John Mckenzie ever carried private animosities into http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero public life. In fact, from my own knowledge, he was the most generous administrator I ever knew, in a department where generosity is appealed to very often. I need only recall to the Council that measure giving relief to the sheep-farmers of the South Island, when they were overwhelmed by the snow disaster a few years ago. I am pretty certain that if he had been an administrator who sought simply to relieve his personal or poli- tical friends he would never have lifted a single finger to help those people. I believe his mind was of a very much broader character. He knew what the pastoral interests were, and be- cause he thought it was a measure of national importance, whether those gentlemen were his personal and political friends or not, he intro- duced that measure and got Parliament to pass it because he thought it was right. I have every reason to know that he was one of the most generous-minded men who ever lived, and I feel quite certain that many people in this colony were really his friends, although poli- tically they differed from him. I trust that the Council will pass the resolution, which I will now read : That this Council desires to place on record its high sense of the faithful and distinguished services rendered to the colony by the late Sir John Mc Kenzie, K.C. M.G., and of the serious loss the colony has sustained by Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker Mckenzie and her family the assurance of its sincere sympathy with them in their bereave- ment. The Hon. Mr. MONTGOMERY .- Sir, I re- spectfully beg to second the motion, and in doing so I wish to say that I also agree with everything that has been stated by the Hon. the Minister with regard to the motion. Sir, we. all agree that in the death of Sir John Mckenzie the colony has suffered a heavy loss. As a friend he was warm-hearted and true. He was a very able administrator, a man of unwearled energy, firmness of purpose, and unswerving integrity. The settlement of the people on the land was to him a passion ever present in his thoughts, and from his purpose he never swerved. He had a great opportunity, which he in a great measure created himself, and he rose to the occasion, and during a long course of administration his enthusiasm never abated. A really great Minister has passed away, but his work lives. His devotion to the great office which he held for so many years will long be remembered, and gratefully remembered, I am quite sure, by the people of this colony. I sin- cerely regret his loss as a public man and as a private friend. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- Sir, it is with great regret that I rise to support this motion, because I have known the late John Mckenzie from the time he first entered the House of Representatives. I was then a member of that Chamber, and I believe there are now only five or six members present in that House who were there when the late statesman took his seat for the first time in 1882. I have known him for twenty years, and have worked with him both in the House and in Committee for years. It is in Committee you can see the nature of a man, in the line of action he takes with regard to public affairs, and I can say that Sir John Mckenzie always knew what he wanted, and if he thought his action was in the interest of the public at large he fought for it until he secured it. Something has been said about the strength of his personal feelings. I always found him a generous opponent. He never treated a man unfairly, and, with regard to his public services, I can say he was a strong and steadfast advocate of giving land to the landless on fair terms, and he will be gratefully remembered by a very large section of the community. It is a matter of sad regret to see a statesman cut off at an age when he is just as well able to do good public work as ever he was. It has been the fate of us all to have seen great statesmen from both sides of the House taken away in the prime of life, when they could still have done good service for their country. We are consoled, however, with the reflection that the name of Sir John Mckenzie will not willingly be allowed to die out of public recollection. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- Sir, the long-expected has come at last. No one who had seen the honourable gentleman who has lately departed this life since his serious indisposition could come to any other conclusion than that he could 