land ; and on some of it there is excellent land carrying splendid timber. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- The local body are evidently not doing their duty. Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- Well, they might want shooting, right enough ; but I undertake to say that if the local body were doing their duty they would adopt rating on unimproved value in that county. But what I object to chiefly is this forcing process, this compulsion, and that the people of the colony are not allowed the opportunity of asking for this compulsory measure. Why should we force it upon them ? The members of local bodies are intelligent men. They have on the average quite as much intelligence as members of this House. An Hon. MEMBER. - More. Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- Well, they may have more, because on local bodies you do not get so much nonsense talked as you do sometimes in this House. At any rate they know what they are doing, and they know their requirements ; and if rating on improved value does not suit a local body, I undertake to say that it will very soon adopt rating on the unimproved value. There is no occasion, no necessity, no call what- ever for ramming and jamming this ill-digested measure down people's throats when they do not want it. The present measure on the statute- book gives them every opportunity of adopting it. There is no necessity to go any further for some time. The principle is working its way gradu- ally, and I am pleased to see it is being adopted. There is no use forcing it. Take the blustering bombastic speech made by the honourable member for Masterton ; was there any rhyme, reason, or sense in the arguments he brought forward ? I venture to say on any local body he would not be listened to for a moment ; but these are the arguments used in support of this grandmotherly legislation we have forced on us. Then, take the arguments used by the honour- able member for Dunedin City. Does he under- stand the question? I undertake to say he does not. If he had, he would have told the House that a poor man alongside of him has just as much use of the streets as he has, and consequently should pay as much for their use and maintenance ; he should also have told the House that the land-grabbing monopolist who owns the vacant section on the other side of him, and which is generally used for a rubbish depot, scarcely pays any rates, but holds on for the unearned increment, and prevents the poor man from getting a bit of ground to build on. They should all pay the same rates towards the making of the street. But, at the same time, they are quite safe to be left to themselves to work out their own salvation in regard to rates. Then, what is the use of putting this on the statute-book when we have a new Counties Bill coming on this session ? I look upon the whole thing as one of the Premier's devices for spending the afternoon ; possibly because he has not got the Financial Statement ready. Mr. SEDDON .- There is plenty of work to do. a kind of which I do not approve. I should have preferred to spend my time to some better pur- pose than listening to the discussion we have had this afternoon. Mr. SEDDON .- A very good discussion. Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- I do not consider it has been very instructive, or very entertaining, or of a very high standard. However, I suppose it has answered its purpose. I recommend the honourable gentleman to reconsider his Bill and bring it down next session. Let us have local government brought in first, and in that Bill a clause might be brought in giving every opportunity required to bring in rating on un- improved value. I do not see my way to sup- port a measure of this kind. Every locality ought to be allowed for a few years to decide for it- self. At present at least 75 or 80 per cent. of the people are against rating on unimproved value, and the Government will do themselves more harm than good if they force it. I shall vote against the Bill. I do not think it likely to pass this year, and I would recommend a post- ponement of its further discussion till we have had the Counties Bill before the House. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) .- I rise to support the second reading of this Bill, and I do so because it affirms what I believe to be sound principle. I believe that the tendency of democratic taxation generally is now to lessen taxation through the Customs and to put it on to the unimproved land-value -- in other words, in the direction of ceasing for the future to tax thrift ; and this is a sound principle. I was rather struck by an expression which fell from the honourable member for Hawke's Bay in speaking on this Bill. He said we could only tax thrift ; that we could tax nothing else but the products of thrift. Now, where does the bulk of our taxation come from ? It comes from the Customs. The Customs produces about six times the amount produced by the land- tax and income-tax combined. What is thrift ? Thrift is simply economy and saving. Now, the most thriftless or extravagant man who ever lived is the most productive under our system in the way of taxation. If he is a good wage-carner or producer the more he earns the more he spends, and therefore the more he contributes to the State in the way of taxation. Yet we have the member for Hawke's Bay telling us that we can only tax thrift, or the products of thrift. I say that the most un- thrifty persons produce most in the way of taxation. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is the thrift of other persons that enables them to earn. Mr. LAURENSON. - I only admit that to a certain extent ; but it is not those persons who pay the taxes, although they help towards others doing so. If a thrifty man earns 13 a week, and saves out of that #1 10s., and spends €1 10s., we only get taxation on the #1 10s., or a portion of it; whereas a man who earns £3 and spends every cent of it contributes far more to the revenue than the man who is thrifty and saves $1 10s. a week. I would like to draw the honourable member's atten- 