with his handkerchief and said, "This is a very dirty House." And so that farce ended. What would the member for Bruce do then? The House ought to vindicate itself, as the honour- able gentleman says. I have seen many such cases in this House during my parliamentary career, and I have always seen the thing end in an unsatisfactory way. No doubt there has been a breach of privilege in this case, but I have never seen any good result by carrying the matter to the bitter end. It is now proposed to set up a Committee. There is no doubt the circumstances of this case are of a most flagrant nature. It is one of the worst cases of breach of privilege that has ever come before the House within my knowledge, because here are the actual shorthand notes taken by the Com- mittee's parliamentary shorthand writer handod to the Dunedin Evening Star. Now, nothing can be stronger than that. I would not so much complain if the members of the Com- mittee had given their impressions or a précis of their proceedings to this paper. But in this case here are the shorthand writer's notes of the whole of the evidence handed over en bloc. Well, I think, speaking of it as a matter of privilege, it is the most impudent thing that has ever occurred since I have been in this House. While I do not want to allow the House to make itself ridiculous in this matter, I think the proposal to set up a Committee to provide the House with all the information required is a good one. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston). - I do not see any great harm in setting up this Committee. It will give the members of the Committee something to amuse themselves with during the session. They will be able to have a fish- ing-excursion or two to enable them to get at the root of the matter, and, as was stated by the member for Wellington City, they might have a cheap trip to Dunedin. But I certainly think it is a great farce to look at this matter in the same light as the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay). He has evidently spent all the day looking up constitutional history, and constitutional law, and all that sort of thing, and, like all young members of the House, he has got a great idea of the dignity of Parlia- ment-"I, the member for Dunedin, and the dignity of the House that I belong to." When the honourable gentleman has been a little longer in Parliament, when he has learned a little more of the proceedings in reference to these questions of privilege, and more of what underlies the motives upon which action is taken, he will feel a very great con- tempt for anything like the raising of a ques- tion of privilege. Then, it depends to a very great extent upon who the sinner is. It de- pends also to a very great extent on the sort of politics the person who commits the offence holds, and it is very like suspending a member of Parliament : if he is a member supporting the Government of the day, well, he can com- mit almost any offence in this House and no notice is taken of it ; but if he is an opponent of those who support the Government, then he will find a Star Chamber erected and he will get his punishment, not for the offence which has been committed, but because of the politi- cal whims of those who surround him. An Hon. MEMBER .- Not in the case of the Dunedin Evening Star. Mr. PIRANI .- So far as the present case is concerned, it is not so much a question either of the paper publishing the information or of the reporter who got it, but it is more a ques- tion of who supplied the information, because the person who supplied the information must have known when it was supplied that he had no right to supply it ; and I say, as I said before, that I lay the fault to a very great ex- tent on the shoulders of the Committee them- selves, who evidently did their work in such a loose fashion that they have asked for this sort of offence to be committed. If a Commit- tee likes to take proper care of the reports of its proceedings, and if the members them- selves respect what goes on before the Com- mittee, there cannot possibly be any publica- tion of this sort, because, as has been pointed out, it is the actual shorthand re- porter's notes which have been published, and not a mere resume of the proceedings of the Committee. And I take exception altogether to the axiom laid down according to the Minister of Justice-that the publication of what goes on before Select Committees is in- duced by the presence before the Committees of members who do not belong to those Com- mittees. Why, one of the greatest sinners we ever had in this House in regard to the publica- tion of matters coming before the Committees was the Premier of this colony. Honourable members will remember the old Press room before it was pulled down, and will recollect that it was quite a common thing for certain members of the House to go to that Press room after meetings of the Committees were over, and to give information to the pressmen con amore, just as they pleased. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. Mr. PIRANI .- It is a fact, and can be borne out by other pressmen in this House. It was never looked upon as a serious offence at all ; and to say that members who do not belong to Committees at all give away information is to talk utter nonsense, for there are hardly any members in this House who take the trouble to attend the meetings of the Committees. I regret that there are not more, because then those meetings of Committees would be of much more use than they are. But the ques- tion of ascertaining who is responsible for this report being published is undoubtedly putting the cart before the horse. If the Minister thinks it is desirable and the House thinks it is desirable that there should be an inquiry as to who divulged the proceedings it will not do very much harm, but it would not do a great deal of good. To invoke the mighty power of Parliament in cases of breach of privilege, even in the Old Country, is very much a thing of the 