amount-will be paid to the gentleman re- | petition of Mr. Reynolds, who got the spark in ferred to. Sir J. G. WARD. - What case was that ? Mr. MASSEY .- I am referring to the case of Mr. James Wallace, of Papatoitoi. Mr. Wallace had twenty-eight fires on his farm in one season, all caused by the railway-engines. Last season being wet, there were no fires. This colony is not the only one in which farmers suffer through railway fires, and I was pleased to notice that last year the Imperial Parliament passed a law making the railway companies liable for damage caused by fires that were started by sparks from the railway-engines. In this colony the Railway Department is, unfor- tunately, not liable, and it is my opinion that until the liability is placed upon them these fires will continue, and that as soon as we make the department responsible the fires will cease. Sir J. G. WARD .- We have the best appli- ances on our engines in the world at the present time. Mr. MASSEY .- That may be, but the fact remains that fires are continually occurring in the dry weather of the summer months. Now I wish to refer to a petition that was considered the other day by the Railways Committee. believe it has been reported on, and therefore I am justitied in referring to it. It was a petition by Mrs. Laurie, of Newmarket, Auckland, who prayed for a compassionate allowance on account of the death of her husband, who a few months ago was killed by an accident. The Railways Department, I believe, have al- ready paid Mrs. Laurie $50. Now, what would have been the position if it had been the case of a private employer? The private employer would have been liable under the Workers' Compensation Act for the payment of $400 to the widow. But. unfortunately, the Railways Department is exempt from the operation of that Act, and consequently Mrs. Laurie had to go down on her knees and apply to Parliament for a reasonable compassionate allowance. I hope, Sir, she will not apply in vain. I come back now to the returns. I want to remind the Premier that a num- ber of returns have, on my motion, been ordered by Parliament this session, and so far not one of them has been laid on the table. I will also take this opportunity of reminding the Premier that when the last Imprest Supply Bill was before the House I referred to a return with reference to the travellin (-expenses of Ministers. That return has not yet been laid on the table of the House. I simply wish to remind the Premier of the fact, though I quite recognise that my reminding him of it will have no effect. Mr. SEDDON .- I will give it to you in ten minutes. Mr. MASSEY .- Well, I hope so. At any rate, the fact remains that less information has been supplied to Parliament this session than has ever been supplied to the House in any previous year. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) .- Sir, I wish to explain to the House that, in relation to the his eye in Christchurch, the sum of $50 was granted on a petition, and not by the depart- ment. The Minister for Railways explained the position, and I recollect now that the amount Was recommended by the Railways Committee last session. I at that time had considerable doubt as to the moral obligation of the colony in this case. I thought he ought to have looked after his own eve. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) .- Sir, I desire to say a word or two in connection with some of the returns that should have been presented to the House. Like previous speakers, I am of opinion that it is not fair to ask members to criticize the Financial Statement until the fullest information has been afforded them. Even with that information it is pretty hard to get at what you might call the true position of the finances; and members are now being placed in the position of having to go through that Statement without these very necessary returns to assist them. The result is that they will make certain assertions based on what they believe to be the true position, and Ministers, having at their disposal the information which is now denied to the House, are able toreply and I show where we have made mistakes. That is not fair. We have now been forced into this position : that the criticism of the Government policy, instead of taking place on the floor of the House will have to take place on the public platform, because it is only after the House adjourns that we shall be placed in possession of all the information that will enable us to come to a true conclusion. Sir J. G. WARD. - So will the Ministers use the platform wherever necessary. Mr. MILLAR .- As for the Ministers' criti- cism. I have heard Ministers say on the floor of this House, "Give a statement a twenty- four hours start and you cannot overtake it." No man who has a spark of principle in him would allow himself to be misrepresented or put in a false position by Ministers when such position has been created through Ministers withholding information which could and ought to be given to members, who are equally entitled with Ministers to know them. On the 10th July this House ordered that a return should be laid on the table in connec- tion with the San Francisco mail - service. Surely that is not a return that will affect the Government in any way; and, notwith- standing the fact that we have this large question involving a considerable amount of money coming up for discussion, the return has not yet been presented to the House. All that is asked for is information as to what about the cost is to the colony ; and. although the department has had from the 10th July to the 23rd August, the return is not yet available. One day should have been sufficient to obtain the information, for all that is required is a reference to the steamers' manifests. I would ask, Are we to discuss this service without having that return ? Sir J. G. WARD .- You will have a special opportunity of doing that. 