posals of the Government Life Insurance, as it was proposed to insure at as low a rate as pos- sible, in order to enable every one who wished to get cheap life insurance on the best security in the world-namely, the security of the colony- to do so. But even with the low premiums charged profits had accrued, and the policy- holders had benefited to a substantial amount in the way of bonuses. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- They do not com- pare with the A.M.P. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- The Go- vernment Life Insurance Department was not a business that touted like other offices. They were prepared to stand on their merits and leave the public to judge what the merits were. The only otce which could be compared with it in any shape or form was the A.M.P., and that was a very much older company. Its premiums were a great deal higher, and they had had in addition to that twice the length -he forgot how many more years' opportunity of investing money ; and also the magnitude of their business enabled them to give, he admitted, larger bonuses than did the Government Life In- surance. But, as he explained, it was not the original intention of the Government Office to go in for the bonus business at all. It. had grown on them simply because, with the low premiums they charged, profits accrued which bad to be divided. And he maintained that he must be a very unreasonable person if he was not satisfied with the management of the Go- vernment Life Insurance Department, con- sidering its low premiums and its very sub- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 stantial bonuses-added to which the security of the State was at the back of all its contracts. He trusted the answer he had given would be satisfactory to the honourable gentleman. ## H. K. TAIAROA'S PETITION. The Hon. Mr. TAIAROA asked the Minister of Education. When the Government intend to bring in a Bill to give effect to the recommenda- tion of the Native Affairs Committee on the Etition of H. K. Taiaroa (No. 15, 189-), He reported upon on the 19th October, 1899? was sorry to have to repeat his question so often. but he trusted the honourable member would admit it was not his fault. He had not had an answer to it, although he had asked the question for two years. The land to which he referred was leased from about the year 1>60 by the Commissioner of Reserves, and there was no mention in the leases as to improvements : that was to say, there was no provision that the lessees were to be paid for the improve- ments on the land. Before the term of lease had expired he and his fellow-owners had is-ued to them the Crown grants for portions of the reserves, and about the same time there was passed by Parliament " The Westland and Nel- son Native Reserves Act, 1887," and that Act deprived the owners of the land of all the im- provements which had been made on their land. When the original leases terminated the land provements to the outgoing tenant. This had the effect of reducing the rent which the owners received from the land. This matter was then brought up by petition, which was gone into by the Native Affairs Committee, and was reported favourably upon. Part of the report read thus :- " From the evidence submitted to the Com- mittee it appears that the petitioners' interests in the land referred to (Subdivisions 1A and 2A, Arahura Native Reserve) have been injuriously affected by the operation of the statute referred to ('The Westland and Nelson Native Reserves Act, 1887'), which by its retrospective action has deprived the petitioners of the full control of their land, and also deprived them of the improvements made on the land, to which im- provements they would otherwise have been entitled." He would like to remind honourable mem- bers that at the time that Bill was before the Council he pointed out that the owners of the land would suffer injustice by the passing of the Act. He spoke so vehemently on the subject that the Speaker told him to resume his seat. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER was sorry he could not give the honourable gentleman any assurance that the matter would be taken up by the Government. As far as he was in- formed, although it was true that an Act was passed in 1887 which the honourable gentle. man contended took away rights which were his before that time, still the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeal held that the absolute ownership of the land did not vest in the honourable gentleman and his family, and that the tenants held their right to renewal that meant prior to the passing of the Act, although it was confirmed by the Act of 1-87 - and that the land was to remain under the control of the Public Trustee. That was a long time ago. The property had been managed by the Public Trustee ever since, and he thought it would be only holding out false hope to the honourable gentleman if he were to say the Goverment would consider the matter of bringing in legis- lation to alter his position. Many other Native lands were similarly situated, and the Govern- ment believed that, in the interests of both races, it was better not to disturb the present position of affairs. ### TRAINING-SHIP FOR NEW ZEALAND BOYS. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS moved, That the unanimous recommendation of both branches of the Legislature in farour of the establishment of a training ship for New Zealand boys be given effect to by the Government as speedily as Sir. the motion standing in my possible. name is one of such great importance that I crave the sympathy and support of honourable The proposal members of this Council for it. for the establishment of a training-ship for the colony has already met with a great degree of 