it was expected that the new station would be finished in about three months. He might point out that after the railway-station was burnt down the lessee was offered by the de- partment, at the expense of the department, to have temporary refreshment-rooms erected on the old site, but the lessee declined, for what reason he did not know. The delay in com- mencing rebuilding was to some extent due to a local agitation which was made to induce the department to erect the railway - station upon the old site. As the old site was close to the railway tunnel, it was not desirable from a traffic point of view, even apart from the score of danger to those who required to use the station premises for shunting and so on, to re- erect on the old site, and it was felt to be incumbent to select another and lighter place. But, as he was always ready to hear the repre- sentations of those who took an opposite view from the department, it took a considerable time before the agitation reached a definite point ; and, after inquiry, he declined the re- quest to keep to the old site, and they were then in a position to go on with the new station. That agitation was responsible-he did not, of course, say improperly - for some delay in commencing the work. # TELEGRAPH MESSENGERS. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) asked the Postmaster - General,-(1) What are the hours during which telegraph messengers are on duty; (2) whether all messengers have to take their share of night-work in the delivery of messages ; and (3) how many messengers doing such night-work are under the age of fourteen years ? Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) said telegraph messengers' duties averaged from seven to eight hours a day, in shifts, between about eight a.m. and midnight. At Wellington, however, the hours might extend until two a.m. during the session, whenever the House sat up to that hour. Night duty was taken by all messengers in turn. There were twelve boys under fourteen employed as messengers at offices which kept open till midnight. Where they did night duty they were as a rule released before midnight, and at Wellington at nine p.m. and ten p.m. He might tell the honourable member that only last year he increased the maximum age for telegraph messenger - boys from fifteen to sixteen. That was in order to get, if possible, older boys, between the ages of thirteen and sixteen, to take up this class of work. The older boys would, however, be put on the night duty generally for the future. MAORI NAMES OF RAILWAY-STATIONS. Mr. E. G. ALLEN (Waikouaiti) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will send a com- petent Maori scholar to report on the correct- ness or otherwise of the spelling of Native names of railway-stations in the colony, and have any errors corrected that may be found to exist ? Owing to a want of knowledge of the Maori language many of the names of railway- - an instance of two or three in the district he represented. He was informed that Waitati should be " Waititi," and Purakanui should be " Purakaunui." Again, Waihola should be "Waihora," and so forth. These wrongly spelt names were apt to be perpetuated if not corrected soon, and he would like to see the Native names of our railway-stations preserved correctly. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said he was quite in accord with the views the honourable member had just expressed. He would like to point out that in 1900 he replied in a similar direction, and then stated that the names of the different stations had been re- ferred to two Maori scholars, one each in the North and South Islands, with the object of having these names correctly spelt. He was sorry to say that so far neither of them had sent in their corrections to the department. On former occasions he had given utterance to views similar to those the honourable mem- ber had just given expression to. He thought the names ought to be corrected. He had a list of several stations in different parts of the colony where the names were incorrectly spelt. Mr. Percy Smith, to whom the North Island names were referred, was at the pre- sent time in the islands, as honourable members knew ; and on the other hand his friend, Mr. Parata, the member for the Southern Maori Dis- trict, had very kindly promised to assist him in obtaining correction of certain names in the South Island He should be very glad indeed to have the matter expedited both in the north and south, and in the absence of Mr. Percy Smith, he would try and select some officer who had sufficient knowledge of the Maori language to assist in having the names put right throughout the colony. Mr. HOGG might be allowed to suggest a member of the House who would be thoroughly competent to correct these names-the member for Manawatu, Mr. Stevens. ## OEO POINT LIGHTHOUSE. Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera) asked the Minister of Marine,-(1) If he will favourably consider the advisability of having a lighthouse erected in or near Oeo ; (2) if a lighthouse is considered too expensive to maintain, will he, without de- lay, have a bell-buoy erected similar to the one at Nelson Harbour ? He regretted there should be any necessity to ask this question. There was no doubt as to its importance. If a light- house had been erected at Veo the loss of life that had taken place lately would probably not have happened. It was now only six years, and four vessels had been lost at the same point, and also twelve valuable lives. Steps should be taken without delay to prevent a recurrence of such a shocking catastrophe in future. He therefore trusted that the Minister of Marine, in the interests of the shipping people and in the interests of poor humanity, would see that something was done in the direction his question indicated, and that without delay. 