Pirani Tellers. Symes Russell, G. W. Thompson. R. Fraser, W. Thomson, J. W. McNab. Smith, G. J. PAIRS. For. Against. Carroll Millar Colvin. Mckenzie, R. Majority against, 21. Motion negatived. Clause 3 .- " Section ten of the principal Act is hereby amended as follows : By substituting the words 'adjudicating Magistrate' in lieu of the word ' Inspector.' " Mr. HOGG (Masterton) moved the excision of this clause. Clause struck out. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) moved the insertion of the following new clause in substitution therefor, namely :- "3. After the expiration of one month from the date of a conviction under the last preced- ing section, if, in the opinion of the adjudicat- ing Magistrate, rabbits still exist on the land mentioned in such notice, the owner upon whom the notice referred to in the last pre- ceding section was served shall be liable to a further penalty not exceeding twenty pounds and not less than five pounds, and so on for each succeeding period of one month during which, in the opinion of the Magistrate, rabbits exist on such land." The Committee divided on the question, "That the new clause be read a second time." AYES, 33. Allen, E. G. Hall Napier Arnold Parata Hanan Hardy Russell, G. W. Barclay Hogg Bennet Steward Bollard Hornsby Tanner Buddo Lang Thompson, R. Laurenson Thomson, J. W. Carncross Collins Lawry Willis. Ell Massey Tellers. Mackenzie, T. Gilfedder Field Fowlds McNab Smith, G. J. Fraser, W. NOES, 19. Pirani Atkinson Lethbridge Rhodes Duncan McGowan Russell, W. R. Fraser, A. L. D. McGuire Meredith Graham Hall-Jones Tellers. Mills Haselden Monk Stevens Palmer Heke Symes. Majority for, 14. New clause read a second time. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister for Agriculture) moved the excision of the words " rabbits still exist," with a view to substituting the following in lieu therefor : "the occupier or owner has failed or neglected to take reasonable or diligent steps to promote the destruction of rabbits." Amendment agreed to. insertion, before the word "owner, "' of the words " said occupier or." Amendment agreed to. Mr. FRASER (Wakatipu) moved the excision of the word "twenty," with a view to substi- tuting in lieu therefor the words " one hun- dred:" Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) moved the addition of the following new clause and Schedule :- "4. The provisions of this Act are in substi- tution of the enactments mentioned in the Schedule hereto, which enactments are hereby accordingly repealed." " Schedule. "1882, No. 66: 'The Rabbit Nuisance Act, 1882.' In part-namely, sections 9 and 10. " 1886, No. 46 : 'The Rabbit Nuisance Act 1882 Amendment Act, 1886.' In part - namely, section 6. "1890, No. 17 : ' The Rabbit Nuisance Act, 1890.' In part - namely, subsection (1) of section 15." New clause and Schedule added. Bill reported. LOCAL BODIES' GOLDFIELDS PUBLIC WORKS AND LOAN BILL. Mr. PALMER (Ohinemuri) .- I feel, Sir, that this Bill should go to the Public Accounts Com- mittee, and, therefore, I move the second read- ing pro forma in order to have it sent to that Committee. Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER .- I have been looking into this Bill, and unless the honour- able gentleman has a message from His Excellency the Governor stating that the Bill will be allowed to proceed, it will be my duty to rule that it is a Loan Bill, and is virtually a Bill giving power of taxation, which cannot be introduced without the recommendation of the Crown. Mr. PALMER. - I may say, Sir, that I applied to Sir Maurice O'Rorke for his ruling on the point. After I had been there for the first time, I was of opinion that Sir Maurice told me that the Bill could go on. It is for that reason that I want it referred to the Public Accounts Committee. If I cannot bring it on, the Government will, I understand, take it up. I was quite willing at that time not to go further with the Bill without a message from His Excellency the Governor, but Sir Maurice having told me that it could go on, I proceeded with it, and want it sent to the Public Accounts Committee. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .-- I am afraid I cannot take any cognisance of any private ruling the honourable gentleman may have re- ceived ; and I am not aware whether the honourable gentleman presented the whole Bill to Mr. Speaker. Mr. PALMER. -- Yes, I did. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I must say that having given a ruling I must adhere to it. I went into the matter very carefully before I came to that conclusion. I would suggest, in 