mental offices in Auckland were scattered about the city; some were in very inconvenient places, and a great waste of time was caused thereby, and a great amount of inconvenience to the public. Among the offices to which he referred were the Public Trust, the Public Works, the Valuation Department, the Stamp Office, the Advances to Settlers, the Registrar of Electors, the Old-age Pensions, and the proposed Tourist and Trade Office. Some of these were paying rent to private individuals for very insufficient accommodation. It would be good business to erect a suitable building and concentrate all the public offices in one building contiguous to the Customhouse. The public would derive great advantage from such a course, and public and private business would be expedited. He would ask the Minis- ter, in the erection of any building, when : that the railway would be taken through making provision for the Tourist and Trade Office, to bear in mind the desirability of in- ! cluding a Hall of Commerce and Industries, in ! which the country's industries and products might be exhibited. Auckland was the entrepôt of the tourist traffic, and travellers from all parts of the world visiting the Rotorua wonder- land passed through Auckland, and it would be a very desirable thing to have such a hall in which travellers might see and form some idea of the products and resources of the colony. He knew that this matter had engaged the attention of the Minister for some time past ; and he hoped that any little difficulty in regard to the site might be overcome, and that, if https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 necessary, the site would be taken compulsorily under the Public Works Act. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) said, No doubt considerable inconveni- ence arose from the position as stated by the honourable gentleman, and he hoped to remedy it by sooner or later making additions to the present Customhouse building. The matter had been delayed owing to the exorbitant price asked by the owner of the adjoining land ; but, owing to what he had seen during a recent visit to Auckland, he had given instructions for the land to be taken under the Public Works Act. Which departments were to be accommodated in that building had not been decided on, but he was of opinion that the Tourist Department should be located in a main central spot. Mr. NAPIER might mention that there was an excellent allotment adjoining the Auckland Railway-station, which the Minister could lease from the Harbour Board, on which he would be pleased to see a hall of commerce erected. RAILWAY TO HANMER PLAINS. Mr. MEREDITH asked the Government, Whether, in the event of the Government ac- quiring sixteen thousand acres of the Lyndon Estate, now under negotiation, and before the said block is subdivided for settlement, they will have a report made by a competent engi- neer on the practicability of extending the rail- way from Culverden to Hanmer Plains via the Lyndon Pass, and, if the report is favourable, make reservations for a railway-line? He was Mr. Napier acquired sixteen thousand acres. Such being the case, he thought the Minister should con- sider the advisability of continuing the railway. line as indicated in the question. From Cul- verden to Hanmer Plains was twenty - four miles, and, taking the annually increasing num- ber of tourists who went there into considera- tion, it showed the day was not far distant when the extension of the railway must come within the region of practical politics. In the meantime, what was asked for was to have a report by a competent engineer, so that when the land was being surveyed for subdivision a reserve for a railway might be made. The block he referred to as acquired contained six- teen thousand acres, and the Government had already acquired some six thousand acres, making a total of twenty-two thousand, so country occupied by Crown tenants. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) agreed that, when land was acquired by the State, it was wise to reserve land for a railway through it, otherwise it might lead to large sums being claimed for compensation in years to come. He would like it to be distinctly understood that in reserving such land for a railway it was not to be taken as an indication that it was proposed to make a railway ; it was only in case it was proposed in future years, to enable that to be done at the least cost. SUBSIDY TO PUBLIC LIBRARIES. Mr. E. G. ALLEN (Waikouaiti) 5.0. asked the Government, Whether they will give a subsidy of £1 for £1, up to $50, on subscriptions taken up in country townships for the purpose of erecting buildings for public libraries ? Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) said this pointed to a very important question : as to whether they were going to subsidise library buildings, in addition to the subsidy for the purchase of books, and other expenses. He was afraid that he could not hold out much hope of this. However, he would promise that when the Government were bringing down the supplementary or Public Works estimates the whole matter would be carefully considered, and the honourable gentle- man would be able, when seeing these estimates, to form an idea as to the intention of the Government. But he did not give an all-round promise that such a proposal would be given effect to. NATIVE LAND ADMINISTRATION ACT. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked the Native Minister, When the Native Land Ad- ministration Act, passed last session, will come into force, and what is the reason of its being hung up so long? Last session the Native Land Administration Act was passed, and at that time great hopes were entertained of its being the means of solving all the difficulties in connection with Native lands; but those hopes, he regretted to say, had not up to the present time been realised. Since putting the 