favour of it, and every member of both Houses of the Legislature that I have had conversa tion with is willing to support the establish- ment of such a vessel. Now. Sir. I maintain that the business of transporting passengers and merchandise is as much a productive one as the raising of wheat or the smelting and forging of iron. It therefore behoves us that, in regard to the training of our colonial vonth, they should have the same facilities for making themselves perfect in seamanship as in other occupations. The immense coast-line that exists about New Zealand. the deep waters that we have, and the other opportunities that exist indicate our destiny as a nation to become a maritime people. Moreover, the opportuni- ties that are presented to the boys of New Zea- land to learn occupations are, in my opinion, to a very great extent lessened, owing to a variety of causes. The great improvements that have taken place in machinery during recent years, and the general use of it in nearly all produc- tive industries, may be adduced as one reason. In the days of my youth boys were employed at many occupations in which they are not required at the present time. The expensive machinery required to produce a newspaper is such that the employers will not employ any but the most highly skilled and expert labour, as the value of the machinery will not allow boys to be employed to any extent. Now, in regard to the proposed establishment of a training-ship, the whole success of the experiment depends upon its being conducted in a proper manner and on correct lines, and I can only instance the case of the "Sobraon," the marine reforma- tory ship of New South Wales. I understand that several honourable members, during a / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero recent visit to Sydney at the Commonwealth celebrations, inspected that vessel, and I trust that they will give the Council the benefit of their experience. The results achieved there prove what one man can accomplish when he has his heart in the work. Members will be surprised when I tell them that 93 per cent. of the lads who have passed through Commander Mason's hands have turned out to be good mem- bers of society: so that it can be safely said that the " Sobraon " training-ship experiment has turned out a monumental success. If lam wedded to the proposal that the training-ship should be a marine reformatory, it is because I feel that on a training-ship a career of honour- able distinction lies open to the larrikin or truant. It is mere recklessness of spirit that in many instances leads the larrikin to the edge of degradation and crime. therefore they should not be readily condemned and the brand of criminality placed upon them. Honourable members have probably read Kipling's book called " The Fore and Aft," in which a read- able story is told of the two little blackguard drummer-boys, fourteen years of age, who, had been picked up from the gutter, and who with patriotism strong within them, by their courage and example, absolutely saved the regiment Hon. Mr. Jennings doubt whatever that many of those youths that are supposed to be refractory, or are truants and absconders, have feelings of patriotism, and would turn out good men in time of war. Sir, it may be asked, what would be the cost of obtaining a vessel or vessels necessary for the purpose indicated by my motion. I think that a vessel suitable for a marine reformatory could be obtained as a gift if a request were made to the Imperial authorities by our Government. 1 had the opinion of a gentleman holding a very high position in His Majesty's navy that no difficulty would be placed in the way of obtain- ing an obsolete war - vessel. It would be a gracious act on the part of the British Govern- ment to present one of these vessels to our colony. It will probably be asked what would be the expense of working a vessel and paying a master and crew for, say, a hundred boys. I have worked the figures out. The cost of a hundred boys at $20 per head per annum would be $2,000; I would allow 5500 for con- tingeneies, such as repairs, paint, et cetera ; and for master, mate, and crew another $1,000 would be required. Therefore the total cost for the vessel would amount to $3,500 per annum. In regard to the question as to whether a second vessel should be used as an auxiliary to the larger vessel. I think that a properly equipp: d vessel similar to the one just built for the New Zealand Government, called the "Counters Raniurly," should be obtained. Supposing that a vessel of 60 tons were built, the cost of building per ton being $20, we should get a vessel for €1.200. The master, crew, and super- numeraries for this auxiliary vessel would cost about €1,000 per annum ; and the cost for the maintenance of fifty boys on this vessel for the vear would be $1,000. I therefore estimate the total cost of both vessels per annum at about €7,000. The larger vessel should be moored in Wellington Harbour, where the classification of the neglected and refractory boys could take place. They would be under strict discipline and cut off from shore communication. As they be- came advanced and showed a desire of benefit- ing themselves they could be drafted to the auxiliary vessel. The real criminal children- those that would be found in the industrial homes badly tainted-I would keep in one of the industrial homes on the land, and would not allow them to mix with those on the vessels at all. Sir, after a certain time on the auxiliary vessel I should allow the Government de- partment to have the right to put these boys on vessels-to apprentice them on vessels that are registered in New Zealand and are trading here, or, if they desired it, on vessels trading co Home ports. We could also utilise a number of them on our own fleet. At the present time. I am glad to say, our fleet is increasing. We have the " Hinemoa." the "Tutanekai," the " Countess of Ranfurly." and the " Ellen Bal- lance." The lads could be utilised as time went on on our own Government vessels, and they would prove useful in this and in other 