able gentlemen, in view of what the liabilities | have been for the last few years, whether they imagine for a moment our liabilities on Public Works Fund on the 31st March, 1902, will be under £600,000. Even with his new loan of a million, and with his transfer of $500,000 from the Consolidated Fund, he is not providing ways and means to meet his expenditure and liabilities of the coming year, if there is any faith to be placed in his statement that £1,950,000 is to be the expenditure of the year. Mr. SEDDON .- I could have borrowed that £800,000 on the 31st March. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I told you that, and have included it; but I do not want to be inter- rupted now. Now, Sir, I come to the question of the borrowing-powers the Treasurer has, and I find they are enormous. Honourable mem- bers will perhaps be surprised, and I think the country will be surprised, to know that the Treasurer has, by balances available and by loans which he is authorised to raise, if he passes his million loan for public works and his million loan for advances to settlers, available during the coming year no less than five mil- lions of money. Mr SEDDON .- No. Mr. J. ALLEN .- If he does not believe it I will give him the details. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said that, 10.30. in accordance with the order of the House, he must interrupt the honourable gentleman, as this was one of the nights when the House must adjourn at half-past ten. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) moved the adjournment of the debate. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said he must rule that the motion to adjourn the debate was out of order. By the order of the House the debate was interrupted, and the honourable member for Bruce would be entitled to resume the de- bate when the order was, on next sitting-day, again called on. The only motion he could now receive was one for the adjournment of the House. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, in accordance with Mr. Deputy-Speaker's direction, he would move the adjournment of the House, and thus conform to the ruling of the Chair. He argued before that this Standing Order should be treated the same as the Standing Order which said that on a Saturday night at midnight the Speaker simply left the Chair, and went to work again at the same business at the next meeting of the House. That was what he con- tended ; but he was over ruled. He conformed to the ruling of the Chair now, and the Order Paper would commence on Tuesday, not with the interrupted debate at half-past ten, but with the orders of the day, as the Government liked to fix them. The House adjourned at twenty-five minutes to eleven o'clock p.m. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Tuesday, 27th August, 1901. The late Hon. J. Kerr. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half-past ten o'clock. PRAYERS. THE LATE HON. J. KERR. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) .- Mr. Speaker, the duty devolves upon me of moving a resolution, out of respect to the memory of the Hon. James Kerr, and in doing so I would like to say that that honourable gentleman has been nine years a most esteemed member of the. Legislative Council. As honourable members know, he left Wellington a few days ago, and last Sunday, on his way to Greymouth, he passed to his last rest under circumstances of a somewhat pathetic character. When he left here he appeared to be in his usual condition of health, and went away in a very cheerful mood. However, on the passage he contracted an illness which has, unhappily, proved fatal. The late Hon. Mr. Kerr has been a truly repre- sentative man. In the district to which he belonged he has served on a number of the local bodies - the Harbour Board, the Edu- cation Board, the Hospital Trustees, and on other public bodies. He has also, as many members of the House know, been the pro- prietor of one of the journals published at Greymouth for a considerable period. It is to his credit that he has worked himself up from a subordinate position in newspaper life to that of a newspaper-proprietor, as well as a member of the Legislative Council. No doubt it was largely due to the experience which he gained as a Pressman, and to his knowledge gained upon local bodies, that he was selected in 1892 as one of the twelve repro- sentatives appointed for seven years to the Legislative Council by the Ballance Govern- ment. It is a singular fact that the late Hon. Mr. Kerr is the first of those twelve members who has passed away. He and his family have been held in the highest possible respect and esteem in the district in which they have lived for so many years, and I think I am echoing the sentiments of honourable members when I say that during the nine years he was a mem- ber of the Legislative Council he has not made an enemy, nor has he left behind him a single member of either branch of the Legislature who entertains an unkind feeling towards his memory. His aim was to do his best in his day and generation for his fellow-men, and this House knows full well that he succeeded in doing much good ; and it will be some consola- tion for his family to know that his many excellent qualities are appreciated by his fellow- members of the Legislative Council and by the members of this House, and that the quiet, dignified personality that he possessed will long be missed in the Chamber with which he was associated. I move, That this House do now adjourn until half-past two o'clock to- 