open to attack and easily get-at-able in case of necessity. Mr. SEDDON said, Mount Cook was invul- nerable, but he did not think it was possible to put an ammunition factory on the top of it. # WOODVILLE REFRESHMENT-ROOMS SCANDAL. Mr. O'MEARA ( Pahiatua) asked the Minister of Defence, If he will extend the scope of in- quiry of the Military Commission now sitting to the railway refreshment-room scandal at Wood- ville ? The allegations that had been made in respect to this matter had been absolutely denied in the House, and he thought it would be only fair to those who made them that justice should be done and an inquiry held. He felt perfectly confident that the charges made at the time by the ex-Mayor of Woodville and himself were practically correct in every detail. When he had asked a question on the subject previously the Premier promised that he would lay the papers on the table. Why had this not been done ? It would be not only fair to himself, but to the young ladies who made the allegations, and whose evidence was taken at Woodville, that the papers should be laid on the table so that they might be cleared from the charge of making false representations. He thought the officer in charge, Lieut .- Colonel Watt, should be asked for an explanation of his conduct. In his opinion, that gentle- man had never moved from his place at all during the whole of the disgraceful scene. He hoped the Premier would enlarge the scope of the present Commission so that further in- quiries could be made into the charges, so that the Government might be cleared from the suspicion of having no desire to make a full and satisfactory inquiry. He hoped the Minister would agree to this proposal for his own sake. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said he had stated before that, in his opinion, there were good reasons why the papers should not be laid on the table. He had no objection to the honourable gentleman seeing the papers, but nothing should be done which was calculated to bring discredit on Volunteers or the Volun- teer movement, more particularly when they did not know who were the delinquents. It would be casting a slur on every Volunteer corps and every Volunteer who had come from the West Coast on that occasion. He believed the girls, and he believed there had been an insult, and also that- whether in joke or other- wise-some things had been taken away. But honourable members knew as well as he did that, whether for business or other reasons, the restaurant-keeper was satisfied, and did not wish the matter reopened. He did not himself wish to publish through the Press anything that would bring discredit on the Volunteers. Mr. O'MEARA thought that, if it could be shown that the colonel had neglected his duty, he should be dismissed. Mr. SEDDON said that was another phase of the question ; but the Commission had con- cluded its labours, and he could not refer the matter to them. Mr. Collins # AUCKLAND DRILLSHED. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City) asked the Minister of Defence. When he hopes to have a new drillshed erected at Auckland ? Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said the plans had not yet been completed, but would. be shortly submitted. He thought the cost would be about $3,000, at which the Govern- ment would erect the drillshed on the old site. It showed the necessity for the State to insure its properties. # MR. CROSS'S PROPERTY. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) asked the Pre- mier, On whose recommendation five gentle- men were appointed to visit Mr. Cross's pro- perty and make a valuation for the Government, and whether their suitability was inquired into by the Government previous to making the appointments ? He had a list of the gentle- men appointed on this Commission, and he would like very much to know whether their suitability and character were inquired into prior to making the appointment. They should be exceedingly careful in making appointments as valuators, and those appointments should be above suspicion and cavil. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the valuation of Mr. Cross's property was made by Mr. David Gill for the Land Purchase Board, and on that valuation the recommendation of the Board was based. Accompanying Mr. Gill was Mr. Thomas Hyde, a member of the Land Purchase Board, and Mr. MeKerrow, the Inspector- General. He thought the honourable gentle- man would have nothing to say against the character of those three members of the Board, because if anything could be said against the character of the gentlemen on whose valuation the matter was done he (Mr. Seddon) should he very much surprised, and should regret it very much. He did not know of five gentlemen having been appointed to visit Mr. Cross's pro- perty, but in the near future there would be a probability of a number of witnesses visiting and inspecting the property in order to enable them to give evidence in the Compensation Court, to be held on or about the 23rd Septem- ber, and, as there was great difficulty in getting suitable witnesses, it was not desirable that they should be referred to in a public manner. As regarded the question of who might have visited the farm for the purpose of obtaining informa- tion to enable them to give evidence before the Compensation Court, he did not know who they were. Mr. O'MEARA said he could give the Premier a little information about this estate, as he had gathered all the information himself on his last visit to Woodville. He could give the honour- able gentleman the names of the gentlemen appointed to visit the estate. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) rose to a point of order. Some members had had ques- tions on the Order Paper for many weeks, and he desired to ask whether it was in accordance with the Standing Orders for members to make 1 two speeches in asking questions, and for there to be two replies from the Ministerial benches. 