our public expenditure. Honourable members may think I have spoken severely. Sir, I have said what is in my mind, and I have supported the position I have taken up by facts and figures. It is for those who hold a contrary opinion to quote facts which controvert the statements I have made. I believe the future of this colony is a great one, but it will only be great in so far as its future is one which combines progress on all important questions together with economy in administration, honesty in our Government, and that large- hearted brotherhood which, I believe, is the foundation of Liberalism everywhere through- out the world. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) .- Sir, I have listened with a great deal of interest to the speech of the honourable member for Riccarton ; but, while listening to his remarks in respect to the growth of the departmental expenditure, I cannot help calling to mind the clamouring there was last session-although I resisted it and voted against it, and will always do so -- the clamouring on the part of a number of honour- able members in this House for raising the salaries of the different officers in the Govern- ment service. An Hon. MEMBER .- Name ! Mr. ELL .- There is no need to name them. It was said that Magistrates were not paid enough ; and that the Judges were not paid enough, and then there was the further com- plaint that sufficient was not being done to- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 . wards marketing our produce that the farmers were raising in New Zealand. Under that . head there is an increased expenditure of £9,000. Then, there were complaints made http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero by a number of honourable members with regard to the Tourist Department. Now that department has been set going, and there is an increase there of about $9,000. Then we established another department, which was very much needed, though I am very sorry to say it has not borne the fruit the majority of us have expected from it. I refer to the Public Health Department. Certainly it has not been in operation for more than twelve months, but still there is a halting on the part of the heads of that department. We were in hopes that it would have the effect of stimulating the local bodies to greater activity in improving the health of their districts ; but it has not come up to our expectations in that direction, though the set- ting-up of that department means an increase in the public expenditure of nearly $7,000. These votes can be defended, no doubt ; but, on the other hand, a very considerable bill is placed be- fore us this session for cablegrams. We cannot get at them. We simply see the huge sum, and we see a considerable increase over last year. I hope we shall have a little light shed upon this particular item in the public expenditure. Then, we have an item-and this is only typical of the ground of my complaint with regard to the de- partmental expenditure-of ₺260 for the Review of Reviews. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I must call the honourable gentleman's attention to my ruling to in detail in this debate. Mr. ELL .- It seems to me that there was no need for that expenditure. We spend a lot of money every year in sending away hand-books setting forth the attractiveness of the colony, and there is no need for spending money as is proposed on the Review of Reviews ; while, on the other hand, when a man unfortunately meets with an accident on the railway and loses a limb, or loses his life and leaves a wife and perhaps five or six children, and when the Public Petitions Committee recommend a grant of £100, and that amount is cut down to £50 Sir J. G. WARD .- What case is that ? Mr. ELL .- There was the case of a man who lost an eye, and the Committee recommended a grant of £100, and that was cut down to £50. Sir J. G. WARD .- He was not killed. Mr. ELL .- No; but he lost an eye, and the statement was made that he was half a mile away from the line; but the man in this case was walking along the Hazledean Road, and near the railway-line, when a spark from the engine got into his eye, and it was taken out by a doctor, the doctor giving it as his opinion that that spark was the cause of the man losing his eyesight. The Committee recommended a grant of $100, and it was cut down to $50. Yet we have $260 proposed to be voted for the Review of Reviews, which was not needed, and which the Government were not warranted in authorising, and I shall be prepared to vote for striking that item off when it comes up in the estimates, as a protest against the spending of money in a direction which was not warranted. Then, with regard to the great increases in the public works expenditure-that expenditure has grown enormously, as has been pointed out by the member for Riccarton -- in 1893, during the present administration, £341,337, and for the current year, £1,950,000. And who has asked for the expenditure? All round this House, from year to year, there has never been enough money put down on the esti- mates to meet the demands of honourable members. It seems to me, with regard to the growth of public works expenditure, that the members of this House should take their full share of the responsibility. It is all very well to say that the Colonial Treasurer is abso- lutely responsible with regard to the increase of this expenditure; but I say that honourable members should accept their responsibility, seeing that they clamour for increased votes, and complain that the votes are not large enough. And I am only stating what are the actual facts. Then, there is another matter that I have to complain of, and that is the adminis- tration of the Lands Department. For years and years on end promises have been made on the platform by member after member, pretty well throughout the length and breadth of New Zealand, that the land-sales would be stopped, and still they are going on. Land has been sold in the immediate neighbourhood of the centres of population. Land is being sold right alongside the main trunk railway-lines, where 