The Hon. Colonel PITT .- Very well, I say what I think, with a full sense of responsibility, and I venture to say that if honourable gentle- men will speak their minds they will agree with me in what I have said. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- No. The Hon. Colonel PITT .- Well, I respect the honourable gentleman's opinion. Now, as re- gards warehouses, we had evidence on behalf of warehousemen before the Labour Bills Commit- tee, and what did it amount to ? Why, Sir, that the overtime in the warehouses, so far as it was represented to us-and I suppose we must take it that it was truthfully represented to us - was a very small matter. I think one gentle- man, and a very intelligent gentleman-Mr. Arneil, who put their case very well indeed before the Labour Bills Committee-told us that the overtime was from a minimum of three to four hours per month to twenty-four hours per month ; and what was represented was that, if we insisted upon this Bill being passed the excellent relations existing between employers and employés in the warehouses would be destroyed. Well, Sir, I quite agree with what has been expressed by the Hon. the Minister in charge of the Bill-that it is absurd to say that because the employers will have to pay an amount for overtime it will interfere with the relations existing between them at the "present time. I refuse to believe for a single instant that it will make the slightest differ- ence between employers and employés in the wholesale warehouses. Their position simply amounts to this-and it is just the same in reference to the banks : " Let us alone ; we do not want the Legislature to interfere with us at all." There are a great many people in the / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero community who do not want to be interfered with, and who say, as the Hon. Mr. Jennings pointed out, "Let us alone." And, Sir, I am surprised to see how differently honourable gentlemen can look at this question of inter- ference. We had an instance only a couple of days ago. The country settler said, " Do not interfere with me transferring my lease," and the honourable gentlemen said, " You must be interfered with, and you must not be allowed to do anything of the kind." But, Sir, when the banker comes round, and the wholesale warehouseman comes round, and says, "I do not want to be interfered with," they say, " Why should they be interfered with ?" An Hon. MEMBER .- Interfered with to their detriment. The Hon. Colonel PITT .-- " To their detri- ment ?" We have got to consider what is best in the interests of the whole community, and that is the reason why I, for one, shall vote for the second reading of this Bill. Once you admit that you are going to interfere with anybody under the Bill, then I say you must make the interference apply all round. Now, Sir, the Hon. Mr. MeLean in his argument instanced the boot trade, and said that the result of the labour legislation had been practically to de. stroy the boot trade, which, I understood him to say, was now being attempted to be saved by some decision of the Arbitration Court. circumstances other than labour legislation altogether. Hon. MEMBERS .- NO. The Hon. Colonel PITT .- Then, I put this to the honourable gentleman : We have heard a great deal about America dominating the boot trade. Why is that? It is because they have in America better machinery, and because they can specialise and work in certain lines which those in the boot trade in this colony do not possess, and cannot work in the same way. The consequence is, and any one in the boot trade will tell you, that the American manu- facturers can produce, owing to the conditions of labour and the use of the machinery there, in such large quantities that they can actually afford to dispose of portions of their surplus stock almost for nothing in this colony. An Hon. MEMBER .- They have blocked the use of the machinery in this country. The Hon. Colonel PITT .- That may be. I am not prepared to say anything upon that point, but I do say that is the reason why. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. The Hon. Colonel PITT .- Well, I will invite the honourable gentleman to read the evidence given before the Federation Commission by all the bootmakers in this colony, and he will find what the opinion of those who, I venture to say, know what they are talking about is upon that point. It is the facility of production by means of machinery in America and in the Colonies of Australia that has brought the boot trade to the condition in which it is in this colony. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why cannot we do the same here as in Australia ? The Hon. Colonel PITT .- Because we have not the machinery. An Hon. MEMBER .- You will not give us a show to use it. The Hon. Colonel PITT. - I do not wish to occupy the time of the Council longer upon this matter. I have expressed, I think, all that I intended to say when I rose. I shall support the second reading of the Bill, and I shall support the clauses in the Bill in reference to the banks and the warehouses ; and if those clauses are omitted from the Bill, well, then, I should not be sorry to see the whole Bill thrown out altogether. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- As a matter of personal explanation, I think the honourable gentleman has misunderstood me. When I got up to speak about the gentlemen in the banks and their overwork it was with regard not to this being imposed on them, but that these men, being opposed to legislative interference, had taken the precaution by this Bill being before the Council last year to alter their methods, and they now did less work at nights. But the main contention on my part was that the banks, having special work to do on account of the mail and other busy days, must neces- sarily have more than the time allowed by the Act. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- I had made up my mind not to speak on this question, be- 