the drinking customs and to close the hotels- there is too much of a negative character, and too little of the practical element, in regard to this attempt at moral reform. If something is done in this direction in the future I think it will be in providing counter-attractions, such as institutions where athletic exercises are en- couraged, pastimes, and recreations ; and thus we may draw the young people away from their only promenades, or resorts which are now for a certain class restricted to the streets and hotels. I trust that this Bill may be so amended in Committee that if it passes it will have a good effect, and therefore I shall support the second reading. Mr. HANAN (Invercargill) .- I intend to sup- port this Bill, believing as I do in the broad principle that the State has a perfect right to undertake the care of its children. I think it was Victor Hugo who said "that all the vagabondage in the world begins in neglected children." That, Sir, is, I think, in a great measure true. We know that there is fre- quently found incapacity on the part of parents to care for the mental and moral training of their children. The Government and the people should tender them the best helps. It has been said by the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) that we are casting a stigma on the young people of this colony by passing such a Bill as this. I think that the Government of this colony is doing its duty in looking after neglected children. They know very well that there are parents who have become so de- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 graded from one cause or another that they do not look after their children, who are, as a consequence, thrown upon the State, and become a menace to society. Every society necessarily reserves to itself the right to control the lives of those who endanger the common weal. It is the duty of the State to do all that is possible to insure our young people being trained to become good and useful citizens, upon the presence of which depends the future welfare of the country. It cannot be denied that frequently the evils which we have heard so much about this evening spring from the want of supervision in the home, from the absence of an exercise of parental control, and from the state of domestic religion. We have heard, Sir, from some members in this debate the old "gag " that you cannot make people sober or moral by Act of Parliament. They may as truly say that man cannot be made honest by such means. Both sayings have an equal modicum of truth. But Acts of Parlia- ment, I contend, do lessen the number of men who steal, and can be made to lessen the number of young men who get drunk. do not believe that juvenile crime in this colony is so bad as has been stated by some speakers this evening. But, even supposing things are not so bad, and the condition of affairs now existing may not render the Bill at the present time actually necessary, there is no harm in putting on the statute-book of this colony a measure such as this, which may be brought into operation when our cities . have become more densely populated, and VOL. CXVII .- 27. when the condition of affairs may render the enforcement of its provisions absolutely neces- sary. This Bill goes in the direction of pre- venting juvenile vice, and minimising evil influences to which young children may be sub- ject. To secure a salutary control over children of tender years, and whose parents are not alive to their parental responsibilities-to remove children from evil associations and bad environ- ments-in other words, to improve socially and morally children whose proper bringing up was or is neglected, are objects of the highest com- mendation. Wherever juvenile depravity or vice exists to any extent, it must have the effect of sapping the very foundations of national life. Now, Sir, I should like to have seen some pro- vision in the direction of suppressing juvenile smoking. I think there is sufficient power under the Municipal Corporations Act of last year to enable the Councils to pass by-laws dealing with this question, but so far no such highly desirable by-laws have been passed. An. Hon. MEMBER .- There is a Bill now before the House. Mr. HANAN .- Well, I think sufficient power is given under the Municipal Corporations Act, and it is a matter of regret that Councils do not take advantage of the power conferred. Now, Sir, if we look at the records of the Courts throughout the colony we cannot be blind to the fact that juvenile vice is increasing. One can hardly take up a newspaper and read the Police Court or Supreme Court pro- ceedings without coming across cases relating to juvenile crime. These Press reports of criminal cases are very often read by young children, and a great deal of barm is con- sequently done to such young readers. Dis- cretion should be exercised in the reporting of cases. No indelicate and disgusting details of cases should be allowed to be published. The honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) referred to a number of cases brought by young girls against men. But, Sir, those statements were really against his con- tention that there is no juvenile depravity in Wellington. His remarks also go to show that there are numbers of neglected children in the colony, and that they are loitering about the streets associating with bad companions, and having their minds seriously contaminated, and being in other ways degraded. If such young persons' sense of refinement, of self- respect, and dignified behaviour has been dulled in their childhood, what kind of men or women will they grow up? I have, myself, been called upon to defend men from charges brought by young girls, and in nearly all the cases the men were not convicted. The jury I disbelieved the girls' evidence, because when they were examined, and the case exhaustively gone into, it was found the children, owing to their lying propensities and bad character, were not to be believed. I do not believe in boys or girls being allowed to wander about the streets at all hours of the night without restriction. As to the proposal to appoint women Inspectors for the supervision or control of these children, I think it is a step in the right direction. And 