The Committee divided. AYES, 33. Parata Allen, E. G. Hornsby Houston Rhodes Bonnet Russell, W. R. Carneross Lang Stevens Carroll Lawry Lethbridge Symes Duncan Thompson, R. Flatman Massey Thomson, J. W. Fraser, A. L. D. McGowan Willis. McGuire Graham Mills Tellers. Hall Meredith Monk Hardy Palmer. Haselden O'Meara Hogy NOES, 19. Smith, G. J. Arnold Fisher Steward Laurenson Atkinson Mackenzie, T. Wilford. Barclay Bollard Mckenzie, R. Tellers. Millar Buddo Ell Collins Napier Russell, G. W. Tanner. Colvin PAIR. For. Against. Hanan. McNab. Majority for, 14. Motion agreed to. Progress reported. CYCLE BOARDS BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 2 .- Interpretation. Mr. WILFORD ( Wellington Suburbs moved, That progress be reported. Motion agreed to. Progress reported. RABBIT NUISANCE BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 2 .- Repeal of section 9 of principal Act. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) moved, That progress be reported. Motion agreed to, and progress reported. The House adjourned at three minutes to twelve o'clock p.m. LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Friday, 2nd August, 1901. First Readings -- Third Reading - New Hebrides Islands- Health Officer, Wellington -- Referen- dum Bill-Police Offences Bill-Mortgages of Land Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READINGS. Wellington Harbour Board Bill, State-school Children's Compulsory Drill Bill. THIRD READING. - Rhodes Trust Bill. NEW HEBRIDES ISLANDS. The Hon. Mr. W. C. SMITH asked the Minis- ter of Education, If the Government will sub- mit a resolution to Parliament urging the Imperial Government to take immediate steps to prevent further French aggressions in the New Hebrides, and also, if possible, to secure these islands for British possessions ? The reason he had put this question on the Order Paper was that he had friends in the New Hebrides who had been there for the last ton years, and they informed him that the French aggressions in these islands were getting very much worse than they had been in the past, when they had been bad enough. It seemed that what they did was this: Whenever they bought a small piece of land from the natives they then claimed nearly the whole island. The case then went before a French man-of- war captain, who maintained the claim. The result was that if something was not done he understood the islands were fast drifting into the hands of the French. He had this on the best authority from people who lived amongst the natives and understood them. He hoped the Government would see their way by reso- lution of Parliament, or in some other way, to give a strong expression of opinion in this colony that we did not wish these islands to go into the hands of the French. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said this was an important question, and was getting more important every day. The Government did not want to give up any of the rights they already possessed in these seas, or to give any opportunity to foreign nations to strengthen the position they had unfortunately been allowed to occupy. As regarded the question put by the honourable gentleman, he wished to state that, along with the Premier of the Commonwealth, the Premier of New Zealand had made joint representations to the Imperial authorities to take steps to preserve British interests in the New Hebrides. Inquiries had been urged in regard to certain reported purchases of land from the natives by the French, and it had been further urged on a Commission which was there inquiring into the subject that some gentleman should be appointed who had had experience in New Zealand as to the methods of dealing with native lands, as had been the practice in the colony. He thought it would be admitted that the Government were quite alive to the ques- tion, and were doing their best to maintain the rights of Englishmen in these seas. HEALTH OFFICER, WELLINGTON. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON said he would like to ask the Minister a question on a matter of urgency. He would like to ask the honour- able gentleman if his attention had been called to a complaint made in the public Press as to the manner in which the Health Officer at Wellington was carrying out his duties. As matters were at present the Health Ofheer was in the habit of greatly inconveniencing business people and the travelling public, and of practi- cally riding rough-shod over the community. He appeared to have a free hand. It was surely 