represented a district in Canterbury has fallen upon the honourable gentleman. I refer to Mr. Verrall, who, in season and out of season, advo- cated a State bank in this colony. But it will be a very long time before the country realises, if ever it does, that there is a necessity for a paper currency in New Zealand. I understood the honourable gentleman was going to move an amendment in favour of establishing a State bank. Why did he not have the courage of his opinions in that respect ? Mr. ELL .- I gave notice that I would move it, but I did not have time to do so. Mr. LAWRY .- Then, it was the honourable gentleman's misfortune, and not his fault. did not intend to speak to-night until I heard the speech of the honourable member for Ric- carton, a speech more full of fallacies than any I have ever heard in this House. The honourable gentleman does not understand even the kindergarten system of politics in this country. He has no knowledge of the Customs duties in this colony. Does he not realise this great fact that the Customs duties in the colony are in the main voluntary ? He said that the Customs duty per head had been rising gradu- ally. Does the honourable member not know that the Customs duties of this country could not be increased in volume unless the people had the spending-power to enable them to ex- pend their money on dutiable goods which they purchase? The honourable gentleman said that the Customs duties of this colony was so much per head of the population. There never was a greater fallacy uttered in this House or in any Parliament of the British dominions, because I know for a fact there are people who give great banquets in this country, and who pay more money in one night in the matter of Customs duties than the honourable gentleman pays in the whole twelve months. Take myself, Sir ; I smoke cigarettes. Is there . anything on the face of the earth to compel me to pay duty on the cigarettes that I may buy? It was seldom that I ever agreed with our Chief Justice, Sir Robert Stout, when he was in this House, but in reference to this particular question he pointed out to the House and the country that the country settler need scarcely pay any Customs duty at ail. He said here on one occasion that he could grow his own sheep, and eat his own mutton ; he could hive his own bees, and eat his own honey ; he could grow his own pigs. and eat his own bacon ; he could rear his own hens, and eat eggs produced on his farm. Sir, the honourable gentleman's lecture to mem- bers of this House, from start to finish, was in the worst taste I ever heard, and I hope never to hear again anything in comparison with his speech on the floor of this House. What position does the honourable gentleman occupy in this House? He only represents one man -- a majority of one, and yet the honourable gentleman presumes to rise in this House and lecture men who knew all about politics in this country when the honourable gentlemen was in a somewhat different and the present time. I would like the honourable gentleman to tell me who trusts him in this House. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- You do. Mr. LAWRY. - Do I? I believe, Sir, that if an immense pressure was brought to bear on the honourable gentleman by this House and by the country, that under that intense pressure the honourable gentleman could be induced to occupy a seat on these Ministerial benches. But there never will be any pressure. Sir, we have heard to-night the greatest "flapdoodle" I have ever heard uttered in this House. Does not the honourable gentleman know that the financial position of a country is correctly I gauged by. the amount of money that is paid in to its banking account, and the amount of money expended through the Go- vernment bank ? During the whole course of the honourable gentleman's speech he wanted to make the House first, and the country afterwards, believe that we were expending millions of money every year, and that we had nothing to represent that expendi- ture. Did not the honourable gentleman know, when he spoke about the number of men em- ployed on the co-operative works, that they were getting so much per day-that every man is virtually a contractor ; and would the honour- able gentleman insult these men by saying they are not earning the wages they are paid by the State ? Does the honourable gentleman not know that every man employed on the co- operative works is creating an asset for the State commensurate with the wages that the State pays him ? Will the honourable gentle- man deny that ? Sir, it appears to me it does not matter how much money we borrow and expend if we have an asset to represent the ex- penditure. I would like the honourable mem- ber to understand this: if we expend it judi- ciously we provide an asset to represent it. The honourable gentleman referred to the fact that only a small amount of money has been ex- pended on land for settlements in Otago and Canterbury. Why is that so ? Because of the honourable gentleman's opposition. What did the honourable gentleman do the other night ? When we had a fight to give the Government power to obtain money to secure land for settle- ment in Otago and Canterbury, the honourable gentleman denounced the whole proposal, and when the division-bell rang, where was he? He was like Moses when the candle went out -- he was in the dark entirely, hidden away in some obscure corner ; yet the honourable gentleman stands up in this House and presumes to lec- ture the Government for not having spent sufficient money in Canterbury and Otago to secure land for settlements. Does the honour- able gentleman admit that? The honourable gentleman will admit nothing that does not emanate from himself; and what emanates from himself is not worth a moment's con- sideration. Then we come to the quasi-leader of the Opposition, the member for Bruce. The member for Riccarton said the speech of the i honourable member for Bruce would be con- 