was correct or not he could not say, but that was according to the information given to him. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is wrong. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI said the honour- able gentleman seemed to be in the secrets of everybody, and he was not going to satisfy the honourable gentleman by giving the name. Time would prove whether he was right or wrong. but it was not for the honourable mem- ber to declare that he (Mr. Shrimski) was wrong. Then, the Hon. Mr. Bolt referred to Oamaru. He thought that settlement should take place there, and that the large estates should be cut up. There was no doubt that closer settlement should take place there. He (Mr. Shrimski) admitted that ; but since that settlement had taken place the population of the district had decreased, so where did the improvement come in? If the Government had done the proper thing they would have purchased land- which he had always recommended-and have cut it up and roaded it, and disposed of it on reason- able terms. That would have brought about true settlement of the land. But the cen- sus returns proved that the population of Oamaru was decreasing. It was all very well to say that they must not have the freehold, and that everything that pointed to that was bad. At the same time, as he had said before, they noticed that as soon as those who advo- cated the leasehold were in a position to acquire the freehold they did so. He was surprised at the manner in which the Hon. Mr. Ormond's motion had been received. He thought the Council ought to be thankful to the honourable gentleman for bringing this matter forward, because in doing so he would help to give honourable members information which they should be in possession of. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND wished to say only a few words in reply. He agreed that the remarks of the Minister were exceedingly temperate, and he trusted his remarks in reply would also be fair. He thought, however, that honourable gentleman entirely failed - as had also the Hon. Mr. Jones and the Hon. Mr. Lee Smith -to realise what his (Mr. Ormond's) conten- tions were. His objects in bringing forward this motion were: first, to get information which undoubtedly Parliament was entitled to, and which, therefore, he thought the Hon. the Minister was not wise in recommending the Council not to accede to, because it was infor- mation which all who had studied the subject must consider members were entitled to. But a practice was growing up in Parliament of refusing information, and that was not a de- sirable practice to follow. He was very glad to hear honourable members say that they would support him (Mr. Ormond) in getting this infor- mation. He never said that the land-for-settle- ment system should be confined to one class of land, as the Hon. Mr. Jones appeared to assume. He (Mr. Ormond) said that in the passing of the Land for Settlements Act, the main idea, and the great object of the originators of that Act, and the Minister himself who introduced settled, and that there would be in conjunction with that class of settlement some 'portions of pastoral land in the estates purchased. Of course, he knew that, as every practical man did. His honourable friend failed to answer his con- tention that the administration of the Land for Settlements Act right up to now had been, as far as he could estimate, three parts in the direc- of settling people upon small sheep-runs, and not in the direction of close settlement. And he (Mr. Ormond) contended that the administration had been unsatisfactory-that not only had agricultural settlement not gone on, but that that very important question, namely, the providing of land for the homes of artisans working in the towns, had been improperly disregarded. Next to nothing had been done in it at all. Those were his indictments, and they were perfectly plain and clear, and when read by honourable mem- bers and the people of the country they would be readily understood ; and they had not been answered. They would gradually have an insistence on the part of the people of the colony that this Land for Settlements Act should be administered in the way the people and Parliament intended. This would be one of the outcomes of the consideration that was now being given to the subject. The other main point that he wished to make clear was that when he instanced the Hatuma Estate he did so because he did not have the same know- ledge of the other properties in other parts of the colony that he had of that. What he wanted to show clearly was that, disagreeing as he did with the compulsory taking of pro- perties, the Government had acted unwisely in taking Hatuma. In other words, he maintained that they had bought at a price that was above what would permit of the profitable settlement of such an estate, and that Hatuma was not an estate suitable for close settlement. He showed that more than half of that estate had been let in fifteen blocks, averaging 868 acres each, and that each of those blocks had cost the colony £4,600, to which had to be added the cost of survey, roading, and other expenses. He said that in making that illustration he was clearly showing that any policy which was worked like that made it impossible to produce the results intended by the Land for Settlements Act. The intention of that Act was that the masses of the people should be benefited, not the few. His argument was that in that par- ticular instance the land could not be ad- ministered to advantage, and he had met with no contradiction which would be accepted as at all upsetting his premises. If he had had time, he would have liked to have gone into the question of the valuations. His argument was that the Government had recently, through their officers, very largely increased the valua- tions of property in Hawke's Bay, and that the outcome had been that they had had to pay for Hatuma, and that they would have to pay large prices for the other esates they had given notice of purchasing, and which, if taken, would mean an additional expenditure of $300,000 to £400,000. 