in the case of Natives. Generally speaking, I am in favour of compulsory attendance on their part, having due regard to the peculiar circum- stances with which they are surrounded. I would give power to the Minister of Education to work through the Committees of the dis- tricts on some rational plan to secure the attendance of Native children. I will be pre- pared to support the clauses under an amended form. I agree with my colleague that, as the Government have already a Bill on this subject introduced, we could absorb therein all the good clauses of this Bill. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City). - It is with very great pleasure that I rise to support this measure. At an early stage of this session I placed a question upon the Order Paper asking the Government " If they will intro- duce a Bill this session to amend the law relating to the prevention of truancy from schools ?" and the Hon. the Minister who acts as Minister of Education in this House gave an answer in the affirmative. It is to be hoped that the two Bills will not clash ; but, at all events, there can be no harm in passing, as the Minister himself has suggested, the second reading of this Bill at the present time. and some arrangement as to the two Bills can probably be come to later. That this Bill is required is a fact that has been pointed out by the Education Board of the Otago District for some years, and with special and particular emphasis in the last annual report, the report for the year ending 31st March. 1901. I do not propose to go into questions which are more properly dealt with in Committee as to details of this Bill. I believe that the honourable member in charge has embodied in it a great many suggestions which have been made by the / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero Otago Board, so that it will, I trust, not be neces- sary to offer any very serious criticism when the Bill goes into Committee. I should like to say a word in regard to what the honourable mem- ber for Avon said in respect to private schools. It seems to me that the difficulty of a child attending a private school, and making that an excuse for not attending regularly, might be got over by making the provisions of the Truancy Act apply to attendance at private schools just as well as to the public schools. The honourable member for Avon also referred to the system which is in force in some places of conveying children to school by arrangement amongst the country settlers, or by arrangement with the Education Board. In South Canter- bury, for instance, there are several cases in which the Board pays for the convevance of children to school. That system is found to answer admirably. It is economical, and saves the expense, for some time at least, of build- ing and staffing new schools. I desire to con- gratulate the honourable gentleman on having introduced a Bill which is very much needed, and which will have my support and assistance, and, as far as I can judge, the support and assistance of nearly the whole House, in taking it through its various readings. Mr. Carroll ing of this Bill have favourably commented upon its provisions, and I concur in what has been said, and compliment the honourable mem- ber for Palmerston. There are many useful pro- visions in it, but, inasmuch as those provisions have been referred to by previous speakers, I will not occupy the time of the House by fur- ther referring to them. I would like, however. to correct a mistake made. The honourable member for Avon, in referring to the original Act of 1877, said that that Act was drawn up on the basis of the system which obtained in Canterbury prior to the abolition of the pro- vinces. That was not so. It was based on the system of education that obtained in the Provin- cial District of Nelson. Nelson was considered to be in advance of every provincial district of the colony upon the question of education. I recollect the time when the Bill of 1877 was drawn up under the supervision of the Hon. Mr. C. C. Bowen, of another place. Now, Sir. in reference to irregular attendance of children whose parents place so little value on the free education afforded by the State to the children in this colony, I am of opinion that any parent neglecting to see that his children gets the benefit of free education is committing a serious offence against the State, and I think it would be wrong to be lenient out of respect to the feelings of such parents. When the North Canterbury Education Board had under con- sideration the appointment of a Truant Officer I strongly recommended that the offer made by the Justice Department, that the police should be available to the Education Boards of the colony to act as Truant Officers, should be accepted. I venture to say that one visit of a policeman to a neglectful parent would have more effect than half a dozen visits of a Truant Officer. As to hurting the feelings of parents, that does not come into the ques- tion at all, because they are not entitled to consideration. I say the sooner we abandon this idea, and utilise the Police Force of the colony, and insist upon those children who do not attend school attending regularly and thus fitting them to discharge the functions of citizenship. the better. There is another por- tion of the Bill that I approve of, and that is that this compulsion of children shall extend to private schools as well as Government schools. 1 recollect that one of our Magistrates in Canterbury drew my attention to a case of neglect on the part of a parent in the education of a girl that was brought before him. This girl was some sixteen years of age, and had committed an offence, and \- when called upon to sign her name she could not do so. It came out that when the Truant Officer went to the house of the parent of this girl he was told that she was attending a denominational school ; and the Truant Otheer. taking for granted that the statement was cor- rect, went away and took no further action in the matter. As a matter of fact, that girl was attending no school at all. So far as this Bill goes in the direction of compelling all to attend \- 