and another a million of money ; but they all want to tie the Government to not more than £500,000. What does it all come to ? An Hon. MEMBER .- What do you say ? Sir J. G. WARD .- I say that the responsi- bility is with the Government, and, if the Government make a mistake in asking for a lower sum than a million of money for this office, in the course of time it will be judged by what they are doing, and those who have no re- sponsibility, and urge that we should get too little money, would be the very first to condemn us. If this money is to be obtained at 3 per cent., we will only be able to do it by placing the money on the London market when the proper time arrives. There seems to be an attempt to make the Government give more than 4 per cent. for the money, and this is another way of crippling the office, and to do this they would do a serious injury to the settlers of the country. I rose only in consequence of some observations I heard in the course of this debate from the last speaker. I felt grieved to find that there were members willing to do in- jury to the settlers of the country by crippling an institution which has added materially to their prospects, welfare, and happiness, and which will continue to do so, despite the op- position of those honourable members who have done their best to destroy or cripple this most valuable institution. Mr. STEVENS (Manawatu) .-- I rise 1.0. to make a personal explanation. The https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 member for Franklin has stated here that he intended to cancel the "pairs " recorded with respect to this question. I wish to say that during the time I have occupied the position of Whip I have worked most amicably with that honourable gentleman, and have found him courteous and considerate in every respect, but I deny emphatically that any suggestion or proposition of any kind was made by him for the cancellation of any "pairs." I have re- ceived no such intimation, nor has my co- Whip. Mr. MASSEY .- Yes; the other Whip, Mr. Carncross. Mr. STEVENS .- I think that when a " pair " has been recorded it should be retained, and not cancelled without the express consent of both parties concerned. I would not undertake to break the "pairs " of any members, and it has been a surprise to me, this statement of the honourable member for Franklin that he in- tended to cancel the "pairs." I regret it very much, and hope that he may reconsider bis determination. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- On this question of "pairs " you, Sir, will remember that on the occasion of the Address in Reply the Premier did something that nobody expected and that had probably never been done in this House since the foundation of the colony. He called for a division on the Address in Reply on the question that a respectful Address be presented to His Excellency. I said at the time that it was a most unusual thing to do, and I objected to any "pairs " being recorded. I told Mr. Carncross, who was the Acting-Whip at the VOL. CXVII .- 38. time, that on any future occasion when a division was called for by the Government Whips I would refuse to take the responsibility of signing the "pairs," because it was putting those members who had gone home, and who did not know what was coming on, in a false position ; and I say again that when a division which can serve no useful purpose except to flatter the vanity of the Premier is called for by the Government Whips I shall refuse to sign the "pair" sheet. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- With re- gard to this question of "pairs," it is not that any one objects to taking a division when necessary, but we do object when there is no need for a division. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) .- I fail to see why this question has been introduced by the honourable gentleman, as his name has never been referred to in connection with the "pairs." I ask you to rule, Sir, if the honourable gentle- man is in order. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I cannot see that the question of "pairs " has anything to do with the debate on the Advances to Settlers Bill. Mr. HERRIES .- The Minister for Railways was not affected personally by the question of "pairs," but he was allowed to refer to it at con- siderable length. Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER .- My attention had not been drawn to the fact. Mr. HERRIES .- It seems to me, Sir, that you allowed the Minister for Railways to go very fully into the question of "pairs." I, ap- parently, am not to be allowed. Sir J. G. WARD .- I replied to the member for Franklin. Mr. HERRIES .- Why should I not reply to the Minister for Railways ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - My attention having been called to the matter, I must rule it is out of order. Mr. HERRIES .- Very well. With regard to the Bill, I suppose I may speak on the question of the Bill in reply to the Minister for Railways. Sir, the Minister for Railways called attention to the different figures given by different mem- bers of the House. These different figures are entirely due to the different figures given by the Ministers in charge of the Bill. I say "Ministers," because apparently there are two Ministers in charge. An Hon. MENBER .- Three. Mr. HERRIES. - Well, the Minister for Railways was too wise to put the figures down in this debate, nor did he do so in the second reading, though he did in Committee, where he was not reported. But the Premier, on the second reading, gave us the sum of £760,000 as being left out of the original loan, against which there was £200,000 pledged, which left £560,000. The Premier said also, in his speech on the second reading, there was £560,000 of liquid assets on the 31st March. The Minister who was in charge of the Bill gave us also on the second reading the sum of £760,000, and said a certain sum had to be placed against it, but he did not state the exact sum. Now, in 