and said I should not take notice of what the man said. I pointed out what was required. She said, " The absence arose because the doctor did not like certain things there." I then had to go to an important meeting, and went out of Dunedin next morning, but I wired to a friend of mine to see the doctor in attendance. The doctor in attendance was indignant that he should have been interfered with, and resented the interference. Now, can a continuous cir- cumstantial story like that be upset by the mere denial of the Chairman of the institution, who never was present, and never witnessed it. Mr. ARNOLD .- What about the food ? Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- I did not say any thing about the food in my speech in the House, but I did point out to my friend that I thought this patient ought to get a few more delicacies, and asked him to represent that also to Dr. Macpherson. And let me say too, on behalf of the institution, that after Mr. Roderick Mckenzie saw Dr. Macpherson the conditions very materially improved, and I should say that the fear which the patient expressed to me that he would be worse treated if made known was a fear I do not think he was justified in making. One great reason why I have brought this matter up is because of the conduct of the doctor to that dying man. After he was told he was suffering, the doctor went to him and bullied him, and declared he had no right to mention to any man the conditions under which he was placed. Sir, I remember visiting the late Sir John MeKenzie, who suffered from a bladder complaint like my friend, and I remember telling him and Lady Mckenzie the circumstances, and they said they could feel, and feel deeply, for that unfortunate man, http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero placed in those unfortunate circumstances, and Sir John expressed the hope that I would not let it pass. I say, therefore, that those men who consider first of all that Parliament is not the place to ventilate grievances are endea- vouring to infringe upon the rights of Parlia- ment. And it is the duty of members of this House to fearlessly state these things, even if it is unpopular to attack some of these strong institutions. I have shown my friend the member for Dunedin City the notes which I took of the events as they occurred, so that he is perfectly familiar with the case, and I think he will confess that they are ar- ranged in a manner to indicate that something must have occurred which justified me in writing the notes on that subject and occasion. I say, then, we have a right to come here and explain any abuses. Some people are always threatening libel actions, and I think it is a pity they do not bring them on. They would find they would be frustrated. I have myself been threatened with libel actions for what I have stated in this House with regard to the dis- honest practices that are going on in connection with the meat trade. Last year Mr. Weymouth, manager of the Belfast Meat-freezing Works, in Canterbury, said my remarks could not remain unanswered. I stated that his grade for large parcels and the prices of his best brand were not so high as those of another factory, and that was the answer he made. In his letter he states :- " As your statements are being freely can- vassed and discussed in Canterbury, you will see that in justice to ourselves we cannot allow them to remain long unanswered, and I trust, therefore, that you will endeavour to supply data as soon as possible." Sir, I have made much more serious charges in this House since; and what reply has he made? After waiting for three or four weeks he puts in the feeblest possible reply. He does not deny one single allegation, but merely states that they are going on grading their meat, and are able to sell the meat on the c.i.f. certifi- cate. Then my friend the member for Ashley attacks the reply that was made by the freezing company, and says in a plain way, " Let us get from you a plain statement of fact. Did Mr. Mackenzie tell the truth regarding the frozen- meat industry, or did he not ? That is what the farmers of the country want to know. We do not want to know whether you are continuing to freeze so many hundreds of thousands of sheep, or whether Mr. Mackenzie has some particular grievance against you. We want to know whether the truth has been told or not." Now, I will tell the House what I have done. I have attacked four or five of the most powerful interests. I have attacked the asses- sors ; I have attacked the insurance companies, because of their neglect in connection with the trade ; and I have attacked the meat salesmen, the shipping companies, and the grading of the country ; and what the manager of the Belfast Company is no doubt waiting to do is to get a combination of those interests to work up a combined case, and when he gets them dove- tailed into one he will try and make a case of it. But I challenge him now to deny the state- ment I have made when I said that he slumped as many as a thousand sheep together, ranging from 45 1b. to 80 1b., and I challenge him to show that the highest class of his grading will command, regularly, c.i.f. on the London market, as high a price as the highest Eclipse class of grading of the other meat company in Christchurch. These, Sir. are the main facts. I did not expect to talk at any length when I rose. I simply stood up to say that members have a right to have their speeches printed and circulated. Their remarks ought to be circulated throughout their electorates and throughout the colony, in order that the people may know what their representatives are doing. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .- Sir, I desire for a short time to refer to the question of reprint- ing members' speeches-a question that was brought up by the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher). On two previous occasions I brought this matter under the notice of the Government, and did not receive a satisfactory reply. Some of the newspapers of the colony took up the matter and wanted to browbeat me for what I had said. Sir, I consider the action I have taken was in the interests not only of the House, but of the country. Sir, I consider it was an unwarrantable interference with the 