member for Bay of Plenty says, " Good gracious." Well, Sir, I hope that, seeing our Judges are complaining of the growth of crime amongst our young people, and that the Magis- trates complain about the growth of crime among young people, and that the honourable member has taken up his residence in this country as a citizen, he is not going to treat lightly a question of this description, and laugh and ridicule what are absolute and plain facts. I do not mind ridicule, because I am a little thick in the skin so far as ridicule is concerned. Now, Sir, I hope the Minister will agree to fix the age at sixteen years, and not fourteen. An Hon. MEMBER. - Make it fifteen years. Mr. ELL .-- I will accept fifteen years as a compromise, but I would prefer sixteen. Then, Sir, in regard to clause 11, which gives power to the police to enter and search any house or other premises occupied or frequented by pros- titutes or gamblers, that applies only to boys ; but it should also apply to girls, and give the police authority to search in cases of girls drift- ing into places of ill-repote. There is just one matter I should like to refer to in regard to our young people. Perhaps it may be a little out- side this, but it is just as well to touch upon the various phases of this question. I now wish to refer to the duty of our local bodies in this re- spect. Only last week at half-past one o'clock I was on one of the vessels in port when twolittle lads came up to sell papers. I asked one what his age was, and he said seven years and a half. " What standard are you in? " I asked, and he https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 replied, "I do not know." " What class are you in ?" I asked : "I do not know," was the response. I asked the other boy what his age was, and he said ten years and a half. " What standard are you in ? " I asked. "The second," he said. " Have you been to school to-day ?" I asked, and he said " No." I simply wish to mention this fact as showing that there is some necessity for the local authorities - either edu- cational or city -- by establishing by-laws, as they have in many towns in the Home-country and as they now have in Christchurch, to exercise control over the street-trading child- ren. Members must have remarked them- selves that there are more small children-boys and girls -- selling papers on the streets here, and sometimes late at night, than in any other town in the colony. It does not reflect credit on the municipal authorities, and it is high time we had by-laws in operation here, as we have in Christchurch, to restrict trading by children. Unless they are decently clad and have had a decent schooling they ought not to be allowed to trade, and then only up to a reasonable hour at night, which can be definitely fixed. That will go a long way towards preventing many lads starting on a downward course. It is not the most desirable thing that young boys and girls should be running in and out of hotels, billiard-rooms, and theatres selling literature, some of which I do not consider very high class. I shall cordially support the second reading of the Bill, and I trust that in Com- mittee the amendments will be made that I Mr Ell power to go into undesirable resorts and take out girls as well as boys whom they may find there, and also that the age may be raised to sixteen years from fourteen. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- I think it about time we woke the House up, or we will soon all be dead. It is clear the Government is not ready with the business of the session, otherwise the honourable gentleman who intro- duced this Bill would not ask men of robust mind to waste their time discussing such flap- doodle as this. The last two evenings have been wasted discussing measures of no consequence whatever to the State. As I say, the clear reason is that the (Government is merely killing time because of its unpreparedness. Again, I ask, why is this Bill introduced ? And that question brings me at once to the remarks of the honourable member for Wellington Suburbs, who says he deems this Bill to be a necessity. In consequence of what ? In consequence, as he says, of the immoral con- dition of the juvenile population of Wellington. Now, Sir. the honourable gentleman displayed a surprising knowledge of the haunts and vices of the immoral and degraded classes of this city. I was surprised at the completeness of that knowledge. I would not care to have passed through such associations myself. But, Sir, I utterly deny the existence of such a condition of things as the honourable gentleman described, and I will give to the House the opinion of men whose duty it is to inquire into matters of this kind, and to probe them to the very bottom. In dealing with this branch of the subject, I leave out of consideration the persons belonging to the " social purity society " -- the poke-your- nosc-into - other - people's - business society, or whatever you may choose to call it-for I deny the right of these people to invoke the aid of the State to carry out their whims and fads. Why do not these prudes content themselves by giving public expression to their views and intentions as members of a private association ? Why should they be privileged to invoke the aid of the Legislature to give effect to what they deem to be the proper method of managing the morals of the community ? I am quite aware that the Ministers' Association of Wellington and the ladies of the social purity society point to me as an ogre, a monster, a something to be shunned and avoided by the juvenile population of the city ; but all the others of the people of Wellington know that, like the late Professor Blackie, I have an inborn hatred of cant and humbug : and I go so far as to say that among the great bulk of the population of this city my opinions on the subject of the morals of the people carry as much weight as if they were expressed from the pulpit, or from the platform of the social purity society. Now, in 1897 a similar agitation was started in Wellington to What that which has been set afoot now. happened then ? The agitation was the result of six cases of indecent assault which were brought before the Supreme Court. These six cases were deemed by the social purity society sufficient to justify panic legislation. Represen- 