lending up to 50 per cent. on the value of the improvements on those leaseholds, and that, I think, is a very fair advance. Now, it does not seem to be generally understood that if a borrower wants to know what his place is valued at he can send to the office and the Superintendent will give him the informa- tion. I should like to say, also, in reply to the honourable member for the Grey, Mr. Guinness, and the honourable member for the Southern Maori District, Mr. Parata, who in the inte- rests of their constituents both referred to the necessity for extending the measure so as to enable advances to be made on Native leases held under the Nelson and West Coast Native Reserves Act, that their proposal is a matter I can give no definite answer on ; but I will bring their request before Cabinet and advise them what decision is arrived at later on. Sir, I have to thank honourable members for their fair and reasonable criticisms of the measure, and I am pleased to see so much unanimity, for I can gather by the look of members around me they are all in favour of the measure, although there is a slight difference of opinion as to the amount which should be borrowed. In con- clusion, I can assure honourable members after the Bill passes there will be the same care exercised in raising the money as the Go- vernment has displayed in the past, and full consideration given as to what amount it is advisable to raise at a time. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton). -- I wish to make a personal explanation. The honour- able gentleman stated that I misinterpreted the position with regard to the $175,000 I said would be available for mortgages and instal- ments in addition to the amount in hand. Mr. MILLS .- €155,000. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- It was $155,000 last year, and I estimated with the increased sum lent during last year, it would be about £175,000 this year. To show that I am cor- rect I desire to quote the 3rd subsection of section 55 of "The Government Advances to Settlers Act, 1894 " :- "The Colonial Treasurer may, however, from time to time direct the Public Trustee to pay over such sinking fund, or any part thereof, to the Superintendent for reinvestment on mort- gages under this Act as part of the Debenture Fund, and the Public Trustee shall obey such direction." Mr. MILLS .- I still think the honourable gentleman mixed up the figures, and very much so too. Bill read a second time. # RATING ON UNIMPROVED VALUES BILL (No. 1). Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- This Bill is simplicity itself. I will read clause 2 of the Bill to honourable members to save time :- "From and after the commencement of this Act all rates shall be made and levied on the 'unimproved value ' of 'land' as such terms are respectively defined in section two of ' The Government Valuation of Land Act Amend- ment Act, 1900.'" Mr. Mills Now, that is the Bill. I might have said this Bill is a repeal of section 6 of "The Rating on Unimproved Value Act, 1896." At the pre- sent time, before rating on the unimproved value can obtain under section 5 there has to be a percentage of the ratepayers to petition the local body. A poll has to be taken, and if the proposal is carried by a majority, then the Rating on Unimproved Value Act applies to that local district. That is the existing law. Public opinion and experience has proved that there should be no necessity whatever for taking polls declaring whether or not the Act should apply. I am speaking now from experience. In the number of polls which have been taken I think there have been only five or six where the proposals have been rejected, as against some forty that have been carried. The feeling throughout the country is that there ought to be one system, and I say it is a safe system. I should be surprised to hear any member of the House defending rating under the present conditions. The improving squatter, the im- proving farmer, and the improving frecholder, either in town or country -- I say, as the law now stands he is penalised locally for his thrift and for his improvements. That is what is the matter. The man who will not improve, who will not employ labour, and who simply makes his money on tussock, gets the advantage, because his neighbour who has im- proved is taxed for local rates three times as much in some instances as the man who makes no improvements. I say there is only so much money wanted to be raised for local purposes. and I say it is unfair, in respect to local taxation, to penalise the improver. And I say again, if it is fair and right and righteous that for taxation. for raising money for the nation, you shall raise your money on the unimproved value, exclud- ing improvements, how can you consistently, then, say that for local purposes there shall he another system ? It is illogical entirely, and 1 am satisfied that if you had a referendum to- morrow of this country on this question --- An Hon. MEMBER. - There is no chance while you have got the present Upper House. Mr. SEDDON .- I am surprised at the delight of honourable members at the Bill being thrown out in another place. It shows they were in- sincere in supporting it in the House. I should not be surprised if they have been using their influence with the members of the other House to throw out that Bill. I am surprised at the delight of honourable members opposite when I mentioned the word " referendum," and said if a referendum were taken- An Hon. MEMBER .- We knew it would be thrown out. Mr. SEDDON .- I read of a lady the other day who for fortune-telling lost her liberty ; and the member for Waitemata, if he goes on prophesying like this, will run a risk. But let us come back to the question at issue. 8.30. The question at issue is whether or not we ought to rate for local-government purposes on the unimproved value. I say that as intro- duced this year it is even in its infancy, but the results are most encouraging. It does not 