not think it required very much more elucida- tion from him. Living as he did in the district, and knowing full well the circumstances of the case, he might be allowed to make a few remarks in the direction of what the honourable gentle- man had just said. His honourable friend had alluded to the Act of 1894. Well, that Act gave power to the local Corporations to build abattoirs, and Dunedin was the very first place in the colony to take advantage of that Act. The late Mr. Fish very persistently brought forward the question in Dunedin, and as a result of his efforts, after some degree of delay, the City Council took the matter in hand, and the taking of a ballot for the erection of the abattoirs was proceeded with. Well, follow- ing upon that Act, the Corporation of Dun- edin, as the honourable gentleman had said, in passing its by-laws practically put an end to the business of these petitioners. It was impos- sible for them to carry on at all, because the meat had all to be inspected by the Abattoirs Inspector, and there were, generally speaking, so many difficulties thrown in the way that it was perfectly impossible for them to do any busi- ness. Consequently, they had to close up their works, and kill at the Corporation abattoirs. The whole position, then, was this: There was no great movement at that time in the direction of making the killing of stock at the abattoirs compulsory, but it was seen by the experience of Dunedin-and the fact that no person would buy meat unless it was killed at the abattoirs- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 it was seen by the people of the colony generally and by the Government that it would be a good thing to make the system compulsory, and therefore that eventually was done. His view of it-and he hoped honourable gentlemen would take the same view-was that, these people having been the pioneers in abattoirs, and the two petitioners being the chief sufferers, it was simply a matter of equity that those who had so suffered through the instalment of a sys- tem which was afterwards found to be a benefit to all should be placed in the same position as those who subsequently came under the opera- tion of the Act when the Government made the compulsory Act to apply all over the colony. Under the Act of 1900 the petitioners would have been entitled to compensation. Supposing a similar voluntary system were brought to bear on the butchers' shops, and some borough in the colony were to adopt that system and pass a by-law-empowered to do so by the Government, as in the case of the original Slaughtering Bill-a very stringent by-law that . the butchers should be under rigid inspection, and that all who did not conform to that should have their shops closed. He assumed that that case would be regarded by the Council as parallel to the present one. Then, if, Dunedin or any other borough having done this, it was found from experience to be an enormous safeguard and advantage to the people, and supposing the Government were to take up the question and make it compulsory all over the colony, applicable to all butchers' shops, and grant compensation to those who garded as entitled to be compensated just in the same way as those whose premises had been closed under the compulsory Act. That was the principle, and that might apply exactly to a great many other grievances when things were done for the general benefit, and hardship inflicted upon individuals. He considered that these people had a very great claim upon the colony. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH said, in his opinion, they had such a claim. Dunedin had led the way, and then Nelson and Invercargill followed. He thought there were only two or three slaughtermen in Nelson, and two or three in Invercargill, and the whole amount of com- pensation that would be required for the three places would not, he thought, be more than about £1,500. He was very sorry the Com- mittee had not given this matter the considera- tion it deserved, and did not view it in an equitable light. The claim was one for which they could find any number of parallels, and was, he thought, one that should recommend itself to the Government and to the Council as very worthy of consideration. He would not say anything more, as the honourable gentle- man and he had explained the full circum- stances of the case. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI said he had hap- pened to be a member of this Committee, and remarked that it seemed very strange to him that his colleague the Hon. Mr. Bolt should move in this direction. The matter had come before the Committee, and had been fairly con- sidered, as the report proved. The Secretary of the Stock Committee had been before the Com- mittee, and had given his evidence very fairly, carefully, and distinctly, favouring neither the Government on the one side nor the petitioners on the other. The petition had been reported upon to the effect that it was not within the province of the Council or of the Government to pay compensation to those whose business had been stopped prior to the coming into force of the Act providing for compensation. If there was any compensation to be paid in these cases it must be paid by the City Corporation of Dunedin, and not by the State. An Hon. MEMBER .- The other compensation is paid by the State. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI said that was after the coming into force of the Act ; but these places had been closed before the Act had come into force. They had been forced to close their premises because of the act of the Muni- cipality of Dunedin, and the places had been closed for three or four years before the general Act came into force. Then, some years after their businesses had been closed these people brought forward claims for compensation. An Hon. MEMBER .- They had petitioned for two or three years. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI said it did not matter if they had petitioned for fifty years ; they had petitioned in respect of what had happened before the Act came into force, and the only conclusion he could come to was that 