which was made as far back as 1893. It was a report made to the Minister of Mines of that date, and referred to what the position of some mine was eight years ago ; and, in the case of country which was as faulty as the West Coast country was reported to be, it might be quite possible that the conditions were now absolutely and entirely changed. Mr. GUINNESS said he might be allowed to explain that the honourable member evidently misunderstood the facts in this matter. This particular mine was shut down before 1893, and nothing had been done to it since. Captain RUSSELL said, Of course, it was possible that he did not grasp all the facts of the position. But at the same time he did say that the principle of allowing state- ments to come in after reports had been presented, and such statements to be taken as authoritative, when the persons making them had not been subjected to cross-examination, was most improper. They had reports and opinions forwarded to the Federation Commis- sion to show that certain persons disagreed with the evidence given by other people, but on every such occasion the Commission had decided that, if these persons were not prepared themselves to come before the Commission and have their statements subjected to cross-exami- nation and inquired into by other persons who knew the facts, these statements of theirs could not be received. They were free to come before the Commission and make their statements there. He thought it would be extremely wrong if, by a decision of the House, they https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 were tacitly to assent to an er parte statement having the same authority as statements made in open inquiry before the Commission. He hoped the House would not agree to that. / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) altogether dissented from the opinions expressed by the ex-leader of the Opposition. In limine the very argument of the honourable gentleman, that the persons who signed this document had not submitted themselves for cross-examination, was met by the statement of the honourable member for the Grey, who complained that the persons who gave evidence before the Commis- sion were not subjected to cross-examination. The cases were exactly on all-fours. His opinion was that the statements contained in this paper should be treated as the honourable gentleman said they ought to be treated, as purely er parte. To that extent they were of so much value and no more. The honourable gentleman went further than that, and he said, " What right had persons to express opinions now who were afraid to appear before the Com- mission ?" He (Mr. Fisher) had in his mind the course of procedure adopted by the Federation Commission : were the persons who did not appear before that Commission afraid to appear ? They were not afraid to appear, but. as they were not invited, they did not care to impertinently obtrude themselves upon the meetings of the Commission. They had no opportunity of appearing. Persons holding certain opinions were invited to appear ; but Captain Russell present time-more might be said about it on a future occasion. They had noticed from the proceedings of that Commission how the evi- dence was-well, they must not say carefully selected, because that would perhaps be going too far. But it was not exceeding the bounds of prudence to inform the honourable gentleman that there were strong feelings abroad in regard to the proceedings of that Commission, and he would venture to say that those feelings had been much more strongly expressed than was anything the honourable gentleman had said in reference to the proposal to admit this statement in opposition to the findings of the Coal Commission. The honourable gentle- man's objections were altogether untenable. If this statement was ex parte, what fear need there be in giving publicity to an ex parte statement ? It was valuable to that extent and no more. He certainly thought that persons so intimately acquainted with the whole question as these gentlemen who had signed this statement should have some op- portunity to express the opinions they held in regard to what undoubtedly was a very large question as affecting the citizens of the colony. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) said he might perhaps throw a little light on the sub- ject. The position was, he thought. as fol- lows: A Commission had been appointed to take evidence regarding the working of the coal-mines in the colony. It visited all the important coal centres North and South, and took evidence in each place. The position of the present applicants was that they had evi- dently seen some of the evidence as published in reports of the proceedings of the Commission and had sent a statement, and he had been asked if he would include it in the Commission. He had no power to do any such thing. The position the honourable gentleman took up with regard to the paper, was that it should be included with the evidence taken before the Commission. He thought that would be irre- gular ; but he had no objection to the public knowing all about the matter. But all parties had had an opportunity of giving evidence, and this was a statement made by certain people after seeing some of the evidence, in a manner rebutting that evidence, he presumed. The Commission having closed their sittings, there was no power to include this or have it printed with the report. He had no objection to the whole statement being printed and issued if the House wished ; but he submitted it could not form part of the report or evidence before the Commission. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) was glad to hear the Minister had no objection to this paper being laid on the table and printed. He thought it should be. He understood there was no evidence taken in the Brunner district as to the quantity or quality of coal in the Wallsend Mine. An Hon. MEMBER .- Yes, there was. Mr. FLATMAN .- Well, if the honourable member for Caversham would tell him when that evidence was taken he would be much 