of money can be of any use to a country, and that to issue paper in excess of specie is robbery ? " That is a distinct answer to the statement made by honourable members that it is dan- gerous to create credit without a certain pro- portion of specie at the back of it. If we limited the amount of our currency in this country to, say, 75 per cent. of notes to every 25 per cent. of gold, it would stop progress in every direc- tion. We do not carry on the business of this country by simply one-pound notes and the silver and gold we have got here. The progress of this country has been helped along by the credit created by bankers; it is by credit that we have practically constructed our public works and carry on nearly all the different institutions and industries in New Zealand. Now, to show that there is another real danger with regard to this control of the currency by the bankers, I will refer members to a speech made by the late Mr. Ballance. When in Supply on the 4th September, 1885, Mr. Bal- lance said, --- "There was a fear on the part of the banks that, in the case of a cruiser coming to one of these ports, there would be a run on the banks, and there was a threat made that, unless some- thing was done to protect the ports, a large portion of the bullion held against the note- issue would be sent over to Melbourne ; and no doubt that threat would have been carried out if the Government had not taken steps to have the ports fortified." There is a pretty position for the currency of the country to be in-the Premier stating that unless the country was prepared to thoroughly fortify the ports and spend money http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero in that direction they would ruin the currency of the country by shipping the gold that was at the back of it out of New Zealand ; and that is the position we are in at this present day. It seems to me that it is a question that should engage our attention-that we should have our currency on a more secure footing than we have at present. The banks have no right to be in the position to threaten to ship the gold out of the country, or to do anything to dis- locate the currency, thereby injuring the whole country. Now, with respect to this question, I may say that a proposition was made by Mr. Verrall, a member of this House in 1890, in favour of the State assuming sole control of the currency, and on that division I find the names of Mr. Ballance, Mr. Duncan, and Mr. Hall- Jones as having voted for it. Mr. HALL-JONES .- What was that on ? Mr. ELL. -- There is no necessity for the honourable gentleman to think lightly of the vote which he gave on that occasion, because it was a vote which, I venture to say, goes in a very proper direction. In addition to that, in regard to the State assuming the whole control of the currency, we have the Hon. Mr. Ward stating in 1899 that, in his opinion, it was only right that the State should take control of the cur- rency and the issue of notes from the Treasury in Wellington, and we have the Premier also VOL. CXVII .- 44. we have Ricardo stating that he considered that the State should assume the sole responsibility of the issue of notes, and Mr. Gladstone has also given his opinion in the same direction, and a number of others whom I could mention. I do not ask that the State should not have gold be- hind the notes. They could have the gold, and carry on banking in the same way that bankers do. That could be done easily by the Govern- ment, and we should then have our currency on a far more secure footing than we have it now. We have in deposits, which are at call in the banks and the Post-Office Savings-Bank, a sum nearly equal to thirteen millions of money, and yet we have only two millions of gold in the country. Supposing there was a run, could these demands be met ? Obviously they could not be met. Yet it is said you must have gold behind the notes ; but the fact of the matter is this : that the currency of this country simply circulates on the confidence of the com- munity, and not really on the gold basis, and without confidence our currency could not hold out for a day. To give an illustration, as show- ing what has been done for the bankers in New 'Zealand at present, from 1895 to 1900 the Go- vernment have paid to the Bank of New Zealand interest to the amount of $206,785 on Treasury bills. They have simply created credit on the note of hand of the Colonial Treasurer, and they have charged the Government of New Zealand $206,785 for creating that credit. What 1 say is this : that if the Manager of the Bank of New Zealand, in his parlour, on simply a note of hand from the Colonial Treasurer, can create credit to this extent, and then charge the Go- vernment interest on that credit, then I say that the manager of a State bank could do the same and save the country that interest. There would be more security behind a State bank than behind the private banks. Then, we had the statement from the Minister in charge of the Advances to Settlers Department, and from the Premier, that the Bank of New Zea- land have advanced the Government $239.000 during the last financial vear, simply on their note of hand ; that is, the bank created this credit in favour of the Government, and the Government have simply operated on it by means of cheques in the ordinary way. Now, Sir, if honourable members are so very anxious to reduce the interest charges, then the best thing that they can do is to give the Govern- ment all the moral support they can to induce them to establish a State bank of issue, which will put our currency on a more secure footing, which will advance credits to the Government and credits to the local bodies. This is a work which is carried on by banks in other countries. The Bank of Scotland, which has a Roval charter, the Bank of England, which has a Roval charter, and the Bank of Ireland, which has a Royal charter, are all to a certain extent State banks, and they advance credits in favour of the British Government. In Sweden they have had for many years a State bank, but that belongs absolutely to the State. The directors are elected for three years. It is a bank of de- 