remark I made was, "I shall therefore sup- port any motion that may be framed for the purpose of reducing the amount borrowable under this Bill to the sum of one million." But, if the honourable gentleman has come forward and reduced his proposal by 50 per cent., will he not give me a right to the same privilege? The honourable gentleman came down first with a proposal to borrow two millions, and he cuts that down by 50 per cent. Then, when I looked more carefully into the figures than I had been able to do on the 2nd August, when the proposal was first made, and when I have ascertained, as I have done since, what a critical position the colony is in in the way of borrowing that has been going on, I say that I am not prepared to place in the hands of the Ministry the power to raise so much more money than is absolutely necessary for the purpose of carrying on this department. And now I shall show exactly what the posi- tion at the present time is, and, taking the Premier's own figures, I shall prove that the half-million I voted for would have been ample to carry on the department for the next two years. I say hat, according to the statements both of the Premier and of the Minister in charge of the Bill, there was in hand on the 31st March unraised moneys to the amount of $560,000. Now, in connection with that I assert further that during the current year there will be available for reinvestment no less a sum than $175,000. I arrive at that state- ment in this way : 1 hold in my hand H .- 12, the report of the Public 'Trust Office, and on page 4 of that report I find that the Public Trustee gives a return showing the amounts withdrawn for reinvestment by the Super- intendent under "The Government Advances to Settlers Act. 1894." Now, in the year 1899 there was #171,000 withdrawn by the Superin- tendent from the hands of the Public Trustee for reinvestment. In 1900 there was a sum of $118,000, and in 1901 a sum of #134,000. These sums have been withdrawn by the Su- perintendent of the Advances to Settlers Office from the Public Trustee, and are the moneys paid over under the 1-per-cent. payment, piu. the interest that is received by him ; and, having no object in leaving those moneys in the hands of the Public Trustee, they are withdrawn for reinvestment in mortgages. Now, since that return was prepared large sums have been lent. For instance, during last year the department lent out $539,000 ; and I venture to say, there- fore, that my estimate of £175,000 being avail- able from this fund for reinvestment will prove to be correct. If that is the case, and one adds the #175,000 to the ±560,000, there will be during the current year the sum of £735,000 available for the purposes of the department. Now, if the House had granted to the depart- ment the sum of half a million, that would have given the department during the year ending the 31st March, 1902, the sum of £1,235,000. Let us assume that the proposal of the Treasurer is correct, ard that during the current year he is assume that going to lend a larger sum. Sir, would leave them, at the 1st April of next year, with £635,000 to start that year. During that year they will undoubtedly draw for reinvestment from the Public Trustee at least the same amount as they are likely to draw this year-say, £175,000 again. That would make their total during the year avail- able for purposes of investment as £810,000. If, therefore, they lend during the year ending the 31st March, 1903, the sum of $600,000 on the basis of a half-million loan, they will have on hand on that date #210,000 to carry them on. This short table will set the matter out clearly :- € Available on 1st April, 1901 560,000 To be withdrawn for reinvestment during year 175,000 ... Half-million loan proposed 500,000 £1,235,000 To be lent during year ending 31st 600,000 March, 1902 .. · Available on 1st April, 1902 635,000 To be withdrawn for reinvestment 175,000 during year .. . $810,000 To be lent during year ending 31st 600,000 March, 1903 .. To credit, 1st April, 1903 .. $210,000 Those are my figures, and it will be interest- ing to see how they "pan out" during the year. Mr. SEDDON. - You admit yourself you would have to borrow next session. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I have not admitted that you will have to borrow, because 1 am of opinion that even during the following year you will have your moneys coming in for reinvestment, and that therefore you could, if necessary, have enough money to carry you on. Of course, this money is to be borrowed under the original Act, and therefore the Go- vernment cannot pay more than 4 per cent. for it ; but, in view of the fact that the Government have already lent $50,000 under the Advances to Settlers Act, which they have borrowed at 4 per cent., it is not desirable that borrowing- powers should be given to the very large extent that the Government proposed in the original Bill. The Premier said that my proposal to raise only half a million in the course of one financial year was intended to harass the Go- vernment. I deny that statement, and say that it is incorrect ; but I also say this : that if the Premier is correct in reducing his original proposal from two millions to one million, surely it was not unreasonable to pro- pose that the borrowing-power in one year should be also lowered to the same extent. Of course, the Premier naturally says he wishes to go on the London market for as large a sum as is possible, at the time most suitable to himself. Well, there may be some- thing in that argument. But what will be the 