which have been made by the Committee. I will in the first place deal with the amendment in clause 3. It is an altogether unimportant amendment. Honourable members will re- member that when a debate took place on the second reading a question was raised by the member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) re- garding three words contained in that clause, which he asked should be deleted from the Bill, and, as the words were quite unnecessary, specifying that the legislation was to con- tinue "for all time," I agreed to the striking out of the words when the Bill was before the Committee, and accordingly these three words have now been struck out. They were entirely unnecessary in the first instance, and the meaning of the clause has not been affected by their striking out. The important amend- ment made by the Committee-in fact, the only other amendment that has been made by the Committee-is the striking out of the schedule, and I want to explain to honourable members the position in regard to that amend- ment. When the legislation was first proposed by the two Churches regarding their union, it took the form of an agreement entered into between the two Churches, specifying the terms on which they proposed to join, and this agree- ment was handed over to some legal gentleman to prepare a Bill to give effect to the terms of the agreement. When the Bill came into my hands, after having been agreed to by the two Churches, I pointed out certain objections which this House would have to legislation in the form in which they had handed the Bill over to me, and my objections were deemed worthy of such consideration that a special meeting of the Synod of the southern Church was called to consider them. I might say that the ob- jections consisted of this: that the lawyers, when preparing the Bill to give effect to the articles of agreement of the two Churches, had practically gone so far as to constitute the two Churches a united Church by statute law, and to enact the terms of union of the two Churches by statute, a thing that was never contemplated by either Church in the first in- stance, but which they had allowed to pass through the Courts of the Church, not having any other outside advice or the terms of the Bill that was to give effect to their union. In fact, they took the Bill as a patient will take a pre- scription he gets from his medical man-with- out any question at all. When this point was brought before the knowledge of the Synod another meeting was held ; but previous to that meeting being held I had a conference with the Committee dealing with the Bill, and it was arranged that all the clauses in the original Bill that dealt with ecclesiastical and spiritual mat- ters should be eliminated from the Bill, and the Bill only deal with the question of Church property, just as the union of other Churches which has gone through this House only re- quired legislation to deal with their property. When we were striking out of the original Bill the clauses that were unnecessary we struck out a clause which I will read :- Presbyterian Church of Otago and Southland and the Presbyterian Church of New Zealand shall be held to be united as one Church, spiritually and ecclesiastically, under the name of the 'Presbyterian Church of New Zealand," subject to this Act and the terms and pro. visions set forth in the Schedule to this Act." This clause was entirely removed from the original Bill, but we did not remove from the original Bill the Schedule the clause referred to; and there was a Schedule. Amongst the recitals there was the following :- " Whereas the said Churches, by an agree- ment signed by the Moderator of the said Synod and the Moderator of the said General Assembly, have agreed to the terms of the said union, and such agreement is set forth in the Schedule to this Act." And the reference in the recital to the Schedule of the Bill itself, we retained, although perhaps it ought to have gone, out of the Bill along with the 2nd clause. The Bill was then referred to the Churches, and the southern Church agreed to the amendments which had been made. But this included the retention of the Schedule, which, with another point which had arisen, was, I understand, referred by the Synod to Mr. T. F. Macdonald, of Invercargill, to advise whether the clauses should be re- tained or not. One of the clauses which was re- ferred to, and which we decided should be in the Bill, was struck out by the Synod with his Then the Bill came up to the House consent. for consideration. When the northern Church saw that the Schedule was retained in the Bill by the southern Church they approached, through their committee, the southern Church, and requested that the Schedule should now be removed from the Bill, as all reference to ecclesiastical and spiritual matters had been eliminated, and the Bill, they contended, should deal with the articles of agreement of the Churches, just the same as the Methodist Bill, which had been passed through the House in 1895, and there should be no reference to the terms of agreement in the Bill itself. The matter was referred by the southern Church to its legal adviser, who advised them that, so far as the legal effeet of the union was concerned, it did not matter whether the Schedule was retained in the Bill or struck out, as the Schedule con- tained only the agreement between the two Churches. This being the advice of their legal adviser, when the northern Church asked that the Schedule be strues out the southern Church agreed to that amendment, and, when the ques- tion came before the Committee on the Bill, the two Churches were, through their representa- tives, present, and asked that the Schedule should be struck out and the necessary amendments in the recital made, so that it simply specifies in the recital that an agreement has been entered upon on certain terms. Hence the amendment which has been made in the Bill since its second reading, and which honourable members will see on the copy of the Bill submitted. These are the only amendments that have been made, and I do not think there is anything else 