closed at ten o'clock, could, by crossing in the ferry to Devonport, get as much drink as they liked up to eleven o'clock. He hoped the honourable gentleman would give him a favour- able reply. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he was in favour of the closing hours of hotels being universal. POLICE OFFENCES BILL. This Bill, as amended by the Legislative Council, came down by message at half-past seven p.m. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said, Though this Bill has been altered somewhat, I believe the amendments are an improvement. Subsection (2) has been struck out, but the proviso has been re-enacted in a new clause in the present Bill. There are some words that have been struck out. For instance, in subsection (2) of clause 3 " view or" is struck out, and also "passing therein or residing." I think the Bill will be an improvement on the Police Offences Act, and I am prepared to move that the amendments be agreed to. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- I do not get up with the object of opposing the amendments, but to object to the way in which this sort of thing is done, and the business conducted. Over and over again last session, important amendments were made in the Upper House, and when the Bills came down, exactly as has been the case in this instance, honourable members were asked to approve of the amend- ments without knowing what they were. The consequence has been that some of the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 measures are now law in a different form from what was intended by this House. I say that in every case the amendments ought to be printed and circulated, so that we may know what we are doing. I would suggest to the Minister of Justice that in this case the amend- ments should be printed and circulated before the question is put. If not, I shall feel it my duty to divide the House on the question. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- We do not want to lay down any precedent that is at all against the proper conduct of business ; and there is no wish or desire to force members to consider at once amendments where they are material ; but sometimes where they are not material there is no object in delay. Where there is any material matter for objection, I am sure my colleague will not press the matter. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- Sir, I was only going to say that this is an important Bill, and it is quite impossible for any honour- able member to follow the amendments that have been made by the Upper House, from the statement of the honourable gentleman in charge. I have not the slightest idea what the explanation given was ; I understand it was of a purely technical character as to the alterations. I certainly hope that before he presses the matter of the acceptance of these amendments he will give the House an opportunity of seeing the amendments by seeing them in print. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- I happen to have seen the amendments made in the i Mr. Lawry materially alter the provisions of the Bill. I certainly think they should be reprinted so that honourable members can see them. Nearly every clause is altered, and, as it is only a small Bill of three clauses, one can understand that the changes make considerable alterations. The original clause 2 has been struck out, and the proviso I put in in Committee has been made the new clause. The Bill introduced by the Minister has disappeared almost entirely. I think it is a great improvement, but I think it ought to be reprinted for honourable members to see. I shall vote against the proposal, as a protest against considering amendments that have not been printed for the House to see. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) .- Per- sonally, I have no objection to its being re- printed, but I think there is no necessity. If honourable members had paid attention to the Bill when I explained it they would have under- stood what the amendments were. I pointed out that clause 2 was struck out, and that the proviso had been re-enacted in its place as a new clause. That is the only important altera- tion made, with the exception that in subsec- tion (2) of clause 3, "view or" has been struck out, and the words "passing therein or re- siding " have also been struck out. An Hon. MEMBER .-- What is the effect of that. Mr. McGOWAN. - If the honourable gentle- man had read the Bill, and paid attention to i these things he would have known the effect. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey). - In clause 2 the Minister proposed an amendment of subsec- tion (29) of section 3 of the Police Offences Act by inserting the word "or"-that is, putting " or " between " using insulting language in a public place " and " within hearing of persons passing by." The Legislative Council have struck that clause out. Before the Bill left this Chamber a proviso was added to that clause, on the motion of the honourable mem- ber for the Bay of Plenty, to the effect that the interpretation of the words "public place," as used in Part II. of the Act, should be the interpretation given to the words " public place " in the 3rd section of the Act dealing with this question. That proviso has been re-enacted in place of the clause struck out in another place. That is the real meaning of the amendment. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Mr. Herries's clause is now the Bill instead of the Minister's clause. Mr. GUINNESS .- That is so. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) .-- I wish to ex- plain the reason why the words "view of" were struck out, as I was on the Statutes Revision Committee when the Bill was con- sidered. The words were struck out because it was pointed out that it was an absurdity to talk about using obscene language " within the view " of any person. Mr. HERRIES .- I would like to ask when the word "reputed " was struck out. Mr. McGOWAN .- It was struck out in the Statutes Revision Committee, and re-inserted by the other Chamber. 