should be manufactured here, and it should be the first duty of the Government to see that every industry is put upon a prosperous footing, and to carry this out the Government should see that any legislation should not be in the direc- tion of hampering. but of fostering such industry. Mr. Speaker, and gentlemen, I thank you for the kindness with which you have listened to me to-night. You know, in the past, I never have taken up unduly the time of this House, and I felt so unequal to speaking that, had it not been for the earnestness I feel on this question of the unemployed being found work, I would not have spoken to-night. I consider it a pity, and a loss to any country, that there should be ten thousand men unemployed, -as is the case in almost every country in the world. If a man had a farm, and in one corner of it there were, say, a dozen men doing nothing from morning to night, you would say that was bad management. Here we have hundreds of men with nothing to do at all. It is not a matter of what the times are, but we know that the upsetting of a financial institution or the stopping of opera- tions of a mining company will often throw three or four hundred miners out of work. These men cannot start a mine, and I am sure that something could be done for them by the Government-that is, to select the richest of the mines that are partially de- veloped by foreign capital, make a test of the richness of the lodes, and see which would pay working-expenses, and put the men on these. If there is anything above working-expenses so much the better; but in any case it keeps these men employed until something turns up. When we consider that all the necessaries of life are grown by farmers, it will be seen that all that these men require to keep them living on a goldfield is produced in the colony, and that nothing is sent out of the colony at all. £53 per annum is the average earnings of men on the goldfields in this colony. A great many of them described on returns as miners are not working miners at all, but shoeblacks -as everybody on a goldfield puts themselves down as miners. This reduces the average earnings of the actual workers. Therefore there is a productive form of work on goldfields which, if carried on in a practical manner, must be for the good of the colony. I am satis- fied with the resources of New Zealand 8.30. from north to south if taken in hand by the Government in the proper manner. We can lay down a programme that would make New Zealand one of the richest and best countries in the world ; but it must be done by hard work, and by always producing something. Every man's labour should produce something towards the industrial wealth of the nation ; every man's labours needs to be turned to prac- tical account, and that is what the Minister of Mines is for, and that is what we are here for : to lay down some practical policy for developing the resources of the colony ; there is no use coming to the House and sleep- ing. If the Government take the thing properly would be one of the greatest manufacturing centres in the whole world. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton). - It is very surprising that, although two leading members of the Opposition have spoken, the My ex- Ministerial benches continue dumb. perience of some years in this House is, that. there has never been a speech on a Financial Statement which has so closely followed the course of financial politics as that delivered by the honourable member for Bruce. He showed throughout the whole of his speech great power of condensing facts regarding the finances ; he showed a grasp and grip of financial matters unexcelled by any member ; and I venture to say that speech deserved a reply from some leading member of the Government. That reply has not been given ; and the fact that the Government sit coolly by while that strong impeachment of their policy was uttered, and such powerful facts are adduced, indicates that they desire this debate should fizzle out. But the speeches that have been uttered already by the ex-leader of the Opposition and the mem- ber for Bruce are speeches that, whether the Government like it or not, will be read through- out the colony ; and, no doubt, the statement made by the honourable member for Bruce as to the present financial position of the colony will receive consideration both within and with- out New Zealand, and it is for the Government to justify their position in opposition to the statements he made. Sir J. G. WARD .- We can do that all right. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I hope the Govern- ment will. I think the time to do so is when the statements are made. Now, in the earlier part of the Financial Statement the Treasurer devotes a large amount of attention to a criti- cism of newspaper remarks made in reference to the financial position of the colony. Ex- tracts are quoted from papers, and the writers are denounced as " penny-a-liners." Sir, who was responsible for the state of things which was referred to in the criticisms of the papers a few weeks ago ? I venture to say it was the Pre- mier. The whole responsibility of the Premier in connection with the matter is laid bare by him in the interview which has been freely quoted from, and which was reported in the Lyttelton Times by some one who happened to be there, and who evidently took a full short- hand note of the remarks of the Premier at that interview. Now, Sir, it is a matter of common report, from persons who attended that depu- tation to the Premier, that he made very important financial disclosures at that inter- view as to the position of the colony ; that was a matter of common report without going to the newspapers for it. But that was not the only instance. On two occasions in this House the Right Hon. the Premier said in so many words that the financial position of the colony was causing him the gravest anxiety, and that he had the greatest difficulty in making both ends meet. The remark that he made was this : He said on one occasion, " It is not that the revenue is not keeping up, but it is that 