facilitate mortgages of land, or the transfer or redemption of mortgages, it is a desirable thing to effect. The main proposal in this Bill is to have a schedule with proper covenants imply. ing the requisite mortgage conditions printed, so that they could be used with a view of either having mortgages effected, or reduced, or re- lieved altogether. An Hon. MEMBER .- Will it reduce the cost ? Sir J. G. WARD .- Yes, I think it will, and it certainly will add to the convenience of people who have to do with mortgages. If any- thing can be done to facilitate the transfer of land in the colony, I think it ought to commend itself to the consideration of honourable mem- bers. The schedules attached to the Bill con- tain the requisite covenants for a mortgage. I beg to move the second reading of the Bill. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) .- I am not going to oppose the Bill. In fact, I intend to sup- port it. When this Bill was in the hands of the honourable member for Waitaki I sup- ported it on each occasion on which it came before the House. But what I want to call the honourable gentleman's attention to for a moment is this: If he looks at the Second Schedule he will find set out there the covenants which are to be implied in the mortgage, and the covenant under the head " Secondly " is a covenant that the mortgagor shall insure against loss by fire the property and buildings on the land. Now, since this Bill went through the Statutes Revision Committee, there has been introduced into our law the liability on the holder of land to have recovered against him, at any time that an accident may take place, damages arising through injury resulting to any employé on his property, under the Workers' http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Compensation for Accidents Act of last year, and it will have the effect of necessitating from now onwards a practice amongst the legal profession to put in mortgages a covenant not only to insure against fire, but to keep all the employés working on the property in- sured against liability under this Act of 1900 ; and I would suggest that the honourable gentle- man get the Law Officer to bring down a clause to be added to the Second Schedule, providing that the mortgagor will also insure and keep himself insured against that liability. It can be done by extending the operation of the Second Schedule to insure not only against fire, but against the liability under the Act of last year. Otherwise you will find that mortgages executed on this form will not protect the mortgagee in some cases of an emplove recover- ing damages against an employer. If the con- tractor is not able to meet the claim it will come back upon the landowner, and if he in turn cannot pay it will come back upon the mort- gagee. That is the only alteration that I con- sider necessary on account of the legislation passed by this House since the measure was before the Statutes Revision Committee. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .-- Before the question is put I would like to say that the point raised by the honourable member for Mataura is one that requires the careful consideration of this House. I would like the Minister in charge of Sir J. G. Ward the Bill to say what he has found to be the practice already with regard to mortgages. Now that an accident is a first charge on a property, I believe it is already the practice for the mortgagee himself to insure, so that the suggestion of the honourable member for Mataura may not be in the direction of making it easier for the mortgagor. At pre- sent I understand that the mortgagee himself insures his mortgage. Mr. McNAB .- He cannot deduct it unless the mortgage allows him. Mr. J. ALLEN .- He pays it out of his own pocket at present ; but if provision is made in the Bill, as the honourable member for Ma- taura suggests, it will come out of the pocket of the mortgagor. There is another part of the schedule which I think the honourable member in charge of the Bill should have amended. ] notice that in the second part of the Second Schedule it is provided that the mortgagor will insure and will keep insured all buildings and erections for the time being on the land. That is to be done in the name of the mortgagee. I do not know whether that is the common prac- tice now in New Zealand. Mr. McNAB .- It is almost the universal practice. Mr. J. ALLEN .- It is not universal. If the insurance were to be done jointly in the name of both the mortgagee and mortgagor it would give the mortgagor some interest in his build- ings as well, and I hope the Minister will see his way to do this. If the alteration is made, some amendment of the 5th section of the Second Schedule will be necessary. At present it provides that, in the event of the buildings being burnt, the mortgagee may elect for him- self whether the moneys shall be applied to- wards the payment of the principal, interest, and other moneys covered by the security, or towards rebuilding or repairing the build- ings or erections so destroyed or damaged. I hold that the mortgagor ought to have some- thing to say as to the disposal of the money in a case like that. If the money has been spent in buildings on the ground, the security remains, just as it would have been if the mortgagee had accepted payment of that part of his capital. I certainly think that the mortgagor has a right to be joined in the insurance, and, in the second place, he has a right to have a say in the disposal of the money after the buildings have been burnt down and the money paid over by the insurance com- panies. These points should receive careful consideration in Committee. As to the general principle of the Bill, I do not think it will cheapen mortgages to the extent of one penny. The provisions of clauses 5, 6, 7, and 8 may be convenient for the increase or decrease of mort- gages, and for transfers. I believe a practice of indorsing mortgages similar to that proposed prevails at present, when a certain amount has been paid off, or even when it has been in- creased. I do not know whether the expenses are heavier than under this Bill-probably they are not. Although it may appear that we are to get some conveniences under this Bill, 