PAIR. For. Against. Reeves. Jennings. Majority against, 2. Subsection struck out, and remaining sub- sections of clause 26 struck out. New clause 2A .- " All shops shall be closed not later than six o'clock in the evening on four working-days in each week, and not later than one o'clock in the afternoon on the statu- tory closing-day, and shall remain closed during the rest of the day." The Hon Mr. SHRIMSKI moved, That the Chairman leave the chair. The Council divided. AYES, 3. Shrimski. Pinkerton Ormond NOES, 13. Smith, A. L. Jones Barnicoat Kelly, T. Swanson Bolt Feldwick Louisson Tomoana Walker, W. C. Harris Rigg Jenkinson Majority against, 10. Motion negatived. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI moved, That the clause be struck out. The Committee divided on the question, "That the words proposed to be struck out stand part of the Bill." AYES, 13. Kelly, T. Barnicoat Smith, A. L. Louisson Swanson Bolt Pinkerton Tomoana Feldwick Walker, W. C. Jenkinson Rigg. Jones NOES, 3. Shrimski. Ormond Harris Majority for, 10. Motion negatived. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON moved to add the following proviso: "Provided that the pro- visions of this section shall not apply to shops outside a combined district." The Committee divided. AYES, 10. Smith, A. L. Barnicoat Jones Ormond Swanson Bolt Pinkerton Harris Williams. Jenkinson NOES, 6. Feldwick Louisson Tomoana Walker, W. C. Kelly, T. Rigg Majority for, 4. Proviso agreed to. New clause 22A .- " Payment of wages or salaries shall be made in full at weekly or other intervals as agreed on, being in no case longer than fortnightly intervals." The Hon. Mr. LOUISSON moved to strike out "fortnightly " and insert " monthly." The Council divided on the question, "That | Bill or the Financial Statement. I mean the the clause be added to the Bill." AYES, 6. Bolt Jenkinson Swanson Walker, W. C. Harris Rigg NOES, 6. Barnicoat Louisson Pinkerton Feldwick Ormond Smith, A. L. The CHAIRMAN gave his casting-vote with the " Aves." New clause agreed to. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON moved the fol- lowing new clause :- "No female assistant shall be employed in any hotel bar between the hours of nine o'clock in the evening and nine o'clock in the morning." The Committee divided. AYES, 7. Bolt Rigg Swanson Harris Smith, A. L. Walker, W. C. Jenkinson NOES, 6. Barnicoat Louisson Pinkerton Feldwick Ormond Reeves Majority for, 1. New clause agreed to. Progress reported. The Council adjourned at ten minutes past eleven o'clock p.m. till Wednesday, 4th Sep- tember. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Friday, 23rd August, 1901. First Readings -Third Reading-Imprest Supply Bill (No. 3)-Hospital Nurses Registration Bill - Rotorua Town Council Validation and Extension Bill-Fi- nancial Statement. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READINGS. Second-hand Dealers Bill, Opium Prohibition Bill, Evidence Bill. THIRD READING. Rhodes Trust Bill. IMPREST SUPPLY BILL (No. 3). A message was received from His Excellency the Governor recommending the House to make provision for salaries. On the question, That the message be re- ferred to the Committee of Supply, Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said,-Sir, I think before we go into Committee on this Im- prest Supply Bill it is only right to ask the Government whether they are going, before we pay any salaries, or before we go into the finan- cial debate, to lay on the table of the House two very important statements, without which we can hardly go on with the Imprest Supply Lands Report and the Railways Report. Since 