member must not transgress that rule. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I will not refer to a previous debate, but I will say that honourable members have understood that the B .- 1 return could not be laid before this House because there is a block in the Treasury and in the Printing Office. Now, Sir, the prevention of this return being laid before the House must rest either in the one place or the other ; it can- not be in both. If the B .- 1 return has been prepared by the Treasury and is complete, then the delay must be the fault of the Printing Office. If, on the other hand, the return is not completed and has not by the Treasury been handed over to the Printing Office, then the blame must lie with the Treasury. The real fact is this: that if the Government Printing Office is not able- Sir J. G. WARD .- I did not say the Printing Office was to blame for either the Railway or Postal Reports being delayed. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I know you did not. If I had been allowed to complete what I wished to say, I would have stated to the House that the Premier said so; but I was not allowed to state that. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why do you 3.30. state it now? Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Because I want toget it into Hansard. However, what I was going to ask was this: Why is not the Government Printing Office brought up to date so far as appliances are concerned in connection with the getting out the work of the colony? Why are there no linotypes, or monolines, or any of the other modern type-setting machines placed there for the purpose of facilitating the work? I am sure that if the Minister for Railways were to conduct his department on the anti- quated methods that the Government Printing Office is conducted on at the present time, he would never get through the work that is placed on the department : and it is as absurd to say that the Government Printing Office should not be equipped with up-to-date machinery for the purpose of facilitating the work of the country as it would be to say that you are going to run the railways with the antiquated engines of ten or fifteen years ago. I think, myself, it is utterly useless in connection with the financial debate to refer to matters regarding the railways except in the most general and indirect manner. The same remark applies to the lands. Here is the great Department of Lands employing thousands of men in connection with roadwork. What opportunity have we of discussing its finances? None whatever. I consider the Government are acting most unfairly in pre- venting these returns being laid on the table while forcing on the financial debate. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- Sir, like other honourable members who have spoken, I re- gretted to hear the unsatisfactory nature of the replies from the Ministerial benches with re- gard to the parliamentary papers that have been asked for. Of course, so far as the Rail- ways and Lands Departments are concerned, we have had explanations, such as they were. We to the visit of the Duke of Cornwall and York. Well, it seems to me that the visit of the Duke is like charity : it covers a multitude of sins- on the part of Ministers. But we have had no explanation with regard to the placing of the most important document of them all-the B .- 1 parliamentary paper-on the table of the House. Sir, the Right Hon. the Treasurer must know it is quite impossible to do justice 1 to the Financial Statement, the discussion on <!-- PageHeader="1" --> which commences to-night, without that paper. Mr. SEDDON .- It is an injustice that has happened not only this year. In all previous years it has not been possible to produce the return in time. Mr. MASSEY. - Well, two wrongs do not make one right, and I think if the House were i doing its duty it would adopt the suggestion of <!-- PageHeader="1" --> the member for Motueka, and refuse to go on with the financial debate until the returns asked for are supplied. <!-- PageHeader="1" --> Mr. SEDDON .- I will give you the estimates on Tuesday night, then. Mr. MASSEY .- Our opportunity comes on the first item, and the honourable gentleman knows it. Then, coming to the question of petitions, I thoroughly indorse what has al- ready been said about the treatment given by Ministers to the recommendations of session.l Committees. One honourable gentleman re- 1 ferred to the question of damage to the pro- ! perty of settlers caused through sparks from \---- railway - engines. Several recommendations were made last year by the Railways Com- mittee to recoup settlers for the loss they had suffered ; but I do not suppose that any one of those recommendations was given effee: to by the Ministry. Sir, there were not only the recommendations of the Railways Com- mittee, for I would remind the Minister that bis department appointed a Commissioner to in- quire into the question of damage to property Tha: through sparks from railway-engines. Commissioner travelled from one end of the colony to the other, putting the colony to a lot of expense. I am not blaming the Commis- sioner ; I believe he did his duty, and did it well. He inquired exhaustively into every case submitted to him. So far as my own distriet is concerned, I know that in the case of one settler, who had suffered damage through the railway-engines, the Commissioner went out to the farm and saw for himself the damage the fires had caused ; and in his report he says of one fire that he is of opinion it was caused by the railway-engine, and he recommended that a certain amount by way of compensation should be paid to the settler concerned. Has that 1 compensation been paid ? Not a single silling of it. I am given to understand that when the Minister for Railways was in Auckland on the last occasion he was interviewed by the settler, and he promised that the matter would be re- considered, and that in all probability a sum would be placed on the estimates to give effect to the recommendation of the Commissioner. I hope that is so. If he made a promise I think the amount that is claimed-it is not a large 