to the financial debate without having both of these reports on the table of the House. The Lands Report especially is a most important report, and without that we can hardly vote on the Imprest Supply Bill, or on the Financial Statement and estimates. There is no reason why these reports should not have been down before, and I think it is trifling with the House that we should be expected to enter on the financial debate without having the informa- tion that every member of the House is en- titled to have. The Railways Report is also a most important report, and, considering that we have got to deal with the voting of moneys for the railways, I think on coming to the estimates, and considering the Railway accounts are kept in a different manner from the other Treasury accounts, and considering the Railway accounts are not subject to the Auditor-General, but have a separate audit, I think we are entitled to have the fullest information. Besides these reports, there is a most important parliamen- tary paper that the Premier has put off from time to time-that is, the paper known as B .- 1 and no one can understand the position of the finances of the colony without it. I am not sure that we ought to vote for this Imprest Supply Bill until we have the full account given us about the finances of the country, and that no one can get unless they have the B .- 1. return before them. I had hoped that these reports would have been laid on the table of the House, but I regret that neither the Minister for Railways nor the Minister of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 Lands has thought fit to do so. The Mining Report ought also to have been laid on the table of the House before now, and it seems to me that the House will be lacking in wisdom if the debate is entered on before these three reports and the return B .- 1 is laid on the table of the House. There is another matter I wish to draw the attention of the House to-I think I am entitled to speak on any matter of grievance- and that is the question of petitions. These are sent to this House day after day, and are recom- mended by the Petitions Committee and various other Committees to which they are referred to the consideration of the Government, but then everything seems to be lost sight of. Now, I consider a grievous wrong is being done to the people of this country, and especially to those who petitioned this House. Year after year petitions are sent in. They are considered by various Committees and are recommended for favourable consideration, and yet the Govern- ment calmly ignore them, and nothing is done. I think on the present estimates there are only one or two recommendations that have been given effect to, and one of those is on a petition that was sent to the Upper House. It seems to me that is a matter this House should endeavour to attend to and to correct. I think it is the duty of the Government, on receiving the recommendations of the Committee, to try to give effect to those recommendations. Many of these recommendations require legislation, and year after year we see at the latter end of the session-probably in the last week of the sess- Mr. Herries ing down a Bill that is generally known as the "Washing-up Bill." But that Bill is seldom persevered with ; and, so far as I can see, the petitioners whose claims are recommended by Committees are in a manner laughed at by the Government. I do not say this Government particularly, because all Governments seem to have a disregard for the feelings of petitioners ; but, so far as I can see, during the last two or three sessions this has been particularly bad, and hardly any of the petitions that have been recommended have been given effect to. I trust that by calling public attention to this the Government may see fit, and I trust they will see fit, to give more consideration to the petitions that have been recommended by the various Committees that have sat on them than up to the present they have done. Mr. LANG (Waikato) .- I should like to say one or two words in reference to what has been mentioned by the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty respecting the petitions that come before this House. When first I had the honour of a seat in this House I sat for many years as a member of the Public Peti- tions M to Z Committee. On that Committee we took an enormous amount of time carefully considering petitions. We had the evidence of both sides, and when the Committee thought a petition was a desirable one, and that the petitioner had a just claim, it was referred to the Government for their favourable con- sideration. I am speaking of petitions gene- rally now, but I could give particular cases if necessary. I say that out of a large number of the petitions referred to the Government for favourable consideration it was quite the exception for any one of them to receive con- sideration. So much was that so, that, for my part, I asked that my name should be taken off the Committee, as I looked upon service upon that Committee as being more or less 3 waste of time, as the Government took no notice whatever of the recommendations of the Committee. Since then there have been many petitions presented to the House in respect of which Committees have made re- commendations to the Government for favour- able consideration, but those recommendations were altogether ignored. I think it is time that petitioners knew that it is almost useless to petition the House, and to have their peti- tions considered by a Committee, for in peti- tioning their time is almost always wasted. They had better petition the Government. When Committees consider a petition they hear all sides, but the Government, when they consider the report on a petition, simply go by what the department has to say, and ignore the other side altogether. I think it is time the public knew how little use it is to petition, as the Government do not seem to be guided in any way by the report of the Com- mittee when brought down. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways). - I think the question raised by the honouralde member for the Bay of Plenty is one that should be fairly answered. The honourable 