only by inquiry that I am able to find gentle- men who will be a credit to the position and to themselves; and that is the only reason for the delay that takes place. In a young country there must always be these diffi- culties in regard to Justices of the Peace. In the first place, there are men whom the public are anxious should become Justices of the Peace, but who do not desire to fill the position. Those are generally the best men for the position. Then. there is another class of men who are anxious for the honour, which they should never get, and, unfortunately, those are the men who so often approach members of Parliament in order to get themselves appointed. Of course, a mem- ber of Parliament feels it his duty to speak to the Minister, and if he (the member) considers the applicant a fairly suitable man he recom- mends him for the position. It then becomes my duty to make inquiries, and if I find that the applicants are not satisfactory it is not my duty to appoint them. Mr. FISHER. - Who do you inquire through ? Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- A policeman. Mr. McGOWAN. - The honourable gentle- man, who is prepared to give a reply upon every question under the sun, has replied to the honourable member for Wellington City that I make inquiries from a policeman. I may tell him that I make inquiries from the proper source. If I did make inquiries from the wrong source, and if I make mistakes, members have every right to complain, and I am quite pre- pared to take the responsibility and bear the blame. Bill read a second time. YOUNG PERSONS PROTECTION BILL. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) .- Sir, some two years ago we had a Bill very similar to the one now before the House, and, while it is called a Young Persons Protec- tion Bill, it actually means a Neglected Young Persons Protection Bill. Those who go through the streets of our cities and larger centres of population of an evening will have seen many cases of boys and girls of tender years prowling about the streets at unseemly hours. In many of these cases -- I venture to say, in most cases -the parents do not properly look after their children's welfare, and if the parents of these children neglect their duty we have a duty cast upon us, and that is to see that provision is made so that these children shall not be wan- dering about the streets getting into all sorts of trouble and mischief, and perhaps ruining their future lives. Sir, the Bill is very simple in its nature, and some of the objections which were made when the proposal was last before the House will not apply here, the matters objected to having been eliminated. This Bill has passed the Legislative Council, and comes to the House in almost a complete form. If the House were to accept the Bill as it is and pass it en bloc, I do not think it would go far wrong. Now, the simple pro- visions of the Bill are that a "young person " is defined as a boy or girl of fourteen years of age or under. I believe the last Bill fixed a Mr. McGowan higher age. The Bill only applies to certain districts where it is brought into operation by Order in Council, and the district must comprise a complete borough or a complete county, as the case might be. Then, the object of the Bill itself is contained in clause 5 : - "Where any Protection Officer finds any young person of either sex habitually loitering in the streets or out-of-the-way places at un- seemly hours (meaning thereby between nine o'clock at night and five o'clock in the morn- ing), and has reason to believe that such young person is there without proper control, or for immoral purposes, the following provision shall apply." Now. I venture to say there is not one mem- ber of this House who would suggest that a child under the age of fourteen years should be in the streets at these hours and without proper control, or there for immoral purposes, and not one but would try to save the children from that to which such conduct would lead. Well, in the event of a child being found there, the matter is one for the Protection Officer to deal with. These officers may be men or women. For a first offence a child is taken home to its parents, and the parents are made acquainted with the fact that the child was out at these late hours, or was doing something wrong. If when first questioned the child gives a satisfactory explanation, the child is allowed to go; but, if the Protection Officer is not satisfied, he then takes the child home and reports the matter to the parents. For a second offence a young person is taken to a place called a "shelter." It would be improper to take them to gaol, and a shelter would be a place provided for the purpose. It might be a building specially set apart, or a part of some building used for some other purpose, to allow of the children being lodged there until such times as other arrangements can be made. For the second offence, when the child is taken to the shelter, and if the person in charge of the shelter and the Protection Officer concur, the child may be detained there until it can be brought before a Magistrate. That would only be done in serious cases, or in cases where it would be wrong to allow the child to be taken to its home-for instance, where the parents were not well conducted and the child would not be properly looked after. Then the child would be retained at the shelter, and. according to the circumstances, dealt with by the Magis- trate. For a second offence the officers might not deem it necessary to bring the child before a Magistrate; it might be taken home to its parents the same as for a first offence ; but for subsequent offences provision is made that a child taken to the shelter must be de- tained there until brought before a Magistrate. There are simple provisions in the Bill with regard to the "shelter " and the Protection Officers, the age of the children, and the offences for which they may be taken to the shelter or dealt with otherwise. Section 6 provides that any Protection Officer may search premises where he has reason to believe children are harboured for immoral purposes. 