liament. A Select Committee was set up, and a Young Persons Protection Bill was introduced. Absurd! Worse than absurd that the Parliament of this country should be asked to seriously discuss such a subject upon such grounds. Now, these were the cases which gave rise to the agi- tation in this city in 1897 :- Charles Cripps and Defiling children. Minnie Brown Verdict : Guilty of in- decent assault. Sentence: Twelve ca- lendar months. William Frederick Defiling a child. Morris Verdict : Guilty. Sentence: Two years' imprisonment. Alfred Percy West- Indecent assault. Verdict : Not guilty. bury (two indict- ments) .. Indecent assault. Nicholas Frey Verdict : Not guilty. George Catchpole .. Indecent assault. Verdict : Not guilty. Henry Hodgson Indecent assault. Nolle prosequi entered. There were two convictions and four ac- quittals. Now, here we have another agitation. And what is it based upon ? It is said that there is another eruption of indecent assault cases. I will quote a few of the cases to show that there is no necessity whatever for this panic legislation. At the Supreme Court, Wellington, in February last, a man named William Budd, of Masterton, was charged with having committed an offence upon his two daughters, twins, between the age of thirteen and fourteen. It was indubitably http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero proved that these little fiends-you cannot call them anything else -- had conspired to make this charge against their father to get him out of the way-the mother being dead -in order that they might turn his house into a house of ill- fame. Such things seem positively incredible, I know; but that was the evidence given in Court, and upon that evidence the jury acquitted the accused. Here is a terrible state of things. These are the cases brought into the Courts of the country, and upon such cases, I am sorry to say, the member for Wellington Suburbs speaks in support of such a Bill as this. Mr. WILFORD .- I never mentioned those cases. Mr. FISHER .- No ; but I take care that they shall be mentioned, to expose the absurdity of this class of legislation. Here is an Invercargill case, tried on the 5th March : - "In a charge against H. C. Colyer of criminal assault on a girl, the complainant and her cousin, a boy of fifteen, admitted immorality before Colver entered the house, and the boy stated that the girl suggested putting the blame on Colyer. The Crown Prosecutor threw up the case, a course in which Mr. Justice Williams concurred, and the jury, without retiring, re- turned a verdict of Not guilty." "In Napier, on the 11th February, Charles Williams was charged with an indecent assault on two little girls, and was found Not guilty." land was placed on trial for the second time in the Supreme Court to-day on a charge of assaulting a child. The jury, after two hours' retirement, intimated that they were unable to agree ; but, by direction of the Judge, they retired again, and returned some time later with a verdict of Not guilty." Do not these cases show the danger of private associations making charges resulting in public prosecutions in the higher Courts of the colony, to the disgrace and the discredit of the people of New Zealand ? These cases should be left wholly to the police, who understand their duty. Of course. there is nothing personal in my refer- ence to the honourable member for Wellington Suburbs. I hope that is understood, for he and I have always worked together so well. But he has made a statement affecting the moral status of the people of Wellington, and against that statement I quote the opinions of two persons of high authority in their respective spheres in this city. This evidence was given before the Young Persons Protection Bill Committee, on Tuesday, the 26th October, 1897. That was a Select Committee of this House, of which Sir Robert Stout was Chairman. Mr. Pender, Inspector of Police, stationed in Wellington, was examined. He said,- " I see it is proposed in the Bill before Par- liament to authorise the lady Protection Officer to bring girls to a refuge. I think the better course would be to serve notice on them and their parents to all attend before a Magistrate in his private room, and then he should have power to make such order as was proper. The order might be made for maintenance against the parents. I do not believe in bringing girls to refuges or police-stations, et cetera. I would only serve the notice if the parents failed to do their duty after warning. I would do the same with boys if they were caught gambling, et cetera." "I am very strongly in favour of the Con- tagious Diseases Act. I believe it did a lot of good in keeping the girls off the street. It frightened them. Everything, of course, de- pended on the wise administration of the Act. Under my management of the Act in Christ- church, no one of the Police Force, save one sergeant, had anything to do in administering the Act, except to make a report. Women were not arrested. This sergeant who was em- ployed, if he became aware of any one being a prostitute, reported to me. I then went to the Magistrate and laid an information ; he issued an order, on a printed form, directing the person to appear at Addington for examina- tion. If she failed to appear the doctor re- ported accordingly, then the Magistrate issued a summons to her to appear in his private room to show cause ; if she failed to show cause he made an order. The policemen as a whole did not know what was being done. It could not occur that any respectable woman was arrested ; it never occurred. Several of the women of the town wished the Act to be in force." That is the opinion of the police officer. It will be said, of course, that the opinion of Mr. George Fisher is not worth serious considera- 