the attention of the Chairman of Committees to the monetary features of the Bill, and he, no doubt, will not submit such clauses to the vote unless in the interval between the second reading and the committal of the Bill the consent of the Crown is signified to the ex- penditure of public funds contemplated by | due consideration. certain clauses of the Bill. An Hon. MEMBER .- I would draw your atten- tion to clause 9. Mr. SPEAKER .- I think an earlier clause, No. 3, involves the expenditure of public money. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- After your announcement, Sir, I doubt whether the honourable member will care to go on with the Bill. I believe he has a laudable object in view, but as the objection has been raised that it is an appropriation Bill, and you, Sir, have stated that certain clauses will have to be introduced by Governor's message and by a Minister, it would be better if the honourable member got a Minister to father it. It seems, also, to me i before the House and country, I have achieved, that the honourable gentleman would be wiser | I think, a very useful object. I am very pleased if he were to put in a permissive clause. As | to hear the Minister in charge of the Advances the Bill is at present it appears that the Super- ! to Settlers Department state that the question intendent might charge a higher rate than the insurance companies do at present, and the settlers would be compelled to insure. Surely that is not what the honourable gentleman means, as it would be increasing instead of de- it, but I think that the expression of opinion creasing the present premiums. There should ! given by some members - such as the member be, I think, a proviso that the rates should not . for the Bay of Plenty, who has spoken very be higher than those at present in vogue in the i favourably regarding it, and has suggested https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 district. If the Bill is introduced in proper form, and with the proviso I suggest, I should have much pleasure in supporting it, as I be- ! farmer and understands thoroughly what the lieve that it would benefit a desirable class of settlers. Mr. MCLACHLAN (Ashburton) .- I am very pleased the honourable gentleman has brought in this Bill. I have seen the want of it for a long time. Land Boards frequently make ad- vances for workmen's homes up to $50, which must be insured in the name of the King ; but the expenses of inspecting such risks are greatly multiplied owing to the fact that the insuring company has to inspect the risk. If the Govern- ment were to insure their own advances, all this would be avoided, and there would be no risk, because these people can only insure for half value ; the risk therefore would be almost infinitesimal. Whether it is an appropriation or not, the principle is a good one, and I hope the honourable member will proceed as far as he can and force the hand of the Govern- ment. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey). - I should like to ask the Minister in charge of the Advances to Settlers Department whether the Government is going to give their assent to the appropriation clauses or bring down a Governor's message recom- mending them ; if not, it is wasting time to discuss the Bill. Mr. MILLS (Minister of Trade and Cus- toms) .- I was not in the Chamber when the ever, that the Government have a State Fire Mr. Speaker that it is a Bill which contains provisions which can only be introduced by Governor's message and by a Minister of the Crown. I would suggest that the honourable member should withdraw the Bill for the present. The matter embodied in his measure will receive Mr. GRAHAM .- We cannot hear a single word you say. Mr. MILLS. I have told the House plainly that the Government cannot consent to this Bill proceeding any further, as it contains appropriation clauses. It must be brought down by Governor's message, and be introduced by a Minister of the Crown. Mr. GUINNESS (Grev) .- I beg to move the adjournment of the debate. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) .- I would like to say that when I introduced this Bill I anticipated that there might be one or two formidable hurdles to be jumped, but by having it printed and circulated, and bringing it prominently ; raised by this Bill will receive the consideration of the Cabinet. As this is an appropriation Bill, I presume I am unable, without Minis- 1 i terial permission, to proceed much further with amendments of a reasonable character. and also the member for Ashburton, who is a practical requirements of the settlers are-is so emphatic that the Bill will not be allowed to drop. The Government, I hope, will see their way to take charge of it and pass it into law. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL ( Riccarton) .- I merely wish to say that I think it is rather an extra- ordinary position that the Minister in charge of the Advances to Settlers Department should sav at this stage that the Bill will receive the consideration of Cabinet. This Bill has been on the Order Paper for some time, and I cer- tainly think that it is not treating the House fairly that at this stage the Government should . say that they will take into consideration an important matter of this kind, when the pro- ! posal is before the House for its second reading. Mr. HALL . JONES Minister for Public Works) .- It is the general practice that a nem- ber in charge of a Bill containing appropriation clauses brings the matter before the notice of Ministers, and asks their consent to these clauses being put in the Bill ; and then they have to be introduced by Governor's message, after having received that assent. I am not aware if in this instance there has been an oversight, or whether the honourable gentleman is not aware of the practice, but I am sure we all appreciate the laudable object he has in view. Seeing, how- 