rights of members of the House for the Minis- ter in charge of the Government Printing Office to give instructions to the Government Printer to refuse to reprint members' speeches. I have no controversy with the Government Printer. I am not in conflict in any shape or form with that gentleman ; but it seems strange, as was pointed out by the honourable member for Riccarton this afternoon - indeed, it is a very striking circumstance that, simultaneous with the delivery of speeches of members of this House last session of Parliament on the question of the Private Industrial Schools Bill, and im- mediately those speeches were printed, instruc- tions should be given to the Government Printer by the Minister for Public Works that the reprinting of members' speeches was to be dis- continued. I had given an order for two or three hundred copies of my own speech. The proprietor of a newspaper in the Pahiatua district called on me and asked me if he could obtain three or four hundred copies of my speech. I said he could-that as long as he paid for them he could have as many as he pleased. Two days later the Government Printer called on me and informed me that he had received instructions from the Minister in charge that he was to no longer reprint members' speeches. The information came on me as a surprise. When the Minister in charge of the Printing Office replied to my question on the subject during the present ses- sion he said the privilege had been extended by courtesy to members, and had not been granted for many years. Now we have the state- ment of the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) that for the past thirty years and more that right had been enjoyed by mem- bers of the House. Sir, I am pleased to find that the Minister has acted on the sug- gestion of the Premier. The Hon. the Premier has grasped the situation. He sees the temper of the House, and knows the House will assert itself in regard to its rights, and I think it is time the House did so. I well recollect that, during the session of 1892, when a very im- portant debate was going on in connection with the second reading of the Land Bill, the speeches of Mr. Ballance, then Premier of the colony, the late Sir John Mckenzie, then Minister of Lands, and the Right Hon. Mr. Seddon, then Minister for Public Works, were compiled, and something like eight or ten thousand copies were issued and circulated from the North Cape to the Bluff. For what purpose, Sir? To educate the public. The newspapers could not find space, even if they were willing, to publish the speeches at length, and, consequently, the only way to educate the public was to reprint the speeches and circulate them. Then, again, honourable members will recollect that only a few years ago a speech was delivered in this House by the late Sir John Mckenzie on the land-for-settlements policy, on which occasion the historic map of the Hororata Estate was embodied in Hansard. Thousands of copies of that speech were printed at the Government printing-works and circulated throughout the Mr. Meredith | length and breadth of the colony. I do not sce any reason why the Minister in charge of the printing-works should attempt to prevent the printing of members' speeches. Last session the honourable gentleman did wrong, and now he has endeavoured to make reparation for that wrong by moving the resolution that I feel sure will be carried by the House. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) .- Sir, I wish to say a word with regard to this motion. I do not think the passing of the motion will in any way solve the difficulty. I can speak quite dispassionately on the subject. although I was one of the first to be aggrieved by the order of the Minister in charge of the Printing Office last session, that the privilege should te withdrawn from members of having reprints si their speeches from that office. The member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay) has pointed out. in an argument that has been attacked but in no way impeached, that legally the position will not be altered by the passing of this resolu- tion. The legal position will still remain as it is now if this resolution is carried. The Go- vernment Printer, and, of course, that is the country-the taxpayer-will still remain liable in any action for damages that may be success. fully brought for publishing reprints of aux member's speech. That legal liability will not be altered one iota by passing the resolution. Then, is it a fair thing that the Government Printer-that is to say, the country-should undertake any such liabilitya: all? I am not urging for one moment the cur- tailment of this privilege. I resented it very much that the Minister should suddenly have curtailed it last session, and I still think that the manner in which it was done was highly undesirable, and not at all complimentary to the freedom of this House. I think if he bid taken the House into his confidence then, as & has done this afternoon, he could have throw. the responsibility on the House. I resented it then, and I still think the proper course was not taken. The publication of the particular speech referred to this afternoon called atten- tion to a danger and a liability which were not thought of before, for the simple reason that no circumstances had previously arisen to suggest the danger and the liability. To put the matter in the most striking way I can think of, sup- posing that on account of some private grudge I may have against somebody, whether cn- gaged in the liquor traffic or any other busi- ness that might tend to excite my resentment. I for five or ten minutes indulged in a grossly hibellous speech, and supposing I limited my- self for the five or ten minutes to an attack on that particular individual, I presume according to the privileges that honourable members of this House enjoy I should be entitled to get a reprint of that speech from the Government Printer. Mr. FISHER .- The same as I did with Henry Wright. Mr. ATKINSON .- I do not desire to make the honourable gentleman a model in this respect. nor was I aware that he gloried in tactics thi: no self-respecting member of this House would 