money which have been at the disposal of the department, and I notice that the Right Hon. the Premier was careful in his words. He said no money had been taken from the Advances to Settlers Department and lent to the Public Works Department, that no such thing was ever contemplated, and no such thing was ever done. But the right honour- able gentleman did not say money had not been lent to any other departments ; and, unless he will specifically and categorically deny that money has been lent from this department and made use of in any other branch of the public service, I shall stick to the opinion I do hold now most strongly-that the money was not available to be lent on those magnificent- that was the word used-securities, because the Government had loaned the money to some other department, and it was not avail- able for the department to which it belonged. I do not know what other inference can be come to. It is absurd to tell me there was $500,000 liquid, as the Premier said in his second - reading speech, and they could not advance money on the magnificent securities offered. Sir, I think that is all I need say on this Bill. Having debated the matter so long in Committee, I feel it is unnecessary now to debate it at any length ; but I feel sure a loan for a million is unnecessary. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- I take it as a compliment that, while the Right Hon. the Premier professed to throw discredit on my ability to discuss financial matters, he devoted https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1. 32106019788246 about three-quarters of his entire speech to criti- cism upon the position I have taken up, and the figures I have placed before the House in con- nection with this matter. Sir, we have had a / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero good many versions of the financial position of this department. The Hon. Captain Russell made one statement with which I disagree. He says that the Premier has obtained his wish, so far as his original proposal was concerned. Now, the original proposal of the Premier was that two millions should be borrowed, and only one million should be raised in the year. That amount is limited to one million, and con- sequently the Premier is only in a position to raise one million. But had the Premier's original proposal been given effect to, as I pointed out on a previous occasion, the Govern- ment could have raised two millions before the House met next year. They could have raised the first million during the currency of the present financial year, and they could have raised the second million directly the present financial year closed ; and therefore, when the House was called together, we might have found that the Government had raised the two millions. Now, Sir, I cannot under- stand how it can be that these gentlemen who occupy the Treasury benches appear to know so little of the finances of the depart- ments they administer. To me it is astonish- ing that, with the Premier as Treasurer, dandling on his knee his political infant-the honourable gentleman who is in charge of this Captain Russell tell the same story for two days in succession. Why, Fir, what was the statement that was made-like the Premier, I am quoting from my notes . by those honourable gentlemen when the Bill was first introduced in the second reading ? The Minister in charge of the Bill said, "The present position is this : There is a balance to be raised under the last statute of $760,000; but there is a sum of $200,000 already pledged against that amount, and the annual working of the office represents in round numbers about $500,000." That was the that honourable gentleman's statement : there were £560,000 available, plus £200.000 that had been already pledged, and that the work of the department required $500,000. In the same debate the Premier said, In reply to an interjection of the member for Bay of Plenty, "Not 'to be raised,' but 9760,000 yet to be raised under the authority of the principal Act, and of this only $560,000 now remains available for investment on mort- gage." Again, the Hon. Mr. Mills interjected, in reply to an honourable member. " I said there were temporary advances against it"; and finally the Premier said, "The amount that was not raised was $760,000. The honourable member will not find that in the accounts at all. The amount, as I say, not raised was 760,000. The amount available on the 31-t March was only $560,000." To-night the Premier comes down with yet another state- ment, and says that the amount unraised was not $560,000, but was $530,000. Am I correct in that ? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- And the honouralie gentleman said that was the position on the 31st March. Mr. SEDDON. - No, I did not. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- That was the state- ment the honourable gentleman made, and the whole argument of the honourable gentleman was on the position as at the 31st March : and vet what do we find? That in the Giaseite published on Tuesday we get £30,000 which bad not been raised on the 31st March at all, but which has been raised since the beginning of the present financial year, and has been bor- rowed, the Premier says, from the Bank of New Zealand on short-dated debentures, and, quite possibly, only a week ago. At any rate, I only mention these facts for the purpose of showing. as I have stated, that the figures of the se honourable gentlemen cannot be depended opon from one day to the following. The Premier now tells us a different statement from what he told us when the Bill was up for its second reading on the 2nd August, and also different from what he said the other night in Commit- tee. I expect he did not even know then about the £30,000; he has ascertained it since. Now. the great argument in favour of the two-million loan was that this department required a strong finance, and the Premier charges me with inconsistency in having said that I should not vote for the two- million loan, but for 