the Smithfield mutton is frequently railed to Lyttelton for the purpose of being shipped. It is frequently done on account of the fact that, there being a great many more vessels going to Lyttelton, there is a constant opportunity to forward lamb and mutton for Europe ; whereas at a place like Timaru they can only have a vessel to load occasionally. Experience shows that in almost every great producing country there are two or three large ports which are the natural shipping centres of those countries, and, that being the case, I submit that the policy of this House should be the limiting, as far as possible, the expenditure upon these small bar-harbours; and for that purpose the Government should lay down as the policy for our railways that the products of the colony shall be carried at the cheap fares for long dis- tances that obtain in America or Canada or Australia. Do honourable members know, for example, that we have actually no rate of freight on our railways for frozen meat ? The railway freight for frozen meat is simply for dead meat, and was instituted a number of years ago as a charge for carrying carcases for sale in our cities. Our railways are still backward as far as com- parison is concerned between the freights on frozen mutton charged in New Zealand and the freights charged in Australia. Again, compare our rates with the rates charged in America. There they have to rail wheat long distances, as much as fifteen hundred miles, to the sea- board. An Hon. MEMBER .- Where from ? https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- From the north- west-the great wheat-growing districts of the United States-and also from Canada. Surely the honourable gentleman knows that much. / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero If we compare that with the rates charged in our own colony, it will be seen that the key to the situation, so far as prosperity of the farm- ing community of New Zealand is concerned, is in the railway freights that are charged. I therefore say it appears to me that whenever these small harbour questions are raised we have to consider the point of view of competi- tion with the State railways, recognising that the colonial taxpayers must ultimately take the responsibility of these small loans that are now being negotiated. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) .- Sir, I did not intend to take any part in the discussion on this Bill, but I desire to say now that I have had two surprises since the discussion on the measure commenced. One is that some honour- able members will not recognise the progressive- ness of which a young colony is capable. The honourable gentleman who spoke last says the meat should be railed from Patea to Wellington ; but what will he say when I inform him that, as a matter of fact, it would be cheaper to ship meat from Buenos Ayres to London than to rail it from Patea to Wellington ? An Hon. MEMBER .- That should not be. Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- No, perhaps not, but it is the fact. Now, I also wish to say this: tion, and I recognised that the amount of money now asked for is necessary to allow certain works to be carried out. Some honourable mem- bers in speaking to-day are probably trying to stonewall some other Bill. However, I think the House should recognise that the work is necessary. There is also the phase of the ques- tion pointed out by the member for Waihemo : that the money ought not to be borrowed at more than 4 per cent. Well, he surely knows that if a clause were put in the Bill to that effect it would render the measure ineffective. There is no analogy between the extensive works at Westport to which he referred and the small works required at Patea. There is no comparison between the two cases. I hope honourable members will now let the Bill go through, especially as it is in the hands of a new member, and if honourable members are trying to block any other Bill let them go straight for it and not block this one. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- Mr. Speaker, after what has taken place this afternoon and even- ing, I am inclined to think the proper way to support a Bill is not to get up and make a long speech in favour of it, but rather, especially in the case of a local Bill, to use a well-known expression, to " sit tight," and eventually the measure will get through along with others, and find its way on to the statute-book. I do not think I would have said anything on this Bill if it was not for the desire I have to defend the Local Bills Committee and its Chairman from the imputations cast on them by previous speakers. One honourable member found fault with the Local Bills Committee for allowing this Bill to proceed without having seen that plans in connection with it were deposited for three months, as he said, in the Magistrate's Court in the district concerned. Three months. Why, Sir, if the honourable member will look at the Standing Orders - if he ever read the Standing Orders he would have seen that the specified term is not three months, but three weeks. I do not propose to read the Standing Orders now, because it would waste too much time, but I would simply refer the honourable member to Standing Orders Nos. 383 to 389. Sir, the statement made by the honour- able member shows a very superficial knowledge on his part of the Standing Orders, and I am surprised at such an assertion being made by a gentleman with the parliamentary experience which he possesses. Then, he quoted figures to show that the trade of Patea has been falling off during the last few years. I do not know where the honourable member obtained his figures. If he had looked at the report of the Patea Harbour Board -a copy of which I hold in my hand-he would have seen that in 1887 the exports from Patea amounted to £33,186, and last year the exports amounted to the large sum of $83,927. That is to say, that in the years between 1887 and 1900 the exports had more than doubled, and I venture to say they will go on increasing at an even greater ratio than that recorded for the years I have 