the reclamations in 1809 were £104,473; in 1900, $136,532 ; and last year, $155,000. There- fore it is only reasonable to suppose there will be a still further increase this year, and there is every reason to believe there will be, with prin- cipal, and sums for reinvestment, $795,000 available between the 31st March, 1901, and the 31st March, 1902. And as I find by looking at the figures of the various reports and the various papers which have been laid on the table that the advances on mortgage were only $539,220 last year, that they were $445,955 the year before, and $281,540 the year before that, it is reasonable to believe that the amount which will be required for advances tins year will exceed by a very small sum the amount of $600,000. Therefore we have an ample sum in hand, along with the reclamations which are coming in and any further pay ments that may be made. The Premier told us it was necessary the power should be in hand so that it may be possible to borrow it at any expedient time. But I find, under the 32nd section of the original Act of 1894, that no debenture can be sold at a price that shall yield more than 4 per cent. to the buyer. But there comes in the clause, sub- 4.30. sequently to that restriction, which gives the Government the power to borrow at any rate they may choose to pay. Under that provision I think we are likely to run into great dangsr. The words are, " Such debentures or other securities may, for the pur- poses of temporary advances, be hypothecated or mortgaged upon such terms as to interest as the said agents may deem expedient." Sir, under that part of section 32 the Government have ample power to borrow at any rate of interest they may think fit. And there is where the danger comes in. Whereas under the first part of the clause the Government is limited to the rate at which they may borrow, under the latter there is no limit whatsoever. Well, every person who has taken the trouble to look at the prices current in the money-markets of Europe, and realises what rate of interest the present price of Consols yields, must understand that it is practically impossible for New Zealand to borrow in the English money-market at the present moment. The result must be inevitably that the two millions, which, as the honourable member for Riccarton pointed out, may be borrowed on and before the 2nd April next year, will be money borrowed on short-dated debentures from financial institutions in this colony, at such rates as the Colonial Trea- surer chooses to pay. That is an extremely dangerous position in which to place our- selves. There is no immediate prospect of the money-market - I mean the English money- market - improving, and so the loan cannot be advantageously floated in London, and there- fore the power we are asked to grant of borrow- ing two millions of money must have, and I conscientiously believe has, some other object than advancing money to settlers. The amount, as so many honourable members have pointed out, that is available at the present time, from the original loans and from sums repaid to the Treasury in the shape of interest and in the reduction of mortgages, is such that there can be no absolute necessity for borrowing any money within the current year, unless there is some other object for its employment than the mere lending of it to settlers. Well, in this clause you will see there is power for the Go- vernment to borrow at any rate they think fit. And I may say I think we ought not to give them power to borrow so large a sum as two millions, even though it was shown there was urgent necessity for some money ; and no Minister has yet shown that there is a neces- sity for any at all. Then, with regard to the advantages of State credit, I understood the honourable member for Christchurch City to speak as though there was no instance of harm happening owing to the issue of a paper currency by a State. 1 ask him, does he remember the history of the great French revolution, and what became the value of the assignats? Does he remember - Mr. LAURENSON .- Under what circum. stances were they issued ? Captain RUSSELL .- Quite so ; but that does not affect the question. What was the honour- able member's argument? It was that if the credit of the State was pledged it was immaterial whether there was any gold at the back of the credit-that the issue by the State itself was sufficient to make paper-money valuable. Well, I quote as an instance that of the assignats, which became absolutely valueless, though issued by the State of France. Then, I would quote the instance of the Confederate bonds at the end of the war of secession in America. Mr. LAURENSON .- Two instances of war. Captain RUSSELL .- The honourable mem- ber must not forget that it is possible that our credit may hereafter be injured by war or byother causes, and that more powerful States than New Zealand have had their credit vanish and their paper currency become absolutely value- less; and what has happened to others may happen to us. The honourable gentleman then spoke of the extreme success of the issue of the State of Pennsylvania bonds. I had an idea that I had read something about their not being a very great success ; but I will quote two instances, one from a book on the history of the United States by J. M. Ludlow, a writer on historical subjects, a man who well knows what he writes about, and not merely an irresponsible trifler, but in reality a man who has carefully studied history, and therefore may be taken as more or less an authority upon what he writes. He speaks of the action of various Presidents and people in connection with State debts, and continues here : - " After Biddle's attempt to create in Eng- land a famine of cotton, the President still declared (2nd December, 1839) that the American banking system subjected the country 'to the money-power of Great Britain.' 'The want which presses upon a large portion of the people of the States,' he said, 'is an enormous debt, foreign and domestic. The foreign debt of our states, Corporations, and men of business, can scarcely be less than 200,000,000 dollars." " 