matter would be taken into consideration in framing the estimates. MINE-MANAGERS' CERTIFICATES. Mr. E. G. ALLEN (Waikouaiti) 4.30. asked the Minister of Mines, When the result of the examination held in January last for mine-managers' certificates will become known? Since he had given notice of the question, the examiners had announced the results of the examination referred to. He would, however, take advantage of this occa- sion to state that six months seemed to him to be an absurdly long time between the hold- ing of the examinations and making known the results of such ; and it was a very great hard- ship on the students, many of whom had to wait for the results of their examinations before they could enter into engagements. He was personally acquainted with some cases of hardship. One person had an offer of an en- gagement in South Africa, provided he passed his examination as a mine-manager, and he had to wait six months before getting the result. Was that right? He was quite aware that the Minister of Mines had no responsi- bility in the matter ; but he put the question with the view of getting the Minister to im- press upon the examiners the necessity for being more thoughtful for students' interests, and more expeditious in making known the results of the examinations. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) said the honourable gentleman had himself answered the question. The Board of Examiners met on the 22nd of last month, and the results had been communicated to the candidates. At the same time, he agreed with the honourable gentleman that it was to be regretted that so long a time was allowed to elapse between the holding of the examinations and the making known of the results. As the Board was ap- pointed by Act, however, he had no power to alter the present condition of things, but atten- tion having been drawn to the matter publicly, he hoped that in future the results of the examinations would be issued more promptly. FLAX-GRADER FOR WELLINGTON. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked the Minister for Agriculture, Whether it is true, as suggested in certain newspapers, that the Government propose to cancel the appointment of the Go- vernment Flax-grader in the City of Welling- ton ; and, if they so propose, what is their reason for such proposal ? Mr. DUNCAN (Minister for Agriculture) said that some twelve months ago those engaged in the flax industry and representing the Flax- millers' Association waited upon him as a de- putation for the purpose of having a grader appointed. In reply, they were told that if they were prepared to pay a small sum for grading, which would go towards paying the salary of a grader, one would be appointed, and a trial given to their suggestion. The deputa- tion seemed quite satisfied, and they represented Mr. McGowan whole of those engaged in the industry in the Wellington Province. On the strength of that, applications were invited for the position of grader, and one was employed ; but advantage had been taken of his services to a limited ex- tent only. He had instructed his department to send out notices to the flaxmillers that if they did not take advantage of the grader's services, as was arranged when his appointment was advocated, the system would be discon- tinued, and that the grader would be paid off. Mr. FIELD. - It was the merchants who would not take advantage of it. Mr. DUNCAN .- It was the millers that pressed for the appointment of a grader. Mr. FIELD .- Make it compulsory. Mr. DUNCAN said he was not in favour of compulsion. If it was a good thing, they would take advantage of it without being compelled to do so. Nothing definite had yet been done in the matter, and it would depend entirely upon the replies that he received from the flaxmillers how it would end. He was not prepared to continue paying the salary of a grader if those interested were not prepared to take advantage of his services. GLADSTONE ASSOCIATION. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked the Minister of Lands, Whether he will place a sufficient sum on the estimates for the purpose of refund- ing to the people who had intended to become settlers in the Gladstone Association the money which was paid as survey-fees? He asked the question at the request of a gentleman in his district, who was one of the intending settlers referred to in the question, and who had written to him in the following terms :- "I hear that most of the members of the association that could not wait for an indefinite period have had their survey-money returned. If the Government had the survey completed anything near the time promised I would have been glad to have got the land for settlement, but as the time went by I had to seek work in other localities." That is what the gentleman stated, and if correct, as he believed it was, then he thought he had a grievance, and that the Government should return the money. Mr. DUNCAN said the Gladstone Association was formed many years ago, and the members of that association were required to deposit the estimated cost of the survey. When the ballot was drawn, certain members of that association withdrew, being either dissatisfied with the lands which fell to them, or for other reasons. Their deposit, which amounted to half the esti- mated cost of the survey, was used to make part of the survey of the block, and it was understood that if the land was selected by any one else, they would get back the amount so deposited. The land was open for many years and was never selected : and lately the Land Board decided to make the sections a forest reserve. It would, therefore, be impossible for the members to get their deposits from any in- coming tenant, hence their application to the 