Again,- " The most dangerous feature of the com- promise is that it encourages an unscrupulous ring to carry on similar enterprises in the future ; for they will doubtless recognise that by demanding more than they expected to get, they have, at all events, got more than was their due. It is indeed to be regretted that the first session of the new Parliament should have been disgraced by this scandalous affair ; and we trust that those members who have a respect not only for themselves but also for the insti- tutions of the country will nerve themselves to resist, by every means in their power, a repeti- tion of such practices. We publish elsewhere a list of the members who pledged themselves to support the increase to $300; and our readers will probably agree with us that polities bring men into strange company." " That article was by vote of the House de- clared to be a breach of privilege. Mr. SEDDON .- The House was sitting when that occurred. Mr. FISHER .- Yes, it was. The present Go- vernment are therefore in this case absolved to that extent ; but, still, I hold that the publication of this article constitutes a breach of privilege, and the Government, in all honour, should move Again, at a later stage the in the matter. Clerk read another extract in connection with another charge against the member for Geral- dine (Mr. E. Wakefield), the author of the article This is part of the second article :- ". The other evening Mr. Joyce,-whom with- out any disrespect we may class among the very lowest members of the House, - in the course of the debate on the report of the Rabbit Nuisance http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Committee, made an extraordinary and very brutal statement. He said that he regarded the rabbits as the greatest blessing in the country, because they were ruining the squatters! The ignorant, prejudiced ruffian probably did not recognise that the ruin of the squatters meant the depreciation of the value of property, and a general depression in trade, including his own, which, we understand, is that of a publican. A coarse boor like Mr. Joyce might be excused for such a sentiment, for he knew not what he did.'" That article also was declared to be a breach of the privileges of the House, and then came later in the day the abject apology of Mr. Wakefield (Hansard, Volume 22, p. 623), who had written of his brother members in this dis- graceful strain ; but I will not read the whole of the apology-in fact, I need not read any part of it. It was described in a subsequent debate by a namesake of mine, Mr. J. T. Fisher, a member of the House, in a peculiar phrase, which, I confess, is not too refined. He said he had never seen such a revolting scene as when Mr. Wakefield crawled along the floor of the House on his belly. After the resolution con- suring Mr. Wakefield had been arrived at, Mr. Speaker Fitzherbert, addressing Mr. Wakefield after he was called in, said :-- "I have to inform you that the House, having taken into its consideration the explana- tion, apology, and retractation which you have Mir. Fisher made, regard them as ample, and, in a spirit of generosity which appears to me to do this House infinite credit, accepts your apology, and finally disposes of the question." Then this hypocrite, who had so lampooned and caricatured and reviled his brother mem- bers, used this canting language: - "Mr. WAKEFIELD .- In a spirit of the very fullest consideration for the position I hold in this House, I desire to express my sincere thanks for the great consideration which this House has accorded me. No one could be in a more difficult position than I was as a journalist and at the same time a member of this House." What does it matter whether he was a member of the House or not ? The question is, Is a member of the House justified in slan- dering his fellow-members in this manner, and is the author of this article in the Vanaratu Standard justified in slandering his fellow- members in the language I have read to the House ? Mr. Wakefield continued,- "I did my best to-night to express my high respect for the position I hold as a member of this House, and which every member holds as a member of this House, and I can only say the treatment I have received is such as to place this House in the highest possible place in the opinion and credit of the public of the colony. I desire to offer my sincere thanks to you, Sir, and to every member of this House, for the extremely considerate and impartial manner in which they have treated me in regard to this matter." And so the episode ended. Now, I claim, as one member of this House, that it is time the Government stepped in and took some steps to put an end to this disgraceful form of criticism of l'arliament and its members. I will now briefly review the clauses of the Bill. When giving evidence in the House of Commons on the English Libel Bill-which the honourable member for the Taieri wishes us to adopt-Sir Albert Rollit was asked this question :- "Can you suggest any means of protecting or compensating a person who might feel him- self aggrieved by the introduction of any matter in a newspaper report ?- I think there ought to be protective provision, and that he ought to have the right, as speedily as possible, to have inserted, in a prominent part of the paper (quite as prominent as that in which the attack upon him occurred) an explanation or contra- diction, without the addition of any unfair editorial note or comment." Now, Sir, I have literally followed the direc- tion of Sir Albert Rollit. His exact language is followed in this clause :- Clause 3. " (1.) Wherever there is published in any newspaper any statement which in- juriously affects the character. reputation, or commercial interests of any person, the pro- prietor of such newspaper shall, on the re- quest of the person so injuriously affected, within two days after such request, or, if such paper is not issued daily, then in the next succeeding issue of such newspaper, publish in such newspaper such reasonable answer, denial, or explanation as the person so affected demands. 