were being initiated as was found desirable ; but his contention could only point to the fact of the great difficulties that occurred in putting the Act into force in regard to that particu- lar class of, settlement. He did not, for one minute, think that any one, except the honour- able gentleman, thought the Act was mainly intended for that class of settlement, and that class of settlement alone. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND .- Mainly. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said the honourable gentleman stuck to his guns; he said mainly for that class of settlement. Now, he maintained, as he said before, that it was not only to break up agricultural properties, or to acquire properties near the towns for the purpose of putting workmen on them, that the Act was contemplated. It was to bring a larger number of families into a district, even though it was pastoral country and magnificent estates of nine hundred acres. That was better for the country than that the land should remain locked up in the large estates which had hitherto existed. He did not see any reason why any one should object to this Act, because it had had a wider range than apparently existed in the mind of the honourable gentleman as regarded its pos- sible operation. After all, anybody who had been accustomed to sheep, and who brought it out in figures and talked about a place of nine hundred acres, carrying a sheep and a half to the acre, as a "magnificent estate," almost staggered one. We knew very well that it was just about that number of sheep https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 where expenses began to run up; and the same man would probably be able to run three times as many sheep for the same expense. But fifteen hundred was not a very big flock - certainly not in the North Island, where the sheep were more neglected and a little more run down than they were in the South Is- land. But he knew that in the South Island fifteen hundred was not a very big flock, and it was an abuse of language to charge Govern- ment with creating large estates in cutting these compulsorily purchased properties into such blocks. He thought the honourable gentleman, in spite of his philosophic manner and treat- ment, still had got a certain amount of "bee in his bonnet." He felt quite certain that if the honourable gentleman would only look at Hawke's Bay as it had been, and as it was, and as it might be, he would recognise in this Act, probably, the salvation of Hawke's Bay. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY said he had got from the honourable gentleman the book from which the honourable gentleman had quoted, and he found that this Hatuma Estate was now cut up into fifty-eight holdings, ranging from three hundred acres. Now that was a big thing. The average number of people on each was said to be about five for each family, so that if fifty-eight was multiplied by five there would be very near three hundred persons settled on the estate of this very ancient Scotchman, who was an absentee up to a few years ago. Now, in regard to the question of freehold, when they were discussing the Land for Settlements Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker Cheviot settler. He knew him first as a free- holder, but he took a mortgagee in as a partner, and it was a case of the lady of Riga- There was a young lady of Riga Who went for a ride on a tiger; They came back from that ride with the lady inside, And a smile on the face of the tiger. There was a smile on the face of the mortga- gee, and the freeholder left, and when he went to Cheviot he had to borrow the deposit-money, and now he was a man worth thousands. If you talked to that man about the freehold, he would laugh at you. He knew all about it. There was no use in discussing the subject any further. He would like to speak on the free- hold business, but he did not think the time was opportune just now, and he did not feel up to speaking-pitch. He only wanted to state these two facts. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN said the honourable member representing the Government referred to the Hon. Mr. Ormond's speech as an extra- ordinary speech. He thought they might term some portions of the Minister's speech as still more extraordinary. He thought the Hon. Mr. Ormond was endeavouring to show that if the Act was worked in the manner in which it had been worked in Hawke's Bay, then the land- for-settlements policy would come to an end. He took it that it was not for the purpose of providing the people of this country with sheep-runs that that Act was passed, and that was the whole argument of his honourable friend, Mr. Ormond. The honourable gentleman's argument was that only land should be taken in Hawke's Bay that was fit for close settle- ment, and fit for agriculture. He would like to ask what member of the Council would gain- say that argument. Then, to say that there was no better land in Hawke's Bay than they had heard the honourable gentleman describe was, to him, ridiculous. He knew that there were grand plains of fertile land there. Many people had the idea that instead of taking un- suitable lands and borrowing money to pay for them, it would be better to run through the North Island Main Trunk Railway, and settle the lands there that the colony had paid for years ago. That was what many advocated, and not to take large estates that were unsuit- able for close settlement. Every one knew that they could not go on for ever borrowing and borrowing. Many people were of opinion that the freehold must be given in time. Everybody, and every Councillor, knew that it was only a matter of time when they would have to give the freehold again. Freehold was a sentiment that the people wished for, and why should it not be gratified ; and a needy Treasurer coming into power in a fix for money would soon find a way of giving it. He held that they could make laws that people should not have more than a certain amount of land, and if they had any more than the specified amount it would be forfeited to the Crown. Surely that would prevent the aggregation of big estates. Every one knew that when these people wanted the freehold they 