to the Civil Service, but he was informed that there was a decision of Cabinet that the regula- tion should apply to all Government servants. He was inclined to think that was what had been done. ## INEBRIATES' INSTITUTIONS. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked 11.30. the Premier, Whether the Govern- ment will this session place upon the estimates a sum sufficient to enable the establishment of one or more inebriates' institutions, so as to give practical effect to the statute passed in 1898 at the instance of the then member for Lyttel- ton. the late Mr. John Joyce? During the recess he had learnt that the Government had sent communications to hospital authorities asking them to make some arrangements for patients of this nature ; but that seemed to him to be only a temporary arrangement, and in no wise fulfilling the intention of Parliament when is passed the Act to enable the establishment of these inebriate institutions. What was neces. sary was that funds should be provided for the establishment of one or more such institutions, so that the Act might have a fair trial. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the Govern- ment recognised the necessity for making pro- vision to meet such cases ; and, in addition to asking the hospital authorities to meet them, they had already taken other steps, with the view of meeting cases such as they frequently found in the Police Courts and gaols. An inter- mediate place was wanted, and after patients were able to leave the hospitals there ought to be permanent inebriates' homes to which they could go. The Government had already pur- chased a property in Otago, and a manager and matron had been appointed for it. It would be opened very shortly for patients. Last year's vote was only $5,000, but it was their intention to have an institution in each Island. He hoped to have one in the North Island very soon, and he could assure the honourable mem- ber that it was the Government's intention to give full effect to the Act. VOLUNTEER REGULATIONS. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) asked the Minister of Defence, When he proposes to have the necessary regulations published to provide, as ordered by resolution of Parliament, -il.) For the payment to Volunteers for day- light parades if one-half the nominal strength of a company be on parade ? (2.) For the pay- ment of capitation at the rate of $3 10s. per annum to garrison artillery and submarine miners? (3.) For the camps of instruction to be for seven complete days, and payment to be made to the Volunteers therefor ? (4.) For an increased annual allowance of ammunition for ride practice? In asking the question he would like to point out that an efficient Volunteer Force very largely depended upon those recom- mendations being carried out. They were made by the Defence Committee last session, and the Parliament adopted them. It was useless to have a large force on paper which was inefficient necessary that the Volunteers, especially the artillery, should drill by daylight, and the re- commendation of the Defence Committee on that point was unanimous. Parts 1 and 3 of the question had reference to this subject, and part 2 referred to the payment of capitation at the rate of 43 10s. per annum to garrison artil- lery and submarine miners. Those companies were doing very arduous work, and their uni- forms wore out much more quickly than those of others. It was therefore necessary that their capitation should be larger. He trusted that the Minister would see his way to give a favour- able reply to the question. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said, as regards the first and third parts of the question, no instructions had been given ; and, as regards the second part, he had informed the honour- able member that the matter would receive consideration during the session. Although they had got a recommendation from the Committee last session, no appropriation had been taken for increased capitation, and he did not intend to take any appropriation for it this year. for the simple reason that they would tid the Defence estimates so high, owing to the ab- normal condition of things, that if the matter was pressed too far the result would probably be a considerable curtailment by Parliament. Once they reached anything like a normal condition they might take up this ques- tion of an increase to these corps, which, as the honourable member stated, were en- titled to consideration on account of the extra expenditure they were called on for uniforms and in other directions. He thought, however, the matter should be held over for financial reasons ; it was a matter he would not forget. With respect to the third part of the ques- tion, he had to say it was now under considera- tion. As for the fourth part of the question, he wished to say it was not the recommendation of the Committee at all that there should be an in- creased annual allowance of ammunition, but the Commandant had since recommended that there should be an increase, and it was the wish of the Government to give effect to it. SUBMARINE-MINING BOAT. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) asked the Minister of Defence, If it is a fact that a new submarine-mining boat, for use in connection with the Auckland defences, has been ordered from Great Britain ; and, if so, what will be the cost ; and why the order was not given to an Auckland shipbuilder ? Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said the class of boat that was wanted could not be built in the colony at anything like the cost of the work done at Home, nor could it be completed within the time, and for those reasons it was decided to go to the Home-country with the work. Another advantage in sending the order Home was that the boat would be built under the supervision of those who were experts in such matters. It was not an ordinary boat, that was wanted at all. Inquiries were made on | the matter from the Admiralty, and on receipt 