subjects unless they first submit the question to the people to give their voices on it. This Bill we now have before us does not propose anything of that sort. It does not propose to have any primary law or any constitutional law defining what subjects shall be referred to the people. In fact, the measure is one that should be called a Bill to settle differences be- tween the Houses of Parliament. It is not a primary Bill at all. Just lately I read what was said in another branch of the Legislature with regard to this Bill. I find the subject was dealt with in such a light manner that the debate oc- cupies only nine pages of Hansard. Now, what reasons were given for the Bill? The first is that a Bill called the Deceased Husband's Bro- ther Bill was rejected by the Council, and there- fore, it is said, it is necessary to bring in the referendum to settle that important matter. That measure has been dealt with, however, and is now out of the way ; it has become the law, having been assented to by the Home authorities. Another reason is that the Old-age Pensions Bill would have been passed at an earlier date. Well, my opinion is that if, in the first instance, that question had gone to the people it would have been rejected. There is another question mentioned - the sale of liquor in the King-country. Is that a ques- tion for a colonial referendum ? It may be a question under the liquor law, as licensing matters are generally dealt with, but a con- stitutional law cannot deal with it. Another reason was as to the question that is now per- plexing the people in regard to Bible-reading in schools, which, it is said, might be dealt with by the referendum. I think that to submit that question to the public vote would be most unwise. It would raise all sorts of rancour in the minds of the people, just as the liquor question now raises between prohibition people and temperance people throughout the colony. I know of instances of men refusing to do busi- ness with others who try to enforce prohi- Licion, and I am sure that if this question of Bible-reading in schools was referred to the people it would do more harm than good. Then, it was said the question of federating with Australia would be one to go to the people : but the answer to that is that, if both branches of the Legislature were so unwise as to pass a Federation Bill, a clause could be put in such Bill to refer it to the people for final decision. Another reason was that the single-tax could be referred to the people. Well, that could be done if both Houses agreed to put in a clause to that effect, without a general law. Then, in regard to the elective Executive, that might be dealt with in the same way. Then, there was the abolition of the Legislative Council ; but that could not be dealt with even by a Bill passed by both Houses; it would require an Imperial Act. Then, there is the Removal of Women's Disabilities Bill. An Hon. MEMBER. - What are they ? The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- I am sure I do not know. Probably they have some dis- abilities, just as men have; but they enjoy do not see any reason whatever for this Bill being passed, because it is not the referendum : it simply deals with disagreements between the two Houses. I think we have had an experience lately of methods of dealing with that question in the Commonwealth Bill. It deals with it in a direct way. It is ad- mirably drafted, and is a pattern to our Legislature with regard to drafting Bills in general ; it is concise in its clauses, and any one can understand it. The Act deals with two classes of Bills, one which proposes to alter the Commonwealth Constitution, and the other dealing with other Bills on which the Houses disagree. With regard to the first class, if there is an absolute majority of both Houses in favour of the proposed law it may be referred to the electors in each State, and if carried by a majority of electors and States it shall be presented to the Governor-General for the assent of the King. If the Houses disagree, and it is again passed by the approving House and again rejected, it may be submitted by the Governor- General to the electors. And there must be a majority, not only in each State but in all the States, before anything can be done. Another question arises : The question may be submitted by the Governor-General, and as we know he only acts on the advice of Ministers, it rests with the Ministry whether a proposal shall be submitted or not to the electors when the Houses disagree. In the Bill before us the taking of the re- ferendum is to be dealt with under our electoral law, and by regulations made by the Governor in Council. I think the matter is of too great im- portance to be so dealt with. We should follow the example of the Commonwealth Act, which provides that the vote shall be taken in such manner as Parliament prescribes. These are my chief objections to the Bill. It is not a Referendum Bill at all, and it does not comply with what is ordinarily known as a referendum ; it is simply to solve difficulties arising between the Council and the House, and that can be done in a much more simple and effective manner. The Hon. Mr. LOUISSON .- Sir, as a new member I feel some diffidence in addressing the Council on so important a question, and in the few remarks I have to offer I trust if I trangress in any way the rules or Standing Orders of the Council you will attribute it to my inexperience, and not to want of respect to yourself or my fellow-members. I regret very much that, on almost the first occasion I have to address the Council, I have to take excep- tion to a measure introduced by my honour- able friend the Minister of Education, because generally I have very great admiration for the legislation of that honourable gentleman and his colleagues. My serious objections to this Bill I will endeavour to state as shortly as possible. My principal objection to the Bill is that it is unnecessary and uncalled - for ; when I say "uncalled-for " I mean it is not demanded by any large body of the electors of the country. My own opinion is that 90 per cent. of the people generally do not care 