licenses this engineer held had been equal to that of a deep-water certificate. The wages paid to the officer in question was $15 per month. He was a man who had had several years' service in the class of vessels referred to, in addition to experience in an engineer's shop, and he was the best officer that could be obtained for the position. # JUNIOR CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION- PAPERS. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) asked the Govern- ment, Whether the Minister of Education is aware that in the Junior Civil Service examina- tion, which is competitive, and upon the result of which the future of so many candidates de- pend, many of the examiners mark the work of their own pupils ; and that the papers con- taining the candidates' answers are, when valued, retained by the examiners, to be after- wards given out to their pupils as scribbling- paper, to the great annoyance and even injury of those candidates who have been examined ? Mr. HALL-JONES (Minster of Marine) said the question consisted of two parts. In regard to the first part, he might say that the greatest care had always been taken in the selection of examiners ; for instance, none of the examiners for the examination of January, 1901, were primary or secondary school teachers ; and he thought there was no ground for the assump- tion that any of the examiners marked the papers of their own pupils. This held equally for previous years. Secondly, it has been usual https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 hitherto to follow the general practice in examinations, and to allow examiners to retain the candidates' answers. He saw objections to this course, and had already directed that in future the worked papers should be sent to the department, to be kept for one year, and then destroyed. # TEACHERS' CERTIFICATE EXAMINA- TIONS. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) asked the Govern- ment, What steps does the Minister of Education propose to take in order to have the examina- tions in music including singing, and in sewing, for teachers' certificate examinations conducted by independent examiners instead of by teachers appointed on the recommendation of a Secretary or an Inspector of an Education Board ; and will he abolish the present system under which the examiners value and decide upon the work of their own pupils ? Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister of Marine) said the department was quite sensible of the disadvantage of being dependent upon local examiners for some of the subjects of the certificate examination. Formerly writing, music (including singing), and sewing were examined locally by examiners nominated by the Supervisors. For the last two years writing and the theoretical part of the music examination had been provided for by means of independent examiners, and a similar change was in contemplation in regard to needle- work, but it was not found practicable to make recent examination. Three out of twenty-three examiners in needlework at the last examina- tion were teachers, and two were relatives of teachers ; these were all at smaller centres. At the next examination it was proposed to have all the needlework examined by one or more independent examiners for the whole colony. As regarded the only remaining subject not thus provided for-namely, the vocal test in music, they had always found it difficult to get quali- fied examiners at the smaller centres. They had had to pay as much as $17 for an examiner to go from elsewhere to examine one or two candidates. These examiners were not ap- pointed by the Inspectors or Secretaries of Boards, but the latter were sometimes asked to recommend a suitable person. Last January three of the local assistant examiners in singing were teachers-namely, those at Whangarei, Greymouth, and Lawrence. The marks for the written paper in the theory of music and for the vocal test were added together. He must remark that the teachers' certificate examina- tion was not a competitive examination. Directions for the vocal test were drawn up by the examiner who set the theoretical part of the paper, and were sent separately under seal to the Supervisor at each centre, so that the same vocal test was given everywhere. ## INCREASE TO SALARIES OF DEPUTY- REGISTRARS. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked the Minister of Justice, Whether, in view of the large amount of additional work and responsibility imposed on Deputy-Registrars of the Supreme Court by reason of their having to perform the duties of Clerks of Awards under the Industrial Concilia- tion and Arbitration Act, the Government will provide additional salary to such officers, com- mensurate with such increased work and re- sponsibility ? Under the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act the duties of the Clerks of Awards fell on the Deputy-Registrars of the Supreme Court, and entailed extra work on these officers. The Act of last session, he was informed, put even more work than usual on these officers, and it seemed a very unfair thing that they should receive no additional salary for the extra work involved. Of his own know- ledge he knew that their ordinary duties filled up their time, and he hoped the Minister would be able to see his way to give them some additional salary, as was really deserved. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said he was not aware that the Registrars did any more work than was sufficient to occupy the time that they had to give to the service of the colony, and, if that were so, then he did not see that any additional salary should be claimed, because they happened to do a little more work at one particular time than another. If their time was filled up by their doing the work within the service hours, he did not think the Registrars had any great grievance. At the same time, he would make inquiries, and if it were found the amount of work they were called upon to do was excessive, he would 