will see that when I stated that there was a rural population in the city elec- torates, and that there was a nominal addi- tion to be added to that, I was only stating what was correct. Now, take Parnell, which is a very thickly populated district. According to the Commissioners there are 6,545 in the rural portion of the electorate of Parnell, and yet Parnell is only three miles by a mile and a half, and if you take the nominal population and the actual population according to the Commis- sioners, there is a nominal addition of 1,100 over the 750 the Commissioners are allowed ; so it will be seen that there is a nominal addi- tion of 1,100 to the actual population of Parnell. That, I think, disposes of the honourable mem- ber's contention that I did not understand what I was talking about. With regard to the conten- tion of the Premier, that there was no logie in my argument, when I listened to the honourable gentleman I was wondering where the honour- able gentleman's logic came in. He was one of those who in connection with the alterations in the law of 1889 pleaded on behalf of the scat- tered population in the country districts, and on account of the difficulty of people getting to the polling-booth, and he urged that there should be some principle in operation that would keep these electorates within more rea- sonable bounds. He pleaded and worked very hard for the 28 per cent. concession, and for the reason I have stated -because they were large areas, and the population very scattered. I agree that there was some reason for granting https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 the concession to a scattered population in elec- torates of very large areas. But I contend that it was never contemplated by the Legislature that there should be any rural population in the City of Dunedin electorate-that there should be a nominal addition of 28 per cent. to 1,445 of a rural population in the City of Dunedin- and in arguing for this alteration of our law I am simply asking that the law should be carried out in the spirit in which it was passed by the Legislature-that this concession of 28 per cent. should not be made to apply to the centres of population, or to the thickly populated districts in the immediate neigh- bourhood of centres. With regard to the remarks of the honourable member for Clutha, that honourable gentleman seemed to be under the impression that I was seeking to rob the big country districts. Why, Sir, the concession of the 28 per cent. which I am proposing shall be withdrawn from the city and suburban elec- torates will help the big districts. It will mean that the district of Lyttelton will spread out into the district of Ellesmere, which measures fifteen miles by forty miles, while the electorate of Avon will have to spread out in the direction of Kaiapoi, and the electorate of Riccarton will spread out in the direction of Ashburton. Now, that is all I contend for, that the law should be carried out according to the original intention of the Legislature. The House divided Mr. Ell Bollard Lethbridge Hardy Massey Tellers. Haselden Mackenzie, T. Ell Hutcheson Palmer Herries. NOES, 38. Allen, E. G. Hall-Jones Russell, G. W. Hanan Bennet Seddon Buddo Smith, G. J. Hogg Carncross Houston Stevens McGowan Carroll Steward Mckenzie, R. Colvin Tanner Mclachlan Thompson, R. Duncan - Fisher Thomson, J. W. McNab Flatman Wilford Meredith Fraser, A. L. D. Mills Witheford. Gilfedder Monk Tellers. Graham Morrison Lawry Willis. Guinness O'Meara Majority against, 22. i Motion for second reading negatived. # DIVORCE BILL. Mr. WILFORD) (Wellington Suburbs) .-- Sir, I rise to move the second reading of this Bill. As honourable members will see, the measure having been circulated for some days, the Bill is one to enlarge the grounds upon which a divorce may be granted. Honourable mem- bers will know that under the statute of 1898 a divorce is obtainable, among other reasons, on the ground of desertion, and on the ground that the respondent has been convicted and sentenced to penal servitude for seven years or upwards for having attempted the life of the petitioner. Now, apart from the grounds I have just named, the principal alteration I propose in the law is this : To amend subsection (2) of section 3 of the principal Act of 1898, by insert- ing the word "three" in lieu of the word " five" next after the word "during." That is to say, I propose to give a petitioner the right 1 to a divorce from a respondent on the ground that the respondent has wilfully deserted the peti- tioner for three years or upwards. I wish to point out that for three hundred years from 1573 -the law of Scotland has been that a desertion for four years, without being a wilful desertion- that is to say, without any express intention to desert-is a ground for divorce, while wilful de- sertion is a ground for divorce if the deser- tion takes place for a period of only one year. If a woman is left by her husband wilfully for the period of three years it seems to me that she ought to have the right to go to a Court and get a divorce after that period. The Legislature has sanctioned five years already. The law of New South Wales and the law of Victoria is on the same line as the Scottish law. I am not asking to go so far as the Scottish law goes -namely, that a ground for a divorce shall be wilful desertion for one year. I ask for a divorce on the ground of desertion for three years. I am doing this, Sir, on account of representations that have been made to me, and I may say that one of the highest legal 