men that in filling an honorary office like that of Mayor it is absolutely impossible that one can attend to the routine of the daily business, which must naturally be left to the executive officers. The honourable gentleman said, "Look at the streets." Well, I say there, again, is another proof that the citizens have confidence in their present Council, because there is practically the same Council as when they submitted the ques- tion of raising a loan of $55,000 to block the streets of the city to the citizens, and the citizens responded ; prior to the election. Sir, I made an interjection this afternoon when the honourable gentleman was speaking, that we had proof positive that the citizens had confidence in the Council. He assumed that I was making a personal reference to his connec- tion with the election. It was not so intended. I meant to convey the idea that the citizens had confidence in their Council as a whole. Of course, his candidature was never seriously taken. I refer to the election for the Mayor of the city. It was never seriously enter- tained, and the citizens of Wellington recorded their views on the matter by returning his opponent by a two-to-one majority, with 337 votes to spare. A friend of mine overheard a conversation between two working-men subse- quently to the declaration of the poll, and it was something like this : One man said to the other, " What do you think of Wilford's can- didature ? " His friend said, " I did not think he ever had a chance." "Oh, no," said the other, " he is all right for Parliament, but he https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 is hardly the thing for Mayor," which is a striking commentary on several things. But that expression adequately describes the general view held of the honourable gentleman's can- didature by the citizens of Wellington when he aspired to the position of Mayor. Now, the honourable gentleman asked the question in his speech, " Why did not Wellington seek to acquire a hundred acres for recreation-grounds only ? " Mr. WILFORD .- Two hundred acres. Mr. HUTCHESON .- "Two hundred acres." Very well. This Bill that I have the honour now to be in charge of is a most striking proof of the bona fides of the City of Wel- lington, inasmuch as it defines clearly and succinctly the proposal it is afterwards sought to submit to the people. They have here a definite proposal which cannot be de- viated from, and upon which they are com- pelled to directly appeal to the ratepayers of this city ; and I say that if there was not any- thing further that could be adduced in proof of bona fi les it is the very presence of this Bill. Now, I would like to take notice of one or two things which my colleague, Mr. Fisher, said in the course of his speech, which, of course, was laden with denunciation of the City Council and the Mayor. This honourable House and the citizens of Wellington can judge for them- selves the reasons for the honourable gentle- man's peculiar action in connection with so many of our local Bills. He told the House that he called at the City Council Chambers and was unable to procure this year's balance- sheet. He explained to this House that a copy of the balance-sheet for the year 1900 was the most recent reliable record he could get. Mr. FISHER. - March, 1900. Mr. HUTCHESON .- Sir, it is only right that I should inform this House that the balance-sheet of the Wellington City Corpora- tion for the year ending the 31st March, 1901. was prepared and ready for public audit in the first week in April, but that feat was only ac- complished at the sacrifice of the services of every member of the municipal staff. It meant working night and day to get the accounts balanced; and the reason that a properly cer- tified and audited balance-sheet was not avail- able to the public admits of the simplest explanation. I unhesitatingly affirm that the balance-sheet was prepared and ready for the public auditor in the first week in April; and that fact was intimated to the Controller and Auditor-General, and the reply received was that the officer whose duty it was to do this. service had received leave of absence for two months. That, in short, is the reason. But at the same time let me inform the House that a synopsis of the position of the city's affairs was available, and printed and ready for distribu- tion amongst the citizens at that date. There was no attempt at concealment, nor yet any laxity in the preparation of the balance-sheet. Now, Mr. Fisher also repeated that dreary in- vective against unfortunate Wellington-" Look at the streets." Sir, surely it is simple logic to say that the present bad state of the streets. cannot be charged to the present City Council. It is surely owing to the neglect of past Coun- cils ; and the honourable gentleman has in the past been intimately connected with the affairs of this city, and I ask him what has he done in the capacity of Mayor or Councillor to improve the streets of the City of Wellington ? There can be no record found of any attempt of his to deal with this question of the improvement of our streets. This present Council, for the first time in the history of the city, has sub- mitted to a successful poll of the people a large, and comprehensive, and scientific pro- posal for the improvement of the streets of the City of Wellington. But this I do say : that had the City Council in the past had a little more starch they would have " chanced the ducks," and said to the owners of property abutting the streets, " We shall pave your half of the pavement and charge it to you," and not leave it at the option of private-property owners. That is the principal cause of the foot- paths of the City of Wellington being in their present state of disrepair. Now, I will pass with very little comment to the ungenerous reference made by the honourable member (Mr. Fisher) to Mr. H. D. Bell, and his connection with the public affairs of this city. I say, Sir, of my own personal knowledge, that there is. scarcely any other man in the whole City of Wellington who has more unostentatiously and more self-sacrificingly given his best thoughts, and his best knowledge, and his best services to. the City of Wellington than Mr. H. D. Bell. To Mr. Bell, in the first instance, must be 