be expected, with the training they received in the colony, to pass an examination equal to that of the Old Country and the diploma of a veterinary surgeon. A special institution would need to be established to enable a higher class of education to be given. He had talked the matter over with Mr. Gilruth, the Chief Veterinary Surgeon, who had lately returned from the Home - country, and it was that gentleman's opinion that it would be quite within the power of the colony to teach young men sufficient to fill the role of an ordinary veterinary surgeon in the colony at little cost. The matter would be put in hand as soon as practicable. DEHCRNING OF CATTLE. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) asked the Go- vernment, If they will this session deal by way of legislation with the matter of the dehorning of cattle, especially taking into consideration the fact that it has now been demonstrated that the dehorning process can be carried out without cruelty if calves only are dealt with ? He would like to say to the Minister that in the district he represented, Mr. Reynolds, of Taratahi Plain, had for a number of years carried on experi- ments in this direction, and at present he had nothing on his estate but hornless cattle. The process, according to Mr. Reynolds, was a simple one, and that gentleman had brought it before the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, in the hope of getting it adopted throughout the colony. The method was to deal only with the calves when they were a few months old. If they were taken in hand then the horn would never develop, and the method was one that had the merit of being painless. Of course, there would have to be a means of dealing with the already horned cattle ; but, at any rate, if there was the knowledge spread abroad that in the future there need be no pain inflicted on cattle, the method, he thought, would be taken advantage of. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said it was not intended in the present session to take any steps in this particular matter. OREPUKI-WAIAU-LONGWOOD ROAD. Mr. GILFEDDER (Wallace) asked the Minister of Lands, If he will place a vote on the estimates this session for the improvement of the road leading from the Orepuki-Waiau Road to Block: XVI .. Longwood ? Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said the matter was now under consideration. WOOL CLASSING AND GRADING. Mr. GILFEDDER (Wallace) asked the Minis- ter of Lands, lf the Government will favourably consider the desirability of appointing an expert to give lessons in wool classing and grading, so as to enable the wool-growers of the colony to place this commodity on the home market to better advantage, and so secure the highest Mr. Duncan wool to better advantage than they had been doing in the past, and so obtain higher prices for this important product. The wool-export industry was a considerable one, and was of immense benefit to the country, but he had heard from those who were expert in the matter that the highest prices were not ob- tained for the wool that was exported simply because it was not properly classified. If the Government would appoint an expert to give instruction in classifying wool he was sure that, as expert instruction had tended to improve the dairving industry, which had brought into the colony a great amount of wealth through the better prices that had been realised, a great boon would be conferred on the colony, and the wool-growers would be immensely benefited. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said this was a very large order, and one that was rather difficult to deal with. They knew that in shear- ing-time the place that required most attention was the back blocks. Often two or 5.30. three men would shear first one owners' sheep and then another, and join in this way, so that these were men that really required the most of our consideration in the way of assist- ing them to get the wool up in the best form. But it would be very expensive, and for some time he thought it would be difficult indeed to meet them. At the present time there was no scarcity of experts in wool-classing. Any one who had a reasonable number of sheep and could afford to engage such a man could get him at very ordinary wages, and a first-class man too. But he thought what the honour- able gentleman wished was that they should have some man to go through the country to educate those who are not able to get these experts. They had that under consideration, but, as he had stated, it was a very difficult thing to meet at present ; but, still, it was under consideration, and they might be able to do something later on. IMPORTATION OF BONES AND BONE- DUST. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) asked the Minister for Agriculture, If he will remove the existing restrictions on the importation of bones and bonedust, and arrange for the steaming, under departmental supervision, of imported bones at private factories at Auckland and other places ? Mr. DUNCAN (Minister for Agriculture) said they had to go very carefully in dealing with this matter. He was sorry to say that anthrax had broken out again. It was sup- posed that it had been introduced through getting bones that had not been properly steamed. It generally arose from that cause. It might not be so in this case-he did not know that it had - but, at any rate, they had to be very careful, because a great many of these bones were collected from paddocks containing the remains of beasts that had died from some 