present labour as he has, to find him standing here insisting on legislation being shoved down the throats of unwilling people. That is the position. He has pointed out to us that other Acts have worked in this direction, and he instanced the Education Act. He said the Education Act had been shoved down the throats of parents who did not wish their I can see no analogy · children to go to school. at all between the two Acts, for the reason that the education of the children of the State is for the purpose of elevating the citizens of the State, and making them better citizens and better men and women. Now, there is no analogy between that and bank clerks, who come in the proportion of 90 per cent. and say, " We don't want any holiday ; we want no interfer- ence such as you are offering. Let us alone ; we don't want it." Very well. I was under the impression that they did want it ; but if they, as my honourable friend Mr. Pinkerton pointed out the other evening, have not the pluck and manliness to come here and say they want it, let them do without it. That is com- mon-sense, and it is neither common-sense nor good practice to try to make them accept that which they do not want. Now, of course, there have been petitions read ; but I have got here a private letter-I will not give the name-from a banker friend of mine. This is what he says,- " As the petitions point out, they would be denied holidays with pay, and other privileges which are much valued. Still, there is some- thing that should and could be done for bank officials if the House is sincere in its efforts to benefit them. The work at the half-yearly balance periods is always trying, and it could be very much lightened by allowing the banks to close for one day-the day after balance-day. If this were done, and two of the present holi- days were cancelled to make up for it, bank officers would thoroughly appreciate the relief it would give. It would mean they could get rid of the urgent work on the day after balance- day, instead of working late for many nights. The night-work also would be reduced by about half, and would not be felt tiresome or injurious as it is at present. No greater boon could be conferred on bank officials, and if you could carry it into effect you would earn lasting gratitude." I do not think that much need be said about the bankers. I think that part of the Bill is as dead as Julius Cæsar ; consequently, I will not speak of it any further ; but I will ask, Where did this originate? Who promoted the in- clusion of bank clerks in this Bill? We have had labour legislation, and we knew where it originated. We knew that it originated in the fact that there was " sweating " in this country. But here is a measure introduced and no one can say where it originated. An Hon. MEMBER. - Read Mr. Tregear's evidence. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY. - I have the greatest respect for Mr. Tregear. I think he is a very efficient officer, and he is doing good work, but I think that he need not listen to every tale he is told and try to reduce it to Hon. Mr. Twomey legislation. But this is the point: here is legislation brought before us which evidently nobody wants. And the effect of it is this : it is creating irritation. I look upon the position as rather serious. We find that on one side a party has been organized, and that it is a strong organization, and we see that there is another party organizing now, and it will be an unfortunate affair if there is a serious conflict between those two parties. If there is, the colony will suffer. Bringing forward such legislation as this is Let bank creating distrust and irritation. officers come here and say that they want this I am as legislation and I shall vote for it. ready to vote in favour of bank clerks as any- body else ; but if they do not want this pro- vision why should you interfere with them ? Then, we come to another cause, and that is. with reference to wholesale warehouses. They say they do not want it. How did this originate ? Nobody seems to know. I have received letters from these people, and they say they do not want it. I went into a shop to buy some little thing, and I will tell honour- able members what actually happened. Some of the shopmen came up to me and asked me to oppose this point of the Bill, which, they said, would be detrimental to them. They referred, of course, to the payment for overtime. They say they get a week's holiday every year, and that they appreciate it, because they get all the time at once, so that they can go away and enjoy themselves. They also get sick- pay, and if they wanted a day off for any purpose they get it and are paid for it. But, they say, if overtime has to be paid for, every one of these benefits will be stopped, and they will be bound to the letter of the law ; and therefore they do not want payment. for overtime. Now, these men may be en- gaged by a good employer, and, of course, there may be other employers who are not so con- siderate towards their employés; it may be they are "sweating " their employés. Well, let us have evidence of it, and if there is evidence of it we should legislate to prevent people being crushed. Certainly, if I get evidence of it I will vote for redressing any grievance of the kind. But if the true state of affairs is. that the employers treat their employés well, and in such a way that the employés do not want any interference on their behalf, why should we interfere? Then, something was said about the clamour that was got up when the Shop Hours Bill was first introduced ; but, Sir, I think there was no clamour at all, and I do not think there was ever an Act of Parlia- ment passed that had a more widespread public support than that measure. Hon. MEMBERS .- Oh, no. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY. - Yes, it is so ; and for this reason : In Dunedin, Christchurch, and all over they were holding the half-holiday before the Act was passed at all. In the face of that fact, what did the Government do but give legislative effect to a custom that already ex- isted ? It may be the holiday was not observed in Wellington. What I am stating is a fact as 