responsible. If you were to rely on outside valuers, and it was found that you had over- lent, who would be to blame ? Would it be said that the wrong persons had been appointed, and that the wrong valuations had been made ? No ; it would all come on the Government and against the department, and I say that, as re- gards valuations, the responsibility must be with the department, and, having taken their own valuations, the responsibility in respect to the advances also must be on the department, and you cannot introduce the three-year assessment element into it at all. If any attempt is made in that direction I would say that you are weak- ening the structure, and you are causing a risk which should not be run. The fact demon- strated by one and all the speeches here to-day is that at the present time, in round numbers, approximately, of the three millions we were authorised to borrow there is somewhere about $250,000 left. An Hon. MEMBER .- Where is the balance ? Mr. SEDDON .- Members ought to know that in connection with a Financial State- ment you must have a certain amount of liquid security when you are borrowing and lending out daily. I say that this money is in a liquid state, and there was £560,000 avail- able on the 31st March. We have gone on lending on the basis of half a million a year ; about $250,000 has been authorised since the 31st March last, and another quarter of a million will be gone by the 31st March, 1902 : and therefore if you do not get this Bill through we cannot after that go on lending. So that the matter depends entirely on repay- ments ; and I think the House will admit that it had better give us power to borrow the two millions at once, rather than that we should have to come again next session to borrow another million, and then have another debate, while the people are not sure if the policy is going to be continued. I say to the House that, although you are giving us these two millions, you would not raise more than one million a year ; but in doing so you are showing to the world that you are going to continue this policy, and the people who want to borrow will know that the money is there for the next year, and for the year follow- ing ; and I say if we cannot look that far ahead, then I am sorry for members and for myself too, more especially in a matter like this, where the Government cannot transgress. We do not want the money for any other purpose. It is intended purely for the purposes I have alluded to. I will further say this : that in the opinion of some honourable members we have been somewhat tardy in the advances we have made, taking half a million as our estimate for the year. It ought to have struck, and has struck, honourable members, I think, very forcibly, from the number of rejected appli- cations, that we have been very careful in our advances. It has been urged against us more than anything else that we have been too careful-that there ought to have been more advances. That is one of the strongest argu- VOL. CXVII .- 14. things that have been urged to-day. Mr. HALL. - Nine hundred applications re- fused. Mr. SEDDON .- " Nine hundred applications refused." Well, of course, it would be unsound finance to be lavish, more particularly when you are raising your money under a disadvan- tage, as you must under existing conditions. That is not the time lavishly to lend out your money. It is inadvisable, I say, to do that. At the same time, even with that disadvantage, we have kept to the policy of lending out reason- ably, and there has been no sound or sufficient security that has been refused. Another reason that may be stated is that during the last two or three months, owing to the increased rate of interest outside, there has been a rush on the office. People, when their mortgages fell in, were asked by the mortgagees for a higher rate of interest, because higher rates of interest have been ruling outside, and they, of course, naturally then rushed to the Advances to Settlers Department. Mr. TANNER .- They do not rush much out of it. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, that state of rush shows you, of course, that every precaution and care have been taken. At the same time I believe we can go with perfect safety beyond half a million a year. At all events, members can well trust the Government with respect to this matter, and in asking what we are doing now we are not asking for anything unreason- able. If I had brought in a Bill for a million, as some members think, I should positively have to come to Parliament next year for another million. The time for operating on the London market is from January to March, and it may be next January or March-say, twelve months from that time is the time you want to raise your money. If I was not empowered to do it-if I should be contined to the one million-I might have to raise it at a disadvantage owing to the state of the money-market, and it is therefore to the advan- tage of the department to have the power that we are now asking you to give us. It gives facilities for raising the money advantageously, and I am in no way injuring our credit. It will not, in my opinion, affect the credit of the colony. In fact, I believe it will help it, by showing that we have limited our advances for the next two years to a million a year, and to that extent I believe it will have an effect quite different from what some honourable members think. We can fix definitely what we intend to raise, and we fix it at the rate of a million a year. I think, with the explanations that have been given, and with the fullest con- trol, even the honourable member for Waite- mata may have confidence that I do not want to help my public works money. I think, with that explanation, the Bill ought to be passed unanimously. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- I think it would have facilitated the passing of the Bill if the right honourable gentleman, who has just now made the real speech for the second 