houses." Go round this city and see if there are plenty of houses. What are they ? Why, some of the so-called houses are hardly fit for stables. Sir, the very fact of passing this Bill will be the means of giving many of the poor people represented by Mr. Arnold -who is opposing this Bill-houses fit to live in, instead of houses fit merely for cattle. But as to many of the houses one sees here- well, it is wrong to say I should like to see a fire ; but, at any rate, they ought to be swept off the face of the earth. I say the small farmer knows how to vote when it comes to a question of rating on unimproved or improved values. In one portion of the County of Stratford there were over a hundred votes cast in favour of rating on unimproved value and not one against it, and all those who voted were small farmers. A small farmer owning, say, a hundred acres of lund, and who has a wife and family, has to erect a house and other buildings to house his family comfortably and respectably and to en- able him to carry on his business. He has to improve his land a great deal more than has the man with a thousand acres. He proceeds to log and stump his land at once, while the man with a thousand acres waits for the fires to do it. Then, again, the man with a thousand acres puts up exactly the same amount of building; and how much per acre does he add, as against the man with a hundred acres ? I sav, every time, rating on the unimproved value is in favour of the small man, and I hope ; the time is not far distant, when the whole colony, from end to end, will have adopted this system of rating as the most just and equitable system of taxation ever thought out, and one that should be approved by every right-think- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero ing man in the colony. For myself, I intend to vote for the second reading of the Bill, not that I think it necessary, because, as I sav, the ratepayers can, if they wish, carry it. We have tried it twice in my district, and have succeeded at last ; so, in my electorate, I do not care whether the Bill is passed or not. At any rate, I shall vote for its second reading, which I hope will be carried ; and when in Committee it can be amended to meet all requirements. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City). -- I wish to make a personal explanation. The honour- able gentleman said that all those who have returned from the war can go back to their em- ployment. I wish to point out that is not cor- rect. One man came to me-a blacksmith- willing to take work of any description, and he has taken work as a pick-and-shovel man on the Main Trunk Railway rather than it should be said he was seeking work and praying not to get it. If my honourable friend is willing to give work to these men, I will send him two hundred if he will undertake to find them work. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) .- Sir, I should like to say at once that I am not an opponent of the principle of rating on unim- proved value. At the same time, I am not going to vote for the second reading of this Bill, because I think it does exactly what we said in the original Act of 1894 should not be done, : any measure which I thought was intro- Mr. Symes people themselves, and it was for them to say whether or not the principle should be put into I have listened to some of the operation. speeches to-night with a very great deal of pleasure, and to one or two with some little amusement. We have had two speeches from two members for Auckland. I listened to the speech of the junior member, and I did my level best to follow him through the intricate mazes through which he led us ; but, en- deavouring with all my power to be on the alert, I failed absolutely to see the slightest connection between his speech and the subject It is true he indulged, as under discussion. he always does, and as he is quite justified in doing, in a high eulogium on the part of New Zealand from which he comes; and the House was not at all surprised, I dare say, to hear him indulge in an almost equally high eulogium of the Ministers on the Treasury benches. I listened to his re- marks in regard to the Premier, and followed him with amused interest when he came to speak in glowing terms of the possible future of the present Minister of Lands ; and when he suggested a possible time when the honourable gentleman should be Sir Thomas Duncan I almost expected him to conclude his remarks with "And now, gentlemen, charge your glasses." Mr. WITHEFORD .- The wish was father to the thought. Mr. COLLINS .- The honourable gentleman's shaft, though well meant, misses its mark. He knows I am one of those unfortunate people who cannot partake of his hospitality, being a total abstainer; so the honourable gentleman will have to try again. Now, Sir, of all the speeches delivered to-night, I followed with great interest the speech of my friend the member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds). We have been reminded that quite recently this subject has been brought into special prominence by virtue of a vote taken in the city represented by the honourable member referred to, and that vote was very largely cast against the principle embodied in this Bill -rating on the unimproved value. I 1 believe it will be generally admitted, Sir, that the hostile vote was not so much against the principle of rating on the unimproved value as against the principle of the single-tax. But, Sir, what I want to point out is this : that the most enthusiastic supporters of this Bill as it now stands are determined single-taxers, and I am sure it will be quite impossible either for the House or the country to disassociate the fact that this Bill in its present compulsory form is an endeavour to drive the principle of single-tax one little bit further home. I do not think the single-taxers themselves in the House will deny this. Now, Sir, while I am in favour of and would support the rating on the un- improved value, I am not prepared to go so far as to commit myself to the principle of the single-tax; and I should resist, and resist as strenuously as I possibly could, 