If the Harbour Board of Wellington respect- fully presents to this House a Bill by which they desire to have a date fixed for the annual presentation of their report and balance-sheet which is in conformity with the conditions of things that are existing, why should honour- able members from other districts condemn it ? What is the objection ? There must be some substratum of purpose underlying the objection which honourable members assign for their onpasition to this Bill. I did not think it particularly necessary. in moving the second reading, to say anything in regard to that clause, because I considered, if the Harbour Board of Wellington desire that its annual meetings should be held on a particular date. and if they possess good and fair reasons for altering the date, then honourable members who represent other districts which have not got their dates altered should make no ob- jection. I will guarantee that hardly any of the members from other districts have taken the trouble to read the annual report and the balance-sheet of the Wellington Harbour Board. If we are in a prosperous condition, and if our trade is continually expanding at a very rapid rate, much of it is due to the fact that Wel- lington is the central seaport town of the colony, and to the fact that the Wellington Harbour Board is doing a considerable amount of the export and import traffic of the colony. What is the meaning of the opposition to this clause in the Bill? Why does the honourable member for the Grey, who is, of course, in- terested in his own Board at Greymouth, seck to prevent the Harbour Board of Wellington fixing a particular date which suits its circum- stances best for the presentation of its annual http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero report and balance-sheet ? The honourable member says it is altering things. I grant that it is. That is the watchword of this side of the House. We are continually wanting to alter things so as to make them better and more comfortable for the people at large. Supposing that in the interests of the Greymouth Harbour Board the honourable member for the Grey introduced an amending Bill, and he asked that the date of its annual meeting should be fixed for one particular day, instead of the present day, would honourable members from other districts dream of opposing that suggestion and wish ? An Hon. MEMBER .- You do not understand the objection. Mr. WILFORD .- I understand the honour- able member's objection quite well, as he well knows. The honourable member for the Grey has no real reason for urging it, seeing that it does not affect him. If I was proposing by this Bill to alter the date on which the annual meet- ing of the Harbour Board of his district was Of held I could understand his objection. course, it has no particular interest for me whether Parliament agrees to the amendment or not ; but when a Board asks to be allowed to have this date fixed, why should there be opposi- tion to it when it does not matter a snap of the VOL. CXVII .- 4. ing this change of date are such as honourable members can well realise to be quite pertinent. Of course, we have had it suggested that, as a general date is fixed for the annual meetings of Harbour Boards by section 55 of the Harbours Act of 1878, therefore any alteration should be looked upon with suspicion. But when honour- able members understand what is really the ob- ject that the Wellington Harbour Board has in view, I hope they will help me in getting this Bill through in its entirety. I do not know why the honourable member for Waihemo should move to recommit this clause again. An Hon. MEMBER. - I suggested that, for statistical purposes, it was desirable that the accounts of these Boards should be made up at the end of the year. Mr. WILFORD .- Well, supposing they are. That seems to me to be like the honourable gentlemen's other remarks in regard to this matter-not pertinent to this particular ques- tion. The question here is, the financial year closes on the 31st December, and section 55 of the Harbours Act provides that the annual meeting shall be held on the third Monday in the month of January in each year for the purpose of receiving the audited accounts. There is provision also made under the Local Bodies Act to enable the annual meeting to be held at a date later on. The election of Chair- man in the case of the Wellington Harbour Board is held on the first Tuesday after the 20th February, and it has never yet hap- poned that the accounts have been ready, be- cause the year ends on the 31st December, and the accounts are not audited and printed in time for the Chairman to make his report and present them before he vacates his office. Now, Sir, I do not understand the motion of the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) in regard to this extra representa- tion on the Board for the interests of labour, and the reason I do not understand it is this : I claim, as a member of the Wellington Harbour Board, to be a representative of labour ; and also that the honourable member for Welling- ton City, Mr. George Fisher, is a representative of labour ; and so also is the Hon. Mr. Fraser, of the Upper House. I claim to be just as directly representative of labour on the Wellington Har- bour Board as I am a representative of labour in this Chamber, and I should feel very indig- nant indeed if any of my constituents suggested the selection of any particular member in this Chamber as a representative of the interests of labour while I hold a seat here. I do not under- stand the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher). I am quite sure there is no man in the City of Wellington, or in the Suburbs of Wellington, no matter what his station in life may be, who has come to me with a grievance, that I have considered a real one, which I have not earnestly taken up and sought to get redressed. I feel that this motion is a reflection upon me as a member of the Wellington Harbour Board, and as a mem- ber of the House of Representatives ; for if extra 