tioners to wait upon the Royal Commissioners and to get the document from the Chairman. This he had done, and that was how the docu- ment had come into his possession. He simply asked the House to lay the document on the table side by side with the evidence and report of the Commission, as the persons who had said the mine was faulty and the coal stony had never been down the mine, which was 600 ft. or 700 ft. deep when it closed down. The docu- ment presented gave the evidence of men who had worked in the mine, and who could speak of what they had seen regarding its condition. When this evidence was considered, honour- able members would be able to tell whether it was in accordance with what the gentlemen mentioned had told the Commission was the cause of the closing-down of the mine, or whether it had been closed down for some ul- terior object. He hoped this document would be received by the House and printed. Motion agreed to, and document referred to the Goldfields and Mines Committee for con- sideration. JOHN FALCONER AND OTHERS. Mr. PALMER (Ohinemuri) brought up the report of the Goldfields and Mines Committee on the petition of John Falconer and others, to the effect that the said petition be referred to the Government, with an expression of opinion that, in view of the decision of his Honour Mr. Justice Williams that there is no appeal from the judgment of the Commissioner of Crown Lands with respect to mining privileges, the law should be altered to permit of such appeals being made, and moved, That the report lie on the table, and be referred to the Government for consideration. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) hoped that the result of this petition would be that the Government would take this matter into their serious con- sideration. He did not think it was the inten- tion of the House, when it gave power to the Commissioner of Crown Lands to grant certain mining privileges, that the position of the Commissioner should be more powerful than the position of the Warden. It had, unfortu- nately for some people, been ascertained by the decision of Mr. Justice Williams that when these mining privileges were granted by Com- missioners of Crown Lands there was no appeal from them, as there was in the case of Wardens' grants. This had put these mining privileges in a very peculiar position indeed, and the petition which was presented to the House asked for, and the report recommended, that legislation be passed to give a right of appeal from the decision of the Commissioner of Crown Lands. He hoped the Minister of Mines, who was fully conversant with this case, would, when he was introducing a Bill dealing with the amendments to the mining law, put the Commissioners of Crown Lands in the same position as the Warden in granting mining privileges -- or, better still, that jurisdiction should be taken out of the hands of the Com- Mr. Guinness Wardens. Motion agreed to. WELLINGTON CITY RECREATION- GROUND BILL. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City). - I have here the memorandum of agreement be- tween the Mayor and City Council of Welling- ton on the one part, and Messrs. Crawford Brothers on the other, containing the condi- tions of sale for the Miramar Estate. This is the paper asked for by the Minister for Public Works when I had the Wellington City Recrea- tion - ground Bill before the House. I have much pleasure in moving, That this document do lie on the table, and be printed. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- Of course, there can be no objection to the paper being laid on the table for the information of members of the House ; but this may fairly be said, that this contract, or compact, or whatever it may be called, ought to have been placed before the citizens as a whole before the Bill relating to the purchase of Miramar was introduced to this House. Here, at nearly the last stage of the Bill, the contract is laid on the table of the House. Well, so far as the citizens of Wel- lington are concerned, it might as well not be laid on the table at all, for there is now no time for them to interpose, even should they have any very strong objection to the terms of the contract itself. I observe from the news- papers that a public meeting of the burgesses of the city is to be held to consider the whole question of the proposed purchase of Miramar by the Corporation of Wellington, but it is impossible for them, with the short time now at their disposal, to thoroughly consider the contents of this contract. Of course, even at this late hour, it is better that the terms of the contract should be laid bare, so that its purpose and effect may be fully considered before the Bill passes through Committee. So far as the general body of the burgesses is con- cerned, it is too late, for any useful or effective purpose, to place the contract on the table of the House now. This is the step that ought to have been taken at the initial stage of the pro- posed purchase on behalf of the city. The con- tents of the contract should have been disclosed at some meeting of the City Council or at some public meeting of the burgesses. I will now endeavour to get a copy of the contract, and will produce it at the public meeting which, I understand, is to be held on Wednes- day, so that it may be seen if there is any- thing in it injurious to the interests of the citizens of Wellington. The people themselves ought to be fully seized of all the facts-in fact, the production of the contract at this late hour is itself a justification for the request which perhaps may be made for the further postpon- ing of the Bill, in order that the citizens may have time to analyse not only the contents of this contract, but the whole purpose and aim of the Bill. As I said on the motion for the second reading of the Bill, the people of this city have not had time to consider this proposal in all its 