local forms of government are concerned. believe that the people of this colony would be prepared to part with the county system before they would be prepared to part with the Road Board system ; and, that being the case, it seems to me most unfair that the Road Boards of the colony should have had no voice in considering the Bill. I think the Premier is doing wrong in pushing on the Bill in the way proposed, in view of the answers be gave to the honourable member for Avon and myself earlier in the session as to members of other local bodies being consulted or taking part in the Conference. I do not intend to discuss the general principles of the Bill, because, like other members, I honestly admit, owing to the consideration I have given to the Land for Settlements Bill and other measures, I have not had time to read through this Bill. That being the case, I think we ought to have a fair opportunity of going into the provisions of the Bill and mastering them, and see how they affect our own constituents. In my own electorate there are two large road districts, both of them more wealthy than many County Conneils in the North Island. I think the representatives of those Boards should have the opportunity of expressing their opinion as to how this Bill will affect them. I certainly think the Road Boards should have an oppor- tunity of having their voice heard with respect to this Bill. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .-- As to the state- ment I made to the House in respect to follow- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 ing the same course which I took regarding another Bill, I distinctly said at the time that it would be referred to a Committee. The question of a pro forma second reading was not in my mind at all. If the honourable member will show me where I said I would introduce the Bill pro forma I shall apologize to the House. I had no intention of moving the second read- ing of the Bill pro forma ; had I so intended it would have appeared on the Order Paper in that form. I myself thought we would get over the second reading. I find now that we are in this position : that we shall have a prolonged debate, and that we shall not then be any further forward. It may cause feeling, and that is what I wish to avoid. It seems to be the general wish of the House that the second reading should be taken pro forma, otherwise it might be contended that members would be approving of the principle of the Bill as it now stands. I wish to get the Bill before the Committee as soon as possible, and I thought if we could get the second reading to-day we could have the Bill before the Com- mittee on Monday. To show the House that I want to further the passing of the Bill, I now move, That it be read a second time pro forma. I will thus get over the difficulty, and there are few difficulties that I cannot get over, particularly when I have the House unani- mously with me. lask leave to withdraw my motion for the second reading, and to move that the Bill be read a second time wro for mot. Captain RUSSELL .- What position shall I the Bill ? I Mr. SPEAKER .- There can be no further de- bate on the question to read the Bill a second time pro forma. When the Bill comes from Committee the second reading debate will take place on the motion for going into Committee on the Bill. Motion to read the Bill a second time with- drawn. Mr. . SEDDON .- I now move the second read- ing pro forma, and the remarks I made on my former motion I repeat without taking up the time of the House. Bill read the second time pro forma. Mr. SEDDON. - I now move, That the Bill be referred to the Local Government Committee, and I hope, having met honourable members as I have met them this morning, I shall not be twitted with having run away from my Bill, be- cause I tell the House there are certain depar- tures made in the Bill which we deem to be in the best interests of the colony. I shall take the course in respect to it which I believe to be the usual one in respect of any matter where we consider the country is entitled to progressive legislation. I want to have this Bill dealt with entirely outside party ; but at the same time, as Minister in charge of the Bill, I do not intend to bring in a Bill and later on to have another Bill, one so changed as to depart from the general principle of the Bill as introduced; and I think it best to get a perfect measure by referring it to this Committee. In the selection of the Com- mittee there has been a choice made in respect to those who have had experience in local government, whether they may Le in favour of the Bill or against it. It will then be for the local bodies interested to make their representa- tions to the Committee. There has been plenty of time for any conference to be held. The County Councils Conference was held on the 16th, and if the Road Boards could not have held their Conference in the three weeks from the time I mentioned that a conference should be held it is no fault of this House. We cannot postpone and procrastinate because they have not taken action. They will still be in a posi- tion to make their views known to the Commit- tec, so that they will not be deprived of their right. Mr. TANNER (Avon) .- Sir, on the motion that this Bill be referred to the Committee, I may say that I disagree with the last state mont in the speech just made by the Premier. In the early days of the session communications reached the Premier through various members of the House, including myself, asking whether the members of Road Boards or Road Boards collectively would be allowed to have any opportunity of conferring with regard to the operation of this Bill on their particular fune- tions. The Premier said he would give a con- ference of representatives or any one interested an opportunity to discuss the proposals. His statement that during the last three weeks there has been ample time for a conference of representatives to be held is, I think, scarcely 