mate death of the late Emperor ; and that devotion evoked universal admiration. As the Princess Royal, her good work in .he Mother- country is well known ; and I feel satisfied her views, her aspirations, and her only desire has been to do good and to improve that which was for the benefit of both nations. I move the resolution. Motion agreed to. DEATH OF SIR JOHN MCKENZIE. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - Sir, I rise to move, That this House desires to place on record its high sense of the faithful and distinguished ser- vices rendered to New Zealand by the late Sir John Mckenzie, K.C.M.G .. and of the serious loss the colony has sustained by his death, and respectfully tenders to Lady Mckenzie and her family the assurance of its sincere sympathy with them in their bereavement. I feel sure that members will sympathize with me on this occasion, because my heart is too full to permit me to be able to do justice to the memory and to the services of my late esteemed colleague and friend, Sir John Mckenzie. We spent years together in this House as private members in the Liberal party, having feelings in common, and it is struggling under adversity which brings out the truest characteristics. Subsequently we were for many years col- leaques together, having great responsibilities, and the tie of friendship was further strengthened until nothing but death could sever it. Sir, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 I might perhaps refer to one incident that is now almost forgotten. On one occasion, and in the small hours of the morning, the Waihemo County Bill, which had been introduced by Mr. Mckenzie, was brought on during his absence. It came on suddenly, and the Bill was in dan- ger. Taking up the matter, and almost alone, I fought for an hour, time was gained, and then I well remember his figure coming into the House, and looking round as much as to say, " Who dared to take advantage of my ab- sence ? " And it was not long, Sir, ere the whole scene was changed, the Waihemo County Bill was passed, not rejected; and my distin- guished colleague was the first County Chair- man. It is well on occasions of this kind, sad as it is, that we should, as it were, place on record for all time the valuable public services rendered by those who have been called away. The younger generation of this colony-nay, all those from the Mother-country as well- might well copy his example, and endeavour, if possible, to emulate and to succeed as our late comrade so well succeeded. Born in Ard- ross, in Rosshire, in 1838, he had only reached mature manhood, and that makes our regret all the greater, because had it not been for the sad affliction that overtook him we might have hoped for, as we should indeed have succeeded in having from him, years of faithful service to the colony. Leaving his father's farm in 1860, and arriving in Otago, we find him first commencing his duties as a shepherd. Then, we find he succeeded so well that he was made manager of the station upon from that we find him able, owing to his thrift and care and energy, to acquire a small farm for himself in Shag Valley. We then find him, as many others in our Par- liament, commencing at the lower rung of the ladder as a member of a Road Board- the Bushy Road Board; and in that, as in all else in life, he succeeded. He also devoted some portion of his time to school matters, and was secretary to the local School Committee, show- ing a deep interest in the rising generation, and endeavouring to secure for them that which had been denied to him in his younger days. In 1868 he unsuccessfully contested an 3.0. election for a seat in the Provincial Council, but in 1871 he was returned, and held that position until the provinces were abolished. There are still those among us who met him in the Provincial Council, and I have learnt from his colleagues in that Council that while there he more particularly interested himself in land administration, and the laws affecting the lands of Otago, and that he was ever liberal in the extreme, and ever desirous of putting the people upon the land. A few years later he was elected as a member of the Waikouaiti County Council, and was also appointed Property-tax Assessor for the same district. In 1882 he was successful in having the Waihemo County created, and he was elected the first Chair- man of its Council. In 1881 he was elected a member of the House of Representatives for the Moeraki constituency, and from that time until the beginning of last session, when illness caused him to resign, it may be said he ever represented the one interest and the one people. We all feel for them, because they recognise that by his death they have lost a true friend, a true resident, and one whose interests and theirs were inseparably bound together. I may also say that in 1883 he secured a seat on the Otago Education Board, which he held for nine years. For many years he also occupied a seat on the Otago Land Board. The positions that he held in the Parliament of this colony are well known. I mentioned his first connection with the Liberal party, and how he laboured well and faithfully for what he conceived to be in the best interests of the people. What I have just mentioned to honourable members will show them how well equipped and how well fitted was the late Sir John Mckenzie for the position of Minister of the Crown. First there was his practical know- ledge of farming, and pastoral pursuits; then his knowledge of valuing, and the nature of lands ; then his training on the local bodies- all these qualifications well equipped him for a more responsible position in the government of the country. Then, there was his training in the Provincial Council, the Education Board, and even on the School Committee. I say, Sir, it has fallen to the lot of few to have had so complete and so general a training as had our late worthy comrade, and my friend and col- league, Sir John Mckenzie. The measures with which his name is connected I cannot refer to as I would like, for time will not permit of my doing so, nor would the occasion be a 