then, because we did not pay it, we are accused of having held back payments, which shows the frightful condition of our Trea- sury ! I simply say this : the total amount, I believe, incurred in the City of Dunedin, be- cause that city did its duty in a manner which reflected the greatest credit on it -- the hospi- tality it showed to the Imperial forces-the great patriotism they showed in Dunedin and Otago is worthy of all praise, and, as far as the Government is concerned, it is in favour- able contrast with what was done in other parts of the colony. Sir, the total amount chargeable for entertaining the Indian and Im- perial troops in Dunedin would not amount to more than about £300; so that we cannot have the whole £300, and what a frightful state our finances must be in! Yet some members say, with some sense of responsibility, that we were holding back payments. The whole thing is so absurd and ridiculous that I am surprised at any member who aspires to come on the Trea- sury benches making such a statement- An Hon. MEMBER .- Oh, no. Mr. SEDDON .- But they do aspire to come here, and yet they are absolutely ignorant of the very first principle of finance, and that they are demonstrating all the time. I say that a member who stands up and makes careful ad- dresses to the House and his fellow-members, if he is careful and makes good his contentions, and shows that he is absolutely fair, he is bound to work his way up. He is bound to have the confidence of his fellow-members ; but a member who always makes a hotchpotch of figures, and not a single statement of whom can be relied on, and who coolly tells you that he does so in order to get that statement contradicted-that mem- ber, Sir, will never see the Treasury benches, because he will never have the confidence of his fellow-members. Then, in order to show his knowledge of financial lobscouse -- the Scotch word hotchpotch is about the same thing-we were told by the member for Ric- carton that the department had only £29,000 cash in hand, and he quoted from the State- ment that this was correct. Sir, the honour- able member is quite correct in that amount. It was £29,000. Then, he said we only raised £30,000 since, and therefore, he said, all that we had had for three months' advances under the Advances to Settlers Act was ±59,000. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I never said that. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable gentleman said that is all we had. An Hon. MEMBER. - £59,000. Mr. SEDDON .- That is $59,000 ; and the honourable gentleman wished to infer that as we had only £29,000 cash, and had only received $30,000 since, we did not require any more ; and he wanted to show that, taking the €59,000, there was no necessity for raising any more money. He did not say this, it is quite true, but the inference was to be deduced that going on at this rate we only wanted $59,000 for three months. I say the honourable member, when he is told by the department that we must have half a million, and they are lending at the rate of half a million-his own common-sense Mr. Seddon ought to tell him that £59,000 would not be looked at for advances during the three months. Then, Sir, I must ask honourable members to contrast the next statement made. He said the Government have acted prudently in respect to the administration of this department. Am I correct in that statement ? Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Yes, with regard to the lending of money. Mr. SEDDON .- The terms used were that "the Government have acted prudently in respect to the administration of this depart- ment." Now, the honourable gentleman quali- fies that by saying "lending of the money." Well, what greater proof do you want if the Government is capable and prudent in lending out the money ? Why should you hesitate to give them more money to lend out ? An Hon. MEMBER .- Why bother about it ? Mr. SEDDON .- The only reason is this : Why show a want of confidence in the Govern- ment, whose administration is prudent or per- fect ? I say the whole position is so illogical and untenable that no other member of the House would take it up. The honourable member for Franklin, the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, and members on that side of the House would never admit that. Mr. MASSEY .- We know better. "Mr. SEDDON. - Of course ; they are con- sistent. They say, " We do not trust your ad- ministration. If we thought you were prudent and careful administrators we would give you two millions; but because we do not think you are prudent we do not give you money." But the member for Riccarton-their new supporter. the forerunner of the "left wing" party. be- cause he generally starts " a left wing " wherever he goes-does not hold these views. I hope honourable members opposite will bear that in mind. I know why we have had this attack made upon the Advances to Settlers Office. I am not unmindful of what has occurred in the past. I do not wish on this occasion to obtrude the black list ; but have honourable members not read this? "The Government wanted strengthening ; they wanted some one who had a thorough knowledge of finance upon these benches." And, Sir, what has been the cause. in my opinion, of this criticism, adverse and other- wise, by one or two honourable members is this : they want to demonstrate to my worthy friends and supporters here that if they were on these benches they would be a tower of strength to us. As it has been proved that every statement made has been incorrect, I hope my honouraice friends will take warning and keep them out in the cold shades of Opposition. I warn mem- bers to have nothing to do with those whose figures and statements are so fallacious. Then. Sir, I will deal gently with the member for Patea-the young man Absalom. The honour- able member said I made a statement to West Coast members that there was no money ava !!- able for any purpose. That statement, I see. appeared in the papers, and I want at once to give it an emphatic contradiction. I never made any such statement at all. At the deputation 