that this was a matter of very great importance to the people on the West Coast, and he under- stood from experts who had visited these hot springs that the medicinal and curative pro- perties were equal to any of the kind in the colony, and perhaps in the world. The Go- vernment had made no attempt to try and utilise them ; and if these baths were opened up it would be a great boon to a number of miners who suffered on the West Coast from rheumatism and other such complaints. The springs were within a very short distance of Reefton ; about seven hours by a good road would take a person from Reefton to the springs, and Reefton was connected by rail- way with nearly all parts of the West Coast. He hoped and trusted the Government would see their way to open up these springs, and if a road was made there were forty to sixty thousand acres of good agricultural and pas- toral land available in that district. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said, -(1.) Reports had been obtained from time to time upon the medicinal properties of the hot springs in the Maruia district, and another could be obtained if it was desired. (2.) The Crown lands in the Maruia Valley had been reserved partly for public utility in connection with the springs, and partly for mining. The other Crown lands adjacent were covered with forest, and not likely to be taken up for agricul- ture or pasture. The area within the watershed could, however, be taken. (3.) No detailed survey had been made, but inquiries had been instituted, and it appeared that there would be about twenty- seven miles of road to construct, costing about $14,680. This would not include the cost of bridges over the Inangahua and Otto Rivers, which would, perhaps, not be required at first, but would cost a large sum. He held, with the honourable gentleman, that the question re- quired to be looked into, and if it was found the valley was as fertile as it was stated to be, and available for settlement, it would be right to have a road. The right of the people to get to the springs was a matter of much import- ance to the district the honourable gentleman belonged to, and £14,000) would, no doubt, make a good road. The matter was worth inquiring into, so that they might see what should be done in the near future. NINE-MILE PUNT, BULLER RIVER. Mr. COLVIN (Buller) asked the Minister of Lands, If he will accede to the request of the petitioners who applied to him to have the charges reduced at Nine-mile Punt, Buller River, to the same amount as those charged for the Landing Punt plying on the Inangahua River ? Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said the only petition recently received on this subject was dated the 16th July, and it did not ask that the charges be made the same as those at the Landing Punt, but it asked for a reduction. A promise had, however, been made to Mr. Colvin mise accordingly. INANGAHUA RIVER BRIDGE. Mr. COLVIN (Buller) asked the Minister of Lands, If it is his intention to call for tenders for the bridge over the Inangahua River, known as the "Landing," at an early date? This was a bridge on the main road between Nelson, Reefton, and Westport. There was a punt on it now, and at times the traffic was stopped through floods in the river. The Premier was stopped on two occasions himself when trying to get to his constituency from Nelson. He hoped the honourable gentleman would see his way to put this necessary work in hand at an carly date, as it was of great importance to the travelling public and to the residents in Ina- ngahua Valley. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said ten- ders would be called for this work as soon as the necessary plans could be completed. There was a vote of $500 on the estimates, but the work would probably cost about $2,500. VETERINARY SURGERY. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) asked the Govern- ment, Whether they propose to give facilities for instruction classes in veterinary surgery within the colony, so that an opportunity may be afforded the youth of New Zealand of filling positions that are now at great cost and loss of time conferred on experts from distant parts of the world ? He would like the Minister to give him a favourable reply to this question. His own opinion was that the colony ought to be able to provide its own veterinary surgeons. There were settlers' sons growing up - good, capable, young men - some of whom were receiving an excellent education in the colleges and universities of the colony. These youths should have an opportunity of fitting themselves for the positions he referred to. He had had applications from parents who wished their sons to qualify as veterinary surgeons, but no provision for their instruction existed. The Government had lately brought out from Home a number of these surgeons. He thought it would be well if facilities were afforded for the instruction of our boys in this particular branch within the colony. Instead of bringing men from abroad, some of whom would only remain until they found a better position elsewhere, our own people, who were identified with the colony, should be selected for vacancies of the kind. There were diseases affecting stock that were peculiar to New Zealand, and there were also peculiarities incidental to our native pro- ducts and climate that render it advisable that we should have experts trained on our own soil, if possible. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said that this was a matter to which he had given somo attention, especially since the Act had come into force. Under that Act a number of experts were required to carry out the provisions of the \- Health Act, and on making inquiry he found 