candidly that they do not want it, and that they are very well satisfied with the present condi- tions. I think legislation is intended to im- prove the present condition of the people, or any particular class of the people ; it is not intended to legislate in a direction which the people interested say they do not require for their benefit, but which we in our superior wisdom think they do require. I think it is quite time to initiate legislation on these particular subjects as soon as we find that there is something very wrong in the arrange- ments between employers and employés. If there are any great hardships existing, now is the time we should hear of them. There has been a great deal of agitation outside about this particular Bill, and a great deal of discussion, and I think if there were any hardships that require to be remedied, now is the time they would have come to the knowledge of this House ; and, although I do not propose to move any resolution on the subject, I should certainly like to see the Bill withdrawn for the present, until it was apparent there was a great neces- sity for legislation in that direction. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- I am afraid there is a very great deal of misapprehension about this Bill, because it is to a great extent only a consolidating measure. There is not a great deal of new material in it, and, con- sidering we have had it before the Council on previous occasions-last year, and the session before that, I think, it was before the Council- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 it appears to me that honourable members have not read the Bill, and have not studied what is the present law. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON. - Why alter http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero the present law ; it is working well enough ? The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- It is well to consolidate the law in some cases. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON .- We have no objection to consolidation; it is the new matter. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- Not only do members of the Council seem to be ignorant of the provisions of the law, but a certain number of witnesses who came before the Labour Bills Committee took the greatest exception to what had already been the law for years. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH. - It is broken almost every day in the banks. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- Oh, I think not. I do not know that it is necessary to break the law ; the law is sufficiently elastic in the matter of banks closing to allow sufficient latitude, and there is, therefore, no occasion for breaches. Now, the greatest exception was taken by some people who gave evidence to this provision : that to close banks and offices at five o'clock on five days a week and twelve o'clock on Saturday. They said it would be a very hard provision if this was enacted, and that they did not want it at all, and that it was going to disturb the harmonious relations existing between employers and workers, which have been referred to several times during this debate -this provision which has been the law for six years, and which is to be re-enacted and put knowledge affected them. Now, that is just on a par with the misapprehension that a great number of the members of this Council seem to have regarding this Bill. An Hon. MEMBER .- There are too many black lines in the Bill. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- I admit there is a certain number of black lines in the Bill. A good number of these good amendments were made in the Committee, and I think the Bill as it has emerged from the Labour Bills. Committee is a most comprehensive mea- sure, and a measure that, as the Minister of Education said, will a few years hence cause. shopkeepers and shop-assistants and clerks to rise, not in their wrath, but in gladness,. and to bless us. I want to point out just one or two of the new provisions of this Bill. The Hon. the Minister, I think, said that one of the chief proposals, and one of the most drastic proposals, was the payment for over- time. Now, Sir, I think the most drastic pro- posal in this Bill is the attempt to curtail the hours of adult labour. I think this is the first time that Parliament has ever touched on the matter of curtailing the hours of adult labour. We hear reports that Eight Hours Bills are coming forward-in shoals almost-in another place, and I am not sure but what an Eight Hours Bill did not at one time get through one House of the Legislature. However, this is the first time any Legislature has made any decided attempt to curtail the hours of adult labour, and as to whether it is wise or not I am not exactly sure ; so much so that J intend to vote against the clauses curtailing the hours in banks and warehouses. I think any overtime worked should be paid for, but whether we should curtail the hours of office and bank clerks I am not at all sure about at present. If we were going to have a compre- hensive Eight Hours Bill, meting out eight hours for all and sundry, then, I think, would be the time to enact this provision ; but to bring it into this Bill, and say that shop- assistants and bank clerks shall not work more than a certain number of hours a week-rather more than eight hours a day, fifty-two hours per week-and shall not be allowed to work overtime beyond some three hours a day upon thirty days in a year, be that overtime paid for or not, and allow a labourer or artisan to work much longer hours-that is a proposal that requires very great consideration ; and I think what has happened in the Conciliation Boards and through the decisions of the Arbitration Court will bear me out in what I am saying, that the workmen of the colony are not ripe for such a proposal. I do not know that in any case that has come before the Conciliation Board the overtime has been entirely stopped, nor has it been asked for by any union. They fix a certain graduated payment for overtime ; but I do not think they ever curtailed the number of hours and said that forty-four, forty- five, or forty-eight hours should constitute a week's work, and that the men must be abso- lutely debarred from working overtime. And I. 