have earned the commendation of each and every one of those commanding in South Africa. An attempt has been made, without just ground, to show that prompt payment has not been made to the returned troopers. There is no real foundation for this statement whatever. The Fourth and Fifth Contingents were prac- tically Imperial soldiers. On leaving South Africa certain moneys were given to paymasters, and, on the arrival of the "Tagus " in Otago, we sent down our paymasters with about $800 for the officer commanding the Otago District, Colonel Webb, and since then other moneys have been forwarded, with instructions to pay the men on the officer commanding certifying that the amounts were due. At the present time Colonel Davies and his staff are making out accounts, and as fast as certificates are ob- tainable the moneys are paid. We have already advanced over £3,000. What has caused some confusion has been the fact that some of the men were not paid by the Imperial authorities before leaving South Africa. We are only trustees acting on behalf of the Imperial autho- rities; we cannot pay away moneys unless the certificates are forthcoming that the amounts are due. I have it on the authority of Captain Jackson, who was in charge of the D Squadron of the Fifth Contingent, that he brought money with him from South Africa, and that he has paid all his men. To show how unjust the allegations made are I will give a case in point. A trooper got one of the members of the House to interest himself on his (the trooper's) behalf, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 and the trooper telegraphed to know when his pay would be forthcoming. I had the matter immediately attended to, and found there were a couple of pounds coming to him, and had it not been for the extension of the $5 gratuity the man would have been overpaid about $3. The Under-Secretary for Defence has never refused any advance where it is shown that the money is due, and a special staff are kept busy at the present time doing nothing else but pay- ing advances; and we have advanced about $3,000 in excess of the moneys in our hands belonging to the Imperial Government. To show how ludicrous and foolish is the statement which has appeared to the effect that it was owing to the tightness of the New Zealand finances that our boys were not paid, it will be well for me to state that the total amount in- volved is about $20,000. Already we have ad- vanced £3,000, and an application has been made to the Imperial authorities for the amount due by them. In the meantime we have ad- vanced about $3,000, as already stated, and as fast as certificates are given payments are made ; and this course will be followed without, I am happy to say, embarrassing our finances. # FEDERATION WITH AUSTRALIA. As honourable members are aware, a short time ago a Royal Commission was appointed to take evidence in New Zealand and Australia in regard to the federation of this colony with Aus- tralia, and this was reported to be undesirable of the people of this colony. The tariff of the Commonwealth has not as yet been submitted ; but, inasmuch as some eight million pounds is required to meet revenue requirements, it may be taken for granted that there will not be any serious alterations in the Australian tariffs, nor is it likely that the Federal tariff will materially affect the trade relationship as be- tween New Zealand and the Commonwealth. A cordial and friendly feeling exists between this colony and the Commonwealth, and there is no foundation for the fears of many that, be- cause New Zealand has not deemed it prudent to federate, the farmers of this colony will, in sending their products to Australia, be penalised. # BRITISH MAIL-SERVICES. In accordance with what was approved last session, nothing further has been done respect- ing the San Francisco service, and we are, as arranged, paying for actual weight of mail- matter carried, the amount paid last year being about £17,000. The Oceanic Company are anxious that a contract should be entered into for a specified period, and the matter is receiv- ing consideration. The subsidy asked, however, is much higher than would be reasonable for the colony to pay. Whilst it would be inadvis- able to discontinue the San Francisco service if it can be got on fair terms, it would also be a good thing to have direct communication with Canada vin Vancouver if it could be brought about by the payment of a reasonable subsidy. Suggestions have been made that a transhipping service to Fiji to connect with the Vancouver steamers should be established. This would not be acceptable, or meet the requirements of the colony. It has also been suggested that there should be an improved service as between New Zealand and Australia, and, seeing the number of magnificent steamers belonging to various companies trading from Great Britain to Australia, an effort to bring these lines of steamers to our colony is worthy of considera- tion. It is quite feasible, and could be done at a reasonable cost. With regard to the San Francisco and Vancouver mail-services, pro- posals will be submitted to the House later on dealing with these mail-services. ## PACIFIC CABLE. I feel sure that it was with pleasure that honourable members noted that the Pacific cable contract had been entered into ; and pre- parations for the laying of the cable are now being proceeded with. An officer representing the Pacific Cable Board has visited New Zea- land, and, in conjunction with the Superin- tendent of Telegraphs, has selected a site for the cable-station at Doubtless Bay. The com- pletion of this cable is a matter of great im- portance to our colony, and it will enable New Zealand and Australia to have an independent cable between those countries. I regret to say that some friction has arisen owing to the 