money to other nations. I think the Minister for Public Works is one of the best working-men in the Ministry. He devotes himself steadfastly to his work, and I believe his intention is to expedite the construction of the North of Auck- land line, and complete the North Island Main Trunk Railway within the next three years; and I hope to see the principal lines in other parts of the colony completed also. The Minister for Railways is one of the most able members of the Government, and runs his department in an efficient manner. I am ex- ceedingly sorry that I have such a bad cold that I cannot dwell at such length as I should like upon the work they might do to promote industrial prosperity. in regard to the mail- service, I do not agree with the sentiments expressed by the Government. With respect to encouraging the carriage of mails via Suez, my idea is that to bring our mails and pas- sengers by way of Australia means their per- colating through all the ports of Australia, coming to us second-hand, as it were, and their landing here a week later is a mistake. think the Premier said it would be a good idea to encourage steamers coming by the Suez Canal to Australia and New Zealand. In re- gard to the Fr'isco mail-service, I think that both on commercial lines and on grounds of defence it is a great service for this country. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about the Van- couver service ? Mr. WITHEFORD .- I think that in every respect the Fr'isco service is better than the Vancouver. It is quicker, and you would have that which is most important for every country to have-namely, an ally. When I tried to get the British Government to subsidise the mail- service from New Zealand, either by way of Fr'isco or Vancouver, they would not do it ; but they said, "Next to the British flag, we hope you will have your mails and passengers carried under the American flag, because the day will come when we shall work in unison," and therefore every effort during the last six or eight years with regard to mail connection has been on that suggestion. In regard to com- mercial allies, it is necessary for a colony situated in an isolated position like New Zea- land to have an ally. Colonies like New South Wales and Victoria are connected by rail on the great Australian Continent, but we depend entirely on water - carriage for our connection with the outside world. In the case of America we get a port five thou- sand miles nearer than any European port, and we have there seventy millions of people of the English-speaking race. They are great tra- vellers, and they are stretching out their hands into the Pacific. They have obtained the great ports of Honolulu and Samoa, and arrange- ments are in force which will enable New Zea- land to benefit by those ports. Of that I have not the slightest doubt. The Americans are making those ports great bases of supply. They have ordered 100,000 tons of coal from New Zealand for Samoa, and every three weeks they are getting fresh food from New Zealand Mr. Witheford through the whole of the South Sea Islands. New Zealand cannot hope to monopolise the trade of the South Sea Islands, and we cannot fence those islands round with a barbed-wire <!-- PageNumber="!" --> fence and say we are the only nation which shall trade there. Therefore what we must do is to work in conjunction with some Power which is going to take up a great posi- tion in the commercial world, and work with them, and be, as it were, junior partners. I consider that by working in with the Ameri- can Government, by taking advantage of the Frisco mail-service and getting the benefit of the American subsidy of €50,000, we are act- ing on strictly business lines ; but we should not be doing so if we cut our connection with them, because they would then seek their ally in some other colony or State. I consider that on com- mercial grounds we cannot do better than work in strictly friendly unison with the American people, and when it comes to the question of defence the argument is very much stronger. What is the good of spending $60,000 or £600,000 in defending our ports here-what is 1 the good of it as compared with that little bit of bunting called "Old glory "- the Stars and Stripes - in conjunction with the Union Jack of England ? The Americans have their fleets of ironclads and cruisers in proximity to thee waters, and with a mail-service running undet the American flag, with our mails and pas. sengers being carried under it, there is thus always an alternative line, and in the event of hostilities it would be a great point for us New- Zealanders to be in friendly commercial alli- ance with so powerful a nation as America. The building of 10,000-ton steamers to connect with Australia and other parts I really thin's is unnecessary, when we have 6,000-ton boats already subsidised that come here and go across to Australia, and with the new ships being built for the Union Company, and the excel- lent fleet already run by the Union Company and the Huddart - Parker Company. With these I do not think there is any necessity for building 10,000-ton ships to connect with Australia. As regards railway-construction. I have already said all I wish to say about it- that it would be in the interests of the whole colony to push it on to the fullest possible extent. As regards the rolling - stock and \- material, I do think we ought to construct everything we possibly can in the colony. I am quite sure our friend the Minister for Railways will in the future, if possible, do what he has not done in the past-erect workshops with suf- ficient accommodation and with the necessary plant to build the required trucks, carriages, and locomotives, because when these industries are started they expand from year to year. Although the Government will not give bonuses for the establishment of different industries direct to the settlers of the colony, they are practically giving those bonuses to the foreign manufac- turers, and every £100,000 that is sent away for rolling-stock and material used in the Govern- ment service is a bonus given to the people in other countries to erect workshops. Goods of 