The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI .- No doubt the honourable gentleman who has just sat down has some personal experience of this matter, because he is a member of the Labour Bills Committee, and consequently he is in a better position to argue points with reference to this measure than a number of other honourable members. I may say that I think this Bill, as it is a consolidation Bill, should have been intro- duced into the other Chamber and then have been sent to this Council as the revising Cham- ber. Instead of that being done, the Bill has been introduced into the Council and the other House is the revising Chamber. I entirely dis- approve of that. Had it been an ordinary Bill it would have been a different matter, but as it is a consolidation measure I think it should have been introduced into the other Chamber and then have come up here for revision. It has been very gratifying and pleasant to me to hear the speeches of certain honourable gentlemen this afternoon. I refer particularly to the speeches of the Hon. Mr. Bolt, the Hon. Mr. Jennings, the Hon. Mr. Pinkerton, the Hon. Mr. Jenkinson, and one or two others. Sir. I was surprised to see the conversion of some of those honourable members, and their advocacy of the bankers, merchants, wholesale houses, and the employés in wholesale houses. It is interesting to compare the position they have taken up to-day with that taken up by them in the past. I have no objection to including banks, nor do I wish to see ware- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 housemen excluded. But what struck me more particularly was the interest which those honourable gentlemen took in these lofty in- stitutions. An Hon. MEMBER .- Hundreds of petitions. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI .- I will come to the petitions directly. It is because those in- stitutions are wealthy and have means at their command, and can afford to send petitions and influence those honourable gentlemen to advo- cate their interests ; but not a solitary member has stood up in defence of the interests of those who will mostly be injured by this Bill. Read clause 2A. What do we find there ? That every shop is to be closed at six o'clock in the even- ing. What about the poor unfortunate man who, in his humble way, keeps a little bit of a shop, and who only gets any business after the larger houses are closed? Not one of those gentlemen, who have in the past taken such an interest in the poor people of this country have spoken on behalf of these people on this occasion. I am opposed to this Bill. as I have always been opposed to our labour legislation and to any interference with the privileges and liberties of the people. I do not believe in it. Some honourable gentlemen have said that we are going rather far, and that we might run the ship ashore-that the result will be to cause strong feeling against this legislation. Well, I believe the day is not far distant when we shall see a revulsion of feeling against what has been taking place. For some time past it has constantly been boasted that this country is prospering; but there is no doubt there are rocks ahead, and that before long this legis- lation instead of benefiting the working-man will be doing him an injury. We must remem- ber that what we do does not only affect the present generation, but it also affects those who are growing up, and our legislation may have the effect of preventing many of them getting employment. The Minister said that officers in banks and warehouses should be paid over- time. There is no doubt that such a thing may take place, but it will certainly be at the cost of a reduction of the salaries of these officers, because I believe that there are large numbers of clerks and assistants in warehouses who desire work. I say that any one advertising now for a confidential clerk will to-morrow morning have hundreds of men at his doors wanting the position. There are plenty of them to choose from, and consequently if overtime is paid it will come out of the general wages. As I have stated before, whatever you do to restrict trade means placing heavy burdens upon the \- masses of the people, because they have to pay for it. It is the consumer who has to pay for these things, and the consumer means the mass of the people. I shall oppose this Bill. Debate adjourned. The Council adjourned at twenty minutes to five o'clock p.m. # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Thursday, 15th August, 1901. First Readings-Order of Business-Public Health Bill - Mortgages of Land Bill -Hospital Nur-es Registration Bill-Promissory Oaths Bill-Young Persons Protection Bul-Money-lenders Bill- Companies Bill. Mr. SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two. o'clock p.m. PRAYERS. FIRST READINGS. Hokitika Harbour Board Empowering Act Amendment Bill, Charitable Gifts Bill. ORDER OF BUSINESS. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) asked that Ministers be relieved from answering questions to-day. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) asked the Premier when members would be placed in possession of the paper B .- 1, and particulars regarding unauthorised expenditure, and also when the customary quarterly returns, up to 30th June, which should be published in the Giazette, would be available. He hoped that these would be at the disposal of honourable + members, so that they might be the better able to understand the tables of the Financial State- ment. Mr. SEDDON thought members would give the Government that credit to which they were entitled for the manner in which they had supplied returns this year. There was scarcely a return desired by honourable members that had not been agreed to. Mr. MASSEY .- We have not seen them yet. 