9.0. had been well considered, came to the conclusion that the five years was a fair com- promise as between what had been contended by those opposing it, and on that condition solely it passed through Committee and was placed on the statute-book of the colony. Such being the case, I say we should have something more than primitive reasons - I must not be ungenerous with the honourable member, but in dealing with such a grave sul ject as this we should have weightier arguments than those given by the honourable member. To my mind, considering the gravity of the subject, he dealt somewhat flippantly with this question. I say this because he did not give any reasons. I say he ought to have shown that since we have had the Act with the five years' limit in it there has been a large number of women or men who have suffered and who will suffer by it. I say he has given no such reasons whatever. Mr. WILFORD .- Do you want names ? Mr. SEDDON .- No, I do not want names. You laid no stress on that. The honourable gentleman never attempted to prove to the House that between the three and the five years there were a number or wives of hus- bands who had suffered. Mr. WILFORD .- I said there were. Mr. SEDDON. You want to do something more than that. If there was any general de- sire for this change members of this House would have heard of it. We should have heard it through, the Press ; there would have been a general feeling in favour of this measure ; and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 I must say at once that I have never heard any general desire for this extension. In my posi- tion, if there was any real grievance, or any number of persons were injured or suffering, I should say I should hear of it as well as any other man in the country. I may say I have not had, since the passing of that Act, a single case brought under my notice. Suppose there may be a few isolated cases of wives who suffer, is it to relieve that suffering that you are going to strike a blow at your whole social structure? I say it is better that there should be a few suffer under those conditions, and wait for the two years, than that you should pass a law making it easy for a young couple, who have been together only a few months, and between whom a difference of opinion arises, to say to each other, "You go your way, and I will go mine. ' I ask members. before they pass this, to pause, and not to treat it lightly. lask honourable members to allow the Act to work a little longer, and let us see whether there is a necessity, before we agree to so important an amendment. And then, again, I ask you to judge our country and our colony by its pro- ceedings. Get a return of the divorce pro- ceedings in our Supreme Court, and com- pare your Court records with what ex.sted before the passing of that Act, and then judge New Zealand as it stood before and as it stands to-day in regard to these pro- ceedings. And let me say here, I am sorry Mr. Seldon ings, in all their hideous nakedness, to the world. Does that help to improve the morals of the country? Does that hold up our country in a favourable light to other nations ? I say it does not. It detracts from our moral standard. We are like other nations, and there have been, and will be for all time, differences in the matrimonial circle, and there may be bad men and men who ill-treat their wives ; but I say it does no good whatever with respect to these proceedings to have them published to the world as we have had them. I may pro- bably be taken to task for taking up the part of mentor with respect to this question; but, at the same time, the more easy you make it by the amendments that are now proposed the more likely you are to have this increased num- ber of proceedings. And then we are told that the law is, I think the honourable member said, four years' desertion in the neighbouring colonies. Mr. WILFORD .- I said desertion is one year in Scotland. Mr. SEDDON. - But you said in one colony. Mr. WILFORD. - Victoria and New South Wales. Mr. SEDDON .- In Victoria it is four years' desertion ? Mr. WILFORD .- Yes. Mr. SEDDON .- Very well, that is a year against your contention, because you propose to make it three years, so that you would make it easier in New Zealand by a vear than it is in the neighbouring colonies. My answer to that is this : look at the records, and, again, at the number of divorce proceedings in Australia, and contrast that with what obtained previously, and even contrast it with what is the case now in New Zealand, and you will notice that they are in the other colonies fast drifting into a state of Americanism, and their divorce pro- ceedings there are such as I hope will never ob- tain in the colony of New Zealand. I say it is not much to the credit of any country to have the columns of its papers filled up with these cases, and to find that the majority of the cases in its Supreme Court are divorce proceedings. I undertake to say that since the passing of the Act which the honourable gentleman proposes now to amend, there has been a considerable increase in the number of cases in the Divorce Courts of our colony. I am speaking from memory now; at all events, I will say there has been a very large number in excess of what previously prevailed. Then. as to the question which the honoural le gentleman has raised as to the imprisonment, or where attempts have been made on the life of the wife : contrast that with the ordinary imprisonment, and I can only say this : that there may be good reasons why ; and, where the imprisonment has taken place, and knowing for what the man could be imprisoned, the wife would be the last who would ask that there should be the relaxation that the honoural le member proposes in his Bill. I say it has not been asked for. Again, I ask : 