what he proposes to do with the money while waiting investment. That, Sir, I think is the crur of the whole position. Mr. SEDDON .- If you do not raise it, how is it going to be available for investment ? Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - The honourable gentleman has taken power in this Bill to raise $2,000,000, and he limits himself to the raising of $1,000,000 in each financial year. When the House meets next year we may find that the $2,000,000 have been raised. He would be able to raise one million during this financial year, and raise the second million before the House again met-that is, between the close of the financial year and the meeting of Parliament. The question is whether he or the Hon. the Minister in charge of the Bill, will explain to the House what form of investment the Go- vernment proposes to adopt in connection with that money while it is waiting investment. Now, I have listened very carefully to the dis- cussion that has taken place on the Bill so far, and I wish to point out to honourable members as nearly as I can what is the exact position at the present time. If honourable members will look at page 4 of the Advances to Settlers Re- port, B .- 13, they will see that under the 3-per- cent. loan (A) $1,500,000 has been raised, and under the 3-per-cent. loan (B) $500,000 has been raised, making $2,000,000; and then the next line is "Temporary advances, $380,000." Now, I cannot understand why $380,000 are called "temporary advances " in that table An Hon. MEMBER. - They are not. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - Will the honourable gentleman allow me to say that this statement of assets and liabilities on page 4 of the Advances to Settlers Office report says distinctly, " Tem- porary advances, ₺380,000"? Now, the Public Accounts, as published in the Gazette No. 48 of this year, 16th May, says, under the heading of the "Government Advances to Settlers Office Loan Account" : "3-per-cent. stock created, 9240,000, and temporary advances on the security of short-dated debentures, £140,000." The posi- tion, therefore, is that the $210,000 has become part and parcel of the permanent loan, and that only £140,000 remains as temporary advances. Now, what is the position at the present time ? Allowing, as I have shown, that the moneys actually raised under the principal Act amount to €2,240,000, we get the Premier's $760,000, being the amount unexpended as at the 31st March. And allowing that he has $760,000 as at the 31st March unexpended, during the cur- rent financial year he will certainly receive nothing less than $175,000 from mortgages and instalments repaid. During the year end- ing the 31st March, 1900, he received $136,000 from this source ; during the year that has just expired he received $155,000 ; and, estimating that there will be €20,000 more than that sum during the present year coming in to the Advances to Settlers Department, I estimate for this year €175,000. Adding that amount then to the $760,000 remaining of the three- million loan, we have a total of $935.000 available, less $140,000 temporary advances, Mr. G. W. Russell temporary advances are repaid there will re- main in the hands of the Treasurer as between the 31st March of this year and the 31st March of next year the sum of $795,000 available for the purposes of the Advances to Settlers Depart- ment. That being the position, what, I would ask, can be the reason that the honourable gentleman, with that available cash balance for operations during the financial year, desires at the present time to force the House thus com- paratively early in the session into sanctioning a loan of $2,000,000 for the purposes of that department in addition to what he already has? I venture to say, and I say it without hesitation, that an answer to that question has not been given in either of the Ministerial speeches that have been made on this Bill up to the present time. Now, in connection with the balance. sheet that is before the House, I desire to draw the attention of honourable members to one or two points. In the second paragraph of this report it is stated : "The instalments of in- terest and principal to the 31st March, 1900, have been collected in full, no sum remaining outstanding on the 31st March, 1901." Now, can honourable members believe that in any great department like this, on any particular day, it was able to wind up its accounts so absolutely that there was not one penny owing for interest or instalments ? An Hon. MEMBER .- That was for the previous year. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I admit that. And yet, Sir, we find that overdue interest is said in the statement of assets to represent no less a sum than $4,734 6s. 7d. Now, I come to another point. The Premier drew attention to the fact that the sum of $70,000 was in hand in connection with the Insurance Fund. That is quite correct ; but, Sir, the honourable gentleman omitted to notice here that there are $143,928 loan-flotation charges that have still to be brought up, and he also omitted to notice the fact that during the past year, not- withstanding that the operations of the depart- ment in the way of borrowing money have not been very large, the loan-flotation charges again come to nearly $10,000. I only wish to say that, in view of what I have stated. I think, if the Government are invested by the House with power to borrow $1,000,000 in addition to what they hold in hand, the effect will be to give them a thoroughly assured finance so far as the next financial year is concerned and the probable necessities of borrowers. There is no chance of people coming to ask for money and not being able to obtain it. I shall therefore support any motion that may be made for the purpose of reducing the amount that is borrowable under this Bill to the sum of one million of money. I would like to say before I sit down that I do not in the slightest degree share in the pessimistic views of the honourable member for Waitemata. I cannot understand that honourable gentleman, while members of his own party are recognising the great value this department has been to the colony in lowering the rates of interest, and in giving 