the question with respect to which he is sup- posed to be an expert-namely, law. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) .- I think the ques- tion that has been raised this afternoon is a somewhat important one. Notwithstanding the abuse which has just been levelled by the honourable member for Riccarton at my col- league Mr. Barclay, the honourable member for Dunedin City, the fact remains that he is always ready to give the House. the benefit of his opinion as an expert on constitutional law and practice. The sug- gestion he has made will be of value if it en- ables us to avoid bringing Parliament into disrepute, and perhaps involving the country in a considerable amount of expense. I assume that it is the duty of this House to protect the country against running the risk of actions of law for heavy damages. What has the member for Riccarton just been doing ? For the second time this afternoon he is figuring conspicu- ously as the advocate of cheap labour. What compassion has he for the workers in the Government Printing Office, some of whom for many years have done valuable service for the colony-men who are probably his equal in intelligence and in every other re- spect ? His advice is that these men, most of them with families depending on them, should be turned out of their employment at once, simply because certain machinery has been invented by means of which their labour may be superseded. Is that protecting the labouring-classes of this country? I have no https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 doubt, Sir, when he appears on the platform he is addicted to telling the working-men that he admires them, and that he has their interests and prosperity at heart. Now, Sir, what are the Government doing by maintaining these men in their positions and refusing to introduce the linotype? Simply what considerate em- ployers would do under similar circumstances. We have, I believe, men in the printing trade now that have the means and the opportunity of introducing the linotype, but who decline to do so out of consideration for the men who have so long been employed under them. You cannot blame any employer for taking advantage of improved machinery, and endea- vouring to get his work done as cheaply as possible ; but I admire the employer who, before he introduces labour - saving machinery into his office, endeavours to minimise suffering by finding employment for the hands who are to be displaced, or allows them by a natural and inevitable process to disappear. But the honourable gentleman wants to clear them out at very short notice. He suggests that work- ing men should be suddenly and arbitrarily deprived of their employment because ma- chinery has been discovered by which their labour can be superseded. I trust there are few gentlemen in this House who have not a little more ordinary consideration for their fellows. Travelling from this subject to per- haps an equally important aspect of the matter we are debating, we know very well how members are privileged in this House. Under cover of this privilege do we not occa- sionally find certain members making state- ments regarding their fellow-men that they would hardly venture to make on the plat- form or outside this House? We have not carried that freedom of privilege so far or abused it to such an extent as they have in other colonies, where most objectionable lan- guage is sometimes used. Still, utterances of a most libellous and defamatory kind can be used in this House, and the member who takes that course is protected from the consequences. Now, are such statements to be circulated through the medium of the Government Print- ing Office throughout the colony? If they are to be circulated in this way, and the Go- vernment Printer is no longer a free agent, in what position will the colony be placed ? With the involuntary assistance of the Govern- ment Printer, any person may be libelled and traduced by any member of this House. Now and again an unscrupulous individual may manage to find his way to this Chamber, and if the Government Printer is compelled to cir- culate his utterances what is likely to happen ? If the persons libelled seek their remedy at law we know what almost invariably happens. When the party prosecuted is the Government Printer, or the Government of the country, or any corporation that is supposed to represent wealth, they generally come off second best. If damages are awarded they are made to suffer heavily. Will the transgressor be made to suffer? No ; it is the country and the general body of taxpayers. Before we deal finally with this question we must remember that it is not the Government Printer whose interests are chiefly at stake, but the interests of the country, and of the people who have to find the money. The honourable member for Dun- edin City was perfectly right in submitting that, before seeking a privilege of the kind, and throwing on the Government Printer the re- sponsibility of printing the libellous statements that may be made in the House, we ought to provide that the Government Printer shall not be responsible for the utterances he may have to print. We ought to see that the country is protected in this matter, and that the taxpayers are not compelled to pay heavy damages. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- 4.30. The honourable gentleman has. I think, taken a rather personal view of the matter. He enjoys a privilege which the honourable mem- ber for Wellington City does not enjoy. He has a newspaper of his own, in which he can circu- lato all his speeches. Mr. HOGG .- No. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- There is a newspaper to which the honourable gentleman can send all his speeches, and so is able to reach his constitu- ents, and I say that is a very important matter. That is why he can pose in the House as a man who does not require this convenience. But there are members in this House who have not such means of reaching their constituents ; and it is not to be expected that newspapers have the space to grant members, and give them that full information regarding their public actions 