extent of the difference, and then all our calculations would be upset. So, while the money was there, it was not considered prudent for us to borrow and lend at high rates. We have therefore refrained from doing so. I repeat that, if securities were going at high rates, people who otherwise would not look at the department would rush it for large amounts ; but the department was not intended for rendering assistance under those circum- stances. There must be a certain amount of large loans, but the masses of the people must be considered. If the money went in large loans, and it was borrowed at 4 per cent., it would be bad business. I have had to bear the brunt of the adverse criticism in connection with this matter, but now that honourable members have had my explanation I am sure they will be sorry. We have kept within our limits, and yet we have helped settlers as far as possible. Owing to the abnormal conditions larger demands have been made upon us. With the high interest we should have had to pay for our money, to have given the advances to this increased amount would have crippled to some extent the department, and we had to refuse-and, I think, properly so-a class of in- vestors. It must not be said a slip was made : but, if it was said, it was only a slip of the tongue, and not by me, and that slip was taken hold of by members opposite. The member for Hawke's Bay tried to father it on to me : that the reason we had not advanced on these applications was that we could not get the money. I never said so, and it was not so. We would have had no difficulty in getting the money. It was not on account of that. It was because we would have to pay a high rate of in- terest, and the applications increased because a / http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero high rate was being demanded by the outside money-lending institutions. The position now of the department is this : So soon as there is an opportunity of obtaining the money at a lower rate of interest, we have a number of appli- cations held over, and if the money market was easy the amount lent will be more than half a million for this or for the next year. I think that was the sum calculated. If we increased the amount, and we have less than $100.000 of loan-money in March next. I say the department would have been crippled if the amendment of the honourable member for Hawke's Bay had been carried. I have put these figures now before the Committee. I have pointed out how erroneous it would have been if members had been misled, and had voted as they were asked to vote by the honour- al le member. In conclusion. I will say this : that the member for Hawke's Bay, and those who opposed this measure persistently and consistently, have come to this conclusion now, as stated by the honourable member for Hawke's Bay himself in Committee. He said he had opposed the Bill ; that it was now la \\ ; and as it was law, although it was there against his wishes, and he does not believe in it to-day, yet he would not be a party to repeal it. I think that is what he said. Very well, he is not friendly disposed ; and, not being friendly dis- Mr. Seddon posed, the less we have where there is a risk, as the honourable member thinks there is a risk - he has that reservation still - the less risk it will feel to me-the less amount I give you the less risk there will be. So he was quite consistent in refusing the amount asked for. I can say nothing more than this : I do believe that, of all the experiments we have tried, this lending to the settlers of the country has been the greatest success. There has been, I may say, no loss whatever. There is at the present time a slight risk. I tell that to honourable members, and I have had to speak plainly some- times. I think the risk is owing to the fact that the values of land at the present time in this colony are very high. An Hon. MEMBER .- Too high. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- The valuations are. Mr. SEDDON .- I tell you the prices that people are paying for the land at the present time, unless our staple products increase in price- Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - Your time is up. Mr. SEDDON .- Just as I was about to give you an illustration of this my time is up. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) .- I will take up a very few minutes ; nor should I have spoken on this occasion had it not been that, having moved an amendment in Committee. it is right that I should place on record why I did so. The Right Hon. the Premier professes to make a moan in that he cannot pass the original Bill which he introduced. I can under- stand that the honourable gentleman, if he ever indulges in that schoolboy trick of putting his tongue in his check, does so now, and laughs at the House, inasmuch as he has "jockeyed " it once more. He knows well enough that practi cally he has got his original Bill. It is the same Bill that he introduced, slightly meditied. It is perfectly true that in the 2nd clause we have struck out the word "two" and inserted 1 "one," and thereby the House has been led- I will not say the House, but the world -- has been led to suppose that the Right Hon. the Premier has only got half of what he wanted. If honourable members will read the provivo ! in the Bill as introduced they will see that he has got almost exactly what he wanted be- fore. In the Bill originally introduced there is a proviso that only one million of money should be raised in one year. That proviso is now struck out, but the Premier gets the one million this year, and that is all he originally proposed. The Premier is one of those " artful dodgers " who knows exactly what he wants. and generally manages to get it. It has bron very interesting to me to endeavour to follow the Right Hon. the Premier's figures to-night. I am no expert in figures, I admit : but I con- fess I was more puzzled as to what the position of the funds in the Advances to Settlers Account really is when he finished than when he began his speech. We have heard one Minister put i at $760,000 ; from another that it is £620.001; from the honourable member who ought to be in charge of the Bill, but is not .- the Minister in charge of that department, but who, according, 