honourable member for Waihemo is correct when he says that in 1899 to 1900 the exports dropped considerably. When one tries to find out the reason for the drop it is rather curious. Mr. McKenna himself recognises the drop and at tempts to explain it. He says the reason of the drop is owing, no doubt, to the temporary stopping of the meat works by the high price of stock. If the Harbour Board is dependent upon meat-works, which may be stopped when the price of stock is high, for the value of its exports, it seems to me that the revenue is not founded on a very solid basis. Very strong argument would have to be adduced to warrant this Harbour Board in spending extra money on harbour-works, which may only increase their difficulties, and not increase their revenue. And it is obvious that the expenditure of money on the harbour will not decrease the price of stock : and if the revenue is to be dependent upon the price of stock, then I take it that the expenditure about to take place will not have that effect, but will increase the charges without increasing the revenue. Looking through the general items of export that. take place from this harbour one finds that what is true of stock and meat is true of a great many other exports. I find that wool, instead of having increased in quantity and value, decreased last year, and that the amount of wool exported now is not within 1,300 bales of what it was in 1894. In 1893 they had 6,043 bales exported. and in 1900 there were only 4.799 bales exported. That is a very serious falling-off. One pauses to in- / https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 quire as to what is the reason for this falling-off in the quantity of wool sent away from this harbour. Either it is that the harbour will not allow the ships that would go there to come in, in which case the expenditure is justifiable, or else it is that the wool and other products are b -ing sont by rail to Wanganni or Wellington, where an easier port may be found. I find that one of the few things that have increased in quantity is the bales or bags of fungus that have been sent away from this port. They have risen from 101 bags in 1994 to 602 bags. The export of tallow has decreased. So we find that many of the items instead of increasing have decreased. The only thing which has kept up the revenue of this Board have been the new industries. For instance. they have lately begun to export cheese, which was now to them until the year 189. There is a remarkable rise in the export of cheese from 1899 to 1900 of from 470 cases to 1.798 cases : and if it be true that that rise is to con- tinne, then I certainly should agree with the honourable member in charge of the Bill that further expenditure of money is justitied in this harbour. But, leaving the exports, one does find with respect to imports a considerable increase. The secretary draws attention to that in these words : - " The inward cargo shows the largest result in the annals of the Board by about 1,200 tons Mr. J. Allen really is somewhat hard to know whether this extra expenditure is justified or not. I have no doubt the honourable member in charge of the Bill, who comes from the district and knows its capabilities and wants, will be able to lay before the House a sufficient reason for us to vote for the second reading of the Bill. When we get into Committee there will be two questions which the honourable member will have to consider. One has already been mentioned- namely, as to limiting the rate of interest to be paid on the loan. Such a provision has been inserted in other Bills of late, and I have no doubt that some such provision will be in- serted in this Bill. But there is another clause which honourable members have not mentioned, and one which, I think, has been inserted in nearly every local Bill which has come before the House of late years. I refer to a clause dealing with the sink- ing fund. The Patea Harbour Board has recognised all through its existence the neces- sity for providing for payment of its loans when they become dne, and one finds in the accounts of the Board that it has in the past made provision for the payment of a sinking fund. The sinking fund accounts are shown, and in the course of a few years there will be sufficient out of the sinking funds to redeem the loans that are already in existence. An Hon. MEMBER. -- How much do they set apart for sinking fund ? Mr. J. ALLEN. 24 per cent. in some cases. That is, of course, a very heavy amount to set apart. I see the sinking fund account on a £10,000 loan is 24 per cent., and a sinking fund of 24 per cent. is also provided for on a loan of $3,000. An Hon. MEMBER .- What is the currency ? Mr. J. ALLEN .- I do not know the currency of the loans. But, with regard to the ban pro- posed to be raised under this Bill, I find no provision for a sinking fund. The honourable member will perhaps be able to tell us why the Board in this instance has departed from what seems to me to be a wise practice, and a prac- tice they have followed in regard to all previous loans - why in this instance they are not abiding by what seems a good plan. There may be good reasons for departing from what they have been doing in the past. Mr. HASELDEN .- It is provided for in the accounts. Mr. J. ALLEN. - The honourable gentleman assures me that a sinking fund is provided for, not in the Bill but in the accounts. The honour- able gentleman will, no doubt, as he agrees with the principle of a sinking fund, be prepared to place this clause also in the Bill in Committee. Therefore when the Bill gets into Committee there are two new clauses to be inserted. one limiting the amount to be paid by way of in- terest, and the other providing for a sinking fund. I think the honourable gentleman will admit it will be wise to put in a sinking fund, 