to me this question of Grainger Street. If you say it is a matter of lung space for the Town of Wellington, and that such places ought to be opened up, I say at once that that is a very good thing to do, but what I complain of is the way in which it has been done. I do not think Parliament understood it, or would have passed it through if they had understood it ; and if they said they were doing it for the purpose of putting the railway on it-that they were going to widen the street and shift the railway-then they have no right to cut it up, as is their in- tention, and to use it for building purposes. An Hon. MEMBER .- The Act gave them the power. Mr. SEDDON .- I know the Act gives them power. It is very extraordinary. Section 11 SOVS, - " All land so purchased or taken shall vest in the Board for the purposes for which it is constituted, and the Board may sell and dis- pose of any lands so purchased or taken, by public auction, private contract, or exchange." An Hon. MEMBER .- Read the section. Mr. SEDDON .- I have read that part of the section which provides how the Board is to deal with the land taken. It includes the land in Grainger Street, and this land " shall vest in the Board for the purposes for which it was constituted, and the Board may sell and dispose of any land so purchased." I say the land so purchased was taken under Schedule B. It can be sold by public auction or private contract, which is again monstrous, or it may be exchanged or leased. Well, this House, if it knew the facts' of the case, would no more think of giving the right to the Wellington Harbour Board to take lands for the simple pur- / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero pose of selling or exchanging with somebody else than it would think of making the Wellington Harbour Board a present of the site on which this house stands. At all events, I have called attention to it. It is not a vendetta ; it is simply a matter from which we ought to take warning in future. We are too careless con- cerning these Bills. I myself have been, I, must confess, somewhat indifferent as regards local Bills. Members bring them up, and we take it for granted that they apply only to the localities, and that the members concerning them know best ; and when there are no peti- tions against them we take little trouble. Mr. PIRANI. - By Jove you do, if I bring them in ! Mr. SEDDON .- No, I do not, but I think I ought to. What I was going to say was about the change of the financial year. If you are going to change the financial year of the Har- bour Board to suit the wool season, what are we going to do with our nancial year which is fixed to end on the 31st March ? How are you going to get the returns laid on the table of this House if you change the financial year of the Board to the 30th September, because the present time causes some little inconvenience to the Board ? The other Boards would require the same thing. I do not think you should change the date of the financial year unless you Wir. Seddon given-on account of the wool season and that the Harbour Board's staff is busy. Then, again, why should it be done in a Bill which is simply dealing with representation on the Board ? Nine out of ten members of the House would take it that the Bill is introduced for the <!-- PageHeader="\----" --> sole purpose of giving country representation on the Harbour Board, and here is a clause slipped in altering the financial year. An Hon. MEMBER .- That was explained in introducing the Bill. Mr. SEDDON .- That is to the credit of the honourable member, but I had not read it, and it was only when the honourable member for the Grey called attention to it that I noticed it was not desirable. There has been no good reason shown for it. Why should not other Boards make the same application ? It is the wool season in Napier, in Christchurch, and Otago, and if these Boards asked, for the same reason, that we should change the financial year, we should grant it in the one case as well as in the other. An Hon. MEMBER .- What harm would there be ? Mr. SEDDON .- It means that the balance- sheet, when laid upon the table of the House, would be nearly twelve months old. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) .- I regret that the discussion this afternoon has turned upon the provisions of Acts dealing with the Wellington Harbour Board, other than that which I am fathering, if I may use the term : and I much regret the discussion which has taken place has been upon lines of general policy, some honourable members condemning the action of the Board in regard to the Grainger Street property, and others in refer- ence to the legislation which was introduced in' 1898, while most speakers have ignored the matter dealt with in my Bill. Now, I should like to take this opportunity of telling the Pre- mier that, notwithstanding the fact that certain clauses were introduced by the other branch of the Legislature, the statute of 1893 has been carried out in its entirety by the Wellington Har- bour Board. They have not violated any legal principle. They have not acted in any way con- trary to the spirit of the statute empowering them to do certain things ; and I think it is time enough for the Premier to take objection and move in some way to put a matter right when a wrong has been done. The attitude of the Wellington Harbour Board is absolutely consis- tent with the statutes under which it is incor- porated. There is no provision in the statuto which it has not observed, and subclauses (1), (2), and (3) of clause 11 of the Act of 1898 have given no power which the Wellington Harbour Board has exceeded in any shape or form. Now. Sir, I want to say one word in reference to the last clause of this Bill, or the Schedule, in refer- ence to the altering of the date upon which the annual meeting is to be held. May I ask honourable members from other districts what does it matter to them, whether the annual meetings of the Wellington Harbour Board shall be held at the date suggested in this Bill <!-- PageNumber="1" --> 