that only one speech should be made in asking a question, and one in reply; but it was in accordance with parliamentary practice that when a question had been answered by a Minister and the member asking it considered that he had not been understood by the Minister for him to give further information to explain bis question. Mr. O'MEARA said the honourable gentle- man (Mr. Fisher) was the greatest transgressor himself. He would like to point out to the Premier that the following gentlemen were appointed to go over this particular district, and he would give their names : Hon. G. F. Richardson, F. Knight, Joseph H. Harris, W. P. Hartstone, and H. Monteith, for the Go- vernment. Well, if it was necessary to sub- pona witnesses to say what was the value of land in this particular district, he thought it was the duty of the Government, or the head of that department who made the appoint- ments, to inquire very carefully into the charac- ter of these witnesses. It was absurd - Mr. SEDDON rose to a point of order. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the honour- able gentleman was now introducing debatable matter, and was out of order. Mr. SEDDON could only say that neither Mr. Richardson, Mr. Monteith, nor the other gentlemen named were sent by the Govern- ment to make a valuation. He had given the honourable gentleman the three names of the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 men who were sent by the Government to make a valuation. RIFLES FOR VOLUNTEER OFFICERS. Mr. RHODES | Ellesmere) asked the Minis- ter of Defence, If he cannot see his way to provide officers of Volunteer corps with rifles ? If not, will he grant them the same privileges as members of defence rifle clubs, and allow them to purchase their rifles on the same terms? He did not think it would be a very costly matter to supply all Volunteer officers with rifles ; but, as he realised that only a cer- tain number of officers went in for shooting, he would be satisfied if the Premier could see his way to supply those who put in an application. At the present time an officer was in this position : he had either to purchase a rifle from a private firm or borrow one from a member of his corps, and, as all rifles varied more or less in matters of shooting, an officer had to become acquainted with the peculiar eccentricities of each rifle borrowed before he could make fair shooting. Therefore he did not think he was asking too much when he asked the Premier in this way to supply officers with rifles. If the Premier did not agree to that, he would like him to give a favourable answer to the second part of his question. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said he had no objection to officers purchasing rifles, but he could not set up a precedent that the Government should supply officers with rifles. He would allow officers to purchase rifles at cost price. clubs ? Mr. SEDDON .- No ; at cost price. AMMUNITION FOR VOLUNTEERS. Mr. ARNOLD (Dunedin City) asked the Minister of Defence, If he will reduce the price of ammunition to Volunteer companies so as to further encourage Volunteering and the shooting ability of our young men ? It was generally admitted that one of the greatest encourage- ments young men had to join Volunteer corps was the possibility of shooting-practice. Not only did it encourage them to join a corps, but after they had joined they recognised that it was necessary they should become expert shots. Now, with regard to a supply of ammunition, they recognised that a great majority of the Volunteer corps were composed of working-men, and the price that was charged to the various corps, and through the corps to the members, was so heavy that it was impossible for them to receive the amount of ammunition to practiso with that they should have. He trusted the Government would see their way clear to reduce the prime cost of ammunition to the various corps for the purpose mentioned in his ques- tion. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said they were now charging 11s. per hundred rounds, which was 9d. less than was paid to the Colonial Ammunition Company, so that they lost 9d. on every hundred rounds supplied. He could only say that they must not ride a willing horse to death, nor go too far. "SWEATING." Mr. ARNOLD (Dunedin City) asked the Minister of Labour, If he will, for the purpose of further diminishing "sweating," make such provision as will compel all tradesmen taking orders for tailoring, and employing tailors or tailoresses, to have such work done in work- shops belonging to the firms taking such orders ? Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Labour) said the question implied greater limitation to be en- forced, either than that existing at present or that embodied in the amending Bill now before the House. The existing law put three disabilities on " home-work," namely : (1) If not made in a factory, any garment or other textile article must, until sold, have a label fixed thereto stating that it had not been made in a factory ; (2) the person to whom work had been given out from a factory was forbidden to sublet ; and (3. if any person employed in a factory took work away to do at home an offence was committed. These provisions had been found sufficient to stop " sweating " of any pronounced character. There had been some grumbling among tailors about work being given out. Of course, if the honourable gentleman's question was favourably entertained, "home- work " in the tailoring trade would cease alto- gether. It was really a question as to whether any work should be taken home at all. From a sanitary point of view it would be better if all the work could be done in the workshops. He 