the world. They are satisfied with very small things there ; and the South Australian people are also satisfied with very small things. South Australia is a fine country, but it is the least progressive colony of all the Australian States. That we all know. At the same time, while making these remarks, I do not approve of the motion to put the Bill off for six months. think, as we have not got a very full Council to-day, it would be better simply to adjourn the debate for a day. An Hon. MEMBER .- That will simply be the means of killing it. The Hon. Mr. REEVES .- Well, if you want to kill it I cannot help it, but I certainly would give it a reprieve for a little time. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- I think this Bill would have had a much better chance of success had it itself been the subject of the principle which it seeks to enact- that is, had it gone through the process of obtaining from the people of New Zealand a vote at some general election as to whether they desired us to divest ourselves of our constitutional functions. Until that takes place I do not believe that this Council will pass such a measure. Sir, what is the leading feature of our parliamentary sys- tem? It is that the people of this and other British-governed countries look upon their representatives as having a position of supreme responsibility. If you take away that responsi- bility, in my opinion, you destroy the great value of your parliamentary institutions. If you pass this Bill, it would be the means of leading to a great deal of division and dis- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 cord between the two Houses, and it would place legislation on an incomparably lower plane. We can foresee any number of Bills that might be brought in here, and which it might be con- venient for the Government or for either House to reject, simply for the purpose of getting rid of the responsibility of passing them ; and, in my opinion, such action would weaken our position as legislators. I think, Sir, also, that there might be many hurried decisions arrived at under the referendum. In this Legislature we might divide upon a Bill, refuse to pass it, and then refer it to the country, and the country in times of fickle excitement might pass some measure which would very likely be quite against the well-being of the country itself, and which might not have been approved of under normal conditions. Then, Sir, how have all great reforms been obtained ? Let us look at some of the celebrated reforms which have taken place in Great Britain. No doubt, in some cases there have been long and unfortunate delays before certain measures were passed, but in the long-run we have always succeeded in getting what we wanted ; and if we compare the legislative machinery here with that of Great Britain we see much difference. The House of Lords, by virtue of its Constitution, can go on almost as long as ever it likes refusing to pass a Bill, but in this country it is not so. An honourable gentle- man, in the course of this debate, showed that this Council must in the course of time, after Hon. Mr. Reeves sent up to it. But the House of Lords, on the contrary, has gone on in the past for many years refusing to pass legislation which has been through the Lower House. That has occurred within recent times; but here the Legislative Council adopts the views of the country, and. with the exception of delaying a Bill for I perhaps one or two sessions, it always passes it without much delay. So that I think there is no necessity for this Bill, and I am very sorry indeed to find the Government has brought it in. I do not agree with the Hon. Mr. Kelly that it is better to put the Bill into Committee and amend it there. I think the Hon. Mr. Arkwright's suggestion is the best-to kill it With our at once, and throw the Bill out. triennial Parliaments, our widely extended franchise, and a healthy public opinion in re- gard to all measures brought before us, this Parliament is powerful and effective enough to pass legislation which is in harmony with the desire of the people, and it only re- quires the intelligent guidance and direction of able public men. This you will always have. Why, then, should we put aside a system so full of historic renown in favour of one that would weaken the authority, and destroy the supremacy and prestige of an institution that for ages has been one of the greatest glories of our country ? The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- Sir, I have very little to say in reference to this Bill beyond this : that I intend to support the amendment moved by the Hon. Mr. Arkwright. I wish to point out to honourable members what would be the effect of clause 7. It reads :- "The day so appointed shall be not sooner than twenty-eight nor later than ninety days after the close of such session, and if between the dates hereinbefore mentioned there shall be a general election for members of the House of Representatives, then in such case the referendum poll shall be taken on such general election day." What is the position at the present time in regard to a general election ? There is a vote required for the election of members of Par- liament. There may be eight or ten candidates before the electors for a choice of three. There is also the question of voting on the issue of alcoholic licenses, when three points are sub- mitted for consideration by electors. This Bill would mean another or more issues placed before the people. I venture to say that even a great number of intelligent people would be confused as to the issues placed before them. If that is so, what must be the position of the non-intelligent voter ? Then, again, as has been said, there will be a very great expense incurred in this experiment. These reasons make me think the Bill should not pass in its present form. I do not think it is wise that the democratic spirit should be always on \-- its knees adoring the proletariat. While not afraid of the people or alarmed at their de- mands, I think this Bill has not been asked for. In fact, most people would like a little rest from statute - making. We have during the past 