with it in a thorough and complete way, and the first thing they really wanted was legisla- tive power. Parliament, he was sure, would give them the necessary authority and any means they wanted. He would be very happy to have the assistance of Mr. Hamilton, but they already had the assistance of Mr. Percy Smith, Major Gudgeon, and Mr. Stawell. Mr. J. ALLEN said that Mr. Hamilton had been all his life in the work. Mr. SEDDON said, For his own part, he looked upon Mr. Percy Smith as the best living authority at the present time. # THE LICENSING LAWS. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) asked the Government, If they intend to introduce a Bill this session to amend the licensing laws, by repealing or modifying the present confiscatory penalties for minor offences, and removing other anomalies ? He would point out that there was a general consensus of opinion in New Zealand that the present licensing laws were unsatisfac- tory, more especially in the matter of the undue hardships that they imposed very frequently on innocent persons, such as mortgagees of pro- perty and others who, under the existing laws, were liable to have the value of their property very largely diminished without redress through the forfeiture of licenses. There were also several other anomalies, which had been from time to time pointed out, and he thought, with- out introducing any large measure of licensing reform which would cause protracted debate, these minor and necessary amendments might easily be embodied in a short Bill if the Govern- ment did not contemplate introducing a large measure. Though a friend of temperance, he could not regard the existing penalties on inno- cent persons as being in accordance with the principles of justice. He had no sympathy with those who broke the law, but they should take care in their legislation that the innocent should not suffer with the guilty. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) replied that he had said the other day there were difficulties met with in the administration of the present licensing law that made it necessary some amending legislation should be introduced. He would have great pleasure in bringing in a measure dealing with minor questions : but if the opportunity were then taken of introducing larger questions, that would militate to a great extent against getting remedial legislation through that was required. He had no hesita. tion in saying there was much in favour of the English Act with respect to finding people upon licensed premises; and that the removal of licenses, by allowing leases to drop out and putting a licensed house among a people who had not been consulted-shifting the licensed premises perhaps twenty or thirty miles- was an entire evasion of the law. Then, again, in respect to confiscation under the existing law, where there had been practically no fault on the part of the landlord himself, or of the owner of the property - here there ought to be a discretionary power given to the Magistrates. Mr. Seddon and time would determine whether the House would deal with them or not. # ASIATIC RESTRICTION. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked the Premier,-(1.) Whether the Government have noticed the reply of the Imperial Govern- ment to a question asked in the House of Commons, and reported in the Times of 8th June, regarding the vetoing of a Bill passed by the Queensland Legislature prohibiting the employment of Asiatics and other coloured labourers in sugar-mills receiving financial help from the Government ? (2.) Do the Govern- ment accept the dictum apparently laid down that these colonies have no right to legislate against the unlimited influx of Asiatics, and particularly of Japanese? This was an im- portant question, because it had an Imperial bearing. He might point out that in the last session of the Queensland Legislature there were passed four Bills dealing with the construction of railways, each of which con- tained a clause that no aboriginal inhabitant of Asia, Africa, or the Pacific Islands was to be employed upon the railway-works. Strange to say, these four Bills containing that clause were not vetoed by His Excellency Lord Lamington, but there was another Bill, also passed by the Queensland Legislature, providing for the granting of State subsidies with regard to the sugar industry, and this Bill contained a similar clause, that no aboriginal inhabitant of Asia, Africa, or the Pacific Islands should be employed on the sugar mills so subsidised by the Queensland Government. This was re- served for the assent of the Imperial Govern- ment and vetoed. In the Times of the 8th June there was the following report of a ques- tion in the House of Commons :- "Mr. PATRICK O'BRIEN asked the Secretary of State for the Colonies why the Royal sanc- tion had been refused to an Act passed by the Queensland Legislature prohibiting the employ- ment of Asiatics and other coloured labourers in sugar-mills receiving financial help from the Government ? " Mr. CHAMBERLAIN .- His Majesty's Govern- ment have represented to the Queensland Go- vernment that the Bill in question is open to objection on grounds of both principle and policy : first, because it embodies a disqualifi- cation based solely on place of origin, and would therefore exclude British subjects in India and elsewhere, not on account of any moral, edu- cational, or physical deficiency, but solely on difference of race and colour : secondly, that it is offensive to Japan, a friendly Power, inas- much as it not only excludes natives of that country from employment, but also places them in the same category as Asiatics generally, without any consideration being paid to their state of civilisation." It was in regard to the matter in so far as Japan was concerned that his question was chiefly asked. Japan was a country containing a population of between forty-four and forty-five 