which is being repealed by this Bill and the proposals of the Bill now before the House. Under the Charitable Gifts Duties Exemption Act of 1883, which is now being repealed, a very wide definition was given of the term "chari- table bequests." The 2nd clause of that Act says,- "The term 'charitable bequests' includes devises, bequests, and legacies of real or per- sonal property respectively of whatever descrip- tion to public institutions such as libraries, museums, institutions for the promotion of science and art, colleges and schools, or to hos- pitals, orphan, lunatic, or benevolent asylums, dispensaries." And then the 3rd clause goes on to say that there shall be no duty levied upon any bequest that may be made in connection with any of those institutions. Now, it appears to me that this Bill in one respect has a tendency to limit the operation of the exemption, and in another respect it appears to widen it. Looking at the definition of " public institution," it appears to me that one of the primary objects of this clause is to extend this exemption of duties to Churches. That appears to be a very large part of the pro- posal. It is very difficult indeed to know how tar ecclesiastical institutions are "irrespective of class or creed," and that appears to be an important element in the definition of " public institution " under this clause. As I have said, I do not propose to review the whole of the proposals of the Bill. But what I fail https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 to see is what the distinction is between the law as it exists in the Act of 1883 and the pro- posals in the Bill now before the House. It may be quite correct, as stated by the Minister in charge of the Bill, that the underlying object of the Bill is to relieve such bequests as that made by Dr. Campbell, of Auckland-a very noble bequest, and one which will be to his eternal credit, and a gift which everybody in the colony must recognise as being a very valuable and noble one. Nobody would wish to see a bequest of that kind brought under the operation of the duties which are in existence ; but I think the Minister ought to explain what the essential difference is between the provi sions of the Act of 1883 and this Bill. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- Sir, I do not think I would have found it necessary on this occasion to say anything if I had not been requested by the senior member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier)-who is unfortunately suffer- ing from a severe cold, and on that account unable to speak -to voice for him the gratitude of the citizens of Auckland for the noble and munificent gift which has lately been handed over to them by ex-Mayor Dr. Campbell, and I accordingly do. so. Sir, Auckland has been particularly fortunate in the matter of public benefactors. At this moment quite a long list of names occurs to me. I can think of Costley, Dilworth, McKelvie, Elam, Arrowsmith, Grey, and now last, and perhaps greatest of all, Dr. Campbell, who has, as the crowning act of a long life, handed over to the citizens of Auck- land, for themselves and their descendants, wall Park. The names of these men will go down in history as philanthropists in the best and truest sense of the word. Sir, there can be no possible objection to the principle of the Bill, whatever Committee objections there may be, and I congratulate the Government heartily on its introduction. Mr. LAWRY (Parnell) .- Sir, the honourable member for Riccarton fell into what may per- haps be considered a natural error under the circumstances of the case, and my 'friend the member for Franklin did the same. I would like to point out to the House and to the country that, whilst this munificent bequest of Dr. Campbell's is primarily for the Auckland citizens, not for Auckland City, it is a gift that is given to the whole colony. It is a recreation-ground for any person who visits Auckland, as it is virtually held in trust for the whole world. I do not see that there can be any possible objec- tion to a Bill of this nature. It appears to me the House should pass it not only unanimously, but with acclamation, because if ever there was a meritorious measure brought before this House it is the Bill I hold in my hand at the present time. I entirely indorse the remarks of the honourable member for Franklin when he said that this munificent gift from Dr. Camp- bell was the crowning act of a glorious public life. The man's whole life has been characterized by charity. For myself, I do not believe in spurious titles. I believe in democracy pure and simple, under circumstances as they now exist, but I trust that when the coronation honours are distributed the reward of merit will be conferred on Dr. Campbell, and that we shall then no longer know him as Dr. Campbell, but as Sir John Logan Campbell. An Hon. MEMBER .- It would not do him any good. Mr. LAWRY .- No, it would not do him any good, but it would be a recognition of the man's great worth, as great merit is rewarded at the present time. Sir, it has been my pleasure and my privilege to have known Dr. Campbell during the whole period of my colonial life. I have been associated with him in business, and have been in his confidence on many occasions, and I know what he has done without ostentation in the matter of private charity as well as public charity, and I repeat that the whole course of his life has been characterized by charity and by benevolence of the very highest order -- his whole life has been characterized by systematic beneficence. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) .- Sir, I would like to say a word with reference to the point that has been raised by the member for Riccarton. The honourable mem- ber asked whether the provisions contained in this Bill are likely to interfere with those of the statute he quoted from. Mr. PIRANI .- That statute is repealed by this Bill. Sir J. G. WARD .- Well, I think that in all cases of munificent gifts such as this, provision should be made to insure that they should be exempt from stamp duty, and that, I consider, 