thing to do with mortgages are the men that keep the place going. I do not mean the Shylocks, of course, but those men who bor- row and invest the money in various enter- prises, for they are the people who find useful outlets for the capital of men who would not do anything with it themselves. I say this is only a permissive Bill, and could not possibly be carried out, and to think that its provisions and conditions may be agreed to is very unlikely. Did you ever hear of a mortgagee giving the mortgagor the chance to dictate the terms of the mortgage ? All I can say is that the author of this Bill must be very simple if he thinks so. I have had a good deal to do with both mortgagors and mortgagees, and seeing other people's mortgages carried into effect. I know well that the mortgagee every time dictates the terms where, when, and how it shall be done. Now, under the Land Transfer Act-and all the Crown lands in this country are under it- you get the same form at 1s. What would be the effect of this on the Land Transfer Act, and what would be the effect of this in con- nection with Government lands and Govern- ment mortgages in this country? I think, before we should be asked to pass a Bill of this kind, at any rate the Minister in charge should have explained how this measure would affect us, and whether it would clash with any other form of mortgage in use in the colony. At any rate, Sir, I, as a member of this House, am not going to swallow a Bill of this sort until it is thoroughly explained. I shall certainly vote against the second reading of the Bill. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) .- I think that this Bill is a very harmless piece of legislation, and I hardly think it is worth the while of a Minister of the Crown to father it. It will need a much better Bill than this, which is really one belonging to the honourable mem- ber for Waitaki, to effect the purpose he has in view. The honourable member for Waitaki, year after year, brings forward in this House a number of small Bills, with the object of which we all sympathize, but he seems to lack the ex- pert knowledge necessary to put his measures forward in the best way. Now, so far as this Bill is concerned, it is entirely optional in its pro- visions. The terms suggested in it may or may not be accepted by the mortgagee. I think the probabilities are they would not be accepted. The mortgagee himself will say upon what terms he chooses to lend his money, and if the mortgagor does not choose to accept those terms, then he would have to seek elsewhere for the money he needed. Another thing I would like to point out is that the Bill professes to reduce the cost of mortgages. It will do nothing of the kind. The present position is this : The legal practitioner who prepares the documents, say, under the Land Transfer Act, is paid by a scale according to the amount of the mortgage-money. If this form of mortgage is adopted we are doing three-fourths of the work for the legal practitioner, and at the same time we allow him to charge the same fee as before for the preparation of the mortgage. Waitaki has not acquired greater knowledge on these points before assisting to introduce such a Bill as this into Parliament. It seems to me that, as the Bill is evidently optional, it will not matter much whether it is put on the statute-book or not ; but if it will satisfy the honourable member for Waitaki, and in any way effect its object, then by all means let it be placed on the statute-book. I was astonished to find the honourable member for Masterton getting up just now and saying he proposed in Committee to insert a provision that at the expiration of three years he would give the right to the mortgagor, upon six months' previous notice, to pay off the mort- gage. I presume, therefore, from the same point of view, he would give the mortgagee the right to notify the mortgagor after three years had gone by, that, as the current rate of interest had risen since the agreement was entered into, he proposed to call in the mort- gage-money or charge a higher rate of interest. So far as the provisions of the Bill with refer- ence to insurance and the proposal that the policy of the insurance should be in the joint name of the mortgagor and mortgagee, I agree with the honourable member for Mataura that the policy of insurance ought to be in the name of the mortgagee. If the buildings are of great value, and the amount advanced on them is comparatively small, no doubt the mortgagee would agree that the mortgagor's name should appear on the policy. If the honourable mem- ber wants to carry out his ideas and reduce the cost of mortgages, he should put a scale of charges in the form of a schedule to the Bill, and insert a provision that his form of mort- gages should compulsorily apply to all lands in New Zealand. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) .- Sir, I shall not detain the House for more than one minute. I think I may say I am voicing the opinion of the whole of the lawyers of the House when I say this Bill will have their unanimous support. Last session, when the Bill was introduced by the member for Waitaki, every legal practitioner in the House got up and explained that his view was that the measure was a good one for somebody. The chief disadvantage is that the deed of mortgage under this Bill will not tell the mortgagor the conditions of his contract, because the plain mortgage itself does not in any way set out the conditions under which money is borrowed ; and, if the mortgagee exercises the power he is granted by the statute and the mortgagor feels aggrieved, the mortgagee will say, " Well, that is the law. It is part of an Act of Parliament, and if you want to find out what the mortgagee can do you had better go and look up the statute, and you will find the powers therein set out." If the mortgagor says, " Why not have it in my deed as formerly ?" he will be told the Act says it is not necessary, and that if he wants to know anything about it he will have to look up the statute. I may say that, as far as the im- plied covenants are concerned, the Schedule is in a way a copy of the Chattels Transfer Act. 