himself to the subject-as to why this fresh sum of $2,000,000 should be granted at all. If you look at the history of the Advances to Settlers Act and its amendments you will see that the amending Bills of the principal Act have all been in the way of delaying the borrowing of money, instead of trying to get more money. The original Act of 1894 provided that €3,000,000 should be borrowed in two years. That brought the time up to 1896. In 1895 an Act was passed extending the time of borrowing that $3,000,000 to 1898, giving them another three years. In 1898 an Act was passed extending the time of borrowing that €3,000,000 for another three years, bringing it up to 1901; and the honour- able member in charge of this Bill admits that at the present moment they have in hand for advances to settlers a sum of $760,000. Well, Sir, it seems to me he should have addressed himself to showing why, with that sum in hand, it was necessary still further to borrow the sum of $2,000,000. Mr. MILLS .- I said there were temporary advances against it. Mr. HERRIES. - Well, the honourable mem- ber, or the Premier, in interjection, said there was $760,000 ready to be applied for advances. We all know what temporary advances are. That means that the sum is invested in temporary security, so that the department has in hand the sum of $760,000 practically at call, which they can at any time advance to the settlers. Besides that they are having every day the repayment of instalments, which they can also use for the same purpose. Now, I ask the House to read carefully, for I have not time to do so in full, the speech of Sir John Mckenzie in introducing the Bill of 1898, in which he deprecates the idea of borrowing fresh money, and in which he points out, very pro- perly, that it is a wrong thing to have power for borrowing money in a Bill unless you can invest it. To quote a portion, he says :- " It would be impossible to advance the money in the same careful and prudent way as we have been advancing the money from the Advances to Settlers Office for the last few years without extending it over a very long time. I should think it would take at least three years to get the money out in the same way as we have been dealing with the money in the past ; and, that being the case, it would be folly to borrow the whole of the money that has been passed. and pay interest on money that we cannot invest." Now, not only has Sir John Mckenzie's prophecy been fulfilled, but we still have, according to the statement of the Minister in charge of the Bill, $760,000 of the original loan that has not yet been advanced to settlers. And, as the honourable member for Bruce pointed out, the rate at which the money has been advanced does not bear out the idea expressed in this Bill. In 1899 the advances were $181,000. in 1900 they were €448,000, and in 1901 $539,000, showing that the $760,000 which is in hand is ample for a year's allow- ance. On the other hand too, we have the re- payment of instalments, which ought to be Mr. Herries considered as the same thing as loan-money, for they are available for advancing to settlers. We have these instalments steadily increasing. In 1599 they were ¥104,000; in 1900, €136,000 ; and in 1901, $155,000. Next year we may fairly expect the repayments will be $175,000, so that that will be available for lending, as well as the $760,000 that has not been raised, making a sum of £935,000 available for advances to settlers. It seems to me that sufficient can- has not so far been shown why the $2,000,000 should be borrowed. The honourable gentle- man, in introducing the Bill to us, did not ex- plain for what reason the extra money should be borrowed. The honourable member for the Grey expressed the opinion that it was required because the Act had been extended to apply to urban properties. But I would point out that that Act was passed in 1899, so there is ample opportunity of seeing whether that extension to urban properties has operated in the way the honourable member for Grey suggests. That should be shown in the returns of the opera- tions for the year ending the 31st March, but on looking at the ngures do we find a large increase in the amount lent ? On the contrary. we find a decrease. As I pointed out, in 18:9 the advances were $281,000; in 1900 they were $448,000, an increase of about £157,000; whereas last year, though the advances were $539,000, the increase on the previous year was only €90,000. Where, then, is the large increase that was to go to the urban borrowers ? It seems to me that the amendment of 1899 should have operated before now. Evidently it has either not operated at all, or it has not operated in the mode suggested by the honourable member for the Grey, and there- fore this $2,000,000 cannot be required for the reason which has been suggested by him. Of course, as far as the general policy of the measure is concerned, every one of us-and I especially-is in accord with the policy of ad- vances to settlers. I say straight out I believe it has been a benefit to settlers when properly administered. We all admit that, but are not addressing ourselves now to the main principle of the Bill. We are not, in pointing out our objections to the Bill before us, expressing our- selves in any way contrary to the general principles of the policy. We want to know the reason why this extra two millions is to be borrowed, when the department has not yet spent the three millions that was authorised in 1894. They have taken six years, and they . have not yet spent the three millions, and they have still .9760,000 left. Well, now they come down to us and say that they want another two millions. They have been six years trying to spend the three millions and have not succeeded, and I think that this House should have very cogent reasons why we should authorise them to borrow another two millions. That money, 1 believe, must be spent in advances tosettlers. I hope and trust it is not the intention to borrow and then invest the money in temporary securi- ties for the benefit of the Colonial Treasurer. I would not suggest such a thing, but I hope it will be made clear, and I wait for the Trea- 