as they come back when they want them. But still I do not see why, if they should want them back at the time when they ought to be cultivating the domestic virtues at home, they should not pay them for it. It will also be noticed that the Committee has extended the hours of work by enabling the work to begin at half-past six in the morning. I pro- pose to verbally amend clause 2A-that is a new clause which says that all shops shall be closed at six in the evening. That means absolutely that all shops, big and little, are to close at the specified hour. I propose to alter the word to " not later than," so that they can close earlier if they like. We do not want to keep people working too long. There are one or two altera- tions in clause 3. In paragraph (c) we have altered " four " to "five" hours continuous em- ployment, because we found that in large shops, if the maximum was kept at four hours, it would prevent the shop being kept open during the dinner-hour. In order that half the employés may go away whilst the other half keep the shop open, we have altered the hours of employment to five hours. Then, shop-assistants shall not be employed at any time between the hours of six o'clock in the evening and half-past six o'clock in the morning. The reason for that was: we found that in this country butchers particu- larly required to be early at work, but they cannot work later than a certain hour, and they cannot work more than a certain number of hours in the week. Therefore butchers are just as much protected as any one else. I think, Sir, I have touched upon most of the important matters dealt with in this Bill; but really, after all, the new and important question is that overtime is to be universally paid for. That is the real new contention of the Bill. If that contention is right, then I submit there should be no exceptions from it, and that in every case overtime should be paid for. I believe it will be found to be sound in principle and sensible in its operation. I think childish objections have been taken to this question of overtime. Overtime is to be calculated at so-much per hour on the ordinary salary. Well, absolutely some of the witnesses came before us, and as- sured us that because they were paid at so-much per annum it would be derogatory to their sense of professional dignity that this salary should be calculated at so-much per hour. If that is one of the strongest contentions against the proposal there is not much in the contentions. I beg to move, Sir, That you do leave the chair. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- Sir, before the Council goes into Committee on this Bill I have a few words to say in connection with it. I may say that the Labour Bills Committee, to whom this Bill was referred, has paid a great deal of attention to it indeed, and have been sitting for nearly four or five weeks considering it. I can- not agree with what the Hon. the Minister has said with regard to some of the evidence given before that Committee, and I say it is not right - and honourable members will agree with me, if they have read the evidence and followed it carefully-to put before the Council the case saying that they could get out from the bank at any time-it is not right that this should be put before the Council as an argument in favour of the inclusion of bank officials. Other wit- nesses representing bank officials said such was not a general practice. The position, as far as bank officials are concerned, is that, out of a total of 1,003 employed throughout this colony, 967 have signed a petition against being in- cluded in this Bill. I ask honourable members in this Council to realise that bank officials can- not be considered non-intelligent members of the community. They are men well educated, belong to good families, and outwardly do not show signs of being " sweated." Will any one in this Council say that they did not know what they were doing when signing the nume- rous petitions praying that they did not want to come under the operation of this Bill ? The whole position, so far as the warehouse- men and the bank officials are concerned, is this : The warehouseman or the bank official is not placed in the same category as the man who works in a printing-office, or in a boot-factory, or other industry. The work is not so continuous and regular. Their objec- tion with regard to the overtime clauses -- and honourable members will see that the evidence bears out what I am saying-is that they have many advantages given them as a quid pro quo which far outweighs payment for overtime. Why, Sir, one person engaged in a warehouse gave evidence to the effect that an employé had received sick-pay for twelve months while away from business ; and the evidence of warehouse- men right through was that their pay had never been stopped on account of their being away owing to illness ; besides this, they had a fortnight's holiday every year on full pay, and other advantages. Is there any other artisan or mechanic placed in the same position ? I have worked in many places, and, as a rule, my pay has been stopped when I have been away through illness. Sometimes I have struck a good employer, and my pay has gone on ; but, as a general rule, when any mechanic or artisan is away from work through illness or any other cause his wages are deducted. In regard to the bank officials, seeing that they have themselves petitioned against inclusion, is it wise for the Council to include them ? I beg the Council to consider that point. If the representatives of the people in another Cham- ber affirmed the principle of this Bill-and they are more qualified to speak than we are-then it is for us to adopt it after careful revision. I say that this Council may place itself in a wrong position by going against the expressed convictions of these witnesses, who, I claim, before the Labour Bills Committee, fairly re- presented the opinions of warehousemen and bank officials throughout the colony. Yet, notwithstanding that fact, the Minister has asked the Council to include them ; and even goes further, for, though the Committee struck out warehousemen, he will ask the Council to make them "toe the mark" too. Sir, I am appalled at such a state of affairs as this. 