Mr. PIRANI .- The impression was created that the clause in the Public Revenues Bill al- lowed the $40 to be paid. I made this state- ment last year in the honourable member's pre- sence, and it is clear to anybody who under- stands the law that, no matter what was in the Premier's mind, that clause of the Public Re- venues Act is as I have stated. Mr. SEDDON .- The Railway Department recommended a change in the law two months before ever the question of a sessional allow- ance to members was thought of. Mr. PIRANI .- The Premier has complained very bitterly of the manner in which he has been harassed by the Auditor-General in regard to the finances of the colony. That is a matter between himself and the Auditor-General, and if the Auditor-General is wrong, then the Premier has been neglecting his duty in not coming down to the House and terminating the engagement of that officer. I say if there is an officer of the Government-I do not care who it is -- who is not carrying out his duties according to the law, but is unnecessarily harassing the Government-who is causing a great deal of trouble in regard to the administration of the colony-it is surely the duty of the Govern- ment to terminate the engagement of that officer, and put somebody in his place who will carry out the law as it ought to be carried out. But what are the facts? In every case where there has been a dispute between the Auditor- General and the Government on a question of law, the Controller and Auditor-General has been proved to be right and the Solicitor-General has been proved to be wrong. You have only to look back a few years, and you will see that has been the case. I challenge the Govern- ment to submit any cases in this paper to a Judge of the Supreme Court or to the Court of Appeal, and if the decision is against the law set up by the Auditor-General, then I shall be satisfied with the statement of the Premier that the Solicitor-General is right. Mr. FISHER .- Oh, you will be satisfied ; that settles it. Mr. PIRANI .- The honourable member for Wellington City will never be satisfied until he is Commissioner of Police. The Premier told us in these inquiries before the Public Accounts Committee that in all the cases except one no evidence had been called. What is the fact about the Public Accounts Committee? It is what I have termed over and over again the Government's public cemetery. They bury everything they think is nasty, or which tells against their administration, in the Public Accounts Committee. The Government have a large majority on that Committee, and the Government come down to this House com- pletely whitewashed. An Hon. MEMBER .- Only one member of the Committee disagreed with it. Mr. PIRANI .-- Take these cases. What are they ? They are disputes between the Treasury and the Auditor-General. The Treasury is the Premier under the Act ; you will see in the definition of Treasury it means the Colonial Treasurer. What happens? The Committee General and the Treasurer, and the Treasurer actually dictates to the Committee what evi- dence should be given, what questions should be asked, and how the inquiry is to be con- ducted. An instance occurred when the Secre- tary to the Treasury was under examination ; he was asked how he had invested this $500,000, and the Premier rose and objected to the ques- tion being put. The Chairman asked the Pre- mier to move in the matter, and the Premier moved a motion that the question should not be put : the motion was put to the Committee and carried. But at the next meeting of the Committee the Public Trustee was asked the question, after I had shown the Premier the investment in a public paper that had been laid on the table of the House, and the Premier did not object; and the Public Trustee said the money was invested in 3-per-cent. debentures. The Premier contradicted it, and tried to get him to admit that he had made a mistake, and that the debentures were 3} per cent., but the Public Trustee would not. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes, he did. Mr. PIRANI .- No; he said the Government were paying him 3} per cent., but the deben- tures were 3 per cent. I should like to know under what authority of Parliament the Go- vernment can issue debentures at 3 per cent. and pay the person who holds them interest at the rate of 3} per cent. ? It is a very dif- ficult thing to follow these £500,000 of deben- tures. The Premier told us, as honourable members will remember, at the time of the transaction that the £500,000 had been paid in cash to the Bank of New Zealand, because they had such a surplus of cash. No: Go- vernment had $500,000 of 3 per cent. deben- tures in pledge in London with the Bank of New Zealand, as collateral security, I sup- pose, for the advance of an equal amount, and the Government were paying the Bank of New Zealand in London 3 per cent. There is very clear evidence that the ques- tion of cash amounted to nothing at all, and there is no doubt these were the debentures the bank held ; they wanted to unload them, and they were unloaded on the Public Trustee for this £500,000. It would have been a simple matter in connection with almost every one of the disputes if the Government were to amend the law as they have done in one case-as they have done in regard to the Land for Settlements Act, notwithstanding the Committee's report. They did not wait for the report to be brought down, but they brought down a Bill under which they amended the Act in the exact direc- tion their Solicitor-General said it did not require to be amended. Surely if the Solicitor- General's law is so good-if he is such an authority on law-it is a most ridiculous thing for the Government of the day post-haste to bring down a Bill amending the Land for Settlements Act in the exact direction he said it did not require to be amended. And I say that should follow in regard to the other dis- putes. In regard to the money objected to in connection with the "Tutanekai," I say it is a 