Another authority says, -- " As federalists we were in doubt in 1874 as to the result of the exclusion of the vote by can- tons. We were all labouring under a wrong impression that time, and we have been taught by experience that the Swiss people are more Conservative than their representatives." M. Carteret said,- " I should like to see the referendum com- pletely suppressed, and, above all, I want no compulsory referendum. As to the popular initiative, I dread it as a sort of legislative dynamite. In a word, the so-called rights of the people seem to me to be nothing more than democratic claptrap. In the hands of the clerical party they are only used to impede progress." M. Ernest Naville says,- " Only the very unsophisticated could believe that each citizen, after mature consideration, forms a decided opinion of his own on every law. In order that all the shepherds of the moun- tains, all the farmers of the valleys, and all the dwellers in the towns of Switzerland might have an intelligent personal opinion on the often very complicated laws, they would re- quire an amount of culture and leisure which is at present, and always will be, beyond the reach of the great majority of the population." " Be these your gods, oh Israel ?" These are a few of the facts collected by M. Deploige, who writes very impartially, and it will be seen that the Swiss people think very little of the refer- endum. Honourable members will see from this https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 that the tendency of this measure is Conser- vative, and for these reasons I think it would not be safe to allow it to pass without very grave, long, and serious thought. When the measure came down my first impulse was to vote for the second reading, and try to amend it in Com- mittee, so as to put it into a form that would make it of use and more to my liking ; but I do not think, under existing circumstances, any one would be very seriously hurt by putting it back for a time, with a view of giving it further consideration. It will be seen that in Switzer- land the people are used as tools by sects and parties, and consequently the measure never goes to the people unhampered by other con- siderations. Now, if that is the case in Switzer- land, where the system has been exercised for so many ages, what would it be if we introduce it here in our own system, and how would it work before the people are properly educated up to it ? We have at the present moment the freest Constitution on earth. We can do anything under it ; and my belief is that it would be a very dangerous thing to interfere with it too seriously. Coming now to the prac- tical part of it, I find, as I said before, that a measure must be rejected twice before it can be referred to the people, and consequently it will take all the time, or as long a time as it does now with the three-year period of election. I do not see, therefore, that there is anything to be gained by it, even in respect to expedit- ing legislation ; and I say, too, that it is impos- sible, as this authority points out also, for the general public to form a clear and in- telligent idea of some of the large measures that are frequently put before this Parliament. I, for myself, would have no objection to sub- mitting to the people abstract questions, such as Bible-reading in schools, and so on. That might be done with advantage, and it would relieve the representatives of the people of a great deal of anxiety and relieve the Government of a very irksome subject. But there is no provision in this Bill for this. There are only two condi- tions under which a question may be submitted. As it appears to me, it may be submitted if de- feated on the second reading ; and, second, if the Bill is amended. Now, I think where a measure is amended the amendments should be pointed out to the people, but there is no pro- vision in this Bill to do so. I see in the Bill also, in my opinion, a slur on the Legislative Council. There is here somewhere a provision by which a thing may be submitted to the people on a resolution of the House of Repre- sentatives ; and there is further provision where- by the House of Representatives may make the question a matter of urgency, and declare it to be a matter of urgency. Now, why should not the Legislative Council have equal powers with the House of Representatives ? There is also here a matter which I have heard discussed. I see the Premier in another place said that the Legislative Council could be abo- lished under this Bill. Well, Sir, whether that is desirable or not, I do not think it could. I have here the Constitution Act, where the posi- tion is stated. Section 32 says,- "There shall be within the Colony of New Zealand a General Assembly, to consist of the Governor, a Legislative Council, and a House of Representatives." The Legislative Council is part of the Con- stitution as well as the House of Represen- tatives. And by a subsequent clause it is enacted :- " It shall be lawful for the said General As- sembly of New Zealand, by any Act or Acts, from time to time to alter or suspend all the provisions of the said Act, except such as are hereinafter specified." And one of them is section 32, which I have just read. So that the Parliament of New Zealand combined has not the power to abo- lish the Legislative Council. Only the Imperial Parliament can do that, and it could not be abolished except by an Imperial statute. Now, Sir, I am sorry to have kept honourable gentle- men so long. I was not well prepared, as I ex- pected a great deal of discussion to go on before I spoke, and I hope honourable gentlemen will pardon me for having kept them so long. 1 now think that before this question should pass into law two things should be proved : The first thing that should be proved is that the present system is a failure, and that it has proved incapable of giving expression to the will of the people in legislative enactments. Can that be done ? I say No. The next thing that ought to be proved is that there are measures de- manded by the people which have not received the sanction of Parliament. That cannot he proved. I think that, bearing in mind all that 