Mr. MILLS said, exactly so. He was glad | the honourable member admitted one Board had not made a full statement of facts. The matter had been thoroughly investigated, and since a reply had been sent to that Board he had not heard any objection from them. How- ever, he would be pleased to refer again to the real facts of the case. If the honourable gentle- man would put a question on the Order Paper, or if the honourable gentleman would submit the correspondence in his possession to him, he would look into it, and if an injustice had been done he would see what he could do to remedy it. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) asked if it would not be possible to alter the date of the valua- tions so that they could be completed carlier in the year than they were at present. He did not say that under the Act anything better could be done at present, but he thought there should be an amendment. Mr. MILLS said if representations were made on the matter by some of the local bodies, and they were very numerous, he would bring the matter before Cabinet, and let the Government decide whether the alteration the honourable member suggested should be made. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) said he would like to be allowed to read a letter bearing on the matter, which he had just received from the clerk of a Road Board in his district. The letter was as follows : --- "That this Board complains principally as to revision. In most cases the Board has to ad. vise the department of alterations required, and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 is then charged for permission to make such alterations. The amount paid by this Board for revision in the past year is $9 14s., which would have cost the Board nil if allowed to do it themselves. The department of their own knowledge know nothing of alterations in ten- Consequently, Road Board clerks Pave ancies. to supply information, for which the 4.30. department charges the Board." Mr. MILLS .- Did you mention who that was from ? Mr. G. W. RUSSELL would give the honour- able gentleman the letter. Mr. TANNER would give the honourable gentleman another letter -- half a dozen if he liked. Mr. MILLS said he knew there had been circular letters sent to different members. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL said this was not a circular. Mr. MILLS, at any rate, had seen circular letters that had been sent to different members on the same subject. They gave the same de- tails in each letter, but they had only referred to one case. He might tell the House that he did not know of one single complaint now be- The complaints made by fore the department. some persons who falt aggrieved had been dealt with, and so far those who had been written to had not sent word to him that they objected to his explanation. STONE-CRUSHING MACHINERY. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) asked the Minister of Customs, If he will favourably consider the ques- tion of the remission of Customs duty on stone- crushing machinery imported by local bodies, and which cannot be manufactured in the colony ? This was a very important matter to all local bodies throughout the colony which had anything to do with the care of roads. Now, it became a question whether it was politic on the part of the State to take such a large sum out of the pockets of these local bodies in the form of Customs duties on machinery that could not be made in the colony. The stone-crushers re- ferred to in the question were charged a duty of $48 10s., and it was an extraordinary charge on a necessity to good roads. Labour could not be obtained in the colony to crack stones, and he <!-- PageHeader="1" --> was very pleased indeed that it could not ; and <!-- PageHeader="\--" --> they could not keep their roads in good condi- tion with a covering of shingle, and unless the department remitted this impost it would no doubt lead to their roads not being maintained in that degree of efficiency which was essential for the well-being of our settlers throughout the colony. He hoped the Minister would state, in his reply, that he would be prepared to remit the charge made by his department on these stone-crushers. Mr. MILLS (Commissioner of Trade and Customs) might state, in reply to the honour- able momber, that it was impossible for him to do anything beyond carrying out the law. The law at present stated explicitly that there must be a duty of 20 per cent. charged, and there- fore he had no option at all. He quite agreed with the honourable gentleman that the day had arrived when the local bodies must en- \- deavour to keep in the van of progress, and endeavour to make their roads good, so far as they possibly could with the rates and fees at their disposal. He would take the opportunity of submitting this matter to the Cabinet, and he would acquaint the honourable gentleman afterwards what the decision might be in re- gard to a remission. It could only be done by placing a sum on the estimates to be voted by the House. There were some few other local bodies which had imported similar machines, and had paid these amounts; and therefore it opened up a broader question than that of deal- ing with only the one importation by one local body. Personally, he agreed with the remarks of the honourable gentleman. As far as local bodies were concerned, he knew from personal experience they had a lot of work to do and very little means with which to do it. COLLINGWOOD-FERNTOWN BRIDGE. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motucka) asked the Minister for Public Works, What progress, if any, has been made by his department with the construction of the Collingwood-Ferntown Bridge ? Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) said it was necessary before plans were prepared to survey the site. This had taken some time. The plans were now complete, and the specifications were almost complete, and tenders would be invited in the course of a week or two. 1 