works which are quite legitimately charged against capital are being provided out of the other half of the increased indebtedness of last year. Consequently, if a balance - sheet was prepared, and the assets were put down on the credit side as against the £1,627,675 of the increased indebtedness since last year. we should have this result: that you would possess tangible assets for almost the whole of the money, and that there was practically no burden placed on the people by this additional indebtedness. It is therefore a cardinal error in the speech of the honourable gentleman to put down expenditure on capital works as if it were ordinary departmental expenditure, with- out taking into consideration that assets exist as against that expenditure. Supposing that a man erects a house, and that that man's in- come is $500 a year, and that during one year he erects a house worth #1,000, would it not be absolutely unfair and ridiculous to say at the end of the year, in stating that man's condi- tion and position, that he was living at a greater rate than his income justified, and that he had spent $1,000 in the year where- as his income was only £500, without taking into consideration that the house existed there instead of the £1,000-that the $1,000 had not been destroyed, but that it had merely been changed from one form of capital into another. That was the underlying fallacy of the whole of the honourable gentleman's speech when he was referring to the increased in- debtedness of the colony, and not taking into consideration the assets which have been produced by this increased expenditure. Now, referring to the expenditure in the Budget, the first item upon which I desire to make a http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero remark is that in connection with the Royal visit, and I am sure there will not be a single voice raised against the expenditure incurred in the reception of our illustrious guests. I be- lieve, myself, that the visit of their Royal Hichnesses to this colony will be productive of very great good to the people of this colony and to the Empire generally. It will have a tendency to work towards the consolidation of the Empire, to bring us closer to the people of Great Britain, and to weld the Empire into one homogeneous whole. Therefore, Sir, I do not think any one will cavil at the $50,000 which was expended in connection with the reception of our future King and Queen. Now, another item in the expenditure will be the increased Well, surely, Sir, the vote for education. honourable gentleman will not deny that an in- creased sum spent upon education, provided it is judiciously spent, will be money well spent --- will be reproductive expenditure in the truest sense. What has made Germany what she is to-day but the superior education of her people. And if you look to the fact that in Germany not only primary education, but secondary education and university education, is almost free to all- a thing which would be denounced in this coun- try as the rankest socialism if it were intro- duced-when you recognise that fact existing in autocratic Germany, and that it has resulted in the German nation taking its place in line with the foremost nations of the earth, I say, Sir, that if the Government go on with in- creased expenditure upon education I shall most strongly support them, and say god-speed to every effort to make the people of New Zealand an educated democracy. Now, the next item of large dimensions in the increased expenditure is that for defence, and £64,400 is the increase under the head of " Defence." I cannot think that that will meet with the condemnation of the honourable gentleman, who we know advo- cated-and I presume he was sincere-that the country should be placed in a condition of abso- lute security, and that the obsolete weapons we formerly had-the old Snider rifle and Martini- Henrys, and even the Lee-Enfields, which were not magazine rifles-should be discarded, and the most modern and up - to - date weapons should be purchased in sufficient numbers to thoroughly equip all the Volunteer Forces of the colony. Well, that has been done, and to- day we stand prepared and ready to meet any enemy that chooses to come along. We have magazine rifles and magazine carbines for the artillery companies; and, though all has not been done which must be done, I take it, with regard to placing the defences of the country upon a proper footing, yet good and steady progress has been made during the past year. I trust, however, that the report of the Secret Defence Committee will not be buried-that the effort which has been made will not be a spasmodic one, but that there will be a continuous progress, and that the right honourable gentleman, the Minister of Defence, will see that the recommendations of that Com- mittee are not treated lightly, but that, so far as the public finances will permit, the recom- mendations of the Committee will be carried into effect. There are several items in the report of the Defence Committee which I think might have been adopted, and, I hope, will be at an early date. The establishment of schools of instruction for officers is a clamant want, and I trust it will be speedily supplied. The Defence Committee reported, and the House adopted their report, that " schools of instruction should be provided for Volunteer officers at Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, and Dunedin." Now, Sir, those schools of instruction are not yet pro- vided ; but I believe steps have been initiated in that direction, and it will not be very long before we see those schools in active operation, and the gentlemen who devote their services gratuitously to the defence of the country will receive reasonable assistance in the way of getting instruction in the technical branches of their profession. The payment of Volunteers during camps of instruction is a step, I trust, that will be soon carried out. It is absolutely neces- sary that the Volunteers should receive daylight instruction, as I have already more than once said in this House, and the Defence Committee insisted that the only way of doing that was by having Volunteers in camps for the whole day during at least a period of seven days, and pay- ing the men a reasonable wage for their services during that period. Sir, it is true that the navy is our first line of defence ; but I maintain that. 