of 1.000 cases of males 252 recover, and out of 1,000 cases of females 276 recover, and that is what has always weighed with me -where there are so many recoveries it is dangerous for us to carry the amendment proposed. The House divided. AYES, 28. Allen, E. G. Haselden Pahner Arnold Herries Pirani Atkinson Hogg Smith, (. J. Barclay Hutcheson Steward Thompson, R. Bennet Laurenson Colis Lawry Willis. Colvin McLachlan Fraser, A. L. D. McNab Tellers. Guinness Millar Buddo Morrison Hanan Wilford. NOES, 33. Allen, J. Hardy Napier Bollard Hornsby O'Meara Houston Carncross Parata Carroll Rhodes Lang Duncan Lethbridge Seddon Ell Massey Stevens Fisher McGowan Tanner Mackenzie, T. Fraser, W. Thomson, J. W. Gilfedder Mckenzie, R. T. hiers. Graham Mills Flatman Meredith. Monk Hall Hall-Jones Majority against, 5. Motion for second reading negatived. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 SCHOOL ATTENDANCE BILL (No. 2). Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- This is almost a copy of the measure I introduced last session dealing with the subject of school attendance, and perhaps it is a satisfactory thing to know that the Government have practically adopted my Bill of last year, and are persevering, I believe, with that. But I generally progress, and the measure as introduced this year is, I think, a distinct improvement on that of last wear. I forwarded a copy of the Bill to every Education Board in the colony last year, and it is in accordance with suggestions received from them-especially the Otago Board-that the measure is in the shape it is to-night. I shall deal just briefly with the difference between the measure and the existing law. I propose, in the first plase, to include in the definition of public schools, at which at- tendance is compulsory within the provisions of the Act. private day-schools, because it is found in practical working that children are en- rolled in private schools without the attendance provisions being complied with, and thus the compulsory attendance is evaded. I have also included in the compulsory provisions Maoris or half-castes who attend the public schools. We have found in the Wanganui district that Maoris, although their children attend public schools when it suits them, interrupt the course of instruction very much by taking the children away for weeks and months; and we have no Further, the period in which action can be VOL. CXVII .-- 9. attendance, and I think it is desirable that such power should be granted. I have defined "attendance " as two hours of instruction, so if there are four hours a day for five days they will have ten attendances. Instead of the age in the original Act-from seven to thirteen- being the age of compulsory attendance, it is extended in this measure to fifteen, unless they have passed the standard required by the Edu- cation Department-namely, the Fifth Stan- dard. The attendances in this measure are defined as four attendances out of six times open; six out of eight times open; and eight out of ten times open. Per- sonally, I do not see why the children should not be compelled to attend every time in the week that the school is open, unless they come under the exemptions. The exemptions are so extensive that they cover almost every reason for a child being legitimately absent from school. Then, we ought to stop the law prevailing at the present time when there is a holiday in the week, of not being able to compel the child to attend school during the rest of the week in which there is a holiday, because, if you say that out of the ten times the school is only open eight times, in that way there is a week blank so far as the attendance is con- cerned. There is also another difficulty. When you only compel six attendances out of ten, and that child attends Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday in one week, and does not go back to school until the Wednesday in the following week, he will have been a week away from school. In some districts this is worked with scientific accuracy, to the detriment both of the attendance of the school and of the child itself. And then, in respect to the two miles distance from the school to which compulsory attendance applied, I have increased the dis- tance to four miles, provided there is a good road from the residence of the child's parents or guardian to the school, or a similar distance between the residence and the railway con- venient to the school, and the railway and the school. Then, there is another very neces- sary provision for enforcing a case where a child does not attend school at all. Under the present Act a notice is given to a parent to send the child to school, but there is no period prescribed within which that notice must be complied with, with the result that that clause of the Act is a dead-letter. I propose to make seven days after notice has been given as the time within which the child shall comply with the order of the Court. In regard to the excuse for having been absent from school, in clause 5 I have omitted the words " being in good health." This places on the parent the onus of proving that the child is not in good health when absent from school ; whereas at the present time only the Truant Inspector has to prove that the child is in good health, and it is almost an impossibility for him to do so unless at the time the child was absent from school he has been a constant visitor at that child's home. 