anything that is not recommended by very good doctors. If doctors generally waited to see how their prescriptions operated no one would care about their prescriptions. I prefer to be in the position of the prescribing doctor, not of the Coroner ; but I am astonished at the amount of ditheulty which apparently is in the minds of most honourable gentlemen who have spoken on this question. I should have thought, from the persistent way in which this question has been kept before the public for a good many years, that now most honourable gentlemen in this Council would have recognised it not as a new question-not as a question which they were afraid to touch or afraid to debate - but as a question which has grown on the public mind, and which the public mind is perfectly willing to accept as a legitimate development of modern Liberalism. I see nothing in the Bill which offends against my ideas of true Liberalism or strikes a blow at the proper re- sponsibilities of Parliament. If I thought that Parliament was going to shelter itself behind the referendum and get away from its true re- sponsibilities I should be very sorry to uphold it. But I do not think that Parliament ever has given up its birthright in any way what- ever. At any rate, this Council has never been afraid to state its mind or to perform its func- tions when it felt that it was in the right. It has always done its duty to the country in the face of those people who are ready to condemn it, and even at the risk of offending some of its friends. I do not see, therefore, why in a Cham- ber of this independent nature. a charge should be brought against the Bill that it is a method of enabling the revising Chamber to divest itself of its proper responsibilities. I do not think it http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero is a method of doing anything of the kind. I recognise, and the Government recognise, that there are many questions that do not fit into current politics-that many friends and many enemies take views on certain questions which cannot be held to be in the ordinary ebb and flow of current politics; and these ques- tions, because they are so intermingled between friendships and enmities of political life, might very well be settled in a method which would keep them apart from current politics, and allow the electors to help the country to come to a conclusion. I have not referred to Switzer- land and its history. I have not referred even to America. I believe a good many wild state- ments have been made about both countries. Certainly I have not the latest information before me, because I found on going to the library that a member of the Council had been there before me, and I was unable to refresh my memory. But, if my memory is correct, I believe that those honourable gentlemen who quoted most largely were out in some of their facts, as the referendum is an in- tegral part of most of the American Constitu- tions and certainly of several. But I think we have an authority now beyond dispute, now that I have cited the new Constitution of the infancy ; it is only putting its armour on, and it is not possible to say what the result will be of any of its legislative machinery ; but, still, 1 think the state of the Commonwealth is such that it is certain to struggle through all its trials with success. It has, at all events, been equipped with exactly the same machinery, as near as possible, as this Bill proposes in order to prevent trouble in future as regards differ- ences between the two Houses. I have not quoted the whole machinery; it was not neces- sary. Deadlocks are provided for, but deadlocks are the least part of the trouble. I have quoted what I thought was appropriate and fitted in with our conditions, and I quoted enough to show that Australian minds have de- vised the same expedients as we have in this Bill in order to get the mind of the people on certain subjects. I feel certain the Australian legislative machinery, supported as it is by the public mind there, and the result of the most intelligent minds in that big Commonwealth, will work well, and convince, probably, by its practice those who are not convinced now that New Zealand had better also adopt the referen- dum in some shape or form. I am sorry my efforts have failed if all those who have spoken stand to their professions and are likely to vote against the Bill. I can only say, if the Bill is thrown out on this occasion, when it appears again I trust those who now reject it will have taken the opportunity during the interval be- tween this session and the next to study the question afresh, and perhaps with the example of Australia before them they will endeavour to see some merits in the proposals of the Bill. The Hon Mr. BOLT moved, That the debate be adjourned. The Council divided. AYES, 18. Barnicoat Kelly, W. Smith, A. L. Bolt Swanson Kerr Feldwick Louisson Tomoana Harris Twomey Pitt Walker, L. Jenkinson Reeves Walker, W. C. Jennings Rigg NOES, 13. Shrimski Baillio McLean Bowen Stevens Montgomery Gourlay Taiaroa Pinkerton Scotland Johnston Williams. Kelly, T. Majority for, 27. Debate adjourned. The Council adjourned at twenty minutes past four o'clock p.m. 