made into manure on the premises, but it was those that were collected by people going round the country which were exported here and brought in these diseases with them. Of course, they would have to get these bones in some form or it would be a bad thing for the country. They should have some suitable body to look after the matter in some central place, and having strict supervision over it. That was the only way he could see of dealing with it. He intended to bring this matter before the Stock Department and see if they could not devise some means of coping with it. Mr. MASSEY asked, Would the honourable gentleman refer it to the Stock Committee ? Mr. DUNCAN said, Yes. SETTLERS' FIRE INSURANCE BILL. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) .- This, Sir, 7.30. is a very short and, I think, if it is passed into law, it will be found a very useful little measure. It is intended to enable the Advances to Settlers Office to perform the work of insuring the risks that it has against fire. The clauses in the Bill provide :- " The Superintendent is hereby authorised to accept any risk by way of insurance against tire on all buildings or on any security already mortgaged. or on any security that may here- after be mortgaged, to the Superintendent. " Every mortgagor shall on the expiry of cur- rent fire insurance policies, or, where no such policies exist, insure against fire with the Superintendent of all insurable buildings on the security mortgaged to him." Then. the Advances to Settlers Board is en- abled from time to time to determine the rate per cent. to be paid by way of premium by the insurers. Provision is made that in the case of existing mortgages the Superintendent shall on the expiry of the current policies determine the amount of insurance risk to be effected : and, in the case of new mortgages, from and after the passing of the Bill the Board shall determine the insurance risk to be effected. The moneys thus obtained from the settlers are to be placed to the credit of an Insurance Fund Account. The amounts paid in and the dis- bursements from that fund will be kept apart from other transactions, so that it will be impossible for any complication to arise with reference to the method of account keeping. Clause 9 provides : -- " If the balance in the Insurance Fund Account is at any time insufficient to meet the charges thereon, the Colonial Treasurer may from time to time advance such sums out of the Consolidated Fund as may be necessary to meet the deficiency." An Hon. MEMBER .- Suppose he does not ? Mr. HOGG. - Well, I do not suppose the colony is likely to become bankrupt. If an insurance company is prepared to perform operations of this kind, I should imagine that the Colonial Treasurer would be equally able to meet any losses that might be incurred. But what are the facts? Since this office has been ! cedure ; but, notwithstanding this encroach- VOL. CXVII .- 8. per annum is being made by the insurance offices in clear profit out of the borrowers. That is to say, the amount paid to the insur- ance offices exceeds every year by $500 or $600 the amount that is paid on account of fires. Now, I hope that those who have the interests of the settlers at heart, especially the Crown tenants who are receiving assistance from the Advances to Settlers Office, will not require to be persuaded that it would be a most beneficial thing if that money could be placed at their disposal in order to assist them in carrying out their improvements. We know that many Crown tenants do a large business with the Advances to Settlers Office, and they have a very hard struggle at the pre- sent time. If, therefore, a sum of $500 or ₺600) per annum could be saved to these men it would be of great advantage to them. In New Zealand it is a common thing for large property- owners to avoid insuring their properties at all. In some of our boroughs owners of. buildings who have a considerable amount of property rented to tenants, instead of contributing to the insurance offices, undertake their own risk and avoid insuring, because they reckon it will pay them better in the end than if they paid the heavy premiums which the insurance companies exact. The Government itself avoids insuring its properties for the same reason. The same thing occurs in connection with the Educa- tion Boards. They prefer to run the risk of an occasional fire, such as occurred in this city a few months ago when one of the schools was burned down, than pay the heavy premiums the insurance offices demand. Viewed from every standpoint, it must be evident to mem- bers that the mortgagee, who is in this instance the Superintendent of the Advances to Settlers Office, should undertake what are virtually his own risks. The machinery he already has at his disposal is ample, I think, to provide for all purposes. . The new duty would entail very little extra trouble. All he will require to do is to collect the insurance rates at the same time as he collects interest on the money advanced. Seeing that this proposal is not likely to impose any risk or burden upon the country, that the office with its present staff is able to carry out the operations required, and that the result must be a great and increasing advantage to the settlers who are dealing with the Advances to Settlers Office, honourable members, if I am not mistaken, will be disposed to assist me in getting this Bill passed into law. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden). - Mr. Speaker, I wish to draw your attention to clauses 8 and 9 of the Bill. I think they are appropriation clauses, and should be introduced by message from the Governor. Mr. SPEAKER .- It does appear to me that there are appropriation clauses in the Bill, not only 8.and 9, but also clause 3, which authorises the use of the office of the Government Ad- vances to Settlers without the consent of the Government being signified to such a pro 