in Wellington. I told them of the day the Conference was to sit, but whether the Coun- cillors would permit them to mingle with them was a question that would have to be decided by the Conference. It is in con- sequence of what has fallen from one mem- ber that I make these remarks, as I under- stand the honourable member for Ellesmere appeared on behalf of a Road Board and was not allowed to vote ; consequently that led me to think that the Road Boards had no repre- sentation at all, and I think that they really ought to have some consideration. I might say that, in reply to a letter I sent to one Chairman, he wrote me as follows :- "I am not particularly anxious as to what becomes of the Road or Town Boards, but I do think the smaller local bodies are entitled to be heard, and their opinions are entitled to just as much consideration as members of County Councils." Now, I think that this is a fair argument, and that the Chairmen of the Town Boards aud of the Road Boards have not had the oppor- tunity of laving their views before this House, or before the Committee that is to deal with the Bill. I trust the Premier will see his way, in some way or another, to provide for these Chairmen laying their views before the Com- mittee or by meeting in conference. Of course, there is no objection to their coming to a con- ference, but, then, we have already heard it stated that they were not allowed to speak or https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 vote at the County Conference, and some pro- vision should be made for them to be able to express themselves with regard to the altera- tions that are likely to occur through the passing of this Bill. Mr. LANG (Waikato) .- It is not my inten- tion to delay the House, but there seems to be some mistake in reference to the Conference of the County Councils lately held in Wellington. It has been generally admitted that that Con- ference has done a large amount of good work, and the Premier himself, when the delegates from the Conference waited upon him, ad- mitted that they had done good work, and had gone very carefully into the business; but I regret that other local bodies were not repre- sented at that Conference, and I wish to point out that it is not the fault of the County Councils Conference. It was generally sup- posed that the Conference was called together by the Premier. It was nothing of the sort. It was the usual meeting of the Conference which is held from time to time. I believe this was the fifth meeting of that Con- ference. It is certainly true they did not meet last year, or the year before, because they understood that there was no legislation going to be introduced dealing with the local bodies, and therefore they did not meet ; but immediately they heard that there was a likelihood of the Local Government Bill being passed through the House this session the Con- ference was called together, but certainly it was not called together either by the Govern- ment or the Premier. But the Premier rather misled the people in the country, because they understood, as did the member for Geraldine, and also the member for Avon, that other local bodies were to be represented. The Premier stated, in other words, "Let them all come" ; and I have had letters from different local bodies asking whether the Premier was going to call this Conference together, and whether he was going to pay the expenses of the Conference ? Every county in the colony is entitled to send delegates to the Conference, and to have one vote. Where the Counties Act is not in force the combined Road Roards of that county are entitled to exercise one joint vote. And there is another thing that the honourable member for Geraldine is mistaken in. Every local body is allowed out of courtesy to send a representa- tive to the Conference, and those representa- tives are also allowed to speak, but under the rules of the association they are not allowed to vote. Mr. FLATMAN .- I never knew that. Mr. LANG .- But that is the fact. I may also point out that there was no wish on the part of the County Councils Conference to ex- clude members of the other local bodies. It was not within their power to call them together. It was simply a Conference of the County Councils, and the Road Boards of such counties where the Act was hung up. I merely rose for the purpose of explaining these points. Mr. RHODES (Ellesmere) .- I only rise to explain my action with regard to my attendance at the Conference referred to in this discussion. Relying on what the Premier stated, that mem- bers of the Road Boards should be asked to attend that Conference, I communicated with as many Road Boards as I could in my district, and asked them if they could be represented at the Conference. I attended the Conference myself, and handed in a letter appointing me as dele- gate of the Halswell Road Board, and the secretary said, "Oh, you merely represent a Road Board ; I will see the Chairman." When the question of voting arose I asked the Chair- man for a ruling on the matter, and he ex- plained that as I was only there by courtesy I could not be allowed to vote. As the honour- able member for Waikato has stated, I might have taken part in the discussions, but as I had no power to exercise a vote I thought I might as well be attending to my parliamentary duties in the House. I also understood that we should be in possession of a report of the discussions at the Conference before this Bill came on for its second reading in the House. As the member for Avon has said, the Road Boards had no voice whatever in the matter. In the Selwyn County there are no less than seventeen Road Boards, and in the Akaroa County there are seven, and they had no voice whatever in the Conference. I hope that the Road Boards will form a Conference of their own, and then put their views on the Counties Bill before us. Mr. BUDDO) (Kaiapoi). - I do not wish to delay the passage of the Bill. I hope, however, the Premier will not insist on hastily forcing this Bill through Parliament, so that time may be given the local bodies to protest against any 