from the one formerly introduced. alteration, but whatever may be said will be purely Committee objections, and will not Then, what I think materially alter the Bill. same. will commend itself to honourable members are the increased powers which are being given to was a more perfect one than this. Since the County Councils and the removing of hampering present Act was passed, in, I think, 1886, the restrictions which now exist, more particularly with respect to by-laws which County Councils conditions have been changed, and amending I think, in giving these legislation has been necessary. This measure may think necessary. is not only a consolidation, but also a codifica- powers to local bodies, we should immediately tion of existing Acts. Last session we amended remove those restrictions, and trust the mem- bers who are elected to those County Councils : our Municipal Corporations laws, and in this middle session I think we can commence the in other words, it is a case of trusting the consideration of this Bill with a freedom and people, and I think we may safely do that. facility that have hitherto been denied us, and My experience of the gentlemen who are on these County Councils, and whom I have met at if honourable members will make up their minds-as I believe they will-we shall place conferences in respect to local government, is that, whilst perhaps differing from them on the upon the statute-book a measure embodying larger questions of policy and representation -- the wishes of the representatives of the people for I think they are slightly nervous in respect of the day. That is as much as we can do in respect to it. The measure being one of to the extension -- I think, as regards the manner considerable importance, I would ask the of conducting the business and knowing the assistance of all honourable members who requirements of the counties, they are perfectly safe to be trusted. The Bill, of course, con- have a knowledge of local government to tains the powers given to counties under the assist me to perfect the measure. The great Public Works Act, and powers as to land difficulty that has always been experienced is drainage, River Boards, and the water-supply. that conditions vary so much in different parts of the colony, and unless there is give and take, More especially do I think it is important that they should have the control of the rivers -- the any legislation that may be passed may prove injurious to one or other portion of the colony. conservation of the banks of our rivers, and the That being so, honourable members must be looking-after the rivers, more particularly after foods. At present you have one body control- prepared to give and take. What is wanted is ling the mouth of a river, and two or three a blending, and whilst not professing that the measure is at present perfect, I can, at any other bodies controlling the river at intervening distances, and the result is that there is prac- rate, say that I have honestly endeavoured to tically no control whatever, and a great national meet the varying conditions of the counties. loss has arisen from that cause. Any amount of valuable land has been lost. The rivers, unless seen to and controlled by a body em- warrant me in coming to the conclusion that if members approach this measure with an powered to raise the necessary revenues, cause honest desire of amending and improving our considerable damage to the country. Whenever timber is deposited in rivers after floods law we shall get the Bill through. I ask there should be some one whose duty it is to honourable members to approach it in that spirit. I shall meet them in that spirit, and remove it, and keep the water-way clear and as straight as possible. The result of there being I hope and trust we shall place upon the no controlling bodies in respect to our larger statute-book a Bill dealing comprehensively with the local-governing laws of New Zealand. rivers, which in many cases go through large tracts of country, is that large waste takes I move the second reading. place ; and for this reason, if for no other, there is an urgent necessity for something being done feel, Sir, thoroughly in accord with the tone in which the Right Hon. the Pre- in the matter of river-conservation. I commend this matter to members from the country dis- mier spoke as he concluded his remarks upon this Bill. I agree with him that it is tricts. They know just as well as I do that time that local government was placed in a what is every one's business is no one's busi- more satisfactory condition than it is at the ness ; and if the lower portion of a river is not present time. But, Sir, influenced by the kept clear, all the money that may be spent by same spirit which actuated the right honour- one body is thrown away unless the control is continued from the source of the river to its able gentleman, I intend to move that the debate be adjourned, not with any desire what- mouth. As to the powers given to the County soever of obstructing the passage of the Bill, Councils, I commend them to the consideration of honourable members. Whether we have but rather with the hope of being able to facilitate its proper consideration. It will be done all that is required in this respect is a within the knowledge of members that the matter of opinion, but at any rate these pro- House set up a Committee consisting of thirty- porals arean improvement on existing conditions. six members, to which Committee this Bill was I do not know that there is anything more that I need place before honourable members, for to be referred. I will be bound to say that every other member in this Chamber is, like Bills similar to this Bill have now been before myself, not having sufficiently studied the the House for about five years. Mr. Seddon Mr. SEDDON .- The main principles are the Hon. MEMBERS .- No, no. Mr. SEDDON .- I believe the Bill of 1896 I say there is sufficient here to go 11.0. upon, and more than sufficient to Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay). -- I 