Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Any motion that is adjourned for consideration would appear on the Order Paper. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- I hope, Sir, the Minister for Railways will see his way to move that the paper lie on the table, and be printed. If he desires to move that it be referred to the Public Accounts Committee, that might be a matter for after consideration. I would suggest to the Minister that he should move that the paper do lie on the table, and, if he sees fit, be printed. Sir J. G. WARD .- The only object I have in view is to allow time for the Right Hon. the Colonial Treasurer to be present, and, under the circumstances, I think I will move that the document be referred to the Public Accounts Committee. Mr. PIRANI .- Lay it on the table first. Sir J. G. WARD. - The Public Accounts Committee can then bring up their report after the Colonial Treasurer returns. I think that is the fair course. I move, That the communica- tion do lie on the table, and be referred to the Public Accounts Committee for consideration. An .Hon. MEMBER .- And be printed. Sir J. G. WARD. - No; I will not move that at present. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) .- I would like to say it appears to me that the statement of the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty with reference to the remarks of Sir Joseph Ward, Minister for Railways, is a most ungenerous one. The matter being one that more particularly affects the Colonial Treasurer's department, all that is asked is that it be allowed to stand over until that Minister is able to be present. I do not think there is anything to justify the suggestion that the paper might never be heard of again. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- It is a most unusual course for a communication like this to be referred to a Committee without being printed. There has never been an instance in the history of the Parliament of New Zealand where a communication from the Auditor- General to the House has been treated in such a cavalier manner. If this proposal is carried, members will not be able to peruse the papers until the Public Accounts Committee have reported. I do not think the Hon. the Minister of Justice was fair in his reference to the statement of the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty. That honourable gentleman made no imputation on the Post- master-General at all. The imputation was that it was possible, not that the Post- master-General would prevent it coming up again, but that the Premier might do so, he being the one most concerned. It may be per- fectly right from his own point of view that this paper should be buried in oblivion, and we have no guarantee that that is not his inten- tion. That being so, we can assume that that is the course he would follow. If the Minister .does not intend that these papers should be printed, I think that the last communication from the Auditor-General to the Treasury, at any rate, should be made known to the members of the House, and so I intend to read it. It summarises correspondence extending over twenty pages, is dated the 26th August, and reads as follows :- Sir J. G. WARD .- I rise, Sir, to a point of order. I would like your ruling as to whether a portion of a public document from the Con- troller and Auditor-General can be read to the House by the honourable member before it has been laid on the table of the House. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- It is quite usual for members to read or quote from documents proposed to be laid on the table. Mr. PIRANI .- I will read it right through if the honourable member does not mind, but I want to spare the feelings of the House. There is an opinion from the Solicitor-General as to whether "Consolidated Fund" means "public revenues ": "The Governor having determined that under section 9 -- Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands). - I do not think it is right that this document should be read at this stage. It contains an ex parte statement by the Controller and Auditor- General. This, I consider, is taking a some- what mean advantage. In my experience such a thing has never been done in the House before, and, if I am in order, I shall move, That the correspondence be not read. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I must adhere to my ruling that when any document is com- municated to the House in this way, and moved to be laid upon the table, it is open to any member to quote any part of the document, or the whole of it. Mr. PIRANI .- I do not wish a partial state- ment to go to the House, and if the Minister will move that the papers be printed- Sir J. G. WARD .- Very well ; to avoid doing what seems to me to be unfair, I will move that the correspondence be printed. In a case such as this it is only right that the responsible head of the department should be present. And it appears to me to be a very extraordinary thing that on the first day of the Premier's absence this matter should have been brought forward. It would have been only fair to the Colonial Treasurer that, in a matter of such importance, he should have had some notice of the inten- tion to lay an important document such as this upon the table; and, in order to prevent any- thing in the shape of what might be regarded as an ex parte statement, I think it would have been better if the document had been held over until the Colonial Treasurer, who is due here to-morrow, was in his place. I shall therefore move, That the paper do lie upon the table, and be printed, and referred to the Public Accounts Committee. Mr. PIRANI .- I do not think the Minister is quite fair in his reflection about this correspond- ence being so promptly forwarded to the House by the Auditor-General. He must remember that the law says that, in the case of a dispute between the Auditor-General and the Colonial Treasurer, when the Governor intervenes the correspondence must forthwith be laid on the table. Now, the Government do not follow the law, where they are directed to lay returns on 