gard to the dining-car, it must be admitted the accommodation at Clinton was second to none in New Zealand ; but a large number of passen- gers preferred dining-cars, and he thought there should be a dining-car between Dunedin and Invercargill. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the equipment of second-class carriages in the way indicated was being proceeded with as fast as circumstances would permit, and there were 237 so equipped, which were now being used on all trains ; the rest would be completed as soon as possible. In regard to the second part of the question, he was surprised to hear that there was any complaint about lavatory accommoda- tion on the through trains, as it was provided on all trains, though not in every carriage. On no railway service in any part of the world was there such accommodation in every carriage, nor was it the intention of the Government to provide it in every carriage; but sufficient lavatory accommodation would be put on all the trains, and on long-distance trains it was intended that there should be sufficient accommodation of the kind provided for the whole of the passengers ; and a proper system of gangways were in course of construc- 4.0. tion between each carriage, so that people could go from one carriage to another as they desired. In this respect no inconvenience could be experienced by the travelling public. If there were such conveniences in every car, as the honourable gentleman indicated, the seating accommodation in the cars would be consider- ably diminished, more cars would require to be put on, and the trains would consequently be heavier to haul ; the trains would possibly be delayed, and, as the honourable gentleman knew, punctuality of running was a feature of the New Zealand railways, and the trains kept to their time unless under extraordinary circum- stances. With regard to the third part of the question, the express service referred to was, as the honourable gentleman knew, one of the fastest in the colony, and the time had been considerably shortened during the last few years. That to some extent minimised the necessity that previously existed for having a dining-car on that train. Before the extra accommodation was provided at Clinton, he gave instructions to have dining cars built for both these express trains ; but, in view of other pressing works being required, and the accom- modation on the line in question being now very good, he had ordered the construction of the cars to be suspended for a time, until more important works had been carried out. The matter had not been lost sight of, and the time would come when dining-cars would be placed on the express trains there as in other places. # HILLSIDE WORKSHOPS. Mr. ARNOLD (Dunedin City) asked the Minister for Railways, When he contemplates establishing an iron-foundry at the Hillside Workshops ? He trusted that the Minister would be able to answer this question as satisfactorily as the last. Both at Petone and Christchurch foundries, and one had been promised at Hill- side. He thought it was quite two years since the promise was made. The Hillside Workshop was fully equal, if not superior, to any in New Zealand, and he trusted that the Minister would give instructions that an iron-foundry should be established there as soon as possible. The Minister would recognise the importance of the Government so equipping the various workshops that they would be able to do every part of their own work. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said that a foundry would be established at Hillside when funds were available for the purpose, but at present funds were not available. A great many other things had to be done throughout the colony, and he would be exceedingly glad, when funds were provided for this work, to give instructions to have it put in hand at once. # RAILWAY CONCESSIONS TO TELE- GRAPH LINEMEN. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) asked the Postmaster - General, Whether he will arrange for the telegraph-line constructors to have a monthly concession on railway-fares, on the same basis as the employés of the Railway Department, so as to enable them to visit their homes if they so desire ? He understood that the employés in the Railway Department were entitled to a reduction in fares once a fortnight if they wished to go to their homes. The men employed on the telegraph construction - line gangs sometimes did not get home for five or six months, and at present they got no con- cession at all over the railways. This seemed to be a hardship, and he trusted the Minister would be able to arrange that some concession could be given to the men he had indicated. Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) said if it were possible to give effect to the honourable member's desire he should be very pleased to do so, but a concession of this sort could not be given to one department unless it was given to the whole Civil Service. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why to the Railways ? Sir J. G. WARD said that railway employés all over the world were allowed certain privileges as part and parcel of their employment ; but if the Railway service were to be taken as a guide and precedent for giving concessions to the whole Civil Service, then he was exceedingly sorry that what the honourable gentleman asked could not be done. He had no feeling against them on the matter; on the contrary, he would gladly do it if he could ; but, the num- bers of the Civil Service being so great, to make concessions of the kind suggested would mean that the outside public generally would expect to receive e qual concessions, and, logically, they ought to receive in such matters as much con- sideration as members of the Civil Service. Mr. G. J. SMITH said these men who were working on the telegraph construction gangs were away from their homes doing Government work, and some concession should be given to them if they wished to visit their homes once a month. They had a better claim to this than 