months. And, Sir, he has not only done that, but what I want to point out to honourable gentlemen is this : that not only had he put a large capital value upon that land, but he had also increased the unimproved value of that land : because as soon as a valuable house of that description goes up in the neighbourhood it at once increases the unimproved value of the land not only on which it stands, but of the land by which it is more immediately surrounded. Now, Sir, since be put that house up not only has he paid an enormous sum to the Customs-surely he has almost paid sufficient to clear him for a lifetime-but he also increased the unimproved value of the land on which the house stood ; so he at once became subject to more extensive taxation than his predecessor did, who lived on that section in a four- or five-roomed cottage. Now, I am going to give one or two concrete examples of the working of the proposed system of rating, and then I will not detain the House any longer. First and foremost, several honourable gentlemen have dwelt on the fact that banks would escape. I will take the case of one bank in Christchurch. Under the system that at present obtains it is rated for local taxation purposes at the letting value of $1,440 per annum. The result is that it has to pay by way of rates to the Christchurch City Council £178 4s. 10d. per annum. The Government valuation of the section on which that bank stands is $15,000, and that section, under the unimproved value system, would pay to the City Council #258, or $80 more than it is paying at present on the letting value. will take another illustration; I will take a hotel, which I need not name, but it is a well- known hostelry in Christchurch. That hotel is rated at a letting value of $269 a year, or a little over $5 per week. It pays the City Coun- cil at present ₺33 6s. 8d. by way of rates. The unimproved value of the section on which it stands is $3,000, and if it was rated on the unimproved value it would pay to the City Council not $33 odd, but $51 15s. Now, I am taking these illustrations because they deal with objections which have been raised by honourable gentlemen-that those places on which a large amount of capital has been expended would escape more lightly under the Bill now before us than under the present system. Now, I will give another illustra tion which shows one of the best effects of the Bill. In the immediate neighbourhood of the hotel which I have just mentioned there lies a vacant section. That section is paying rates at present to the extent of $9 Os. 5d., and the owner is holding it for speculative pur- poses. Under the Bill that is now before the House, instead of paying $9 0s. 5d., it would pay $25 17s. 6d. Now, this is the sort of people we want to get at ; it is on their shoulders we want the taxation to fall. And, Sir, after all, the wise man is the man who so adjusts the burden of taxation as to cast it on the shoulders that are best able to bear it. For in- stance, I may put on a horse's back 5 cwt., ton to drag in such a way that he can drag it along without feeling it. And I say the rating on the unimproved values system would so adjust taxation as to enable the population of this country to haul it along without their ever feeling it; whereas the rating on the capital value is a distinct and gross taxation upon nothing else but industry and the fruits of a man's labour. Now, Sir, I will deal with another set of people whom my honourable friend the member for Avon dealt with, and who, he said, would be burdened under this Bill-that is, the people who live in the zone between town and country. Now, I will take a case in Halswell. Here is a man who holds an acre of ground. On it is a house and fencing worth $100 -not a very valuable place. This is one of the poor men who, it was said, would be ruined under this system. The unimproved value is $47. Under 8.0. the present system he is rated at 9s. 4d., and under the Bill he would be rated at 4s. Take a larger section - a two-acre sec- tion. A man has put upon it a house worth $2 0. 'There is also sixty pounds' worth of fencing on the place. His capital value is $500, and the unimproved value $240- It is a nice, fat, namely, $120 an acre. piece of suburban land. The rates on the capital value are $1 11s. 3d., and on the un- improved value they would be £1 Os. 7d. I believe that if the democratic portion of this House would only carefully consider the pro- visions of the unimproved system there is not a solitary member on this side of the House but 1 would vote for the Bill. Now, here is a ten- acre block, which is valued on the Halswell rate- roll at $640. The unimproved value is $300, and the improvements are valued at .€340. That is not a wealthy man's section. On the capital value system it is rated at $2 a year, and on the unimproved system it will pay $1 5s. 9d. Then, here is a one-hundred-acre farm, valued at $4,000. The unimproved value is $3,500. Here is a man holding a block of land worth $4,000, and he has only got $500 of improve- ments on it, and I say that you ought to tax that man so as to make him put more improve- ments on his place or else make him sell it. Such a man ought to be taxed, and he either ought to cut up the place or make improve- ments. It is in a portion of the neighbour- hood suitable for small sections ranging from five to twenty acres, and where there is a large demand for land ; and, if he is not in a financial position to improve that land, and if he is holding it for speculative pur- poses we ought to tax him, so as to make him cut it up and sell it in smaller sections. That farm is worth €4,000, it is rated under the capital value at #12 10s., while under the un- improved value its rates would be $15 0s. 8d., or an increase in rates on the whole $4.000 block of land of £2 10s. 8d. That is not a very extravagant increase. I am not going to detain the House any longer. These are actual ex- amples, and they show the working of the 