for the purpose of argument, that the southern members know more about their own districts than we do. But I would like to take some of these hide-bound Tories, some of these hard- and-fast gentlemen who hold unmovable ideas on the subject of land-taxation, to some districts in this Island, and I would not take them further than the boundaries of the district represented by the honourable member for Masterton. In the case of one township in that district-and I can mention the cases of two or three townships, including the Township of Waipawa --- can be seen the injurious results of the monopoly of land by the gentlemen whom the honourable member for Avon de- signates " fat men." Mr. TANNER .- I did not give them that name. Mr. FISHER .- At any rate, there you will see one specimen of that kind of monopoly-one person owning one-third of the township, and keeping it back from all possibility of prosperity, or progress, or advancement. Mr. HORNSBY .-- Eketahuna. Mr. FISHER .- It is the very spot I have in my mind's eye. Since the honourable member for Wairarapa has mentioned it, Eketahuna is the very township I mean. As I say, one man owns about one-third of the township. If the people want to lease any of his land he asks an exorbitant rental. His land occupies nearly the whole of one side of Eketahuna, and that is the busiest side of the township. If a person wants to buy, he will not sell on any https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 terms. And so the township is kept back. Now, there is one illustration. I know of other towns similarly situated - Waipawa being a notable instance-where the operations of this Bill would be beneficial in the interest of those persons who are most concerned in the welfare and progress of the district, as that welfare and progress naturally beneficially affect the larger number of the population who live there. Mr. MASSEY. - Who is the landowner to whom you have referred ? Mr. FISHER. -- There is no need for conceal- ment : the landowner is Mr. T. C. Williams. Well, that is as to the townships. Now, it is only by means of the passing of such a measure as this that you can get at the speculator in a township, and also at the larger speculators who hold large areas of land in the country districts. We have men in this city-large capitalists who invest in country lands waiting for a rise in price --- waiting for the increased increment which is brought about by the labour, the industry, and the enterprise of other men. Mr. MORRISON .- And they have burnt their fingers. Mr. FISHER .- Not very often in the North Island, whatever the experience of the South may be. I said just now that I would not speak of things I did not understand, and so I will not speak of the state of affairs in the South Island. There is no man in the North Island-at least, if the honourable mem- ber for Caversham knows any man, capitalist would like him to mention his name. Mr. MASSEY .- I can mention some. Mr. FISHER .- Oh, I suppose we will get the Piako Swamp and Patetere directly. We know all about that too. Let us, then, take the case of the Piako Swamp and Patetere : did those gentlemen -- An Hon. MEMBER .- And Matamata. Mr. FISHER .- Very well, Matamata too. Put the three of them together. Pardon me one moment. The honourable gentleman has started this argument : let me finish it. We will take Piako, Patetere, and Matamata, and we will take the member for Franklin's re- presentation-I suppose this will be his repre- sentation since he supplied the instances - that these gentlemen took up Patetere, Piako, and Matamata, and deliberately went in for those investments for the purpose of losing money in it. An Hon. MEMBER .- They did not think they would lose it. Mr. FISHER .- I understood the member for Franklin to suggest that their deliberate design in taking up this land was to sink a lot of money in these estates to lose it. They lost their money in the way that others who took up land in the South Island lost theirs. I will mention one or two cases in the South Island. There were two well-known old Can- terbury residents who had one station each, but one station each was not enough for them, The earth-hunger was too strong on them, so they must have two stations each. As a result they both went through the Bankruptcy Court. Was that result not brought about through their grasping greed ? They had not enough land when they were doing well and prospering and enjoying the fat of the land. An Hon. MEMBER .- Who were they ? Mr. FISHER .- They were among the landed aristocracy of Canterbury. I do not want to mention their names. I will mention the son of one, who in this House railed at and de- nounced every man who owned an acre of land. He politely called them "social pests." That was the Hon. W. P. Reeves, the rampant Radical ; but now the Hon. W. P. Reeves owns five thousand acres of his own. Mr. SYMES .- Where does he own it ? Mr. FISHER .- Somewhere about the Mokau country. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is only leased. Mr. FISHER .- Well, that, I believe, is so, but it only shows that these unsuccessful land- grabbers who "bust up " and become howling democrats only become democrats to elevate themselves on a political pedestal by means of the labour-men's votes, when they revert to their original standing as a land-grabbing aris- tocracy. That is the case of the Hon. W. P. Reeves. Now, I think the rating on the unim- proved value would touch up these gentlemen. They are just the men who ought to be touched up. I am content to cast my vote for the second reading of this Bill, and I sincerely hope it will become the law of the land, so as to put 