of the conditions of my adhesion that they should at once repeal that Act, which is an iniquitously dishonest Act. Let me show the House what it makes possible. In passing, let me say that I was one who voted against the $40, and I did not buy support with it nor any- thing else, but paid it back into the Public Account. Honourable members will remember that in 1899, in Committee of Supply, the ques- tion of allowances to Mr. Justice Edwards, then acting as President of the Arbitration Court, was raised. The question was raised as to the irregular manner of the payment of the fees, and this took place. Mr. Lewis was the member who drew attention to it, and he said,- " It was unsatisfactory that the House should be asked to vote these fees. If the Judge of the Arbitration Court were called upon to give decisions when public feeling ran high it was possible pressure might be brought to bear upon members of the House by those interested to reject the vote. The mere possibility of such a thing was revolting. "Mr. SEDDON quite agreed that this ought to be fixed by Act, and this was only a tempo- rary arrangement until they could pass an Act next session." And so on throughout the course of this short debate nine times did Mr. Seddon protest that this was only a temporary arrangement, and would not occur again. Mindful of that fact, when this House was dealing with the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act last session it put a certain provision in section 112 of that Act barring the Governor in council from fixing the fees of the President of the Court. Delibe- rately mindful of the promise that Mr. Seddon made and failed to keep, after nine times rea irming the promise, in clause 112 of the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act it is provided that :- . The Governor from time to time may make regulations for any of the following purposes. Prescribing what respective fees shall be paid to the members of the Court (other than the President) and to the members of the Board." This House had hardly got away from its duties last year before the Governor in Coun- cil gazetted the fees of the President of the Arbitration Court at two guineas a day for every day while hearing the case or travelling to or from hearing the case. Now, I submit, under the present condition of industrial un- rest, that while that provision obtains those fees must be payable every day of the year if the President of the Court chooses to ask for them. The amount of it does not matter, but there is the fact that the Premier was flouting the deliberate will of this House by the agency of that iniquitous provision in the Public Revenues Act, and there is no im- proper expenditure that cannot be made under the provisions of that Act. Mr. SEDDON. - A Judge of the Supreme Court must be the President. You have fixed that ; that is the law. this anomaly : that the President of the Arbi- tration Court in the whole will draw emolu- ments from fees to the extent of half as much again as the Chief Justice of the colony, and for work very much less in importance than the heavy and onerous duties falling to a puisne Judge in criminal and civil cases. That is one of the potentialities of this Public Revenues Act, and there is no sort of control whatever over the irregular expenditure in the present state of the law. Not only has the Controller and Auditor-General been stripped of a certain amount of statutory power, but his office is practically a laughing - stock and simply a matter of ridicule. I would not contend for one moment that the Auditor-General or any other official in the State should be supreme over Parliament or members; but why have we created the office of Controller, and specially called him by that title of Controller and Auditor General, if we did not intend that he should control the financial matters of the colony on certain given lines? I would appeal to the judgment of honourable members, leaving out the personal element altogether, that this Act is undoubtedly a vicious Act. Supposing the present Government, in whom a majority of the House has still an abounding faith, were removed from office, and some other Ministry got on those bonches, and that those same members, or a portion of them, returned to the House in the new Parliament which succeeds. Mr. SEDDON .- If I were leader of the Op- position I would support any Government or Treasurer in maintaining that Act ; no Govern- ment would be safe on these benches unless that power is given. Mr. HUTCHESON .- I submit that we find ourselves in this position : As the member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) said, there is no power in the land superior to the supreme will of the people. But what is the supreme will of the people? Let the honourable gentleman put it to the test next year, and go to the coro- nation and leave us here, and see whether he will find it again. He will not see us at all ; we shall be lost, and he will not be able to find us. When the extreme power is vested in the hands of one individual, as practically and dispassionately it is now, there are greater safe- guards than ever required ; and I say, without giving any official the right to maliciously or factiously put any hindrance in the way of the Government, certainly he ought to have statu- tory powers enabling him to question the propriety of any payments whatever. When the House comes to remember that last year was granted a 50 per-cent. increase of the "unauthorised expenditure," when the House comes to remember that every possible contin- gency is provided for in the appropriations of the year, what contingency can possibly arise requiring it to get this unlimited authority in the expenditure of public money. It prac. tically puts the manager of the firm into the position of auditor-the manager of the firm practically sets the auditor at naught, and tells him, " What do you know about it ? You may 