table of the House has proved conclusively that the department, as a department, is suc- cessful. Members of the House all round have generally conceded that point. There is only one clause in the report which refers to the amount of principal and interest out- standing on the 31st March, 1900, and it states that these have been settled and col- lected in full, and there is some slight mis- conception as to what that means. I read it that on the 31st March last all instalments owing on the 31st March, 1900, had been duly collected. The report is wisely silent on the amount outstanding for the present year, but we get that from the statement of liabilities and assets on the 31st March, 1901, where it is stated that the interest now overdue amounts to £4,734. The two statements are compatible one with the other ; but I think that the report itself would be a little more clear if in the second paragraph attention had been called to the fact that the only amount outstanding for the present year was £4,734. I do not think there is anything to hide so far as that amount is concerned. I say a department which has advanced the amount this department has, and collected its interest so far, has nothing to be ashamed of, if at the time of the annual balance there is only a sum of $4,734 out- standing. I shall support the second reading of the Bill, and it will be for the Minister in charge of the department to prove to the House, when in Committee, that the second million is absolutely necessary, and unless he can do that I shall vote in favour of reducing the loan men- tioned in the Bill by one million. I think if we make provision for three years for an average amount that ought to be quite sufficient so far as the amount is concerned. Mr. PARATA (Southern Maori) .- I should like to say a few words with regard to this Bill. It asks this House to authorise the borrowing of a further sum of $2,000,000 to be used by the Government Advances to Settlers Office for cash advances to settlers. Now, Sir, I want to see the Maoris participating in the benefits to be derived from this department. Maoris who hold titles to individual blocks of land should be allowed to participate in the benefits to be derived from the advances-to-settlers scheme : but up to the present it is only Europeans who have come from a distance and settled on the land who have been able to avail themselves of the benefits of the Act, while the Maoris are debarred therefrom. I have known applications to be made by the Maoris to the Advances to Settlers Office for money by people who are actually in possession of their own land, and were working it at the time of making their application ; they desired to get the money to improve their land ; and I would point out that if the Maoris are debarred from participating in the benefits of this Act they cannot possibly be expected to run in the same street as Europeans, and they will fall far short in the attainment of knowledge as to how their land should be worked. In many instances if the Natives got cheap money they would be Mr. G. J. Smith farming occupations. I very much desire to see the Minister in charge of the Bill insert a clause to provide that the provisions of this Act shall apply to Maori owners of land as well as Euro- pean. I think the Minister should give his most grave consideration to this question. The Maoris certainly should be allowed to borrow money from the department. Now. there are certain Maori lands at the present time occu- pied under lease by European settlers on the west coast of the Middle Island, at Mawhera, Hokitika, and Arahura, and at other places in the Grey district, and vet the Advances to Settlers Department will not lend money to those people to enable them to improve that land. At present that department will not ad- vance money to Maori landowners unless the lands on which they desire to borrow are leased to Europeans, so that the rent may be devoted to paying interest on the advance. 1 do say, Sir, that any Maori who honestly desires to make a home for himself and his wife and his family should be permitted to borrow money from this department. The Government, Sir, have competent valuers going about the country, who are personally familiar with the districts and know the individual occupiers and owners of the land, and it is for them to inform the department whether or no the applicants for advances should or should not have the money for which they ask. Again, I will ask the Minister in charge of the Bill to lend a careful ear to what I have said with regard to allowing the provisions of this Act to be taken advantage of by the Maori landowners, and I would sug. gest to the Minister in charge that he should submit a proposal of that kind to Cabinet. If the Government, as they profess, have really the welfare of the Maoris at heart, then this is a peculiarly suitable opportunity for them to show it by giving favourable consideration to my proposal. Sir, I should like to make one more remark. Certain members who have spoken have said that, in their opinion, a $2,000,000 additional loan is too much, and I agree with them. However, I do not propose to say a great deal about that. I have simply done what I considered it necessary to do: I have told the House what my views are in regard to the Bill. Mr. CARNCROSS (Taieri) .- Sir, seeing that this debate has been drawn out to such a length, five or ten minutes more talk will not make much difference, so I propose to say a few words. I am always interested when the subject of advances to settlers comes up for discussion, because it takes me back a long time -- before I had the honour of a seat in this House. Before I came into this House I strongly advocated from Press and platform that the Government should adopt the policy of borrowing money and advancing it to agri- culturists at low rates of interest. I quite well remember one of the financiers of Dunedin heckling me at a public meeting, and telling me that my ideas were merely those of a political tiro, and utterly impracticable. But time has brought about its revenges, and my 