further opportunity in the Legislative Council of doing what he would wish the honourable member in charge of the Bill to do now. The .union is a most important one, and I venture 'to think that the people of the colony feel very deep gratification at it, because they recognise that the Church when united, as we hope to see it, may be able to make itself felt more in this colony in certain directions than it is able to do at present. Its numbers are many, and its influence proportionate in the legislative coun- sels of the colony, but is not as great as it should be in connection with some educational measures which are near and dear to that Church. I feel that I am not at all justified in taking any steps on my own responsibility in delaying the passing of this Bill ; but I express the hope that the honourable gentleman in charge of the Bill will vet see his way to retain what, at any rate, some of the best members of that Church recognise as the very leading principle of the Bill. If this is struck out, they state that they will then be deprived of what they hold to be the best feature in connection with the whole measure, and a declaration of the actual condition under which the southern Church agreed to unite with the north. In view of that it is of the utmost necessity the retaining of the Schedule. They will feel that that has been taken away from them which they would not for any consideration have so taken away. I am making a statement that is based upon information that I have received from corre- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 spondence. As I said a moment ago, I am not giving my own opinion, but an opinion that has been conveyed to me, and I claim that these opinions ought to have the respect of the House, considering the source from which they emanate, and that therefore we should strike out this clause, as I have indicated. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) .- There are just one or two points I should like to reply upon. First of all, with regard to the statement of the honourable member for Ashley. He was en- tirely in error in saying that this Bill gives legal effect to the union of the Church, and forms them into a body corporate. I was not clear in moving the adoption of this report in explaining that the union of the Churches is effected without any legislation at all, but simply by agreement between the two Churches, which agreement has been prepared and signed by the Churches. But there was this difficulty, which I explained on the second reading : that the southern Church possessed a considerable amount of property in Otago, which is held subject to trusts, that require a body connected with the Presbyterian Church to exist in Otago to distribute these funds in Otago only. To enable the southern Church to unite and at the same time to carry out these trusts this Bill was required ; but it was not required to effect any union whatever, and in the articles of the union only those articles are to be incorporated in the Bill that deal with the further retention of these trusts that I have referred to. Now, in connection with the remarks of the last honourable gentleman who spoke, I think it name of his correspondent, because I believe that if that had been done a different weight might have been given to the remarks which he narrated- they were not his own -- as coming from the Presbyterian Church of Otago. With- out saying that the amanuensis was the same as the writer of the letter to the honourable member for the Clutha, and without identifying either of them as being the one that I mention. I can say this : that the great opponent of union in every shape and form in the southern Pres- byterian Church of this colony has been the Rev. Dr. Bannerman, and that reverend gentle- man, I am advised, lives in the borough of which the honourable gentleman is the worthy Mayor. I respect the reverend gentleman for the way that he has, in season and out of season, fought conscientiously against union in any shape or form. I may say this-I do not suggest it as the reason for urging opposi- tion to this Bill in the House, but it is a peculiar thing that the importance of this Schedule is now brought forward. So far as the legal effect is concerned, it does not matter whether the Schedule is in or out, but the northern Church at the last moment wanted that Schedule retained. It was a matter of grave doubt with the southern Church whe- ther the union would be effected at all if that Schedule were kept in the Bill : and there is this strange thing that I might refer to : that just at that psychological moment the leader of the opposition to the union - Dr. Bannerman - should find the importance of keeping the Schedule in the Bill, although the result of keeping it in the Bill would be to prevent the union. It was very unfortunate that a re- verend gentleman who was interested should himself have communicated with anybody at all in this House. I move, Sir, That the re- port be agreed to. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- I have just one re- mark to make Mr. SPEAKER .- On a matter of personal explanation, I presume. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Yes, Sir. In justifi- cation of that grand old monument in Otago, Dr. Bannerman-would there were a great many more of his type in the colony, for he does not give way to every breath of popular opinion -- I wish to say that neither directly nor indirectly had I any communication whatever with that gentleman. So you see the objection to the deletion of the Schedule is much wider spread than was suspected by the mover of the Bill. Motion agreed to, and Bill read a third time. CHARITABLE GIFTS BILL. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) .- Sir, I do not propose to take up much of the time of the House in introducing this measure, which is called into necessity through the gift by Dr. Logan Campbell the other day to the people of this colony. He gifted to the public 230 acres of very valuable land within the surroundings of Auckland ; but on going into the matter it was found that the deed conveying the said 