officers had been doing the work in connection with the Volunteers without pay. They had inspected the men of the contingents when they went away; they had inspected the men on their return; and now they were passed over, and so they naturally felt very much slighted. He noticed a case in Canterbury, for instance, where the senior officer of the district had been passed over and a junior officer had been made chief officer of the Pensions Board, and another who was not a Volunteer officer at all had been appointed to the Board. Similarly in Otago two medical men had been appointed to the Board who were not connected with the Volun- teer Force. Medical men, one of whom had served twenty years and another ten years, had given invaluable services to the Volunteers, but they had been slighted and put on one side. In Auckland a similar thing had taken place. There the chief Volunteer officer had been passed over, and a civilian, who was a medical man, had been appointed to the Board. He feared this was an action that would do serious harm, as it showed the way men were liable to be treated who had given their time and ser- vices to the Volunteer work. He hoped a satis- factory answer could be given. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said there certainly had been no intention on the part of the Government to slight medical men, whether they were Volunteer officers or other- wise. He believed it was necessary to have a mixture, and he had very good reasons for it too. Volunteers and military people did not seem to know everything : https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 Mr. J. ALLEN .- Why not as much as civi- lian doctors ? Mr. SEDDON said he had his reasons, and the responsibility was his; but no slight what- ever had been intended to the officers. If it could be said that the medical men who had been put upon the Board were not competent to examine into and to report upon the cases, then he would consider the matter of making a change. A doctor might be an excellent sur- geon for Volunteers, but when they desired to have this particular business performed there might be reasons for making a different selec- tion. At all events, he had made as good selec- tions as he could, and it had not been altogether There plain sailing in respect to this matter. was one district in which the medical man had refused- Mr. J. ALLEN .- Because of the insult to a brother officer. Mr. SEDDON said, No; the honourable member was like the little boy-he did not know anything about it. The honourable mem- ber knew absolutely nothing about what he was alluding to. Did he know that the medical men in Wellington had all refused to accept the posi- tion at a guinea a case ; and did he know that three medical men were required to give a man a certificate for a month's leave, and that it cost three guineas, whilst the trooper's pay would only come to £6? The honourable mem- ber was referring to another matter altogether. The honourable member did not know the diffi- culties that had had to be met ; and he might Mr. J. Allen say that if he could not get surgeon-captains he would get others where he could. At all events, in this matter there had been no dis- courtesy intended, and the probability was that the men selected would join the Volunteer corps. # M. D. DINEEN. Mr. LANG (Waikato) asked the Government, If they will place a sum on the estimates for the purpose of giving effect to the recommenda- tion of the Public Petitions A to L Committee of last year on the petition of M. D. Dineen (Petition No. 389), namely : "That the Com- mittee recommend that the petitioner be paid the amount claimed (namely, £18 18s. 4d.) " ? This petition came before the Public Petitions A to L Committee last year. The Committee went very fully and carefully into the case, and heard evidence on both sides. The head of the department was also present. The Committee reported, " That the Committee recommend that the petitioner be paid the amount claimed- namely, $18 18s. 4d." He therefore asked if the Government would give effect to the re. commendation of the Committee. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said there was no fund out of which compensation could be paid. The debit balance of this par- ticular transaction was 3s. 6d. There was a general balance of £4,686 6s. 2d. at credit on account of all lands dealt with by the office under the Act to date. This had to be kept for twenty years before it became Crown property. If Dineen was to be compensated a sum must be placed on the estimates for that purpose. He would again point out that when he first asked for compensation it was for a sum of ES only. In the face of that, the Government did not see their way to go beyond the advice of the Public Trustee. Mr. LANG might be allowed to point out to the Premier that the Public Trustee was present before the Committee, and that the Committee took his evidence, and after hearing what he had to say they recommended the pay- ment of the £18 18s. 4d. The case was too long to go into in the time allowed by the House in asking a question ; but if the Premier looked into the matter he would see that it was a just claim, and he could meet it by putting a sum for the purpose on the supplementary estimates if he wished to do so. Mr. SEDDON said the case had been up before, and his colleague the Colonial Secre- tary had on that occasion said,- " This matter was in the same position as other recommendations from the different Com- mittees. It would be considered with other recommendations, and whatever decision was arrived at would be shown on the supplementary estimates. If the amount was not provided for on the supplementary estimates, it would mean the Government did not think that provision should be made for it." The Government had given it full considera- tion. In cases of this kind they must be guided by the Public Trustee. Any members who saw what was placed before the Petitions Com- 