other body is to have the same is radically wrong. It is going against the principle we have always advocated of trusting the people. We are afraid to trust them to say what is the best system suitable to their requirements. I think I can speak for the majority of the town members in the House and say that if the honourable member for Masterton wants com- pulsory rating on the unimproved values for the country districts we will help him to get it. The only county we have round about Dunedin is the Taieri County. It is well developed, and there is as much taken out of it as there is out of any county, and I find its unimproved value is $925,259, whereas the value of the im- provements is only $357,259. Now, I leave it to the country members to work out for them- selves how the taxation will affect that county ; and. if that is an instance of what the effect will be elsewhere, it will be seen exactly how the taxation is coming out. I have taken out the figures of all the boroughs round Dunedin, and in not one case does the unimproved value come anywhere near the improved value. These are the figures :- Unimproved Improve- Value. mients. £ Port Chalmers .. 160,463 59,828 West Harbour 61,839 71,430 .. North-East Valley 152,228 104,130 Maori Hill 73,970 99,057 .. Roslyn 218,093 263,461 . . .. Mornington 109,150 191,957 2,071,548 City of Dunedin. . 2,268,196 Caversham 279,934 186,911 204,655 South Dunedin .. 91,964 Any honourable gentleman may see those figures for himself : and I maintain, in the face of that table, that if you alter the system of taxation and make it compulsory you are going to levy a heavier tax on the workers of the colony than they pay under the present system. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. Mr. MILLAR .- It is no use saying "No." What is my own position? I have an eight- roomed house, which is side by side with a five- roomed house. That five-roomed house suits the owner's requirements. He may not require to improve it, and vet under the present pro- posal, he will have to pay the same amount of taxation as I pay. An Hon. MEMBER. - Has he the same size of a section ? Mr. MILLAR .- Yes ; and he will have to pay the same amount as I pay. What will be the result of such a system in the case of a man who holds a vacant section ? He will do better under this system than at the present time, because he will do this: He will find tom- porary work in the labour-market while he puts up a building that will make that land of equal value; but the class of building he will put up will make it five times the value of the building opposite. His taxa- tion is to be reduced for all time, and in that way you are improving that man's position. suburban districts are concerned-and it is there that the bulk of the workers are settled --. they will pay greater taxation under this sys- tem of rating on the unimproved value than they pay under the present system, and there- fore I shall do all I can to oppose it, unless the country members desire that it should be applied to the country, in which case I would support it. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) .- Sir, I intend to vote against this Bill because of its compulsory clause. I could not but listen with a sense of admiration to the speech delivered by the honourable member for Masterton. That honourable gentleman has a few stock phrases with regard to settlement and settlers' improve- ments which he applies to every subject that comes up in the House. He has a remarkable gift that way; and I can only account for the ability with which the honourable gentleman can talk so eloquently, so freely, and so con- tinuously on those subjects, by the words of a writer, who, describing one of his friends, wrote that he was a very nice fellow and very clever, but a faddist, and when he launched forth on his fad he had an art of putting his brains in his pocket and allowing his jaws to take charge. Sir, I do not apply the simile to the honourable gentleman for a moment, but I will say he has a remarkable speciality for talking glibly on this one particular topic with a singular absence of practical intelligence. There are a few members in this House who, I am sure, have got thorough command of the Premier's ear on the subject of taxing on un- improved values, and though I feel certain the honourable gentleman does not believe in it himself for a moment, yet in order to please and amuse them he has brought this Bill forward, so that the House may talk and vote on it. Sir, I know that there are people who have peculiar notions, and there have ever been faddists. I once read a book by. if I remember rightly. Sir Mathew Decker. He died about the year 1749 or 1750. He was in business, a man of eminent ability, and also as a writer obtained as strong possession of the mind of the people in his day as George has in our times. He advocated a theory by which all the revenue was to be raised, with a sinking fund, by taxation on the people's dwellinghouses. It was a theory that took a very strong hold on the public mind at that time, and his writings ran through several editions. But who knows Mathew Decker to-day? And the day is not far distant when George will be put in the same category as Mathew Decker. I intend to be brief in my remarks, Sir, but I know one or two cases which govern my mind as to the manner in which I shall vote on this Bill, and I may mention them to the House. I know of two allotments, each of 50 ft. frontage, side by side in a com- paratively valuable street. The allotments are valued at $20 per foot, or unimproved value, £1,000. One of the allotments has a building on it which is valued at $1,000, making a rateable value of $2,000. The allotment with a building pays in rates £16 13s. 4d., and the 