unless exceptional ability were displayed. An Hon. MEMBER .-- He did not say that. Mr. NAPIER .- The honourable gentleman asked, as I understood, what good it would be to a young man who had not the career of a university professor or suchlike before him, but who had to go out into the bush and earn his living, to have a good education. I contend that, no matter what sphere of life a man may occupy, a good education is no burden, but a great blessing. It will enable him to do his work much better than he could if his mental faculties were untrained. Knowledge is power. " Seck wisdom," said the ancient sophist, '. while you are young : it will be the sole consolation of your old age, and the only good of which ill fortune cannot deprive you." The Bill is one which I heartily support. There has been great laxity in the matter of school attendance, and, if this Bill will have the effect of compelling negligent parents to send their children to the schools of the colony, I believe we shall have done a good evening's work in passing it to-night. The question of physical education is one that should not be neglected, and I believe that seven years of age is as low a limit as ought to be allowed in the Bill at which children should be sent to school. There is a great deal of complaint in the country with regard to the purely literary character of the instruction given in our schools, and in so far as the honourable member's remarks may have been directed to that view of the question -- though he did not make his meaning very clear -- I would concur with him. I believe there should be more manual training and more physical education. 1 should like our educa- tion system to approximate more to the Belgian or German systems, in which greater attention is paid to the physical education of the children, and also to manual dexterity. I do not mean by "manual training" only technical instrue- tion in various arts, but such as there is in the Swiss common-school system. I shall give my cordial support to the Bill. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin). - I cannot allow the honourable member for Auckland City to mis- represent what was stated by the honourable member for Patea. The honourable member for Auckland City made it appear that the member for Patea proposed to restrict educa- tion to the Fourth Standard. He said nothing of the sort. What he said was that education should only be compulsory up to the Fourth Standard ; he did not propose to restrict it in any way. I do not say I agree with the opinion expressed by the honourable member for Patea, but that is what he said. I agree with most that has been said by previous speakers with regard to the necessity for a School Attendance Act, and I admit that this Bill remedies many of the defects of the existing law - particularly the defeet with regard to the attendance of children whose names are not on any school- roll in the colony. It is impossible to get at such children by the Act of 1894, and this | remedies that defect. But in some respects I | speakers, I feel a hearty sympathy with every- to children between the ages of seven and fifteen years who are living within a radius of four miles from a school. Well, imagine a child of seven years of age being compelled to walk eight miles a day, to and from school, on four days in the week. Mr. PIRANI .- There is power to exempt. Mr. MASSEY .- Yes, there is power to ex- empt ; but this fact remains : that it is provided in the Bill that any child over seven, as long as he or she is in good health and is living within four miles of a school, must attend such school on at least four days in the week. Then, with regard to exemptions, it provides that they may be granted by the Committee. That, I think, implies, at a properly convened meeting of the Committee- An Hon. MEMBER .- The teacher may exempt. Mr. MASSEY .- Yes; but I should say the teacher is hardly the proper person to grant ex- emptions, because, unfortunately, this teacher's salary depends to a certain extent upon the at- tendance being kept up. I would suggest that, besides the School Committee and the head- teacher, exemptions should be granted by the Chairman and Secretary. Mr. PIRANI. - That is provided. Mr. MASSEY .- That may be what the honourable gentleman means, but the Bill does not say so. It says, " Any child desiring an exemption may apply for and receive a cer- tificate from the School Committee of the dis- trict, under the hand of the Chairman or Se- cretary thereof." I take that to mean that applications for exemption must be considered by the Committee. What I was going to sug- gest was that it might be made possible for a parent to go to the Chairman or Secretary, without waiting for a meeting of the Com- mittee, and receive an exemption ; if that is meant, I agree with it. But the great difficulty in connection with the School Attendance Act has been referred to by the honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins), and con- sists in the ignorance of the parents with regard to the School Attendance Act. They do not understand the law, and you cannot get them to understand it. I would suggest that a synopsis of the Act should be sent to every householder in the colony. An Hon. MEMBER .- Let it be done by the Truant Officers. Mr. MASSEY .- I do not think that by the Truant Officer is the proper means to dissemi- nate such information ; besides, we have not got Truant Officers in every district in the colony. I do not propose to oppose the second reading, because I agree with the main provi- sions. We require a School Attendance Act which will insure a reasonable attendance on the part of pupils, but which will not entail any more hardship than is necessary on either parents or children. Mr. MONK (Waitemata). - Like previous 