are utterly fallacious, for they are based on the assumption that the owner of land pays the That is utterly contradictory of our rates. " Rating Act, 1884," which provides, in clause 15, that the occupier shall be primarily responsible for all rates. This throws a great deal of light on the subject, and the matter should be recon- sidered from this point of view, because I hold that the position of the tenant has not been considered in any way. Throughout the debate the other night there rang a tone of exultation from various speakers on the position into which the House has now got the "fat man " ; but the House has not got the " fat man " into a corner in the least. What will be done by passing this Bill in its present bald form is to put the tenant between the upper and the nether millstone, to draw the last drop of blood out of him. I would ask, Why do we have a cry year after year for a Fair Rent Bill from the tenants of rented pro. perties ? And the Government has promised one so often that we do not know whether it intends to deal with the question or not. If rents are too high -- and I hold that they are in the main, and criminally so -and if legislation is necessary, what is the House thinking of in passing a Bill which makes rating on unim- proved values compulsory, and vastly increases the rates which tenants are made legally liable to pay, without any attention being given to the change thus effected? I am not at all against rating on the unimproved value -my support is with the principle. I am speaking against this Bill in its present shape, and its provisions being so imperious and indiscrimi- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 nating. Everybody seems to claim the right to quote all manner of instances. Let me give a few. What shall we say as to the position of a small suburban farmer who rents valuable land in that zone which rings-in every town of the colony, and whose land is generally held in small areas for dairy farms and vegetable and market gardens, and nearly always on short- dated leases ? The owner will not give a long lease, owing to the fact that the land is daily in- creasing in value and will soon be required to meet the growing necessities of the town, the very contingency which the owner desires. On most of these lands there are 3.0. practically no improvements worthy of notice. It may be an old cottage thirty or forty years old, or it may be a milking-shed or stable - a few trifling improvements which count for nothing when it comes to the ques- tion of valuation. The bulk of the value is in the unimproved value of the land. By passing this Bill without making any reservation on behalf of these unfortunate tenants, whom the Government are so anxious, or professedly anxious, to help in regard to their exorbitant rents. I must say they are putting a very valuable class of the community in a position which is invidious in the extreme. There are hundreds of small farms of the kind I have mentioned in the colony-dairy farms, market gardens, vegetable gardens-individually of no great extent of land, but always held at the maximum rent which can be extorted. There Mr. Tanner rentals running from £6 upwards per acre, but I can give rentals of suburban holdings within my own knowledge at £7 per acre per annum, and in nearly all the short-dated leases, running for five to six and seven years, there is a stipulation to the effect that the tenants shall be responsible for all local rates. Well, pass this Bill and the result will be that these unfortunate tenants, having made themselves responsible, will for the remainder of their terms be in the position of having to pay rates which will at least be doubled, and in some cases may be even trebled or quadrupled. There is no provision in the Bill by which they can deduct that unexpectedly increased rate from the exorbitant rental which they give to the landlord. Sir, we want a Bill compiled with a better knowledge of the subject than this one shows, or we need the insertion of some clause or other which will relieve the tenant, who at this moment is responsible for everything, from bearing a heavier burden than he is doing at the present time. As to talking about reaching the "fat man" in this way, that is the most ridiculous rubbish I have heard in the House. The "fat man" simply strokes his distended stomach with satisfaction, while the unfortunate tenant has to pay an ad- ditional sum of money extorted from him by the operation of the Bill ; and the " fat man " knows that every day the land is increasing in value without any effort of his, and without the payment of a single penny towards this increased charge. The " fat man " is waiting for the time when he will subdivide the whole farm into small building sections, and pocket the whole of the unearned increment. That is the way this House is getting at the " fat man," by carrving a Bill so seant and bare of detail as this. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) .- Sir, it is my desire also to say a few words before the second reading is put. The Bill which is now before the House practically consists of two pro- One is that the rating on unim- positions. proved values system shall be compulsorily adopted all over the colony, and the other is that it shall be optional to the local governing bodies, when it is so adopted, to make it apply to certain classes of rates which were exempted by section 20 of the original Act. Now, Sir, I doubt very much the wisdom of attempting to force the system of rating on the unimproved value upon every part of the colony alike. As often as we have had attempts to bring within the compass of a clause or two provisions which apply to all parts of the colony alike, so often have we failed ; because, as those of us who are old members of the House know well. the circumstances differ so very widely in different parts of New Zealand that it is almost im- possible to pass an Act having general ap- plication without making it elastic enough to enable it to be stretched to meet the case of particular localities. Now, Sir, if this Act passes-I speak as regards the first proposition-we shall go counter to all our experience in the past, and, notwithstanding the difficulties we have always experienced in 