land-tax against the property-tax long before I entered this House. I predicted that as long as we had the property-tax in existence New Zealand would never be truly prosperous. As soon as the Government removed that taxation what happened? Have we not been advanc- ing ? Has not New Zealand been increasing in wealth, in prosperity, year by year, simply because the huge burden that was pressing upon enterprise and labour and employed capi- tal has been removed ? But under the existing system of local taxation labour continues to be severely handicapped. It has placed upon its shoulders burdens it is scarcely able to bear ; and yet the honourable member for Avon wishes to keep it in that humiliating posi- tion. Mr. TANNER .- I never said anything of the kind. You are grossly misrepresenting what I did say. Mr. HOGG .- It was a splendid Conservative What I con- speech you made this afternoon tend for is that labour should be emancipated, not merely from Government taxation-that has been done by the abolition of the property- tax and the introduction of the land-tax-but I want to see it emancipated by the local bodies, and the honourable member for Avon says, "No, they do not want it ; the country is not ripe for it." Mr. TANNER .- I never said anything of the kind. Mr. HOGG .- Now, I represent not a city or a large centre of population, but a country dis- trict, and I know how it affects our smaller settlers, especially the tenants of the Crown. What has happened in some parts of my district, where we have a lot of tenants owning from 100 to 300 acres of land under lease in perpetuity? They pay $8 or £12 a year to the Government for rent. and £15 or 120 a year taxation to the local bodies. That is owing to the present system of rating. Some time ago I had a complaint from some of these men, and when I referred the complaint to the Valuer-General, and asked him to enlighten me as to the reason why people who were only paying $3 or £4 a year to the local bodies a few years ago were now, in the course of four or five years, paving double and treble, and in some cases quadruple that amount, the explanation was very simple. These settlers had been working hard during those years ; they had cleared their land, put it in grass, erected fences, built good dwelling- houses for their families ; they had borrowed from the Advances to Settlers Office or from private lenders, and had made substantial im- provements on their holdings. Through their industry and enterprise their holdings were raised in value-in some instances doubled and trebled, and in exact proportion as the value was raised by their labour and the expenditure of borrowed money so were the rates increased. Now, I want to know why thrifty settlers should be penalised to such an extent tha in some cases the rates they pay are higher than the rent paid for the land to the Crown ? These rates have to be paid to the local bodies for the VOL. CXVII .- 18. speculative purposes. How many absentees contrive to get the unearned increment ? How often are sections in town and country practi- cally locked up against occupation or improve- ment, while the settlers around them, by working hard and spending freely, are involuntarily help- ing the owners to realise huge profits. Now, I, for one, am not prepared to offer a premium for idleness, however much the honourable member for Avon and some other members may desire it The taxation of improvements constitutes undoubtedly the offering of a premium for idle- If we are to have a proper system of ness. taxation, we should have taxes that are not liable to large fluctuations from year to year. We should have taxation that, though it may be altered, will be altered by slow degrees. We want as nearly as practicable fixity of taxation, so that people may know exactly the value of their property, the value of their substance. A tax upon buildings and improve- 4.0. ments is a tax that changes from year to year, but a tax upon land-values is a tax that is not subject to these sudden changes. It may increase, but it will be by a gradual process, in proportion as the unearned incre- ment makes the land of more value. It may rise steadily, and it may also go down steadily. But a tax on improvements is one that in- creases by surprising stages. The Crown tenants in my district have been astonished when they suddenly found that they were called upon by the local body to pay, instead of £3 or $4, as much as $15 or nearly 120. Why should the man that works hard and expends his sweat and his money be subject to this kind of penalty ? Is it not often radically unjust, and even indefensible ? The man who sits with folded arms and watches his neighbour doing the whole of the work is a gainer at the present time, but the man who works hard, who digs and plants his orchard and makes a good holding, that man has his taxes increased and doubled by the local body simply because he dares to do it. In another colony I have seen S iss vignerons taking up ten - year - old vines and laying the land down in pasture, because they could not afford to pay the huge taxes placed upon their improvements by the local bodies, while men with huge areas adjacent held as sheep-runs escape virtually scot-free. Directly the local body got hold of the pcor fellow who endeavoured to properly use the soil by planting the vines, for which it was suited, he was penal- ised by the merciless whip of taxation. I have seen vineyards torn up so that the land might be laid down in grass. An Hon. MEMBER .- Disease among the vines. Mr. HOGG .- No, it was not disease among the vines. Disease in the vines was not known then. On the contrary, there was plenty of splendid wine to be had for 2s. a gallon, and it would have paid the vignerons fairly well had it not been for the immense taxation that was immediately instituted by the local bodies when they began to improve their properties. They found it was better to keep sheep than grow vines. 