they going to-unnecessarily drive the officials of the departments, who are doing their best to carry out their duty in this matter. The Go- vernment instructions are that the returns are to be ready at the earliest moment in order that they may be presented; and they will be laid upon the table of the House as soon as ever the Government receive them. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) .- Sir, I hope the House appreciated the "jobation " which it has just received from the Hon. the Minister for Railways, and I especially hope that honour- able members who render such arduous and faithful services on Select Committees enjoyed the castigation administered to them. In the case of the man who got a spark in his eye-he came from Christchurch-the position was that the Railway Department admitted it was their carelessness, and before he petitioned at all they paid him the $50 referred to by the Minister. This, however, was one in which there was rea- sonable room for doubting the colony's moral liability, and in which a majority of the mem- bers present at the hearing of the petition gave the petitioner the benefit of the doubt. Another case occurred in Napier, where the Railway Department seem to have a special license for slaughtering people ; they killed four men on a railway-crossing, and maimed two others for life on the same crossing there, and still persist in not appointing a crossing-keeper. The widow of the last man who was killed on the Sale Street crossing, Napier, and who is left with two children in very delicate health, petitioned this session for a compassionate allowance. The Railways Committee recommended this petition to the favourable consideration of the Govern- ment. Members of the Committee considered this unfortunate widow and the orphans equi- tably and morally entitled to have two or three years of the husband's wages. The Minister thought the department should main- tain its legal position. They killed three other people there before this happened, but they happened to be people who were well off, and their relatives made no claim on the colony. Now, Sir, while the department continues its short-sighted policy of saving a crossing-keeper's wages, the private people whom they injure have to suffer. Surely the widow and orphans of the last man killed there should be allowed some- thing from what was saved from a crossing- keeper's wages not having been paid there. Suppose an employé of a private individual was killed, would not his relatives come under the Compensation for Accidents Act? That is another case in point, which I will give the Minister time to digest. Sir, that petition has been reported on. I hope the Government will do justice to this family. Sir J. G. WARD .- We will do what is right. Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- I have no doubt ; but I have my doubts about Cabinet. I do not agree with the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty, because he is to blame to some extent for not getting attention paid to the case of his petitioners. When a petitioner who has a grievance comes to me, and I present the petition for him, I never lose sight of that petition, and I take care to chase after the people who are dealing with it until I obtain redress or proper consideration for it. Until the honourable member adopts the same principle the chances are that his petitioners will never get any redress at all. The members who sit on the Committees, of course, hear the evidence that is tendered in connection with these petitions, and the officers of the departments make reports on the cases ; but, as a matter of fact, I do not think that Ministers ever go through the evidence for themselves at all. They are not present at the Committees to hear the evidence, which is seldom printed, consequently they cannot know anything at all about the merits of the proceedings or the petitions. Now, Sir, coming to the reports, I agree with the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty that in this case it is abso- lutely impossible for the House to intelligently discuss the Financial Statement until those reports are laid on the table of the House. Take the railways, for instance, about which, I am sorry to say, a considerable amount of money has been spent in importing a lot of material. At any rate, we are not able to form an opinion satisfactory to ourselves how the money placed at the disposal of that de- partment is being used until we are placed in possession of the annual report. Then, take the Mines Report. There is a proposal in the Financial Statement to bring in legislation- this session, I suppose-to raise money to esta- blish a State coal-mine, and as soon as we get the Mines Report, and see what the require- ments of the colony are, we can deal with that question intelligently. Then, again, there is the Lands Report. That is a very important report indeed. We are borrowing money for advances to settlers and for land for settle- ments every year, and we certainly require to know what is being done with all that money, but until we get this report we cannot obtain that information. I say the House ought to insist on the financial debate being adjourned for another week or a fortnight until the Go- vernment can place these reports on the table. The excuse made by the Government that the heads of departments were busy during the Royal visit is no excuse at all ; or, if it is an excuse, it is a very lame one indeed, because there has been a lapse of actually two months since the Duke and Duchess left the City of Wellington. Now, surely during those two months there has been sufficient time to pre- pare these reports. Then, again, there is that important paper B .- 1. Is there a single mem- ber of the House who can satisfactorily deal with the finances of the colony until he gets B .- 1? I undertake to say there is not one ; and we are not likely to get B .- 1 this session. The Railways Report and B .- 1 are matters upon the preparation of which the clerks in the Govern- ment offices ought to have been employed long ago, so that they might be ready for the House at the proper time. Sir J. G. WARD .- The Printing Office has been blocked with the report of the Midland Railway Commission. 