been some person willing to take up the case of | Messrs. Carroll and Wi Pere was about 965,000. O'Connor and prosecute it with earnestness and persistency at the time the incident occurred, | of idleness and incapacity on their part ; and or even at a later date, there would have been no difficulty whatever in securing the New Zealand Cross for Michael O'Connor. He now leit the case in the hands of the honourable gentleman. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said the application of Michael O'Connor for the New Zealand Cross was, with other survivors of the defence of the redoubt at Turuturu Mokai, investigated by Sir Donald McLean, and it was rejected on the grounds that, although the men behaved well, still they did not come within the terms of the Order in Council with reference to the New Zealand Cross. Since then Michael O'Connor had on several occa- sions petitioned the House and applied to the Government for the New Zealand Cross, but there had been no action taken, except that last year the Committee recommended the case for the favourable consideration of the Govern- ment. After the trouble in respect to the Wrigg case he was not very favourable to granting the New Zealand Cross, though in that case it was not applied for at the time, and was not refused. This was applied for at the time and was refused : and, after a lapse of years, was he (Mr. Seddon) to sit in judgment upon Sir Donald MeLean, who was acquainted with all the circumstances, and say he ought to have granted it. He was afraid that would not be very satisfactory. Taking into consideration the lapse of time and the effacement from the scene of all those who took part and could have borne testimony, it would not be wise at this stage to grant the New Zealand Cross. At all events, he did not think the Government would be justified in taking upon themselves the responsibility. The Committee had not said the Cross should be granted, but had simply referred the matter on to the Government for consideration. ## EAST COAST LAND SETTLEMENTS ESTATES. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) asked the Premier. Whether it is true that the Bank of New Zea- land, as mortgagee, is about to sell by auction. or otherwise, all those large blocks of land com- prising the East Coast Land Settlements Es. tates, and of which the Hon. James Carroll and Mr. Pere are trustees ; if so, what action. if any, do the Government intend to take? He had seen a paragraph in one of the Gisborne papers that the bank was about to sell a large area of land known as the East Coast Land Settlement Company's land. This matter had been gone into by a parliamentary Committee some few years ago, and he had then expressed the opinion that the best way to save a portion of the land for the Natives would be at once to dispose of as much as possible. The Natives. without a sixpence of consideration. intrusted Messrs. Rees and Pero with large areas of their lands, and the result had been phinging, sandering. and dissipation. The liability Mr. Fisher Now the liability was over $120,000, the result if the land were now put up to auction the Natives themselves would probably not receive one penny. What he wanted to know was whether the Government could devise any plan by which the Natives would be able to save even a trifle for their maintenance. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the question raised by the honourable gentleman was a very important one. He thought the amount due to the Bank of New Zealand was now about 4120.000. The amount had accumulated, al- though very little had been spent upon the land itself. He thought a deputation went to Eng- land and a company was formed, and the result had been that the Maoris had been called upon to find for costs. expenses, and advances. a sum of about $120.000. The question arose as to what was the best to do with the land. If the Gio- vernment stepped in under the Land for Settle- ments Act and bought it at auction, that would The Maoris, of efface all the Maori claims. course, at the present time, as mortgagors, had a reversionary interest. That the bank was amply secured went without saying, because after pay- ing everything last year there was a balance left. At all events, there was a difficulty, he supposed, in all these Native land questions, and what had culminated in this action of the bank had probably been the action of the Validation Court in Gisborne. The House would probably ask what the Government proposed to do. He thought the best thing was to refer the matter to the Waste Lands Committee. There were two ways of dealing with it. The one was for the State to step in and relieve the bank and take up the position of the bank, place the runs under the Public Trustee, and, after disposing of sufficient to provide for what would be advanced by the Government for taking the land, the residue, or the earning of the residue, should go to the Native owners, who had a reversionary interest in the land. The other way was for the Government to take over the land, have it valued. pay off the bank, declare what part should be Crown lands sufficient to cover what the Government had paid the bank, and then place the balance of the land in trust for the Native owners. Those were the two ways of dealing with it. He was rather inclined to make it Crown land, and deal with it by the Land Board, which would be better than tying it up under the Public Trustee. He had thought. the matter over, and it seemed the best course was to remit it to the Waste Lands Committee 1 and let them advise. He thought it was keep- The bank at the ing back settlement now. present time was managing the estates, and the sooner they got rid of that kind of business the better for the bank. They were simply ad- ministering the estates as mortgagees; but. even with their administration, there was a considerable amount of profit. At the same time it was keeping back settlement on the East Coast, and he did not think it was fair to the Maoris, who would lose their interest in 