beds. Now, both these individuals are to be rated upon exactly the same rateable value. Now, I want an answer to this question : How are they going to adjust that with the principle we have all along contended for-the "equality of sacrifice"? Where is the equality of sacrifice to the man who has taken the quarter-acre section because it will enable him to supplement a low wage to maintain his grow- ing family? And if we want growing families you will have to give facilities for keeping them. There is no doubt whatever about that. I ask, How are they to adjust this with the accepted principle of equality of sacrifice when you com- pare the case of a man using his full quarter- acre for the benefit of his family, with the case of his next - door neighbour, who allows his quarter - acre to be laid out in lawns and flower-beds ? If it is said, as it probably is, and will be again, that the man who builds a $600-house employs labour and spends money, then, Sir, I say again that in many cases the money is merely spent for gain. It is spent to obtain a return. Men do not build larger houses philanthropically. They are not built for the purpose of employing labour and keep- ing working-men going. They are built because they are a good investment, because they bring in good returns ; there is no doubt whatever about that. And I want to know why any man with a quarter of an acre that he uses for growing cabbages and other produce should be charged at as high a rate as the man who builds a house for $600 and draws $80 rental from it. I say, again, that while in the main I agree with the principle of the unim- proved value, and while I personally would vote for it in my own locality, I again say that it will not remove all anomalies. If that be so, and there will still continue to be anomalies, then I think it will be infinitely better to leave it for each district to say for itself whether it shall or shall not put this principle into opera- tion. These are my only reasons for opposing the Bill. The people already have the power to put the principle into operation if they so desire, and I think that is a better way of deal- ing with a measure which will not remove the anomalies that already exist. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) .- There is one phase of this question which I do not think has been brought with sufficient prominence under the notice of the House, and, through this debate, the country ; and that is this : I hold it is a proper principle that all taxation should be uniform, and should be levied upon a uniform basis. One great question that was decided by this House when the present Liberal party came into power was that the property-tax should be abolished, and we laid down the principle that the unimproved value only should be taxed for the purpose of getting a revenue for the colony. Then, we laid down the principle that it should be followed in all branches of taxation for the purpose of getting revenue. A mistake, I think, was made at that time in not providing that all rates should Mr. Collins on the unimproved value of the land by local bodies was adopted by this House, and the original idea was, no doubt, to pass an Act that should make it compulsory ; but it was thought that such a measure would not be adopted by the other branch of the Legislature. Hence it was not made compulsory when the land-tax was passed ; it was passed for gene- ral Government revenue purposes. A certain number of members who are opposed to the principle of rating on the unimproved values are using all sorts of arguments against this Bill being passed. Another set of members who profess to be supporters of the principle- whether they are sincere or not in that support I doubt-say they are not going to vote for this Bill because it takes away power from the people; yet these are the honourable mem- bers who wish to trust the people. The answer to their argument, I maintain, is this : that if you are going to trust the people let the people have the right to vote on that question. The people are not now allowed to vote on this question. It is only those who pay rates who are entitled to vote, and you are still making the tenant, the lodger, and the boarder pay higher rates for his weekly rental, and for his weekly lodging, and weekly board ; because you are maintaining this old system of taxation, which was shown to be so wrong when we repealed the property-tax and placed the land- tax upon the statute-book-you are maintain- ing this old system, which caused the rents of buildings in different parts of the colony to be at an excessive rate. An Hon. MEMBER .- This Bill will not extend the franchise. Mr. GUINNESS. - No, this Bill does not apply to that question ; and honourable mem. bers must remember this fact : that all those who have said that the effect of this Bill will not be to decrease rents must be making a mis- take, because the examples quoted, particularly by the honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell) and the honourable member for Lyttelton, all go to prove that if this Act passed, and we had nothing but rating on the unim- proved values, we would find that the rates of those who hold small buildings - particularly those who live in cottages-would be decreased by 50 and 75 per cent. Now, if the rates are decreased on these cottages, we have a right to ask that the rents should also be decreased. This is another way of looking at the question of reducing the rents. Is it not a fact in large centres, where there is a difficulty in getting cottages, that people frequently let hovels and collect high rents, because tenants are forced to occupy such places on account of suitable buildings being so hard to get? But if there Were numerous buildings of a substantial kind, and the people could get them at less rents than they are paying for these hovels, then we would find that the rents would go down. What encouragement is there for people to erect substantial and decent buildings ? The rates on every building that is put up on a 