any further explanation I shall have great plea- sure in giving it in my rov. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs). - Sir. I should like to have something to say in regard to this Wellington City Recreation-ground Bill. It is really a Bill to enable the Commeil to par- chase for the City of Wellington 1.800 acres of : land situated at Miramar. The Bill is called the City Recreation-ground Bill, and honour- able members will imagine that it is a Bill to enable the city to purchase an area of land, say, of 100 or 200 acres, as the case may be. for the purpose of a recreation-ground onis. But it is a Bill to enable the Mavor and Council of the city to purchase a block of land to the extent of 1,500 acres. Now, it is well known, without my going into any details at all, that, so far as the Wellington City Council are concerned, and so far as the finances of the Council are con- cerned, that they are in such a state at the present time that it is absolutely impossible for them, apart from the clauses of this Bill, to enter into any speculation at all. The streets of Wellington are a disgrace to the City of Wellington ; they are .the worst-kept streets in the colony. It is impossible on a wet night for any man to walk, even on the pavement, with- out stepping into holes and into large quagmires of mud, even on the main footpaths. Mr. PIRANI .- It is very evident you have not been to Auckland. Mr. WIL.FORD. - Yes, I have been to Auck- land ; but I do not think Auckland is quite as bad. We might, perhaps, say that in a race for supremacy there would be a dead hoat ; but https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 I give the palm to Wellington from what I know. Sir. this Bill places a very large power in the hands of the Councillors, and I may tell honourable members that the citizens of Wel- lingten are very much divided in opinion as to whether or not the City Council should be empowered to purchase this land for such a huge som as 575,000. Had the Pill simply been a Bill which gave an opportunity to the Council of purchasing an area for reercation purposes close to the city. all would have sup- ported it, especially if the price to be paid was to be determined by arbitration. But what is this going to lead the City of Wellington into? In the first place it is suggested that the pur- chasing price of the property -- 1.500 acres --- is 475.000. The real value is about $40.000. That is put down as the sum for which the Council may secure the property from Messis. Crawford Brothers, who own the area in ques- tion on the Miramar Peninsula. Honourable members will understand that before that land can be made easy of access to the city there must be an eletric tramway provided, either by a tunnel through Kilbirnie Hill or round vid Oriental Bay, or a line of steamers running every hour must be provided. Again, what has to be contemplated in a matter of the kind by the City Council is the expense of reading the estate, if it is purchased. Roading, lighting, access, and cutting - up would be expensive items. I notice there are provisions enabling Mr. Hutcheson introduced for the purpose of getting over the decision of the Court of Appeal in the case of the Canterbury Racecourse Trust action that carte before the Court recently. Evidently the intention of the Connell under this classe is to make a racccourse of Miramar. Whether or not that is correct I do not know, bat, at ony rate, I am putting it forward so that the hopourable member in charge of the Bill mav tell me whether or not that is the intention of the Council. I do not know whether clause 4 of the Fourth Schedale of the Bill has been wounded in the Local Bills Committee. but it should have been. I would like to know fram the honouralle member in charge whether that obcetional le chanse is still in the Bill An Hon. Mi! MBFR .- NO. Mr. WILFORD. - Then, the position is that the City Council desire power under the Bill to purchase 1,500 acres at 175.000. and they reserve to themselves the power to borrow the money required under "The Municipal Cor- [ portions Act. 1:00." Now, to my mind, if Miramar could be got on advantageous telles, and if the City Council could be intrusted to carry out a business deal successfully, it might be well that this Bill should pass : but I say -- and I am sure I know what I am speaking about -- that the present constitution of the City Council is not such a constitution that the citizens of Wellington believe they could carry out a business deal like this to the advantage of the citizens. Mr. HUTCHESON .--- The citizens put you out of it, anyhow. Mr. WILFORD .- The honourable member is hitting at me Lecause I was beaten by Mr. Aitken in the Maveral contest. Well. as far as that is concerned, I would not have thought much of Mr. Aitken if he had not beaten ine. I would have thought the citizens held him in poor esteem ineed it be had not beaten me. an untried min. He is a tried servant, a man of undoubted standing, and an cki citivon, and if he had not beaten me I would not have though: much of him. For myself, i did not expect that I would beat him, and, Sir. 1 can tile a beating, which is more than the honourable member can do. However, what to sov now is that, under its present constitution, the Council is unfit to carry on dealings like this, and I will give only one instance to prove the absolute inability of the Council to tackle such a matter. Local members will be well acquainted with the facts I am about to relate, but other members will not be. & me time ago the City Council, under the Fallin Works Act, acquired a block of land at the corner of Willis Street, on which Wiele situated promises known as the " Beko." The buildings were valued for the City Council rating purposes at, say, $13,000 in the first instance. After the Council had taken over the property the own as put in a claim, through their solicitors, for $25,000 for the land. Now, hore I may tell honourable members in conf .- 