The Hon. Mr. ORMOND asked the Minister of Education, When the annual report of the Department of Lands and Survey, and the report on the working of " The Land for Settle- ments Act, 1894," will be laid on the table of the Council ? The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said he was informed that the report would be down as soon as possible. There had been a heavy amount of work in the Printing Office, and consequently this and other work had unfortunately been delayed longer than the Government liked. # CEMETERY TRUSTEES VALIDATION AND APPOINTMENT BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, I move That the amendment proposed by His Excel. lency the Governor, namely : To omit clause 3 of this Bill, and insert in lieu therefore the fol- lowing, "It shall be lawful for the Governor to appoint the Rotorua Town Council as the Trustees of the Rotorua Cemetery," be agreed to. It will be seen that it is simply substitut- ing the same thing, but in different words, as was passed by the Council before. Motion agreed to. STATE-SCHOOL CHILDREN DRILL BILL. The Hon. Mr. KERR .- Sir, I beg to move the second reading of the Bill. When this Bill originated in another place it contained pro- vision for compulsory military drill ; but these provisions were struck out. In the original Act of 1877 it was provided that there should be military drill for boys in public schools ; and this Bill simply provides that physical drill for both sexes shall be compulsory, which is not so provided in the original Act. Clause 2 of the Bill says :- "It shall be the duty of the Board of Education in each district constituted under ' The Education Act, 1877,' to cause physical drill to be taught to all boys and girls over the age of eight years attending the public schools in the school district." Clause 4 provides,- " Every Education Board shall furnish a quarterly report to the Minister of Education showing that the requirements of this Act and the regulations made thereunder are being com- plied with." Clause 6 gives power to the teacher to exempt any boy or girl whom he considers unfit to undergo physical drill. There can be no doubt but that this will be of great benefit to some of the children attending our State schools. It will teach them deportment, obedience, exercise their physical powers, and do away with that slovenly gait that many of our school children have - dragging their legs along in a most slovenly way, with their faces towards the ground and their shoulders up. I think that if for nothing else but to develop their physical powers this Bill should be passed. There is nothing whatever drastic in it, and I trust the Council will pass the Bill. not wish to speak disrespectfully of this Bill, but it is a very insufficient Bill to carry out any object whatever. In the first place, it is very clumsily drafted, and, in the next place, it undertakes to effect that which is already given effect to in the principal Act. I do not know why it relates to physical drill only, because any one taking up the principal Act will see that not only is physical drill enjoined in our schools but military drill also. The Education Act of 1877 enjoins that, in our public schools "pro- <!-- PageHeader=":" --> vision shall be made for the instruction in military drill of all boys, and, in such of the schools as the Board shall from time to time direct, provision shall also be made for physical training, and whenever practicable there shall be attached to each school a play-ground of at least a quarter of an acre." Well, I think any one who goes about the schools, as I dare say most of us do-of course, it is my duty when going about the different parts of the country to visit the schools to see how things are going on. But. Sir, quite apart from official duties, I am quite certain most of us, when we go to different parts of the colony, attend these different schools and see what is going on from the pleasure it gives. I am quite certain most of us attend these schools, to see how the rising generation is coming on, with a great deal of pleasure. I think the mover spoke about the slovenly gait of our children. Well, upon my word, I will not take that as a real allegation against our school-children as a whole. I think our boys and girls may be frank, and blunt, and not afraid of anybody. If you speak to them they will speak to you, and they will answer you from the bottom of their hearts in the manner in which you address them. But I will not admit for one minute that our children are slovenly, or slouching, or anything of the sort. They are the boys and girls who are going to make the right sort of men and women when they grow up. They are not afraid of any one so long as they have not a care on their minds, or anything they need be ashamed of. Perhaps this is going away from the question at issue, which is this Bill. It is a harmless Bill. My honourable friend on the left says, " What is the use of it ? " I cannot say; but I main- tain that we have got just as much provision as we want in the Education Act of 1877 to enforce the teaching of drill to the boys, and also physical training to every scholar in the schools of the colony. And, more than that, I maintain that if you go to the schools you will find that drill to the boys, and physical drill to the girls, is being afforded in nearly every school in the country. Of course the drafting of this Bill is very extraordinary. It is called, in the first place, "The State- school Children Drill Bill." What is a State school? It is a form of nomenclature which I never saw before, and which applies to nothing in this colony. I know what a public school is, but I do not know what a State school is. And so on throughout the Bill. It will have to be amended clause by clause, so as to bring it into conformity with the circumstances of the 