hovels taken out on men's backs and in boats. Typhoid was there rampant : and of what use was the great and extensive schemes of sani- tary drainage for the City of Wellington so long as that sink remained ? With the full know- ledge of the responsibilities that lay upon them both local bodies said. " We must remove it, and here is the opportunity. Get power to take such a block. First of all, remove the rabbit-hutches that are there now, in order that you may fill up the sections to the level of the permanent roadways, so that you may reroad it. Then it can be cut up into areas to suit the public convenience." That was in the Bill ; and not only had the House a set of most elaborate plans, but an invitation was sent to the whole of the House to inspect the locality, and the members of the Local Bills Committee were taken in cabs at the expense of the Board to the site, so that they might see the insanitary squalor of the whole surroundings. And vet the Premier says this afternoon that the Har- bour Board got the power surreptitiously and broke faith with Parliament, and dishonestly subverted the purposes of the Act for their own speculative purposes. Surely he must be mea- suring the Board's corn by his own bushel. Mr. SEDDON .- I say it again. Mr. HUTCHESON .- Yes, unfortunately, we are accustomed to the Premier's method of bluffing his way out of a false position when he is fairly cornered. Now, what happened in the Legislative Council was this : The whole of the subsections of clause 11 were put in there with- out any wish for them on the part of the Board, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 and rather than face the possibility of having the Bill stuck up, and seeing that there was so much dependent upon it, the Harbour Board made a virtue of necessity and accepted the amendments. The first subsection of section 11 compels the Harbour Board to divest itself of all the land over and above what is necessary for dock purposes within nine years. It is clear that the Board had no intention of making this a profit-earning speculation, although the Premier has told us that sach was the Board's sinister intention. The real facts are that the Board has every prospect of losing 930,000 over the acquisition of the land. How does that tally with the demand that the poor man should have a special Bill brought in to enable him to get behind the Court of final appeal. And here is a point I want to emphasize : that the Prime Minister, above all men, should be the first to put forth a hand to shake institutions whose integrity, we say, should be inviolable. I refer to his threat this afternoon to introduce a Bill practically to upset the decision of a Court of final appeal-namely, the Compensation Court. It will react on him and on every department of the Government in the acquisition of land under the Public Works Act. Private citizens will then be able to go over the head of the de- cisions of the Compensation Court dealing with the acquisition of land for public purposes by the Government. To go on, however : that area Mr. Hutcheson ponny in rates to the city. So much were the Council impressed with the integrity and up- rightness of the Board that they got this sub- section (2) put in. That subsection is as fol- lows :--- "Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in ' The Rating Act, 1894,' and any amend- ments thereof, or 'The Municipal Corporations Act. 1886,' and any amendments thereof, the lands taken under this section shall not be liable to pay any rates whatever to the Corpora- tion so long as they shall remain the property of the Board, and not be let or leased." To the best of my knowledge, only one single section has been dealt with by the Board. and, tinding themselves unable to permanently sell to the applicant, they have made a provisional arrangement which will tide him over till such time as they are able to fmally sell. That was to enable a three-story building to be erected by a tradesman in Courtenay Place. The piece of land was contiguous to his own section, and enabled him to enlarge his frontage in return for a slice that was taken off his Allen Street frontage. With that single exception. I believe the Board are deriving no revenue from that land; and the Board is under the compulsion of law to divest itself of every vestige of that land within nine years. But if the Premier were the broad-minded, unselfish, beneficent statesman that he would have us believe, he would say to the Harbour Board, " If you make proposals to us asking for legislation enabling you to retain the balance of that area for the purpose of building workmen's homes thereon, and for no other purpose, I will promote and assist legisla- tion that will enable you to do that in return for the consideration it has cost you." That would be something like a statesman's attitude. Mr. SEDDON .- Make it a recreation reserve. Mr. HUTCHESON .- We know the Premier, and the fatherly regard he has for Wellington and its institutions ; but. worse luck, he cannot stand the resistance of the Wellington people. They are a stiff-necked and rebellious race, who decline to allow him to bully them, and there is trouble because the Premier cannot mani- \- pulate and run Wellington and its institutions ; he therefore loses no opportunity to have a fling at the city when he has the power. But I say that if ever a speech was made by the Premier which was unwarranted, and which misrepresented and distorted the facts, it was the speech he made this afternoon in connection with the alleged dishonesty of the Wellington 1 Harbour Board in connection with this legisla- tion. There was nothing in any of these three Arts which did not receive the best, mest un- selfish, and the most keen consideration from the members of the Joint Committee of the two bodies for a period of over two years. They gave more time unselfishly, more thought unselfishly, to the welfare of this city in connection with those three Bills than the Premier has ever given or is ever likely to give to New Zealand during the whole of his political career. Mind, I 