charge of the Bill in respect to the agreement, { in permitting the second reading to-day, and I understand that he was already in pos- session of an amendment suggested by the honourable member in charge of the Bill which would have removed his objection altogether. The honourable member in charge of the Bill submitted to the Minister for Public Works the draft of a clause which perhaps I may be per- mitted to read, as it bears on the question of the adjournment of the debate. It is as fol- lows : "This Act shall not be deemed to authorise the Corporation to purchase or take the said land unless either a special loan shall have been first authorised under this section to provide the purchase-money or estimated compensation, or an epitome of the leading provisions of the contract for purchase shall have been submitted to a poll of the burgesses or ratepayers of the city and shall have been approved of by a majority of the votes cast : Provided, however, that a full copy of any contract for purchase and a tracing of every plan drawn thercon or annexed thereto shall be deposited at the City Council Office, and shall there be open to public inspection for at least seven days before the taking of the poll." So that the honourable gentleman in charge of the Bill has met all that the Minister for Public Works desires. The Minister for Public Works desires that the contract between the sellers and the Corporation should be printed in full. Well, I submit it would not be fair to ask that to be done at the present time, for this reason : that it may disclose business at the present moment which it would not be right nor fair to the sellers to disclose; and if an epitome of the whole contract is to be circulated http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero broadcast before any poll is taken, and if the full contract is to be deposited in the City Council seven days before the poll is taken, what in the world is there to take objection to ? Even apart altogether from that, what reason is there for the adjournment of this debate ? This matter, according to our own Standing Orders, has been before the residents in the city for at least three weeks publicly ; plans have been deposited in the Stipendiary Magis- trate's Court ; the whole thing has been advertised for three successive weeks; the matter has been before our own Local Bills Committee, and an opportunity was there af- forded to anybody who had an objection to the Bill to appear. I understand that not a soul has turned up to raise an objection, and I understand that for two years or more the whole question has been before the ratepayers of this city in one form or another. Mr. WILFORD. - There was a petition of 531 ratepayers against it before. Mr. J. ALLEN .- There has been no petition against the Bill this time, and the Local Bills Committee did not hear one word against the Bill ; and I submit that it is unfair to attempt to kill the Bill in this way, and therefore I myself shall not support the adjournment of the debate. I think honourable members will bo dealing fairly with the member in charge of this Bill, and only fairly with this city, Mr. J. Allen because the Committee stage cannot come on until next Thursday; and between now and next Thursday, if there is anything further to be said against the Bill, there is plenty of time to produce it, and it is not too late even at the Committee stage to stop the Bill. Nor is it too late even at the third-read- ing stage to stop the Bill if there is anything in it that is not proper. A poll of the citizens, according to the Bill, will have to be taken. A special poll has to be taken, and all the matters therein set forth are to be detailed, and there can be no doubt in the minds of the citizens as to the question they are voting upon. I submit it is not fair to this city that we should deprive them of an opportunity such as this to provide for themselves recreation grounds, which this House, I am quite certain, desire the larger cities should obtain. The House divided on the question, "That the debate be adjourned." AYES, 26. Allen, E. G. Hall Palmer Bennet Hall-Jones Parata Carneross Houston Seddon Carroll Lawry Stevens Colvin McGowan Symes Wilford. McLachlan Duncan Fisher McNab Tellers. Mills Barclay Fraser Flatman. Guinness O'Meara NOES, 26. Smith, G. J. Allen, J. Lang Arnold Laurenson Steward Lethbridge Bollard Tanner Ell Thompson, R. Massey Meredith Thomson, J. W. Graham Monk Willis. Hanan Hardy Napier Tellers. Haselden Rhodes Atkinson Russell, G. W. Hutcheson. Herries . Mr. SPEAKER .- It appears to me that as the critical stage of the Bill-that of committal -cannot come on for another week, and if there is any amendment made then the third reading cannot come on for another week, the citizens of Wellington have at least a fortnight to bring before the House any objections they may have to the passing of the Bill. I do not think I should interpose an extra week's delay in the progress of the measure. I therefore give my casting-vote with the " Noes." Motion negatived. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Publis Works) .- Sir, I would ask the mover, in his reply, if he will carry out a provision which, I understand was made before the Local Bills Committee, that the contract should be laid before the House, and if he is prepared to lay it before us. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- Of all the daring attempts to hoodwink and bafile the people of this city this is the most daring. Mr. HUTCHESON. - The attempt to adjourn the debate. Mr. FISHER .- Sir, I believe the honourable 