in the wards; bat, as in the case of all other occupations, there are many extremely well qualified to occupy the position, whereas, on the other hand, there are many who are not. This is what may be called the mechanical view of the question. The honourable gentle- man is entitled to all credit for having brought in the Bill. It is not marked by such a degree of perfection as I should like to see attach to a Bill of the kind, but, being designed in the best interests of those who suffer, nothing should be said in condemnation of it. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) .- I have to thank honourable mem- bers for their remarks. With one exception, every member has expressed approval of the introduction of the Bill, and the one exception is the member for Bruce, who can see no good in the Bill, and no object in its being intro- duced, and regards it as so much waste paper. But I think when he listened to the speech of the honourable member for Eden, who so fully understands the subject, in consequence of the position he occupies on the Board in Auckland, he must have recognised that he said a great deal that he had better have left unsaid. There are difficulties in connection with this as with every other measure introduced. One difficulty has been referred to by the last speaker ; but, as he pointed out, it is not compulsory for any nurse to register under this Bill, and, as to the question of the experienced nurses who might not be qualified or have the necessary eram or https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 modern experience to enable them to obtain registration, the honourable gentleman, I think, supplied the answer. He said in some cases they were superior to the nurses who might have a certificate. The doctor would in most cases be the man who would have the selection of the nurse, and he would naturally recom- mend one who, in his opinion, was the best person to look after his patient. I think that is the solution that would present itself to any one. Mr. FISHER. - There are a few sick persons who believe in titles -- affixes and prefixes. Mr. HALL-JONES. - If that is so, then they could take their choice, the same as they would at the present time. When one considers that in many cases the doctor visits a patient but once each day, or every second day, and that the nurse is with the patient the whole time, it must be recognised there is necessity for the nurses being fully qualified to carry out the important duties they have to perform. With regard to the fees, I do not think they are too high. It is true, provision is made for the fees being paid into the Consolidated Fund : but the whole cost of the administration of the Act is to be paid out of the Consolidated Fund. An Hon. MEMBER. -- What expenses will there be ? Mr. HALL-JONES .- Fees have to be paid for examiners, and I may tell you that the fees indicated in the Bill will not be sufficient to meet these expenses ; and it must not be for- gotten that every year the names of the regis- At the same time the matter is so urgent and the necessity for registration of qualified nurses is so apparent, as to warrant the expenditure under the provisions of the Bill. An Hon. MEMBER. - How many do you expect to register ? Mr. HALL-JONES .- Of course, one cannot say, but suppose at first there are fifty ; it will be necessary to have these fifty examined, and you cannot get examiners unless you pay them. An Hon. MEMBER .- There might be five hundred. Mr. HALL-JONES .- Suppose there are five hundred, you will require so many more ex- aminers. It takes time, and you cannot get examiners unless they receive some fee. In some cases the staff of a hospital will be in a position to carry out the work of examination, but in other cases we shall have to appoint special examiners. The question raised by the honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins), the honourable member for Riccarton, and other members as to the position of the private hospitals is an important one, but the private hospitals do not come under inspection. If they came under inspection, and if the pro- prietors were prepared to conduct such esta- blishments with properly qualified persons. I should see no objection to their coming under the provisions of the Bill ; but at the present time the private hospitals are not under inspec- tion ---- An Hon. MEMBER. - They ought to be. Mr. HALL-JONES .- I believe they ought to be. I know that one in particular-at Christ- church-is one of the best hospitals in the colony- well built, well equipped, and well managed. But I will look into that matter before the Bill goes into Committee. The ques- tion was raised by the member for Palmerston that it should be compulsory for the Hospital Board to employ duly qualified nurses. These hospitals are under the control of the local bodies. That being the case, the representatives of the local bodies have a voice in their manage- ment; and I think it is better to leave the matter to the local representatives. If they think it desirable, they will insist on trained certificated nurses being employed. The Bill was understood by all honourable gentlemen with the exception of the member for Bruce. There is no doubt as to the meaning of the subclauses in clause 4. Mr. J. ALLEN .-- 1 was not doubtful. Mr. HALL-JONES .-- You did not give a proper interpretation of them. The 1st sub- clause of clause 4 provides that every person who holds a certificate of three years' training as a nurse in a hospital, and proves that she has received systematic instruction in theo- retical and practical nursing- An Hon. MEMBER .- Without examination. Mr. HALL-JONES .- If they give the proof they need not be examined. If they can pro- duce evidence that they have the necessary theoretical and practical knowledge they need not pass an examination. Subclause (21 applies to the smaller hospitals, and not to the large 