as they are concerned. Then, the next question is, When is the Committee to sit ? With a Bill of four hundred odd clauses, it has to be dealt with properly, and there is no reason why, if some members want to go home for the week's end, those who stay here should not be allowed to attend to the business of the country. An Hon. MEMBER. - We want to attend to our correspondence. Mr. SEDDON. - Is the correspondence that has to be dealt with or the Bill more important ? I say it is more important to deal with the Bill. I suppose about 75 per cent. of the correspondence is from people who are asking for billets. I think, looking at the two ques- tions -billet hunters and the Bill-the billet- hunters might be allowed to stand over until after the Bill has been attended to. At all events, the suggestion made that the Govern- ment should give up the morning sittings on two days of the week is unreasonable, for it only means six hours on Tuesdays and Fridays for Government business, and three of those hours are taken off for questions. What, then, is to come of the rest of the business ? I cannot agree to that proposal. I have had my fears that. between the influence of the Road Boards and the local bodies and one thing and another to keep things as they are, that my Bill will not be able to get very far. Hon. MEMBERS. - It will go on all right. Mr. SEDDON. - Well, it cannot get far unless the Committee get time to deal with it, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 and if you take all the other Committees that there are sitting on the two free mornings of the week, I say unless we sit outside those mornings for this special Committee it is a moral impossibility to do anything. The Com- mittee must deal with this matter in a com- prehensive manner, and devote proper time to it, or one of two things will happen : It will come back to the House in an imperfect state and there will be no consensus of opinion, or there will be no Bill passed. We must suit the convenience of members as far as we can, but the Committee must sit either on Saturday or Monday, and it is my intention to ask the House to allow the Committee to sit on some day other than the sitting days of the House. I will consult members whether Monday or Saturday will be most desirable ; but unless we sit on one of these days it will be impossible to get through the Bill. It took the Counties Conference nine or ten solid days to deal with the Bill, and they only dealt with certain por- tions of it. The Select Committee will have Town Board and Road Board representatives on it. and if it took the Conference nine days to deal with it, it will take us two or three weeks at the very least. At all events, I do not wish to mislead members, and it is my intention to ask the Committee to meet outside the ordinary sitting-days. I move, That the Bill be referred to the Select Committee. Motion agreed to. TEACHERS' SALARIES COMMISSION. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) asked, without notice, if the Premier would cause copies of the report of the Teachers' Salaries Commission to be sent to every School Committee in the colony, for the use of the Committee and teachers ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the Govern- ment did not see its way clear to do that. Ho would inquire as to the probable cost. He thought every Board of Education should be provided with a copy of the report, and mem- bers of Parliament would have extra copies, and he thought they must leave it to members of Parliament to distribute copies to the School Committees. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked if it would be possible for the Government to send a copy to cach head-teacher of a school. Mr. SEDDON did not think it would be reasonable to expect the Government to do that. Members could send the extra copies they have to the teachers. # MR. SPEAKER. Mr. SPEAKER asked that the Chairman of Committees might be allowed to take his place for the remainder of the day, as he wished to proceed to Christchurch by the boat at five o'clock. He would return by the steamer on Tuesday forenoon, and the Chairman of Com- mittees had consented to act for him in his absence. He could not say that it was pub- lic business that called him away, nor yet was it pressing private business, but he might say it was a domestic matter that he wished to attend to. The House consenting, Mr. Guinness took the chair at twenty minutes to five o'clock. # GOVERNMENT ADVANCES TO SETTLERS EXTENS ON BILL. Mr. MILLS (Minister in charge of Govern- ment Advances to Settlers Office' .- Sir, in rising to move the second reading of this Bill I deem it necessary to give the House some little informa- tion about it, and for this purpose I have had a return prepared as near up to date as possible. I will explain as briefly as I can what the present position is, and then I will explain the provisions of this short but important measure. I find that up to the 22nd July the number of applications received at the office was 13,654, and the amount applied for was $4,787,608. The number of applications on which, up to the same date, advances were authorised was 10,451, and the amount was $3,437,385. Now, at this point I would briefly say that the department is one which is comparatively new yet, and I hope honourable members will be generous in their criticism if there should have been a few mistakes in valuations, or if the advances seemed to err on the side of caution, because no large business could be carried on without something of that kind occurring. Therefore I ask that the most charitable construction- Mr. SEDDON .- Not " charitable." Mr. MILLS .- Well, Sir, if you dislike the term I will withdraw the word, although I had not finished my sentence and conveyed its true meaning ; but I hope in any criticism from any member of this House that they will acknow- ledge that in starting a large business of this 