of Kerikeri. Sir J. G. WARD said he was afraid that was not the actual cause, but he was prepared to look into the honourable gentleman's represen- tations. SOUTHBRIDGE BRANCH TRAINS. Mr. RHODES (Ellesmere) asked the Minis- ter of Railways, If he will make provision for the construction of a turn-table at the terminus of the Southbridge line, so as to enable more powerful engines to be employed, and thereby increase the speed of the trains running on that branch ? It was a matter of very great com- plaint amongst those who travelled by this line that the trains between Christchurch and Southbridge were remarkable not only for their slowness, but also for their unpunctuality. The trains were frequently late, and almost always on market days; so much so, that per- sons living in the neighborhood of Greenpark, Lincoln, and Springston preferred to drive rather than go by train, and were then able to get into town before the train, even when start- ing at the same time. There was a 'bus leaving Lincoln a few minutes before the train which was able to land its passengers in Christchurch at the same time as the passengers by train. The Minister ought to be able to run the trains so as to compete successfully with the road. Therefore, he asked the Minister for Railways if he could give them a more powerful engine on this line, so as to increase the rate of speed, or give them a passenger and a goods train throughout the year. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) might say, in reply, that if the difficulty could be got over in the way suggested by the honour- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero able member, he would be very glad to give effect to the suggestion ; but it would not get over the difficulty. The reason of this was, that there were fourteen intermediate stopping- places in a journey of thirty-one miles. Nine of these were separated by a distance of only a mile and a half each. Now, when trains were stopped at such short distances, in any part of the world, it necessarily took time ; and the inevitable result was that, if they wished to give railway facilities to people a mile and a half distant from each other, they must take a longer time over the journey. The construction of a turn-table at the Southbridge end of the line, and the placing of a more powerful engine on the line, would not affect the matter whatever. The only thing that would be of any use was the complete separation of the passenger and goods traffic, and the running of passenger trains -through trains which would require to pass a number of the stations, the next train passing those the first one stopped at, and calling at the other stations-in other words, stopping at the stations alternately. The solution of the question was difficult. There were an unusual number of stopping- places close together, and the trouble was that the body of the traffic did not warrant a com- plete separation of the goods and passenger traffic. That being so, he was afraid they must Mr. Houston the duty of the department to do its best to carry on the mixed traffic, and he could assure the honourable gentleman that would be done. INFANT MORTALITY : POPULATION. Major STEWARD (Waimate) asked the Minister of Public Health, - (1.) Whether, in view of the fact that a considerable pro- portion of the infant mortality arises from ignorance on the part of parents, he will cause the Chief Health Officer to prepare a leaflet or pamphlet for free public circulation, contain- ing simple rules for the proper care and feeding of infants and young children ? (2.) Whether he will give consideration to the expediency and practicability of providing cheap maternity attendance for the poor ? (3.) Whether he will further consider the expediency of introducing legislation with a view to restricting the sale of certain medicaments known as " preventives" ? As the wealth of a country consisted more in its population than in its products, it was not surprising to find a reference which bore on this question in the Speech from the Throne, with which His Excellency had opened the present session. The falling-off in the birth- rate was a matter of national concern : but as the third part of his question, dealing with this matter, had already been provided for by the introduction, since he had given notice of the question, of a Bill by the Govern- ment, he need not enlarge upon that point. With regard to the other two branches of the question, he might point out that if it was desirable a country should increase by accre- tions from within by natural increase, as well as by accretions from without. it was equally important that those born in the country should live and grow up to manhood and womanhood. There were some very startling figures to which he wished to draw the honour- able gentleman's attention - figures connected with the death-rate. He found from the last report that the deaths of children under five years of age represented about one-fourth of the total deaths in the whole population. That was to say, out of 7,000 deaths, 2,000-using round figures-were those of children under five years of age. The exact figures were 1,898 deaths of children under five, as against 7,198 deaths of all ages. Then, if the honourable gentleman would turn to the figures given in the report, he would further find that they show that the deaths of those under one year of age, as contrasted with the births, was 9.6 per cent. In other words, of the children born in the colony, nearly 10 per cent. died before at- taining the age of twelve months. That was to say that, out of every ten children born in the colony, one died before it was twelve months old. Now, as we have one of the most healthy climates in the world, that must be very largely the result of ignorance on the part of the parents. There were many young people who were married and had children born to them who were quite ignorant of the laws of health as affecting child-life. The Agricultural Department very properly issued leaflets in- 