another name. To a great extent it was simply taking the money of the State and lodging it in the hands of the local bodies and settlers throughout the colony, and purchasing estates with it. What did that mean ? What did it matter to the capitalist whether he held his wealth in gold or in proper securities? No man would think for one moment that he was doing an improper thing if he held his wealth in pro- per securities, and he would not say it was increasing his debt if he built a house worth £90,000 with borrowed money. If that house was worth $90,000 he had only transformed the form of his wealth. And that was the position to a great extent at the present time. A large amount of the increased public debt was simply a transference of the public wealth into another form. Now, the honourable gentleman pointed out that the State, in entering on this system of purchasing private lands for settlement, had interfered with the privilege of private people of putting their estates into the market them- selves. How was that? If they were anxious to put up their estates for sale, what was to pre- vent them doing it now? There was nothing to prevent men with large estates cutting up their properties and selling them-selling the freehold if they wished to. What, however, did they find? They found that not one of those gentlemen clamoured about putting their estates on to the market until the Government entered on the business. For years and years people were clamouring for land, but they could not get an inch of it. Large and valuable https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 estates were lying near the centres of popula- tion, and it was impossible for any one to get a single acre of them. He need only mention the districts around Timaru and Oamaru, but Oamaru especially, as being a part of the colony http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero to which that applied. Certainly he was not so well acquainted with the northern portion of the colony, and the speech of the honour. able member in moving the motion was centred mainly in the question of the settle- ment of Hawke's Bay. He did not know why the speech of the honourable member should have been centred in Hawke's Bay more than any other portion of the colony. He might say, at the same time, he was not opposed to the return asked for. He thought it would be better to have the return, and he would vote for it ; but why, when ask- ing for the return, the honourable member should deem it necessary to make an attack on the Land for Settlements Act he could not con- ceive. He thought that surely a return of this kind might be asked for without raising the question of the whole policy of the Govern- ment in regard to the settlement of the coun- try. When it was obtained, the return might warrant such a discussion, but at the present time it was premature. The question of land-values had been raised, but he did not know he need refer to that. Land-values were made up, of course, not exclusively from the soil or climate or from facilities for trans- port, but from all these combined ; and when it was said that land-values should be uniform Hon. Mr. Bolt uniformity would be obtained by in every case taking all these things into consideration. He would vote for the return, because he thought it might be useful in the future ; but he failed to see why so much should have been said in asking for it, and he thought a great deal of what had been said had been very little to the point. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI said it seemed to him the moment the Hon. Mr. Ormond rose to make a statement or a speech it at once raised a storm. He thought the honourable gentleman deserved credit for what he had done in this matter ; and the manner in which the honourable gentleman had asked for the return was very explicit, straightforward, and upright. It was a return which ought to have been published long ago, and which, in con- sequence of its not having been furnished, had brought to the attention of the members of the Council and the Minister in charge in that Chamber the necessity for such a return being placed before the Council. Such a docu- ment was very much needed. With regard to the honourable gentleman's reference to the freehold, that had raised a storm in a teapot. The great apostle of the abolition of the free- hold -and he hoped honourable members would agree with him in this-did his best to prevent people acquiring freeholds, although he himself had acquired one, and that at the very time he was preventing other people from doing so. An Hon. MEMBER .- Who was that ? The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI .- The late Sir John McKenzie. An Hon. MEMBER .- No. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI said, What about Bushy Park ? An Hon. MEMBER .- That is not bis freehold. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI .- Whose is it ? An Hon. MEMBER .- His sons'. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI said, That was a very nice excuse. He was not in the habit of interrupting any other honourable member when he was speaking. What he said was a fact. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is not a fact. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI said that was the true position, and it was not right for a private individual to acquire the freehold, or to agree to his sons acquiring the freehold, when he at the same time attempted to prevent others acquir- ing it. He did not know whether he was rightly informed or not, but what he had stated was according to the information he had received. He might state, also, that a great authority in this colony-so he was informed-had sent to England £30,000 for the purpose of acquiring an estate there. It was very strange that all these gentlemen who had such objections to the freehold should yet themselves desire to obtain a freehold. An Hon. MEMBER .- Who was that ? The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI said he was not going to give the name. An Hon. MEMBER .- You cannot. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI said he was in- 