else that the settlers of this colony should have the benefit of cheap money, because I know how hard a matter it is for them to compete, as they have to compete, with other countries which are nearer to the great markets of the world than we are; and if I thought it was absolutely necessary that we should borrow for the purposes of the Advances to Settlers Act I would support the measure, but, in so far as it has been shown that the department has sufficient money to last for a long time to come, I intend to oppose the Bill. Mr. J. W. THOMSON (Clutha) .- About an hour ago I thought the debate was coming to a close, but it seems to have taken a new lease of life, and I think I also might say a word or two. The honourable member for Masterton began his speech by speaking in very kindly terms re- garding my friend here, the honourable mem- ber for Waitemata. I thought he would follow on in the same strain and bring out the many good qualities of the honourable member, but in this I was mistaken, for he went on to com- pare the honourable member for Waitemata to a very unworthy personage, of whom only Scotchmen like myself and the honourable member for Masterton have heard. The per- son who first introduced a Bill of this kind into Parliament was the late Mr. Macandrew. This was in the session of 1886. I voted for the second reading of Mr. Macandrew's Bill, but our present Premier, who was then a mem- ber of the House, voted against it. I mention this simply to show that I am not opposed to the policy of the Bill, but I think there is no occa- sion for the Bill at present. To show this I would simply require to repeat figures that have been referred to by a good many members. The report of Mr. McGowan shows that during http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero the last six years the average of money lent has been $446,000 per annum. The sum lent during the last year was about $500,000. It also appears from what the Premier has said that there is a balance available of something like three-quarters of a million. With these figures before us, I think the Government are in a position to carry on without borrowing for the next twelve months. That is the reason why I shall vote against the second reading of the Bill. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) .- Sir, the debate on this Bill has been so thoroughly ex- haustive that it seems almost ridiculous to point out anything further in connection with the passage of this Bill. I shall venture only to offer a few remarks, therefore, and they have been called for to a certain extent by the remarks of the honourable member for Christ- church City (Mr. Ell), who evidently is not afraid of the bogey that he alluded to-the printing- press and the bale of paper. Sir, I will come back to that presently. With regard to the precise amount of money which is available for the advances to settlers, it seems to me that no honourable member agrees with any other as to the actual amount of money that is available. As for the Minister who introduced the Bill, may I not venture to compliment him on his cou- rage in taking charge of his own Bill, notwith- Mr. Massey standing that it was almost in the hands of his leader. I think it does him infinite credit that he has the audacity -I will say the courage -to speak to the Bill when his overpowering leader wished to take it from his hands. The honour- able member would have followed a course more consistent with his dignity had he followed a similar course more often, and I venture to say we should get the business through more ex- peditiously and be more likely to curtail the length of the session if Ministers took charge of the Bills connected with their own departments than by the Premier attempting to force every- thing down our throats. Mr. SEDDON. - I took exception to my worthy colleague asking members opposite to be charitable ; there was no reason for so doing. Captain RUSSELL .- Well, I did not take any exception to the word "charitable," which was used by the Minister. I recognise that it just slipped from his tongue, and that he did not mean it, but that the whole administration has been a great success. But I am quite in agree- ment with those honourable members who say that there can be no necessity for borrowing so large a sum as two millions of money at the present time. There is a sum of $760,000, as mentioned by the honourable member in intro- ducing the Bill, or $600,000 odd, as mentioned by others-nobody agreeing as to what is the exact sum available -- but, taking the figures set forth in B .- 13, it would appear that there was $620,000 of the original $3,000,000 still unlent on the 31st March last I may be told that in the very first page of this paper, where we are told that "The instalments of interest and principal to the 31st March, 1900, have been collected in full, no sum remaining outstanding on the 31st March, 1901," there is sufficient inaccuracy to throw doubt on all the subsequent figures, and to show the divergences in the honourable gentlemen's figures from those of the return. They show that the interest re- ceivable and overdue is $4,734 6s. 7d. I hope the Minister, when be comes to reply to the speeches which have been made in connection with this Bill, will explain the difference be- tween the statement, almost in the first lines of the report presented to the House, and the figures contained in the statement of liabilities and assets. Although I do not attach any great importance to the deficiency, it is a considerable sum to be in arrears, for the amount, in round numbers, is a little over 5 per cent. of the amount collected. And as the next line shows the interest receivable and accrued at $22,084 93. 2d., in all proba- bility of all that interest which is properly shown as assets a good deal may be in the form of interest in arrears on the due date. But there was, at any rate, taking the figures in the paper which is laid before us, a sum of $620,000 available for investment on the 31st March last. It may be argued, if the figures are reliable, there was $620,00 ) available on the 31st March, to which you may add. taking the reclamations of last year at $155,000 -one may fairly argue, at any rate, that there will be an increase on that amount this year of $20,000. I find that 