women who go in for this occupation and do not give that attention that patients are justified in expecting, nor what they would get from a homely elderly woman. I consider not only that they should receive a proper training, but in the selection of nurses suitable women of kind disposition should be selected. Dr. Mac- Gregor says the staff have often not the oppor- tunity of getting the best nurses. Very often members of the Hospital Boards insist on their friends being appointed, and this brings in the old wretched system that dominates everything in this country-the system of billet-hunting. This is not only prevalent in connection with Government departments, which, as every mem- ber knows, is the curse of the House-I venture to maintain that three-quarters of a member's correspondence is occupied by billet-hunters, and every kind of pressure is brought to bear on members to use influence with Ministers to get people into the Government service. I want to mention a case of indifferent nursing that has come under my notice in the Dunedin Hospital. An old man-a Highlander-went into the hospital and had an operation per- formed ; this occurred in the men's ward, and he received very kind treatment from the men nurses. After a time he became ill again, and was again admitted to the hospital, and, al- though he was not very ill, he, however, be- came worse. He told me he was not receiving proper attention ; he was suffering from an extremely painful bladder complaint, and he https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 told me he was often neglected by the nurses. I thought he might have exaggerated a little ; he told me he suffered intense pain and some- times at night groaned a little, and they threat- / http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero ened to turn him out, and on one occasion he said they struck him. He several times asked me if they could turn him out at night, and I assured them they could not. However, I was there one day when he was in great agony, and he told me they had removed all the conveni- ences such as ought to be there for a man in his painful condition. In consequence of this he had complained and received very severe treatment from the nurses. I became very indignant, and spoke very strongly of such treatment when one considered what the in- stitution cost the country. Two nurses were attending at the bed close by, and one of them came and said I ought not to listen to all he said. I replied that I had evidence of absolute neglect - that certain utensils ought to be there and were not there. The nurse then said the doctor objected to them being there during the daytime, and I said, " Surely when a man is suffering intense agony the doctor should know they ought to be there ?" The nurse then observed that we could not say she had been unkind to him, and on my asking her name she said, "Miss Smith." I at once remarked that he had always told me of her great kindness to him. It was the others he complained about, all except Miss Macdonald, and later on he pointed to another nurse who he said was good. As I had to go out of town I rang up a friend of mine who was acquainted attending this man, to tell him of the neglect and to see to several matters. In the mean- time, however, the hospital nurses told their story to the doctor, and my friend told me that the doctor was very indignant that I should interfere, and wished to know who Tom Mackenzie was -he did not care for me nor for any one - and that I had no right to kick up a row in the hospital. My friend told him that he would see that Tom Mackenzie knew what he was about, and would see the patient got proper attention. The next time I saw this unfortunate patient he said the doctor had been there and that he had had a dreadful time. He had bullied him for complaining to me, and said that he cared nothing for Tom Mackenzie, et cetera. The man was reduced to a nervous condition. One could see that he would not recover. I wrote down his words, and I have corroboration for the statements I am making. He mentioned the names of the nurses who had been very kind to him-Miss Smith and Miss Macdonald. He was paying the cost of his own accommodation, and the indifferent attention he received was such as to be a very grave reflection on the conduct of the institu- tion. You may wonder why I did not report the matter; I told him I would have the matter attended to at once, but he implored me not to do so now, as he was there under their power and he would only suffer more. I had arranged to take him away, but he was too ill to be removed, and I promised him I would not mention the matter before he died. I do not say he may not have exaggerated a little ; but I was there and saw that he did not get the conveniences that were necessary. When we reflect that this hospital costs €8,000 a year, and there are no more than a hundred patients in the institution, and the local bodies contribute enormously to it, I say the people of the country ought to get kind treatment in the institution. No doubt there are very many cases of kindness; but I have heard. although the case was not brought forward, there were cases in Wellington and other hospitals where elderly men suffering from painful diseases of a sometimes unpleasant nature are not receiving kind attention from some of the nurses. The patient I refer to in Dunedin was one of the kindliest of men, and was one of nature's High- land gentlemen. I would not have it thought that anything like a majority of the nurses are indifferent to the patients. I believe the great majority of the nurses are extremely kind. But there are exceptions to this rule, and if Dr. MacGregor or Ministers succeeded in esta- blishing a proper system of training for our nurses, and also inquire whether or not those nurses are naturally kind and of such dispo- sition as to give attention to the patients, they will succeed in doing a very great kindness to the people of Now Zealand. Mr. J. W. THOMSON (Clutha) .- Sir, the honourable gentleman who has just sat down has referred to the report of Dr. MacGregor on hospitals. There is a good deal in the re- port about the employment of women as nurses, 