want to pay less than the value of properties. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND said that he was just coming to that. The Minister had started an entirely new doctrine. It had been held by other Ministers who had administered the Act that the State was not to lose-that they were to buy properties at prices at which they could be cut up and disposed of without loss to the State. The honourable gentleman now said that that was not the condition at all, but he . (Mr. Ormond) maintained that that was quite contrary to anything they had ever heard be- fore. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- What did the honourable gentleman say ? The Hon. Mr. ORMOND .- That more money will be paid by the State than it should pay. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER had said nothing of the kind. He would ask the honour- able gentleman to look up the report of his re- marks in Hansard. The proof was a very good one, and he did not correct it at all, except to insert one or two words and commas. He did not find in it anything to the effect imputed by the Hon. Mr. Ormond. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND thought the honour- able gentleman was mistaken. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said that he had never said anything of the kind. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND said that the in- creased valuations of those properties would prevent the Government carrying out the system of settlement as it ought. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said that what he had stated was that any Government would be most dishonest that endeavoured by means of low valuations to secure estates below their real value. The present Government had desired to have values raised to an even scale all over the colony. That had been found very necessary in Hawke's Bay. But, because they wanted to acquire estates there, they had never been afraid to face the fact that if they raised the values they would have to prepare to pay a fair value for any property acquired. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND said, What he stated, in dealing with the question of valuations, was for the purpose of showing that the proce- dure of the Government would be against the successful carrying - out of the land-for-settle- ments policy. He regretted the time did not permit- The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said, If the honourable gentleman wanted to continue his remarks he had no doubt the Council would agree to his doing so. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND said, If time had permitted he would have gone into the question to prove the impossibility of those tenants in many cases paying the rentals under which they had rented their sections ; and that the Govern- ment was running the risk of spoiling the proper carrying-out of the land-for-settlements policy. But, as he did not want to miss the opportunity of having the motion put, he would take an- other opportunity of dealing with the question. Motion agreed to. On the question. That this Bill be read the third time, The Hon. Mr. BOLT said,-I cannot allow an opportunity such as this to pass without referring to the proposed action of the Welling- ton Harbour Board in relation to another work -I mean the work they are now carrying out at Oriental Bay. I understand it is proposed, after that work is completed, that they will allow boatsheds to be erected along the retaining-wall. I cannot allow that to pass without expressing my disapproval of such an act as that. Oriental Bay is probably one of the finest suburbs about Wellington, and I believe the work the Board is carrying out there will further beautify the place; and it seems to me extraordinary conduct that, after having completed a work such as this, they should practically destroy the whole beauty of the place by allowing boatsheds to be erected. Sometimes public bodies act very peculiarly in this respect. They seem to have no sense of the duty, decorum, or natural fitness of things in regard to questions of this kind. I will give an illustration. Any honourable member can go up the Terrace here, and they will see that the Corporation have put up large squares of zinc or iron bearing the letters "F.P.," and underneath them certain figures showing the distance in fect. These are indicators to show where the water-plugs in the street are to be found. There is nothing, to my mind, more unsightly than these plates, and the large block letters and figures on them are about as ugly as one can imagine. Some of them are even put on men's gates. The whole thing could have been done by simply having a small zinc disc bearing the figures on it, the letters not being required at all. If our Cor- poration in Dunedin had done such a thing as that they would have been laughed out of countenance. I say, moreover, it is a shame that the streets of Wellington should be half- paved. You go up the Terrace and you find one portion of the footpath paved and the other portion covered with blue shingle, which is continually rolling off the path and into the drains. It appears to me that if the Corpora- tion paved the streets and rated the owners for the cost of doing so they would be doing a proper thing, and would be beautifying the city immensely. I take this opportunity of protest- ing against the Harbour Board allowing boat- sheds to be erected on the foreshore I have referred to. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- I quite agree that the local bodies in some places are desti- tute of all ideas of natural beauty, and have no regard for "sweetness and light." But it is not only the local bodies who are the offenders in that respect. I will instance the Public Works Department and the Railway Depart- ment as two shocking examples. I know of cases of this sort in Taranaki where natural beauty has been wantonly destroyed and the convenience of the public ignored. I have known the people to have remonstrated, and the Ministerial head simply says, "I am ad- vised so-and-so," and there is no remedy. 