the Empire. The same might be said of the Act so as to enable advances to be made to salaries paid to the District Court Judges, who settlers, merchants, and manufacturers on ap- were paid a salary which was about one-third proved shipments of New Zealand produce ? of that which was paid to the County Court He would like to point out that the system Judges of Great Britain ; and it was very much referred to was in force in South Australia, and less than was paid to the County Court Judges it had worked very satisfactorily there, and had in New South Wales, Victoria, and the other been the means of giving a great impetus to States of Australia. He trusted the honourable production and to the farming industry. He gentleman would see his way to afford the could not see that there was any inherent ob- House an opportunity of expressing its opinion jection on the ground of principle to the exten- on the matter. The only way, of course, in sion of the functions of the Advances to Settlers which it could be done under existing circum- Office in the direction indicated ; and it would stances was for a member to move a reduc- be a great boon to many farmers, and also to tion of the salaries as an indication that he many produce merchants, and especially to desired them to be raised ; but that would be manufacturers, who had now, he thought, to most inexpedient in regard to high judicial pay excessive amounts for the purpose of get- officers, even though it was merely a formality. ting financial accommodation when shipping He trusted the honourable gentleman would New Zealand produce. see his way to give a favourable reply. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) would vances to Settlers Office) said it was not con- like to say, in reply to the honourable gentle- sidered advisable at present to extend the man, that, while it might be a fact that other working of the Advances to Settlers Office in countries paid high salaries to Judges and that direction. But the matter would receive County Court Judges, still the salary which attention in the future, and if the means could was at present paid to Judges here was suffi- be provided with safety to the State the pro- cient to command the services of the best men. posal would receive fair and reasonable con- not only in the colony, but, he thought, out of sideration by the Government. it. He might say that it was not the intention of the Government to make any alteration in the salaries of Judges. In regard to the District Court Judges, he might say that matter was under the consideration of the Government. vernment, Whether they will introduce legis- lation to allow local bodies to make their own DUTY ON GLASS-MAKING MACHINERY. valuations for local rating purposes ? He would https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) asked like to point out to the Minister that very great the Government, Whether they will favourably dissatisfaction existed amongst the local bodies consider the advisability of granting a rebate in his part of the colony in regard to the Go- on duty payable on machinery imported by the vernment valuations. There was a meeting of New Zealand Glass Company for the purpose of local bodies held in the Palmerston district establishing the glass-making industry in this some months ago, and the representatives were colony? He might say that some very im- present from all parts of the coast, and not one portant machinery had been brought from of them had a good word to say for the Govern- abroad, and an industry had been established. ment system of valuation. It was faulty, the The sands in the North Island were very suit- cost was extravagant, there was a long delay, able for the manufacture of glasswork, and it and everything seemed to be done in such a looked as if there were the makings of a big way as to cause inconvenience to the local bodies. If the charges were reasonable, instead industry. of being so excessive as they were at present, Mr. MILLS (Commissioner of Customs) said matters might be different. Under the present it would not be possible under the existing law circumstances there were local bodies on the to meet their case as requested by the New west coast of the other Island who had the Zealand Glass Company. We were unable to right to make their own valuations, and it was allow the goods to come in duty-free ; but thought that perhaps the Minister might be apparently there was the nucleus of a very able to make regulations so that those local large industry in Auckland, which the Govern- bodies who did not want to use the Government ment would like to foster and encourage. As valuations might be allowed to make their own a great deal of the machinery the honourable valuations. gentleman referred to, required in the manu- facture of glassware, could not be made in the colony he should be very glad to submit the Government Advances to Settlers Office) said matter to Cabinet, and it would be for them to there was no intention to alter the present law, decide whether a sum equal to the amount of as, if the Government did so, most of the pro- visions dealing with the question in " The Go- duty the company had to pay to the Customs should be placed on the estimates when they vernment Valuation of Land Act, 1896," with its amendments, would need to be repealed. came down. Mr. Napier Mr. MILLS (Minister in charge of the Ad- LOCAL BODIES' VALUATIONS. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) asked the Go- Mr. MILLS (Minister in charge of the 