look up our correspondence with the view of obtaining information so as to be able intelli- gently to deal with these questions. Then, again, although the honourable gentleman gave notice for the setting - up of a Committee for the purpose of considering the Bill on the 16th July, the Committee was not set up until just re- cently, and the Committee, so far, has done nothing whatever except appoint a Chairman. I have followed, so far as I was able, the de- liberations of the Conference representing the country interests recently held in this city, but the information contained in the columns of the two newspapers published in Wellington is only fragmentary. How, then, is it possible to gousp the views of the country delegates from the information given in the columns of the local newspapers? The suggestions from the Conference have not yet been printed, and therefore are not available for members. The question under our consideration is a very im- portant one. I am in favour of the Bill, but not in favour of the whole of the provisions of the Bill, because I consider that many of them are inimical to the interests of the people whom I have the honour to represent in this House. I may point out to the honourable gentleman that in speaking on the second reading of the Bill the honourable gentleman showed that he him- self does not really understand the provisions of the Bill that he wants the House now to read a second time. When speaking of Road Boards he referred to the Amuri County as containing https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 Road Boards. Now, neither the Cheviot County nor the Kaikoura County nor the Amuri County have any Road Boards within them ; only the Ashley County contains Road Boards. That county contains eight Road Boards. I have the honour to represent these four counties. Putting that aside, however, I think it is very unfair of the Premier to expect this House to commit itself to the provisions of the Bill without having the opportunity of going carefully through it clause by clause, and seeing its effect on the country. I want to help the Premier. I am not here opposing the Bill or its second reading, but I say " Give us time," and we are entitled to that. Wait until the Committee sits and deliberates. I am prepared if necessary to forego to-morrow or Monday, or even to meet on both these two days and to sit for ten hours each day and go through the Bill, sooner than swallow it now in globo, as the Premier asks us to do. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) .-. Some honour- able members have attempted to explain the reasons of the Premier for taking the course he has to-day. I shall not attempt to explain the extraordinary attitude he has taken up. Imme diately before making the motion for the second reading of this Bill the right honourable gentle- man took up the Factories Bill, and proposed that we should take the second reading of that pro forma. He moves pro forma the second reading of that Bill, and has it referred to the Labour Bills Committee; but when he comes to the Counties Bill, which, so far as the whole of the country settlers of New Zealand are than the Factories Bill, he will not refer it first to a Committee, but asks us to proceed at once to discuss the principles of that Bill. I can assure the right honourable gentleman there is no desire on our part to interfere with his mode of conducting the business of the House; none of us wish to do that. I would point out to him where the inconveni- ence will arise in our discussing the second reading just now : there will be no fair oppor- tunity of discussing the principle of the Bill when it is reported from Committee. The House will not have the Bill reproduced with all the amendments of the Committee until a later stage, and it will be only the members of the Committee who will know what has transpired. The other members of the House will simply have the bald report read out to them, and the debate will have to proceed upon that basis. Now, conceive that position as against the one if the Bill were read pro forma just now and remitted to the Com -. mittee. Then we should have the Bill with all the corrections of the Committee in print before us, and should have the necessary data on which to discuss it, both as to details and principles. That is one reason why the discussion of the second reading of the Bill should not be gone on with at present. Can it be possible that the Premier is anxious, by forcing on the second reading before sending the Bill to a Committee, to commit the House to affirming the principle of the Bill, so that he may say afterwards, " You were parties to the second reading of the Bill, and therefore you must abide by it ?" Surely that is not a fair position to put the House in. I ask the Premier whether he thinks that is a fair way of dealing with the House? As far as I am personally concerned, I am prepared to go on with the second reading of the Bill, because I have had the opportunity of going through it very carefully. I happened to be a member of the Conference that has had the Bill before it, and that went through the Bill clause by clause. But let me point out to members of the House another reason why I think the debate should be adjourned. Mem- bers should have before them the printed re- port of the amendments and suggestions of that Conference, and they have not got that. How many members know what the Conference has recommended? It is only a few days since the proof copy was submitted to me for correction, and I thought it would have been circulated amongst members before now. I will see that it is circulated amongst members in a day or so. I say members, when discussing this Bill, should have before them that report of the Conference, and then they will be pre- pared to speak in an intelligent way upon the second reading. I do not think it is fair to force the House to discuss this question until that can be done. I think the Premier ought, at any rate, to agree to postpone the discussion, if he is determined to force the second reading of the Bill. I appeal to him to reconsider even that aspect of the question, and to allow the Bill to be read pro forma, and to go before the 