of the provisions which they think may operate local bodies with regard to the Bill that no to their disadvantage. I happen to represent a district where there are practically three dif- ferent local bodies exercising jurisdiction in the same area, and it is very obvious that these local bodies will each require to study how it will affect their respective local interests before they can offer an opinion. I have not heard of objections, except that a wish is expressed that local bodies should not be too large ; but they naturally wish to know the whole of the pro- visions of the Bill, and to study its effect on their particular local bodies. No doubt, as the report of the Counties Conference is published, they have heard something about the provisions of the Bill, and, as most of them have copies of the Bill, I think there is reason to believe those interested understand the Bill. I think the Bill will be useful in some parts of the colony, however much we may disagree as to its various details, especially where the Counties Act is not in operation, and I only express the hope that its passage through the House may not be unduly hastened. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin). - I hope the sug- gestion that the Local Government Committee should sit on Mondays will not be agreed to, because with the present arrangements for the sitting of the House on two mornings in each week members have not sufficient time to attend to their correspondence and business in connection therewith, and matters will be very much worse if this Committee were to sit on https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 Mondays. Sooner than that it should sit on Mondays, I would suggest that on Tuesdays and Fridays the House should sit at half-past two, and adjourn at midnight, and allow the Local Government Committee to sit in the forenoons. I would suggest that to the Premier. Just a word about the representatives of Road Boards at the recent County Councils Conference. As stated by the honourable member for Wai- kato, the representatives of the Read Boards were treated with every courtesy at that Con- ference. They were allowed to express their opinions, but they were not entitled to vote, except in those cases where the County Councils Act was suspended, as in the County of Manu- kau, for instance, for which I was entitled to vote as the representative of the Road Boards in that county, and in the County of Eden, for which my friend Mr. Bollard appeared, and so on. But I would suggest to the Premier that he should make known publicly that the evidence of representatives of Road Boards will be taken by the Local Government Committee. Matters of the utmost importance to the Road Boards of the colony are dealt with in this Bill, and I think it should be made clearly known to them that their representatives will have every opportunity of expressing an opinion thercon. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) .- I wish to add a word or two to the remarks just made, that all interested in local bodies, whether County Councils or Road Boards, should be allowed to give evidence at the Committee on this Bill. I represent some local bodies in the Waitemata electorate, and I should like to express some of the opinions they have on this Bill. I think Mr. Buddo that the House is so informed of the feelings of delay such as that suggested by the honourable member for Kaiapoi is necessary. I think tho desire is that some finality should be secured this session in regard to legislation for local bodies, and automatic finance, as suggested by the Premier. and that all possible facilities should be given for despatch in the considera- tion of this Bill. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .- Sir, I rise to ask the Premier, will the honourable gentle- <!-- PageHeader="1" --> man inform the House if the Government has circulated copies of the Bill amongst the various local bodies likely to be affected by the legisla- tion ? An Hon. MEMBER .-- They are all over the colony. Mr. MEREDITH .- Then, if copies have been sent, if local bodies do not move in the matter no member is justified in asking for any delay in the matter of the passage of this Bill. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I would first of all remove the impression that the Government want to take some advantage of the Road Boards. I think it is just about time one spoke plainly, and, as far as I am concerned, if people will not move, and if they think they will keep back legislation by not moving, they are making a very great mistake. On the 3rd July I said, in auswer to the honourable member for Avon, that there should be a Con- ference of Road Board representatives that should sit simultaneously with the County Councils Conference. That was on the 3rd, and the Conference of the County Councils did not sit till the 16th. And what have the Road Boards been doing? This was telegraphed throughout the colony. What were the Road Boards doing on the 16th July? Then, be- cause one or two Road Boards, or the Chairmen of certain Road Boards, did not think fit to call a Conference for the 1st July, why should we be asked to postpone our proceedings? I do not see why that should be done. I want to know why we should do it ? Mr. TANNER .- They were under the im- pression that they were invited to come up and attend that Conference in Wellington. Mr. SEDDON. --- 1 may tell you a little : secret. I received a certain communication desiring to know whether the Government would pay the expenses. <!-- PageHeader="1" --> An Hon. MEMBER .- That must have come from the West Coast. Mr. SEDDON .- No, it was not from the West Coast. An Hon. MEMBER .-- It must have come from Auckland. Mr. SEDDON. - No, not from Auckland either ; perhaps you had better not inquire too closely. In answer, Sir, to the member for Port Chalmers, who asked me if Town Boards would be represented at the Conference. 1 said that the Bill would certainly affect Town Boards, and there was no objection to their sending 1 delegates the same as Road Boards. At all events, there is no well-founded grievance as far 