with a full knowledge of what took place, that it was only after the member for Palmerston had conceived, and rightly conceived, that the Committee had not a proper knowledge of the Standing Orders and of his rights, and desired to deny him his right, that the member for Palmerston showed any discourtesy whatever - not that I think he showed, even eventually, any discourtesy. What really took place was this : The Premier has said that the minutes were not read. He is partially right and par- tially wrong, for the minutes were being read, and it was after the reading of the minutes had been commenced that the Premier suddenly took notice of the member for Palmerston. He got up then and said, " L cannot allow the minutes to be read while the member for Palmerston is here." Mr. SEDDON .- I did not say that at all. Mr. J. ALLEN .- The Premier did say that. He said. "The member for Palmerston must withdraw "; and it was only when the Premier sought to deny the right of the member for Pal- merston to be there that the member for Pal- merston insisted upon his right. The honour- alle member actually got up and was about to quote the words of the Standing Order. before a copy of the Standing Orders was brought to us, that he could only be asked to withdraw by courtesy. And I believe the member for Pal- merston was going to say that if his right to be present was not denied he was perfectly willing to withdraw. The honourable member was on the very eve of saying - when he was inter- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 rupted - that he would by courtesy withdraw if his right to be there was not denied. The point we want to establish is this, and I understand. Sir. by your ruling, that it is established : that a member of the House has a right to be present when the minutes are being read. The first question raised was on reading of the minutes ; and afterwards the question was again raised on an absurd motion moved by the Premier, that we should go into deliberation on the minutes clause by clause --- I do not know whe- ther there were any clauses in the minutes- with the object of showing and proving to the member for Palmerston that he had no right to be there when the Committee were deliberating. The Premier backed down on the ground of reading the minutes, and took up the question of the honourable mem- ber's right to be there when the Committee were deliberating. Now, Sir, I was astonished at the Premier going so far, because he must have some recollection of what took place a few years ago. Perhaps his memory does not go back to the year 1895, but I will refresh his memory in respect to 1895. He will recollect the Banking Committee of 1895, and a some- what similar question cropped up at that par- ticular time, and the Right Hon. the Premier is reported in Hansard, on page 230, to have : any member of such Committee, or by any other said as follows ;- " However, the Jomt Committee has met, ; and we found this-and I am quite right, I now consider that the matter complained of think, in relating it : A member of the House the bank to remain." Sir, a member of the House is to be denied the right to remain when the Committee are deliberating, but the Committee are to have the right to ask an outsider to remain -- the Presi. dent of the bank. And then, the Premier goes on to say ;-- "The member of the House then present refused to leave unless every one else left." " Mr. ALLEN .- Quite right too. "Mr. SEDDON. We believe that member was quite within his rights. A member can stop there if he likes; he only leaves by courtesy." Well, how different from 1895 is the Pre- mier's action to-day. The member for Palmers- ton's right to be there when the minutes were being read was denied to him, and when he had to back down on this, the Premier took up the question of the Committee deliberating, and sought to deny then the right of the honour- able member to be present. Sir, I am glad you have ruled on the point. I am quite sure the member for Palmerston did not intend to be discourteous ; he would not have been had his right to remain not been denied, and had he been treated with courtesy. It was only after the way he was treated that he was forced to take up the position he did, and, I think, quite rightly too. Mr. SEDDON .- I rise to a personal explana- tion. It is quite customary when a statement has been made in this House to accept it. I deliberately stated in my few remarks that I was not in any way discourteous to the member for Palmerston. There was no feeling at all in the matter : and I said so at the Committee. My own opinion was that the member for Palmerston had not noticed that we were going on with our business. That is my own con- viction, and I simply drew the Chairman's attention to it, and I did it without any feeling. I only did it because I considered -and still consider-that when the minutes are being read a member should by courtesy withdraw. If I had not I would not have taken the course I did in moving that the Committee proceed to deliberate on the minutes. Mr. PIRANI .--- May I be permitted to ex- plain that the discourtesy of the Premier that I complain of -and he repeated it to-day in his remarks-is his statement, aimed at me, that a member, not a member of the Committee, would go about publishing the proceedings of a Committee. No more discourteous thing could be said than were in the remarks made by the Premier in face of Standing Order No. 229, which says,- "The evidence taken by any Select Committee of the House, and documents presented to such Committee and which have not been reported to the House, ought not to be published by person." Mr. SPEAKER. -- I think the House will has been sufficiently ventilated, and that the 