not get away from the evidence given before the Committee in 1897, and again in 1899. But let me warn honourable members what they are leading up to. Let them read the evidence of 1897 and 1899, and see what is the alterna- tive suggested. It is the enforcement of an Act which a member of the House is now en- deavouring to get repealed. I will not now go into the question of whether or not that should be done, but I say again that where parents are so negligent of the welfare of their chil- dren, and of their children's future, as to allow them to go about the streets to the injury of themselves and those they associate with, then it is the duty of the members of this House, as statesmen, to come to their rescue and see that they are protected. The member for Wellington Suburbs objected to women being engaged as Protection Officers. Well, Sir, it seems to me it is wise to make provision for the ap- pointment of women, even though no women might be appointed ; because, as has been pointed out by, I think, the member for Bruce, women in this work have done all that has been done through the medium of the various organizations that have taken the question up. I believe that good, motherly, women would have greater influence in dealing with young girls than would any man who might have to carry out the work provided for in the Bill. We had the evidence of Inspector Pender on this point. He says that women should be appointed. His evidence on this point was as follows :- "9. If you look at the Bill you will see that it provides for Protection Officers ?- Yes. " 10. And also that these officers may be per- sons of either sex. Now, I want to know your opinion in regard to the advisability of ap- pointing women to discharge duties such as these ? - Well, sir, I do not think that the Act could be properly carried out otherwise." That is the opinion of Inspector Pender, and we know he is a man who has had large ex- perience. He is about at all hours of the day and the night, and his opinion is certainly worthy of the consideration of members of this House. The suggestion by the member for Wel- lington Suburbs that women as officers must necessarily be about at four and five o'clock in the morning, or from nine o'clock in the evening to five o'clock in the morning, is absurd, because the greatest care would require to be exercised between the hours of nine p.m. and midnight, by which time the children would be in their respective homes. The member for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell) suggested that the age should be raised from fourteen years, as stated in the Bill, to sixteen years. Well, I would suggest to the honourable member that he should take the Bill as it is. It is a good Bill. It is a start in what a majority of us believe to be advisable, and I say we should, at any rate for the present, keep to fourteen years of age. The member for Ric- carton suggested that instead of the pro- visions of the Bill there should be arrange- ments made, at any rate for one year, for the ringing of a bell at nine o'clock, so Mr. Hall. Jones that all children should know they were re- quired to go home at that hour, and that if a policeman saw them out after that hour he should send them to their homes. That would mean that the bell would ring, and the policeman send the young people home, and then they would run away to some other part of the town and still be out till any hour. The curfew system would not work. I would ask honourable members, like the honourable mem- ber for the Bay of Plenty, not to treat the Bill with levity. I hope he was not serious in suggesting that this would lead to the appoint- ment of people, as he called it, of the "right colour." I say the successful administration of the provisions of the Bill depends upon the appointment of proper persons as Protection Officers. Without this it would be of no use ; and those who would make appointments of persons to act as Protection Officers are respon- sible to this House, and could be dealt with if the House so thought fit. As regards the statement by the honourable member for Wel. lington City, and also the member for the Bay of Plenty, that the Bill is simply brought forward to waste the time of the House, I have only to point to the long list of Bills upon the Order Paper, and say I am prepared to stop here till daylight, or this time to-morrow night, to try and pass them. The House divided on the question, "That the Bill be read a second time.' AYES, 47. Allen, E. G. Millar Fraser, W. Allen, J. Gilfedder Mills Hall Arnold O'Meara Atkinson Parata Hall-Jones Bennet Russell, G. W. Hanan Bollard Hardy Seddon Buddo Haselden Smith, G. J. Herries Carncross Stevens Hornsby Carroll Tanner Colvin Lang Thompson, R. Laurenson Duncan Thomson, J. W. Ell Massey Willis Field McGowan Witheford. Flatman Mckenzie, R. Tell.rs. Fowlds McNab Lethbridge Fraser, A. L. D. Meredith Rhodes. NOES, 4. Tellers. Hutcheson Fisher Monk. Lawry. PAIR. For. Against. Wilford. Guinness. Majority for, 43. Bill read a second time. MONEY-LENDERS BILL. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) .- Sir, I confess that the Bill now before the House deals with a difficult subject. and one which has been legislated for by other countries for ages past. I admit it is 11.0. a Bill dealing with a question that is full of difficulties ; and, Sir, while I say it has been before other countries for hundreds of 