Thursday, Ist August, 1901. First Reading -- Third Readings-Colonial Seale of Staffs and Salaries for Public-school Teachers - Patea Harbour Board Bul Dunedin Quy and Suburban Tramways Bill - Remuera Waterseria Empowering Bill - Templeton Logiain Boa d Empowering Bill-Wenntton City Recreation- ground Bill -Elective Executive Bill -- Label Bill (No. 11- Eight Hours Bill-Cycle Boards Bill - Rabbit Nuisance Bill. Mr. Speaker took the chair at half past two o'clock p.m. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. New Zealand Pasign Bill. THIRD READINGS. Wellington Harbour Board Bill, State-school Children Compulsory Drill Bill. COLONIAL SCALE OF STAFFS AND FOR PUBLIC - SCHOOL SALARIES TEACHERS. Mr. SEDDON ( Premier). - Sir, I have the re- port of the Commission to inquire into a colonial scale of staffs and salaries for public-school teachers, and I move, That it do lie on the table and be printed. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- - Is the evi- dence that was taken to be laid on the table and printed as well ? Mr. SEDDON. - The evidence is rather bulky and will take some little time to print, but when https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 printed it will be laid on the table. Mr. PALMER (Ohinemari) .- Sir, while this Commission was collecting their evidence I think it is a pity they did not al-o prepare a report on the education systems of the whole of the Australian Colonies. Iconsider it would tend towards federation if we were to bring our educational how into emformity with that of Australia. I only throw out the hint to the Premier, because I hope that very soon we will ; assist with surohs s. I would therefore urge have a Commission set up to inquire into the education > vetem of the colony, so that it might be brought into conformity with the whok. of the Australian Colonies. Mr. MASSEY ( Franklin). - Sit. I would like to take this opportunity of asking the Premier whether he intends to introduce a Bill to give effect to the report of fle Commission ? Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihomo). - Sir, with regard to the suggestion of the homoprable member for Chinematri, that the Commission should have considered the various education systems obtaining in the Australian Colonies, 1 wish to say that we had before our Commission the most copious evidence on the systems pre- vailing there, and also the personal experience of some of the members of the Commission who had formerly been connected with the Victorian educational system. Regarding the question of bringing our system inte conformity with the systems prevailing in the other colonies, I would point out that this colony is pecaparly circumstanced, and therefore what we have course, from the other colonies those portions of their systems which we consider would be of service to us. That, I think, you will find has been done in this report. With regard to the remark that emanated from the member for Franklin, I would say it is sincerely hoped the Government will see their way to adopt the alternative proposal. The limit the Commissioners wore confined to was a El capitation grant. We have submitted a sale in keeping with that amount, and no doubt in many parts of the colony that wil be a great improvement ; but if the smaller educa- tion districts in New Zealand are to get that justice which we venture to hope the colony will extend to the smaller education districts, then, after the mest careful investication and extremost care, the Commissioners have re- ported that they consider &# 2. Cd. is neces- sary to extend and make what we might con- sidor a nearly perfect system of education for the elony. The 64 capitation grant, if given under the old system to each district, was very inequitalle. because the larger districts, having a number of large schools in their districts, Bad a surplus provided for the benefit of the smaller i schools within their territory, whereas the smaller districts, such as Marlborough, Grey- mouth . --- An Hon. MEMBER. - Are you not anticipating the report ? Mr. PIRANI .-- He is anticipating another BAL Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- The member for Pal- merston is generally right, but on this occasion he is wrong. We have adjusted our Botanical Gardens differences, and we have been met in a Very proper manner. I am simply replying to the remarks that were raised by one or two members, and I was just about to close by sev- ing that the smaller dintiiets obtaining the some grant would be drertally handicapped I because of their having so few large schools in the Premier, with all the power I possess, to adopt the &# 24. Ed. capitation scale. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerstom .-- I hardly think it is fair to the rest of us in the House that one of the Roval Commissioners should discuss the report before we have had an opportunity dreading it. In connection with the question put to the Premier, as to giving effect to the report, I would like to ask the honour !! gentleman whether, when considering the advi- sability of binging in a Bill of the kind, he will also consider the question of the extension di the powers of Education Boards in regard to i the removal and transfer of teachers from one school to another, according to the abilities of the various teachers? Unless some provision such as that is put in a measure dealing with salaries it will militate against the advantage of having a colonia scale of salarios. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, I do not think it is advisable for us to debate this large ques- tion shaply on the receipt of the report of the Royal Commission. All members should be 