Mr. SEDDON (Premier.)-I do not wish the Chairman of the Committee or any officer of the House to be placed in a false position owing to my having a paper in my possession that came from the Committee. The statement that was made in regard to it is incorrect. I am in posses- sion only of questions and answers that were put to the Public Trustee and that were sent to me in the usual way to see if the questions as reported were correct. These were sent to me in the ordinary course for correction, and that is why I was able this afternoon to give the whole of the questions and replies. Neither the Chairman of the Committee nor any officer is to blame in the matter. The ordinary course has been followed. Mr. HUTCHESON .- But you are not sup- posed to use them for that purpose. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) .- When the honourable member for Palmerston heard the statement of the honour- able member for Wallace he should have got up and apologized. Mr. PIRANI .- Not when I know I am right. Mr. HALL-JONES .- A denial has been given, and a free apology is due to the honour- able gentleman. The member for Palmerston stated that the Act of 1878 had been repealed, and he led every member to believe that this had been done within the last year or two. Mr. PIRANI .- Oh, no; I said that it had been done by the next Administration. Mr. HALL-JONES .- No, not the next Ad- ministration, for that Act was passed by the Grey Government. Mr. PIRANI .- No; the Hall Government. Mr. HALL-JONES .- That is not so; the Hall Government followed. The law remained in force till 1891, and the same principle as regards any difference of opinion between the Auditor-General and the Government was con- tained in the law of last session ; the law of 1878 continued up to 1891. A similar provision was brought into operation in 1890, and we practically went on the lines of the legislation of 1878. Statements such as made by the honour- able member throw doubt on the accuracy of what was said in the course of his speech, and indicate the reliance that can be placed on what was said. The honourable member was unfair in his remarks with regard to the honour- able member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier). He quoted from that honourable member's speech, in which he said that constitutional government did not exist in Parliament ; but the honourable member for Auckland City gave a further explanation of what he meant at that time by pointing out that, under the con- ditions existing prior to the passing of the Act of last year, constitutional government did not exist, because the Auditor-General had been endeavouring to usurp the rights of Parliament and of the people. He no doubt meant that con- stitutional government did not exist until that Act was passed. Then the power of controlling the expenditure of money was placed in the hands of the proper persons- that is to say, the mem- bers of this House. Now, Sir, I rose chiefly to refer to what had been said in reference to the "Tutanekai." That was an instance to show that really there was an attempt to supersede constitutional government. I have here the appropriations for last year, which distinctly state that a certain sum was voted for the pur- pose of the Government steamers, and that the purpose for which the money was voted was for the "working-expenses within or outside of the colony." What does that mean ? It means that it is for any work that they may be engaged upon. I do not think any honourable member can say there is any difference be- tween the employment of the steamers in carrying Volunteers within the colony or to Sydney. Here, Sir, we have a distinct vote for a specific purpose authorised by Parliament. Notwithstanding this, the Auditor - General steps in and says, "No; you must charge this to ' Unauthorised."" The question was re- ferred to the Governor to be decided, and it was settled in accordance with the best legal advice that could be obtained. This House approved of the appointment of a Law Officer, who has to advise on this and other questions ; and what more could the honourable member for Palmerston consider necessary than the advice of such an officer? Then, with refer- ence to the interest on the Bank of New Zea- land loan, the honourable gentleman said that this officer had been influenced by the legal advisers of the Public Trustee. In dealing with any moneys that he may have in his charge the Public Trustee can get what legal advice he chooses, and he took legal advice as to what was to be done in this case. I believe there was no consultation between the Solicitor- General and the officers of the Public Trustee ; but, to show how correct the Solicitor-General was in his conclusion, the honourable member told the House that the Public Trustee went to the Committee armed with a whole sheaf of opinions, showing that he (the Public Trustee) had done right, and thus showing that the Solicitor-General had advised rightly also, and that the Auditor-General was wrong in the position he had taken up. The hour of half-past five having arrived, Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER left the chair. HOUSE RESUMED. On the House resuming at half-past seven, Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, I do not intend to proceed with the orders of the day until we get these reports finished. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- Will you move a motion to that effect ? Mr. SEDDON .- No. I am not going to pro- ceed at once with the orders of the day. Mr. MASSEY .- Then, let me, Sir, call atten. tion to Standing Order No. 72 :- "When the House proceeds to the orders of the day on days on which orders have prece- dence, and after notices of motion have been disposed of on all other days, or on the House resuming at half after seven o'clock, as the case may be, Mr. Speaker is to direct the Clerk at the table to read the orders of the day with- out any question being put." I submit, from that, that you must call on the orders of the day in the usual manner. 1 