between the classes of land ; and that is one reason why I have always strongly advocated allowing the local bodies to make their own valuations, because they can get men personally acquainted with the locality, with the surround- ing circumstances, the quality of the land, and the real value of the improvements, and they are able to bring their valuations down to a very much finer point than the valuer who has no local knowledge, and who has a very large district to value over. I feel certain one of the greatest stumbling-blocks to the extension of this system of rating is faulty valuations. There would not be the slightest objection to it if it were not for that. But the argument about expensive buildings being exempted from taxation is the greatest fallacy in the world, when you remember that the rule is to erect expensive buildings only on valuable land. There are not many men foolish enough to spend €5,000 or £10,000 on building near a vast swamp, or in a large area of land of compara- tively little value. There may be one or two people who are foolish enough to do that in the colony, but they are the exceptions that prove the rule. As a rule, the best 10.0. buildings are always erected on the localities where land is most expensive, and it is the building very often that gives extra value to the unimproved value of the land, strange as that anomaly may seem, because the locality which has good buildings gains added value by attracting people to that locality. No matter how much is spent on a building, without the population no additional value is given to the land. Therefore it is a perfectly fair thing to encourage the erection of good buildings, the employment of labour, and do away with small unsightly buildings by relieving the owner of the greater burden of taxation ; because we know it is not the individual that pays, but the com- munity. The result in Palmerston has been to persuade the owners of waste land to sell their land for building purposes. It is a very satis- factory thing, when one purchases land to put a building upon, to know that you will not have to pay increased rates because you are going to erect a building, which was the case under the old system. I feel certain if the Bill were only to go so far as bringing all the rates under the system of rating on unimproved value, and if something were done to make the polls less expensive and easier for the people to utilise, you would get in every district in the colony rating on unimproved value. It is a good thing to see this system extending in the country districts. Only last year the Manawatu Road District carried the system, and in many other parts of the colony counties are bringing the system into force, and I feel certain, if the system is accompanied by a reasonable system of local valuation, it would obtain throughout the whole colony without the slightest necessity for the compulsory provisions of the Bill. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City). - The honour- able member for Riccarton was rather unfor- tunate in taking his illustrations from Christ- church and Sydenham, as in both these Mr. Pirani the proposed system. To show that it is de- sirable to go carefully into this question, and to find out how it does actually operate, before expressing an opinion on it, I would point out to the honourable member that with regard to the loss of rates on the big buildings which he has referred to, which so scared and frightened the small people of Sydenham - the big buildings that were used to such an extent by the Town Clerk and certain prominent Councillors to scare the Sydenham ratepayers- I will show him the loss on those fourteen big buildings. I took the value of every big build- ing, and, on the other hand, I took the value of thirty-two large properties in the borough held by rich people, and the thirty-two rich property-owners would more than make up for the loss on the big buildings. The owners would pay between them £220 more in rates. What about the poor man? The poor man in Sydenham is going to gain by it. I prepared a table, and I set in one column the value of the land, showing amounts from $25 to $1,000, and in the other column capital values from #25 to $1,000, showing the rate payable opposite each sum under the old and new systems. I had fifteen hundred copies of that slip printed, and I got a number of ratepayers to help me, and the night before the poll I had one of those slips placed in every householder's hands, and when the poll was declared it was found that we carried it by 353 votes against 193-a very substantial majority. Mr. SEDDON .- Give us a few illustrations from the table you have prepared. Put them on record. Mr. ELL .- I will give you some illustrations from Christchurch. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about the Gas- works ? Mr. ELL .- The Gas-works paid $29 less, the Albert Bond paid $31 less, and the Loan and Mercantile Building paid £32 less. Notwith- standing the loss on the big buildings, the smaller ratepayers will pay less than they did formerly. An Hon. MEMBER .- You say some properties pay more than they did under the old system. Mr. ELL .- Yes; the thirty-two properties I have referred to will pay between them $220 more rates. What I have stated is absolutely correct. If I had known this Bill was coming on to-night I would have been prepared with more information, and further illustrations of the effect of rating on the unimproved value : but when the Bill is in Committee I shall give honourable members further instances of how it has worked out in my district ; and I will show the House how the poor man is affected by this system. With regard to Linwood, another district that I carried by a very sub- stantial majority, I will give a few illustrations. One property, capital value £280, and unim- proved value #50 : that is only a small holding, an ordinary working-man's home. Under the present system it pays £1 1s. 10d., and under the new system 10s. 11d. Another instance : Capital value $205, and the un- 