land, and within a comparatively short distance of this country. The inhabitants of Japan were progressive, and possessed in a remarkable degree the quality of adaptativeness, so that if the Imperial Government laid it down as a principle that the colonies were not to be al- lowed to restrict the immigration \`of Japanese into these countries, what was to become of the population of New Zealand, which at the present time was much less than one mil- lion, if enormous numbers of Japanese came to make their homes in this colony ? He ventured to say, without introducing argu- able matter, that one of the greatest respon- sibilities that was laid on the colony was to preserve the purity of our race, and if we were to allow a wholesale influx of Japanese into the colony it would alter the whole face of our civilisation, and certainly affect the purity of the race that had been passed down to us by the early settlers of New Zealand. He cer- tainly thought that, in view of the decision of the Imperial Government, vetoing the Act passed, by the Queensland Legislature, this was a most important matter, because, if we were to accept the principle laid down by Mr. Chamberlain we must recognise that the Im- perial Government, for Imperial considerations, were going to insist on the right of the Japanese to enter upon these countries in the same way as European races. If so, good-bye to the purity of our race. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he did not hold the pessimistic view held by the honourable https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 member for Riccarton. He was satisfied that if the emergency arose New Zealand would be able to deal with it. If the honourable mem- ber would carry his mind back three or four years he would recollect that the New Zealand Parliament passed the Chinese Restriction Act. That was not consented to, and was therefore practically a dead-letter. Then the question arose, How shall we deal with the matter of this Asiatic influx ? The Secretary of State indicated that there would be no objection to passing a law similar to the law of Natal, and on that the Government introduced " The Immigration Re- striction Act, 1899," which was now law. That Act provided that no person could enter New Zealand unless, when asked to do so by an officer appointed under the Act by the Go- vernor, he was able to write out and sign in the presence of the officer, in any European language, an application in the form of the Second Schedule of the Act, or in some other form that the Colonial Secretary might from time to time direct. Of course, the Asiatics could not read the European language, and therefore that Act was as effectual a bar as the law that was passed by the Queensland Legislature. It was a different thing, however, to pass an Act and apply it to The law of nations then particular nations. applied, and the British Government said that when a friendly nation. was concerned they could not consent to legislation that was specially aimed at that particular nation. VOL. CXVII .- 17. words were, "any aboriginal inhabitants of Asia, Africa, or the Pacific Islands." Mr. SEDDON said, In the first place, that aimed at the Japanese, and it was on account of the Japanese that the Secretary of State advised Her Majesty not to consent to the New Zealand Act of a few years ago. Another ground that was given was that a number of these Asiatics were British subjects. If he remem- bered aright, from his reading of the report, that fact was also mentioned. At any rate, we were already safeguarded in New Zealand under the Act of 1899, which had been ap- proved. Of course, it might be said to him, " But the Japanese will soon learn to write the European language, when they will be able to comply with the test." Then, if they found that to be the case, they had an inherent right to alter the matter. It had been contested- and it had been admitted-within the last three years that, as a matter of State, they could re- fuse or admit any one to our colony. It had to be done by Executive order, and the Govern- ment had to take the responsibility ; but if it was found that any race was coming in such numbers as to militate against the well-being of the colony they had an inherent right to close their doors. That was the position, and, as he had said, it had been admitted. At the same time, in his opinion, it was not wise for colonial Legislatures to pass legislation which might cause difficulties with the Mother- country ; and when they could obtain the same object without doing it -as they in New Zea- land had done-he thought the proper course was to be friendly with all, and at the same time maintain the advantage of race that they already possessed in the colony. If the Imperial authorities attempted to force this colony to say that a race should be admitted here to the disadvantage of our people, and who would be a burden to our people, then they had the in- herent right to step in and meet it ; and, that being the case, he thought there had been a misconception in respect to the answer given by the Secretary of State. In conclusion, he might say, as far as New Zealand was concerned, that they had never had any difficulty whatever with the Colonial Office. The Colonial Office had on every occasion met them reasonably : and, on this very question, with the correspondence that the Government had in its possession, they were very well satisfied with the Colonial Office. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL asked if there were any cases of persons being refused admission to the colony under the provisions of the Act in connection with the educational test. Mr. SEDDON said, Yes; in fact, he might say the Asiatics were treated as Chinese. MUNICIPAL CORPORATIONS ACT. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) asked the Pre- mier, Whether he will introduce an amend- ment to "The Municipal Corporations Act, 1900," to enable 5 per cent. of the ratepavers in adjoining boroughs to demand a poll in their 