it is only proper that I should refer to 7.30. some of the objections raised to the Bill, by those honourable members who, one might well believe, ought to be more friendly disposed towards the Bill. The member for the Suburbs, Mr. Wilford, gave as one of the reasons for his opposition to the Bill the astounding statement that the citizens of Wel- lington had no confidence in the City Council as at present constituted for the carrying out of this great work. In the face of the fact that we have had the first municipal election under the new Municipal Corporations Act, and that practically meant the granting of an opportunity to the citizens of Wellington of sweeping out the whole City Council - the Mayor and Councillors included- and to clean out, in fact, the Augean stable, and to restore it to cleanliness and order! Yet what did the citizens of Wellington do? Not only did they return the former occupant of the mayoral chair in opposition to the member for the Suburbs, but they practically returned, with one or two exceptions, the whole personnel of the Council. Now, the honourable gentleman instanced as a case of municipal muddlement the unfortunate oversight in connection with the acquisition of the Willis Street corner for municipal purposes, and held that up as proof positive that the present Council was incom- petent to discharge its duties. Now, the honourable gentleman himself, as a candi- date for the mayoral chair of this city, lost no opportunity of fully apprising the citizens https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 In a letter of the municipal shortcomings. to the daily Press prior to the election he re- viewed the whole case in all its aspects, and he informed the citizens what the inevitable con- sequences would be, and wound up the letter by asking, among other questions, what share did the Mayor and Councillors intend to take of the blame - did they intend to shelter themselves behind their officials? Well, it is human to err, and the particular official in question, the Town Clerk, anticipated the queries by giving a public statement accepting the whole of the blame. Now, many sins of omission followed by grave effects have oc- curred in all the ranks of life throughout all time. Was it not the most careful captain of the Union Steamship Company, the late Captain McIntosh, who perpetrated the greatest marine disaster we have ever had in our colony ? Was it not the most reliable, the most careful, the most competent shipmaster in the employ of the Union Steamship Company that was blameworthy for the sad " Wairarapa " disaster. Why, Sir, if the successful revolution of this world on its axis was dependent, for instance, upon the infallible regularity of the emptying of the ash-barrel in the back-yard, which service was performed by the most reliable of human mortals, one fine morning we should inevitably wake up and find ourselves whirling through space because the emptier of the ash-barrel had failed in his duty. Now, even the honourable member for the Suburbs himself is not in- fallible, and here I quote an instance to you, an exactly parallel case of the "act of inadvert- Mr. Hutcheson ence and neglect " with which he has charged the Wellington City Council Mr. WILFORD .- Two blacks do not make a white. Mr. HUTCHESON .- No, Sir; and those who live in glass houses ought not to throw stones, and those who commit similar errors to these ought not to be the first to point the finger of scorn in cases like this. The very day succeeding the honourable gentleman's exposi- tion of the shortcomings of the then Mayor of Wellington, such exposition being written with the full intent to damn the said Mayor's chances of re-election Mr. WILFORD .- What nonsense. Mr. HUTCHESON .- There can be nothing clearer than that to any unbiassed mind- there appeared the following counterblast in the columns of the Evening Post in reply. It says :- "Mr. Wilford appeared for that well-known and popular metallician Mr. Sol. Lewis, who was charged with laying ' tote odds.' The Magistrate convicted Mr. Sol. Lewis, and sen- tenced him to three months' imprisonment. Notice of appeal was given, and pending the prosecution of the appeal Mr. Sol. Lewis was admitted to bail. Now, here comes the rub : Mr. Tom Wilford neglected to prosecute the appeal within the statutory time allowed by law, and it was only after his client had been arrested and lodged in the Terrace Gaol that Mr. Wilford discovered that his neglect was likely to deprive the Willis Street public of the pleasure of Mr. Sol. Lewis's society for the This threatened period of three months. calamity was, however, averted by an act of grace on the part of the Crown and the Magis- trate in consenting to proceedings being taken de novo, so that Mr. Wilford could prosecute the appeal, Mr. Sol. Lewis being released from durance vile in the meanwhile. No doubt Mr. Wilford's failure in the first instance to prose- cute the appeal was accidental and due to inadvertence." I ask honourable members to recollect that that is a quotation in the precise phrases used by the honourable member in reference to the laxity and laches of the City Council. He said, magnanimously enough, no doubt, it was acci- dental and due to inadvertence ; but still, if the honourable gentleman will permit me to point out, he only succeeded in rectifying his inad- vertence and neglect by "an act of grace" on the part of the Crown and Magistrate, and no such " act of grace " was extended to the City Council by the hard-hearted property-owners, who demanded their pound of flesh. Mr. WILFORD .-- Buncombe, buncombe. Mr. SPEAKER. - The honourable gentleman must not make these interruptions. Mr. HUTCHESON. - These are the very questionable tactics so familiar to the honour- able gentleman. In refuting his statements I can easily show that he is condemned out of his own mouth. Now, to show the House that no blame could really attach to the present Mayor in connection with this unfortunate question, it is only necessary to remind honourable gentle- 