am not prepared to say whether it is to be of any use or not, but it simply is affirming a principle already on the statute-book. I do not want to vote against it, because I do not want to say that the necessity of drill should not be emphasized ; but I hardly like to do it, be- cause it seems to me that in passing this Bill we are simply emphasizing what already exists. I have just laid on the table to-day a paper giving the report of the organization of the cadets at the Royal review at Christchurch, and I am certain that any one there must have felt quite satisfied at the work that is going on in the colony at the present time with respect to the cadets. They were got together under great difficulties ; for although the cadets are trained in each school, and armed by the Education Department, still they have not the organiza- tion necessary to go into battalions and into brigades. Yet, with the necessary officers placed over them, these boys were brought on the parade-ground in a manner that did the heart of every one who saw them good. To my mind they were immensely superior in appearance and drill even to what we saw in Melbourne, where the expense of the cadet organization is very heavy indeed. They made real soldiers of them there ; whilst ours simply were school-boys who had mastered the drill, and walked past the flag like little heroes. Therefore I do not know As I said what the necessity for this Bill is. before, I do not like to object to a Bill which evi- dently has got a good intention behind it, but I do not think the intention is well expressed. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- With respect to this Bill I am in a similar position to my honourable friend. I highly approve of phy- sical drill in schools ; but, as he says, that is already provided for by "The Education Act, 1877." I must say that the Education Boards throughout the colony in the larger schools have put it into operation, but, unless the colony intends to subsidise the Boards with more funds, it is absolutely impossible for them to carry this out in every school. It means the appointment of a drill-master, who must be paid to go round the schools, giving instruc- tions in drill. If the colony is going to supple- ment the funds of the Boards for this, well and good ; but if that is not to be done, then it simply means that this Bill will be a dead- letter. It is want of funds that prevents the Education Boards of the colony carrying this out in the way intended by the Education Act of 1877. To my mind, the better way to deal with this Bill - the object of which we all sympathize with, but it is duplicating legisla- tion -- is to refer it to the Statutes Revision Committee, and see whether anything can be done to supplement the existing laws. I do not like to vote against the Bill, the object of the mover being to make physical and military drill more general throughout the colony. This Bill, however, does not provide means to do that ; but leaves matters as they are at pre- sent. I think if the honourable member will allow the matter to go to the Statutes Revision Committee something might be done. inclined to vote against the Bill, because I am strongly in favour of any move which would tend to strengthen the physique of our children. It seems, however, from what the Minister of Education told us, that practically all that is provided for in this Bill is provided for in the principal Act, and, if that be so, then this Bill is not required. If what is provided for in this Bill is not provided for in the principal Act, then I think it is the duty of the (Government to bring down an amendment of that Act, and to see that the children throughout the whole of the colony are systematically drilled, as is in- tended in this measure. Whatever may be said as to military and physical drill being given to the youth of the colony, I do not think it goes far enough, judging from the gait and deport- ment of some of our children. When a man becomes old, naturally enough we expect him to stoop, but we do not like to see children stoop- ing, and if they stoop when they are young they will not get any better as they grow older ; and I think the bigger the chests of our men or women are, the better able are they to go through the world, to fight the battles of life, and do their duty as citizens. Now, it strikes me that, although in many of the schools great care is exercised to see that the children shall keep themselves straight, and observe decent deportment, yet there are some schools in which that is not done. I have seen child- ren stooping at their desks in school, and I have pitied them, because I have felt that they are being injured for life. Children often crouch down over their books, bringing their eyes close to their lessons, and the result is that they are contracting their chests and hurting their eye- sight. I say more care should be observed in these matters, and that Inspectors should be instructed to see that that is not done. The objection raised by the Hon. Mr. Kelly that, if this drill is made compulsory, additional drill- instructors would have to be provided, seems to me not to be warranted. The teacher, whether male or female, could surely give such instruc- tion wherever necessary. If the Bill which is now brought forward by the Hon. Mr. Kerr should have no other effect than to call atten- tion to the fact-for I say it is a fact that child- ren are often kept crouching over their lessons too long and too severely-then it will have effected a good purpose. Hon. Captain BAILLIE .- Sir, as one of those who have had some experience in edu- cational matters for the past twenty years, and having taken notice of what has been done in many of the schools, I can see that there are great difficulties in the way of carry- ing out a measure of this nature. Many of the teachers would have to be taught physical drill themselves, before they could instruct their pupils. You would require to send drill- sergeants all over the colony ; and, as there are so many small schools of not more than twenty or twenty-five pupils in out-of-the-way places, it would take a good many men all their time to go round visiting these schools. and instructing the teachers. I would also. 