have taken the estate at all, or he would have taken only that portion of the estate which was agricultural and omitted the pastoral. Then, there was Ardgowan, which was pronounced by many to be the most satisfactory settlement established under the Act. That was essentially pastoral in its character. If we were to be restricted to agricultural lands under the Land for Settlements Act, he could see that the cause of closer settlement-for it was not close settle- ment, as the honourable gentleman termed it yesterday, but closer settlement which was aimed at-would be seriously retarded. If the honourable gentleman gave them some reason why it was desirable that pastoral land should be exempted from the Act one might agree with him. But he gave no reason, and he (Mr. Jones) was sure that no reason could have occurred to any honourable gentleman who listened to his remarks. Surely it would be as beneficial to settle fifty persons on fifty thousand acres of pastoral land as it would be to settle fifty persons on ten thousand acres of agricultural land ; and the cost would be no greater, for it was a fallacy to suppose that it cost the country more to pur- chase and settle pastoral land than agricultural land. Even if they doubled the number of settlers which they had in this colony, by taking a big estate and cutting it into two, they would be doing a good thing for the colony. We should be making room for settlers on the land-for the colony was not so big that it could afford to have large estates-increasing the State revenue, and making New Zealand better all round for everybody concerned. Under the existing circumstances, it was generally ad- mitted, he thought, that grazing had become the mainstay of the colony. It certainly did not any longer pay to grow wheat. Oats had been boomed a little because of the trouble in South Africa ; but wheat had been at a terrible discount, and no farmer could possibly grow that cereal with the price of land so high, and at the market values ruling during the past few years. Then, the honourable gentleman said too much was given for Hatuma. Even if that were so, it seemed to him that it was not the fault of the Government. It had always been recognised by the Government that when they made up their mind to take land com- pulsorily they could not withdraw, but must pay any amount which the Arbitration Court decided should be paid for the land, and that was an honourable position to take up. But what occurred about Hatuma ? There was an outcry throughout the length and breadth of the colony, from a certain class of persons, when it was proposed to take the estate. The Government were invading the sacred realms of the pastoralist kings of Hawke's Bay, and there was a loud complaint that it was most unfair to take the land com- pulsorily simply at its actual value, and without making some compensation for the sentimental loss. Sentimental loss, forsooth, for the man who lived out of the colony-who was an absentee of the deepest dye, who had been with the colony, and who was not taking any of the legitimate responsibilities of a bona fide settler. So, if too much had been paid for Hatuma, the excess of cost must be attributed to those who insisted upon the principle that land should not be taken on its mere value for cultivation purposes, but that there should also be given a sentimental value. But he hoped that that estate had not been purchased at too high a price. He hoped the honourable mem- ber was just as wrong in making such a state- ment as he was when he spoke against the Cheviot Settlement. He had been reading some of the honourable gentleman's deliverances that day on the Cheviot Settlement, and he found that he disapproved of that, as he had disapproved of every act of resumption of land for settlement in New Zealand. Certainly, the owner from whom the Government bought the land seemed to have made money out of it.' The honourable gentleman said the climate was' too dry-that there was no water. Well, the rain fell upon the just and the unjust, and if it fell upon the just original proprietor, who had fattened on the proceeds from this estate and the colony whilst living abroad, surely the poor settler who took up a portion of the land would get his share of the beneficent provisions which were made by Providence. The honourable gentleman had told them that on Hatuma there were farms more than a square mile in extent. If it was wrong to make farms more than a square mile in extent, how much worse must it be to have estates consisting of many square miles occupied by one individual, and on which only sheep existed? Speaking with regard to the compulsory clauses, the honourable gentle- man said that there was an agitation now in Hawke's Bay for the resumption of large estates. That agitation had been long expected, and it had come at last. It was inevitable that the land of Hawke's Bay should not remain in large blocks any longer-that as colonisation advanced, and as these great pastoralists had performed their duties as pioneers, they would have to give way to the smaller settler. That, he thought, was a principle which had been gene- rally admitted even by the friends of the pasto- ralists ; but the honourable gentleman said that this agitation had been given nerve and force to by the compulsory clauses of the Act. Well, that was the warmest commendation of com- pulsion. What the honourable member meant was this: that if there had been no compulsion there would have been no agitation, and if there had been no agitation there would have been no taking of land for settlement in Hawke's Bay. The honourable member would rather see Hawke's Bay remain as it was than that it should be invaded by the smaller settler. But that was not the way in which the ordinary colonist regarded the situation. He (Mr. Jones) wanted to know why the compul- sory powers were deemed to be unfair? They certainly had not been used unfairly by the Government, or by those who had been appointed by the Government to administer the law. In every case where land had been 