stead of purchasing direct from the Natives, as he might have done, Mr. Old said to them, "No; go to the Government." This land was given to some Natives who, he heard, had no real claim to it at all. Be that as it might, however, the land was handed to certain Natives, and Mr. Old was ordered to drive his stock off the place, and was compelled in con- sequence to buy another 700 acres of land. Now, the Committee did not deny the justice of the claim. Every member of the Com- mittee, and the late Sir John McKenzie, ad- mitted that ; and the present Minister of Lands admitted it, for when last year's reso- lution was carried by the Committee the Minister of Lands voted for it, showing that he approved of it. All that Mr. Old asked was that he should have the land given to him again, or, if not, that the matter should be settled by arbitration. There was nothing fairer than that; and surely the Government ought not to object to that, so that at least Mr. Old might get fair compensation. He thought, under the circumstances, that Mr. Old had been very unfairly treated by the Government allowing the matter to drag on year after year, and apparently putting every obstacle in the way of Mr. Old getting fair compensation. He thought that was the case, considering the attitude the Minister of Lands took in this matter, when he actually voted for this resolution, as shown in the Appendix to the Journals of the House for last year :- "I am directed to report that the Committee consider that a claim for consideration has been established, and that the extent of such con- sideration should be decided by arbitration, or such other way as the Government may decide, in the event of the Government being unable to secure the land to the petitioner." The petitioner would be much better satisfied if the land was handed back to him, but, if not, he asked that he should receive fair compensa- tion, and was willing to allow the matter to go to arbitration. He asked the Government in all fairness to allow it to go to arbitration. Mr. SEDDON said he had been misrepre- sented. The honourable member said he treated this matter lightly. He did nothing of the kind. What he did say, and what he did think, was that the honourable member for Franklin and the honourable member were attempting to make political capital out of this matter. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) rose to a point of order. He said it was monstrous that the Premier should be allowed to get up and asperse his opponents on the ground of making & personal explanation. The Premier was intro- ducing new matter, and was attributing base motives to the honourable member for support- ing the report. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the Premier simply rose for the purpose of explaining that he had been misrepresented ; and he thought the Premier should confine himself to that statement. Mr. Lang matter lightly. He certainly attributed politi- cal motives, rightly or wrongly. That was what he actually said at the time, and the honourable member for Franklin proved he was correct now by disagreeing with him (Mr. Seddon) when he first made the statement. Mr. LANG said the explanation he wanted to make was in reference to the statement made by the Premier that this was a political matter, and that the member for Franklin and himself spoke on it purely on this ground. He wished to say that Mr. Old was never a constituent of his, and had never lived in any electorate be had the honour to represent, so that there was nothing in that way whatever. The reason he spoke about the matter was this: He visited the place on several occasions, and he knew that Mr. Old, as the member for Egmont had said, was one of the best pioneer settlers, and that he had put up with great hardships in the past in settling on this ground in the Awakino district. On that account, and because he (Mr. Lang) was a member of the Waste Lands Committee, before which the petition had come on several occasions, and considered Mr. Old had been unfairly treated he spoke as he did. Those were his only reasons for speaking. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said he was entitled to a personal explanation. The Premier told the House a few minutes ago that the member for Franklin had brought this matter up with the object of making political capital out of it. He had no such object. He had indorsed the remarks of the honourable member for Egmont because he happened to be an old personal friend of Mr. Old, and he knew that he was a good settler, and that he had been treated badly by the Government, and he thought he was entitled to compensation. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) said the Hon. the Minister of Lands had endeavoured to mis- lead the House respecting this matter by saying that Mr. Old had never been in posses- sion of this land. He said, most undoubtedly, that Mr. Old was in possession of this land. The Minister also talked in a light and airy sort of way about the plan. Mr. Old was assured by the whole of the officials in the Land Office -they were the only people he could get the assurance from-that he was getting his land to the river. If that had not been the case he would never have looked at this land at all, because when the Government took away the river boundary they took away the whole frontage. Further than that, the officials in the Land Office in Auckland told Mr. Old to stick to this land, although the Natives threat- ened to turn him off. The Minister of Lands said that Mr. Old had never sown any grass- seed on it. The Minister must remember that when he saw the land, at the beginning of this year, some years had elapsed since Mr. Old had held possession of this land. The Maoris had had their cattle, horses, and pigs feeding on this land for years, until they had eaten the grass out of the ground. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) wished to explain his position. The petition that was 