This, it must be remembered, was in America, and in 1840 America was certainly as powerful and had more inexhaustible resources than New Zealand has at the present time. The debt was 200,000,000 dollars, which, reduced to pounds, is much the same as New Zealand's is now, and yet it was the cause of embarrassment and of temporary ruin to that great continent. Now, I would ask the special attention of the honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell) to the condition of his much-vaunted State of Pennsylvania, which was the special instance quoted by the honourable gentleman in favour of the financial policy of the bale of paper and the printing-press to create prosperity :- " In his message of the next year (5th Decem- ber, 1840), he reverted to the subject, dwelling on the heavy debts of the States, on which more than 12,000,000 dollars annually went to the subjects of the European Governments. And, although he had previously (1839) urged that 'the faith of the States, Corporations, and individuals already pledged be kept with punctilious regard,' yet in dwelling on the burthen of the debt, in urging its extinction, he must evidently, to many of his more un- scrupulous hearers, have seemed to suggest or sanction those short cuts to this end (in the shape of ' repudiation ') which were taken about this time, or a little later, by too many of the States (wealthy Pennsylvania herself suspending payments)." And the passage continues,- " The guilt, indeed, being equally shared by the North and the South, free-soil Michigan giving hands to slave-soil Mississippi, destined one day to give a President to a southern http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero confederacy. Repudiation in Mississippi, with which the name of Mr. Jefferson Davis is disgracefully connected, dates from 1837." Now, where is the soundness of the argument of the honourable gentleman that it is specially desirable that New Zealand should imitate the financial polies of the State of Pennsylvania ? That is the serious view of the question. Let us examine a lighter treatment of the same subject. There is an extremely amusing book which I have no doubt most honourable mem- bers have read. It is called "Bon Gaul- tier's Ballads," and in that book there is a wonderful description of a fight in America, "The Fight with the Snapping Turtle." The meaning of the metaphor I have no intention of stopping to unravel. The snapping turtle was a monster af great malevolence that lived " In the dreary Swindle Swamp," which " Philip Slings- by, Slingsby of the manly chest," was peculiarly anxious to kill. But before entering into com- bat he was anxious as to his chances of re- muneration. This is how he entered into nego- tiations for payment :- Listen now, sagaceons Tyler, Whom the loafers all obey ; What reward will Congress give me If I take this pest away ? Then sagacious Tyler answered, " You're the ring tailed squealer! Less Than a hundred heavy do lars Won't be offered you, I guess ! Captain Russell " And a lot of wooden nutmegs In the bargain. too, we'll throw, Only you just fix the critter ; Won't you liquor ere you go ?" And then there is a long account of the fight with the snapping turtle, and Philip Slingsby does as he promised, succeeds in killing the monster, and then comes back for his payment. How was he paid ? I have no doubt the honour- able member for Christchurch City is familiar with the ballads and with the history of the fight in which Philip Slingsby killed the turtle. He will recollect that when it comes to the question of payment Slingsby says,- Post the tin, sagacieus Tyler ! But the old experienced file, Le .ring first at Clay and Webster, Answered with a quiet smile- "Since you dragged the 'tarnal critter From the bottom of the ponds. Here's the hundred dollars due you, All in Pennsylvanian bonds !" And at the bottom of the ballad is a little wood- cut showing " the only good American securi- ties " in those days was a pair of stocks and a chain. I fear the honourable gentleman may think I am flippant. I have no desire to ap- pear so, but have quoted a serious passage and a comical passage, and both of them go to show that with the printing-press and bale of paper the State of Pennsylvania was remarkable not for its solvency, but for its failure. Mr. ELL .- The honourable member for Hawke's Bay has taken one illustration to try and kill mine. What I stated was this: that the Government of Pennsylvania had created credit. Captain RUSSELL .- I am sorry to interrupt the honourable gentleman, but I must rise to a point of order. As a personal explanation, of course we would be glad to hear him if I have misrepresented him, but surely he cannot make a new speech on Pennsylvanian bonds. Mr. ELL .- The honourable member for Hawke's Bay was referring to my utterances about a bale of paper and a printing-press, and my illustration was this : that the Government of Pennsylvania had created credit, and ad- vanced that credit to the farmers on good security. The honourable member for Hawke's Bay quoted to show that the Government of the United States issued State money and that that was depreciated. I admit that. My illus- tration was simply to show the power of the State to create credit, and to let that credit out at a low rate of interest. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .- I exceedingly regret that so little interest is being taken in a question of so vast importance as that. before the House at the present time. A ques- tion of the voting of two millions of money is a very important one, and I think if members only realised the position fully we should have a large attendance of members on the floor of the House, and a deeper interest taken in the question submitted for our consideration. I have always supported the Government ad- vances to settlers, and I shall continue to do so. In looking through the report of the Government Advances to Settlers Office for the 