ing of Parliament there was contained this paragraph : - " My Ministers desire to bring under your notice the increased prices payable for coal for State requirements. As a way of meeting this difficulty, and to insure a supply of coal for Government purposes at reasonable rates, it is essential that a State coal-mine be established. The great and growing demand for coal, and the inadequacy of the supply from the coal- mines on the west coast of the Middle Island, also render a State coal-mine advisable." The language was a little flowery, but, never- theless, it created a belief in the minds of the people of the colony that a State coal-mine would be established. Indeed, it went further : it buoyed people up with the confident feeling that the Government really did intend to esta- blish a State coal-mine ; and yet no such inten- tion was expressed in the paragraph. Suppose the Government did say in the paragraph that it was their intention, their definite intention, to establish a State coal-mine, even then there would be no guarantee that the Government would establish a State coal-mine ; because it would be most unusual, it would be extra- ordinary, if the Government gave effect to every promise contained in the Governor's Speech. No Government ever gave effect to every promise contained in the Governor's Speech. The honourable gentleman would re- member that in March last, just prior to the Wellington municipal elections, which took place on the 1st April, the newspapers were https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 deluged with correspondence, with reports of interviews with Ministers, interviews with coal dealers, and interviews with the poor of the city, who were deeply concerned in the question of a cheap coal - supply. It was a burning question, and the people became much impressed with the views of the Premier upon the subject. Several people who took an interest in the great coal agitation of March last, and in the interviews which appeared daily in the newspapers, had brought pressure to bear on him to force the hands of the Govern- ment, in order to ascertain whether they really did intend to carry out their intention to establish a State coal-mine or not. He would not say that there was any want of belief in the minds of the people in regard to what really were the intentions of the Government, but, certainly, he had been asked to put the question in this pointed way, and he now asked the Government whether, in accordance with this paragraph of the Governor's Speech, it was the intention of the Government to establish a State coal-mine ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the fair lady- if he might term the honourable gentleman who represented Wellington so -- put to him the question of whether or not a promise that had been made was to be performed, or whether he was to leave the Governor liable to be brought before the House and the country for a breach of promise. He said there was quite sufficient in what was stated in the Governor's Speech to constitute a breach of promise in that ment to open a State coal-mine. Mr. FISHER .- When ? Mr. SEDDON said, As soon as Parliament gave its authority. The Government intended asking Parliament to give them that authority. Mr. FISHER .- This session. Mr. SEDDON said, Yes, this session. They had already appointed Mr. Gordon, Mr. Mckay, the Government Geologist, and the Inspecting Engineer, Mr. Hayes, to proceed and select a site for a mine for the country. The next course would be to ask Parliament to give them authority, and then for the House to give them an appropriation, and so on. It was their intention to have a State coal-mine, and they hoped to have it in work before next session. The price they were paying now for coal for Government use was such as to warrant. the Parliament dealing with the question at once. He thought they were paying 7s. 6d. or 8s. a ton that could be saved, and, that being the case, they had a right to save it. And in dealing with the Government supply the other question of the price paid for coal for private consumption would come in. His own opinion was that the people were almost blackmailed in connection with the price they had to pay now for coal in this colony. There was a combina- tion, and only the other day he had seen a notice sent by a secretary of a company to a coal dealer in Auckland, saying that because the dealer had sold a lesser quantity of coal than had been agreed on amongst themselves he would get no more coal. Well, if they had got to that state of things in this colony, it was time they liberated themselves, and Parliament would be asked before very long to give legisla- tive authority for the opening-up of a State coal-mine for State purposes. OLD SOLDIERS' AND SAILORS' CLAIMS. Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera) asked the Govern- ment, When they will finally settle the naval and military land claims, so that equity may be done to those old and deserving soldiers and sailors of the Imperial and colonial forces who rendered valuable services in the early days of this country ? This question had been asked and commented upon so often that he would simply ask the question without comment on this occasion in order to save time. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said Parliament had the matter in its own hands. Time after time they had passed legislation stating that it was final ; and, it having been so dealt with, until Parliament changed its mind the Government could not move in the matter. # RIFLE CLUBS. Mr. LETHBRIDGE (Rangitikei) asked the Minister of Defence, When those rifle clubs which have requested to be made Government rifle clubs may expect their request to be com- plied with? He asked this question because one or two rifle clubs in his district had applied to be formally admitted as Government rifle clubs, but they had not received any reply to their applications. He hoped the Minister 