Now, Sir. I have said all I wish to say in regard to the Bill. Of course, the quidnunes who know all about the affairs of the City of Wellington - and it is really astonishing to me how little we know about our own affairs-can tell us all about it. The next time I want to find out anything about the affairs of the Corporation of the City of Wellington I will take a trip over to Nelson to see the honourable member for Nelson City, Mr. Graham, and I am sure he will be able to tell us what we ought to do. Sir, I denounce this proposed purchase of Miramar as an iniquitous proposal ; it is a proposal that ought never to have been submitted to the Legislature until the ratepayers of the city had been fully consulted in regard to it. I have shown from public records that a few years ago the burgesses, in public meeting assembled, declared themselves strongly against the pro- posal, and I saw now distinctly that the Bill has been smuggled into the Legislature without the knowledge of the general body of the people of Wellington. I shall vote against the second reading of the Bill. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I intend to sup- port the second reading, on the ground that it is right in matters of local government to trust the people. So far as the tirade of the honour- able member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) against the Bill is concerned, nearly every Wellington Bill that has been introduced into the House has evolved the same opposi- tion, except that he usually supports the second reading. He is going to oppose the second reading of this Bill. The honourable member's game usually is to box the compass by opposing the measure in words and sup- porting it by vote. For the first time in his political history, so far as it relates to local government, he is going to be consistent, and he is going to oppose this Bill by vote as well as by voice. But I would point out that the House ought to take into consideration not so much what are the merits of the proposal contained in the Bill, but what the people who have to pay the rates and practically provide the money think of the proposal; and I say, if the House is not prepared to trust the people with this measure of local self-government, it is time the House had a rest till it came to its senses. But the mem- ber for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), strange to say, seeing that he takes this role in the House year after year, is never heard objecting to these proposals on the public platform. He is not inclined to trust the people. Mr. FISHER .- No, they trust me. Mr. PIRANI .- Well, not often ; and, when they do, perhaps they find out their great mis- take. But he comes to the House, where he has the right of saving what he pleases under the sacred cover of privilege, and attacks men whom I am sorry to hear him attacking, when all the circumstances surrounding himself aro taken into consideration. But he would not dare to attack them on the public platform, and I think it is an abuse of the privilege of meinbers that this sort of thing should be encouraged on every local Bill in reference to the City of Wellington. If the provisions as to Mr. Fisher the taking of a poll are not sufficiently stringent, make them as stringent as you like. But who has widened the powers of the ratepayers of the colony in regard to the taking of polls for rais- ing loans? The Government which the honour- able gentleman supports so strenuously through thick and thin have abolished every safeguard in regard to the taking of polls for loans. At one time it was necessary that there should be a certain proportion of ratepayers as a majority in order to insure a loan ; that has been abo- lished now to a bare majority. Mr. FISHER .- Mr. Bell introduced that. Mr. PIRANI. - The present Government have introduced it vear after year in their general enactments. If Mr. Bell did initiate it, ho was certainly doing what the Government the honourable gentleman so strenuously supports is doing in general enactment. I think it right that those who take an interest in these matters, and who take the trouble to go to the poll and vote, should decide, and that dead men and absentees should not be allowed to rule those who are most interested in the development of the city. The honourable gentleman has told us that Wellington has suthcient public parks. I should like to know where they are? The honourable gentleman has been largely con- cerned himself in the local government of Wel- lington ; what has he ever done in the direction of providing places of recreation for tho people of Wellington ? Talk about finding polo grounds and golf grounds! Does ho not know a little more about the athletic doings of the young people of the city than to think those are the amusements their energies are confined to? He ought to know what is the best safeguard for the young people, and what is in their best interests-to provide for them sufficient places of recreation and sufficient outlets, so that they should not be confined to the slums of the city. There is no place in the whole colony so poorly off for places of recreation as Wellington. You have the Basin Reserve in the centre of the con- gested population, and Newtown Park at the same end of the city ; but beyond that there is nothing in the city so far as recreation places are concerned. And if this alone provided for better recreation-grounds for the people of Wel- lington, that would entitle it to. the support of honourable members. But there are other proposals in connection with the land to bo purchased under the Bill that ought to meet with support. I am always prepared, and I believe the majority of members are prepared, to give to the people the right to say what they should do in their own interests. When we cannot do this it is simply because the choice of the people of their representatives in the House wants to be considerably altered. Mr. J. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) .- I should like to approach this question as calmly as it is possible for a citizen of Wellington to do ; but, after the amount of misrepresentation and abuse that has been heaped upon the city, its institutions, and people this afternoon, I might be pardoned for exhibiting some little ! heat. What do we find here now ? The Empire 