resorted to to avoid the conditions imposed on the lessee, especially with regard to residence. Under the principal Act of 1900 the lessee may mortgage, sublet, or transfer his lease, with the consent of the Land Board and the Minister. This Bill limits still further the power of mort- gage. It eliminates the Land Board and leaves it almost entirely with the Minister, under It restricts the power of a certain conditions. lessee to transfer his lease unless he bas oc- cupied it for five years. I know this to be a desirable thing in the interests of the landless, because under it, if he mortgages and cannot pay his way, the land falls into the hands of the mortgagee. Taking the Act as a whole it is an improvement, and does not depart from the original principle nor make any radical change ; it only provides for those who are landless, and gives them a chance against those who have land now, but who may be successful in the ballot and thus cut out the landless applicant. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH. - In the few remarks I am going to make I shall confine myself to observations in respect to what the Hon. Mr. Bowen said in regard to compulsory purchase, and the taking of land by the Minis- ter alone. I should have thought if there was one thing more clear than anything else it is that once Parliament has decided it to be ne- cessary in the interests of the colony that land should be taken compulsorily, the purchase of any particular portion to be taken should be removed from the arena of Parliament. What would take place after the Board had re- commended the purchase of an estate? How long would it be before Parliament decided as to whether that estate should be taken or not ? The consequence would be that the people in the district, who might very likely have been looking forward to the opportunity of acquiring land, and the owner of the land who may have been considering with doubt as to how long he would have it in his hands, would suffer ; and the time which would no doubt be occu- pied in deciding whether the land should be taken or not would act very prejudicially on the interests of all concerned. But the honourable gentleman made some remarks as to this being, in his opinion, an iniquitous pro- ceeding-I do not remember whether those were his exact words, but that was what it amounted to. Let us look at Home: what is taking place in Ireland? Whenever I think about land legislation, I always carry my mind back to Ireland, because I have for many years taken every opportunity of reading all I could as to the position in that country. Some years ago an Act was brought forward for the voluntary purchase of land from landowners-that is, by mutual agreement between the owner and the tenant. What has been the result? You go into some districts and find an estate sold, and the tenants get it on the purchase-system, whereby a certain rental and a certain an- nual amount towards the gradual extinction of the purchase-price are paid annually ; whilst alongside it a tenant may be paying very much more in the shape of rent alone than the Hon. Mr. T. Kelly purchase-money towards the first cost of the land, simply because his landlord will not agree to sell. So much has this been noticed, and so much dissatisfaction has it given, that a gentleman named T. W. Russell, late a sub- ordinate member of the present Government, broke himself away from his Government connec- tion, seeing, as he thought, the wrongs that were being done to the small tenants in Ireland- broke away from the Unionist party, and started an agitation in Ireland on behalf of making the purchase of land compulsorily universal. And he has been supported not only by the Nation- alist party, which, as honourable members know, represents more than three-quarters of the whole parliamentary representation of Ire- land, but what is far more, with the exception of a very few members of the Unionist party of the representatives of Ireland, he has gained the adherence of members of Parliament, a large number of landowners and others, who agree that it would be best in the interests not only of the south and west of Ireland, but also of Ulster itself. The consequence is it is gaining hold not only of the people of Ireland, but of the Parlia- ment of Great Britain ; he is always gathering fresh recruits to his standard. If the honour- able gentleman had followed the matter as closely as I have he would see that within five or six years- The Hon. Mr. BOWEN .- I have reason to know a good deal about it. It is the question of how it is taken. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- I am quite sure that if purchase were left to voluntary agreement you would have the whole of Ireland gridironed with sections under voluntary and under compulsory sale, resulting in continuous dissatisfaction and friction between the two. There is only one principle : if Parliament has given its assent to the principle that you must have land for the people, and the people are waiting for it, you must deal with the matter in the way provided for in this Bill. It has been shown that every time a block has been thrown open there is a rush for it, and, as the honourable gentleman behind me stated, that has justified the principle. Granted that is so, you must place the working of the measure in the hands of an independent Board, so that the Minister can do nothing on his own initiative ; it has to be recommended by the Board as to whether the land should be taken and as to the price that should be given; the Minister is merely an agent, as the representative of the Government and of Parliament. If you do not in this way give opportunities to the constantly increasing number of young men in the country who require land, you will emasculate the Act and entirely destroy the advantages to be otherwise gained by the principle of compulsory purchase. The Hon. Colonel PITT .- The Hon. Mr. Bowen in his remarks did not find fault with the Bill under discussion, but he took advan- tage of the opportunity to reiterate an objec- tion which he says he had formerly made against the principle contained in the land for settlements policy. I think he is rather late to 