and only in three or four cases has a majority been recorded against the principle of rating on unimproved values. Every one of these polls costs a considerable sum of money, and in many cases the local authorities are deterred from taking a poll simply because of the cost. I say the Government would be wanting in their duty if they failed to make the Bill such that the great majority of places could adopt it without being put to the trouble and expense of a poll, leaving the minority to vote themselves out if they so desired. I would suggest to the Right Hon. the Premier, when the Bill gets into Committee, that a clause be inserted providing that in places where a poll has recently been taken it shall not come into force until three years from the time the poll was taken. This would prevent the pos- sibility of any place being put to the ex- pense of taking another poll in less than the stipulated three years, and, in the case of Auckland, would remove any reasonable objection that the result of the recent poll was upset by the Act. They will be having another poll in three years in any case, unless, of course, there should be a rapid mortality amongst those 753 people who voted for the principle a week ago. I have read with some surprise, and I might say with some degree of pain, the speeches that have been made on this Bill by some honourable members. The speech of the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Arnold) has surprised and pained me. The honourable member for Riccarton, who https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 I notice is not at present in his place, made a remarkable speech ; but I will not say 1 was surprised at it, because he makes so many remarkable speeches. Some honourable members even say they do not always har- monize with one another ; but his namesake, the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, we do expect consistency from. I believe he spoke very strongly against this Bill a night or two ago, and it will be a surprise to some to learn that the honourable gentleman was in favour of it-and in a compulsory form too - as far back as 1876. In 1876, when the Rating Act was being discussed in this House in Com- mittee, an amendment was proposed to sub- section (5) of clause 2 to omit all the words after the words "rateable value," for the purpose of inserting the following words in lieu thereof : " of any land means 5 per cent. on the amount for which such land without any improvements thereon or thereto would sell in the market at the time of the valuation thereof." That was proposed by Mr. Button ; and on the question being put, "That the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the clause," the Com- mittee divided, and amongst those who voted "No"-that is, that the words do not stand part of the clause-is the name of Captain Russell. There are also some other honoured names in that list, amongst them the name of Sir George Grey, the name of Sir Robert Stout, and the name of, I presume, our old friend Mr. Thomson; so I expect to see him voting for this Bill now. Also the Mr. Fowlds any of the others are still members of this House. When I read some of the speeches that have been delivered on this Bill, coming from members whose interest in the cause of labour is beyond all doubt, it grieved me a good deal, because their speeches showed conclusively that those honourable gentlemen have not given the question the study which its importance demands - especially its importance in the interests of labour. Of course, I do not join with those who believe that labour requires any special privileges. I believe that what the workers in any country need is justice; and therefore, in considering this question and its effect upon labour, or upon any other section of the community, the first question to be asked is. Is it just ? And to demonstrate the jus- tice of this, the truth of the principle that all rating should be upon the unimproved value of the land, is like starting to demonstrate the mathematical proposition that two and two is four. In fact, the justice of it, when put in its proper light, seems to me to be not a matter of opinion, but a matter capable of mathematical demonstration. It surely must be just to collect taxes from that which alone derives value from the services which have been produced by the expenditure of the taxes. That all municipal services the result of municipal expenditure reflect themselves in land value alone, and not in the value of buildings or improvements, is not a question of opinion, but is capable of mathematical demonstration. Every service, whether it be the making of a street, the clean- ing of a street, or the lighting of a street, reflects itself wholly and solely in the value of the site whereon the house stands, and not one single penny in the way of increasing the value of the house itself. The same thing applies equally to the service of a municipal fire- brigade, a water-supply, or a drainage system. In fact, if the Municipality went further, and decided to supply the whole of the inhabi- tants with free gas, and a free tramway service, the result would be identically the same- - in all cases the value of those services 8.0. would be expressed in the land. and not one penny in the building. This is capable of demonstration in this way : Take any property in a given locality, and the value of it before and after a municipal improvement is under- taken ; suppose it increases the amount of the value or rent 25 per cent., burn or take down the house : and the value remains in the site where the house stood. You can never increase the value of a house by one penny from any service the Municipality renders, because it can never be of greater value than it would cost to reproduce it. That is the test. The whole value of every service is inevitably ex- pressed in the land-value. The position, there- fore, is this : If you collect from the owners of houses the cost, or part of the cost, of municipal services you inevitably give the owners of site values something for which they have not paid ; and you do it by making the owners of house property pay for something they do not re- ceive. 