fruit exposed for sale in Wellington was im- ported from the South Sea Islands, America, and other parts. That was not a proper state of things. One reason for it was the difficulty the producer found in reaching the consumer. Owing to the operations of the middleman. the grower of fruit, vegetables, and farm and station produce obtained a very poor return for his labour and enterprise. He had attended a meeting of farmers at Shannon, and was sur- mixed to be told that those who grew splendid vegetables could only realise about 6d. a bag for them. Canbages and cauliflowers were sent in splendid condition to the Wellington market. and the amount realised at auction was 2s. per bag : of that Is. 6d. went for carriage, for the value of the bag, and to the auctioneer, and all that the producer received was 6d., while the con- sumer had to pay from 5s. to 10s, for these articles. Then, if they considered ordinary frit, in his district, which was only about fifty or sixty miles from Wellington, all the producer wis able to get for good apples was from 1d. to 2d. per pound, while apples which were inferior to those he was able to purchase at that price direct from the producer were exposed for sale in Wellington in the windows of the Chinamen at Ad. per pound. That was a state of affairs that should not exist. With regard to meat, he ventured to say it would have been a great deal d-arer than it was in Wellington were it not for the operations of Mr. T. C. Williams and the Waingawa Butchery. This business, he be- lived, had been the means of keeping down the price and of checking a monopoly in the meat- market. which would otherwise have been most injurious to the consumers. If farmers had to rely on what the municipal bodies http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero would do for them they would not get much assistance. The resolutions of Borough Councils and municipal bodies with regard to markets were encrusted with the mould of ages, and he feared that not the slightest reliance could be placed on anything that would be done by these txlies. They might make good resolutions. out unfortunately those resolutions were never carried into effect. He wanted to see the Government adopt the same steps they had taken under the Slaughtering and Inspection Aer. and the Public Health Act. To secure public abattoirs it was found necessary to use the whip and spur of the State. If the markets he had referred to were public conveniences, and essential to the protection of the producer and the consumer, their creation should be mandatory. If the municipal bodies would not . tablish them, then the Government should undertake the work, and establish them at the cost of the municipalities. And if they could not abolish the middleman, they could, at all events, rezulate his profits, and the only way was by establishing public markets where the producer might meet the consumer face to face. and sell his products. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, That there was a neces-itv for public markets in the colony they all admitted, and when they contrasted our position in that respect with the position of the to the advantage of Australia and to the disad- vantage of New Zealand. He believed that the one thing that would strike at the root of the Chinese greengrocery and fruit business would be the establishment of markets ; but that, of course, led up to another very important phase of the matter, and that was that, if they said the Government had to establish these markets, he did not see how they could build markets unless there was some one to put the stuff into them. Unless that was the case what was the good of your market? At present most of the vegetables were grown by the Chinese, and if they would not send their vegetables to the public market there would be no producers to supply them. Before you built markets you would have to find out whether you were going to get the produce, goods. or articles for sale to put into them. He knew that the consumers were suffering under the existing conditions, and he was quite prepared within reasonable limits to meet the difficulty as far as he could. When the Municipal Corporations Act was before the Committee, it was a pity it was not then moved that it should be the duty of a Municipality, where there was a population of more than ten thousand, to establish a public market. However, if any municipal legislation came forward this session an opportunity would be given to consider this proposal, and he would vote at any time, and under all conditions, to make it compulsory upon local bodies to provide public markets. ASHBURTON DRILL-SHED. Mr. MCLACHLAN (Ashburton) asked the Minister of Defence, If he will make pro- vision on the estimates for a grant to the Ashburton Volunteers for the enlargement of the drill-shed there ? Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said this case came under the ordinary category. When drill-sheds were erected, the Government sub- sidised them in some cases up to #1 for $1. He dealt with each case upon its merits. MORTGAGE-TAX. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) asked the Premier, If he will introduce legislation to harmonize the pressure of taxation upon incomes derived from mortgages on land and those obtained by other means, for instance : $4.000 lent on mortgage at the full rate of 44 per cent. supplies an in- come of 9180, and pays taxation of $16 13s. 4d., or 1s. 10\\d. in the pound on the interest re- ceived : while incomes derived from other sources up to $1.000 only pay 6d. in the pound ? He would remind the Premier of a promise made last session that he would afford relief in the special matter mentioned here- that was. a reduction of the mortgage-tax. He need not mention to the Premier, because he was sure he quite realised the fact, that it was really class legislation which charged those whose living depended on doles of interest, and who lent, money on mortgage at the rate of 43 per cent., lojd. in the pound on their income, while the ordinary income- tax was only 6d. in the 