must come, and that there would be general depression. Sir, I contend that wool is no longer the chief staple product of this country. If the honourable gentleman will examine the nature of our exports, he will, I say, find that wool is no longer the chief staple product of this country. Fortunately, as the Treasurer has stated, our eggs are not all in one basket. I maintain, Sir, that when the policy 9.0. of land - settlement has proceeded further, when the great landed estates in the deserts of Hawke's Bay - deserts as far as people are concerned, but with soil so fertile that there could be a thriving population existing on that land - when the people are largely settled on that land it is not wool- growing that will be their chief industry. They will produce butter and meat, just as the Taranaki people have done, and what the honourable member advocated at the opening of a dairy factory at Hastings will take place. The honourable gentleman said-and he has repeated it in this House-that he recognises that the time must come when the day of the large landholder will have to pass away, and that the land will be cut up into small holdings for dairy purposes. In some parts of the colony that day has already arrived, and in other parts, and in Hawke's Bay, the day must inevitably come when the squatter will be as extinct as the moa. Now, Sir, the honourable member said, and made it the basis of a very strong indictment against the ad- ministration of the railways, that the extra earnings of the railways had been caused and secured by a greater expenditure, and that therefore there was no real increase at all. Sir, the honourable gentleman once said in this House that he did not understand finance. I think that he has a fair knowledge of finance ; but I would point out the fallacy of his reason- ing. If he would examine the items of which the increased expenditure consists he would find a large portion of the expenditure was for rolling-stock, and a large proportion of it was capital expenditure, and not depart- mental expenditure -- not wages, not the ordi- nary working-expenses and charges of adminis- tration, but was for the supply of additional conveniences and extra rolling-stock, new en- gines, and other equipment, and therefore that it was money that ought to have been legiti- mately charged against Capital Account. I will give an illustration to convince the honourable gentleman of the soundness of my contention. If a merchant, finding his business increasing, and finding that he had no longer sufficient room to carry on his extended trade, erected an additional story to his warehouse, would it not be absurd to charge that additional expendi- ture against the income for that year. In any financial policy there must be a Capital Account and an ordinary Expense Account. Therefore I contend that, unless the honour- able gentleman could show that the increased expenditure was composed exclusively of work- ing-expenses during the year - unless he can prove that, his argument falls to the ground gentleman next propounded a policy which I think will be scrutinised by the settlers of this colony with great and scrupulous care. He said, "It is not safe finance to so work the railways as to only secure a revenue of 3 per cent. I fail to see the justice of taxing the country to make up the excess over 3 per cent."; and then he wound up with the broad statement that our railways should be run on commercial principles. Captain RUSSELL .- No. Mr. NAPIER .- Did the honourable gentle- man not say our railways should be run on commercial principles ? Captain RUSSELL .- Quite so ; but I did not stop there. Mr. NAPIER .- Well, Sir, if the railways are to be run on commercial principles, what does it mean? It means that the railways are no longer to be utilised for opening up the country and for the development of the settlement of the land, but that you must wait until popula- tion in any particular district has increased to such an extent that the line to be made will be a paying railway from the outset. That is what it means. The honourable gentleman entirely overlooks the fact that almost every writer on railways and their functions at the present time, and even the great pluto- crats of America, state that railways ought to be worked upon a different principle. Even the writers upon railways in America, the land of plutocracy, the land of railway kings, demand that the railways of the United States ought not to be used, ought not to be constructed, for purely commercial reasons, for dividend-paying purposes, but for their indirect advantages to the State, and because they are a means of communication, just as roads are. An honourable members ays "No," but I main- tain, and reiterate what I have said, that all the best authorities-I have some here if the honourable gentleman would like to look at them-all the best authorities and writers on the subject state-and I think, myself, that most modern politicians agree with them-that rail- ways ought to be run primarily for the purpose of increasing the settlement and productivity of the country, of preventing the excessive aggregation of large masses of the people in towns, and of facilitating the intercommunica- tion of the people living in the various parts of a State. And I maintain that the primary object of working the railways in New Zealand ought to be to open up the country, to settle the back blocks, to bring the produce of the land from the remotest points to our ports, and to connect the great centres of population ; and that, even if a policy of that kind did not show in the balance-sheet a dividend of more than 3 per cent., the indirect advantages to the country would be enormous, and that conse- quential profits of great magnitude would accrue to the State, and would be secured by the people as a whole. Sir, the railways, of course, would be a splendid asset in the hands of the honourable member if he worked them upon the principles laid down by Jay Gould. We all 