the colony that are in this position, so far as I know. In the Auckland Hospital, for in- stance, the nurses undergo a three years' course of training, and at the end of each year they have to pass an examination before a Board of doctors, and at the end of the third year they have to pass a very severe examination before a Board of doctors. And if they succeed in passing they get a certificate of competency signed by the whole of the honorary medical staff, and by the Hospital Board, and by the matron or head-nurse, as mentioned by the honourable member for Palmerston. Now, Sir, the nurses who go through the four large hospitals are in a very much better position with regard to their certificate as nurse than the nurses in the smaller hospitals. The nurse who goes through the Auckland Hospital, for instance, obtains a certificate that gives her a status in any of the British dominions as a duly qualitied nurse. The nurses trained at the Thames or the Waikato Hospital, for in- stance, are not in the same position. Mr. McGOWAN .- They may be much su- perior nurses. Mr. BOLLARD .- It does not matter. You take the case of a man who is supposed to be a veterinary surgeon. Unless he has got the necessary diploma he has no standing. You know that very well. Consequently, the nurses who are trained in the smaller hospitals have not the same chance with the medical pro- fession and with the British Nurses' Association as those who are trained in the four larger hospitals that I have mentioned. This Bill pro- vides that nurses trained at the smaller hos- pitals will have to undergo an examination before a Board of doctors, I presume, and if they succeed in passing that examination, then the Bill provides they should be placed in exactly the same position as nurses who have gone through the larger hospitals. I think it is a very useful measure, and one that will be of very great value to the public, inasmuch as the public will be in the position to know, if they unfortunately require nurses for the mem- bers of their families, where they may get duly qualified nurses. Such a provision is not made at present, and the public therefore cannot tell who are qualified and who are not qualified as nurses. It is a very good Bill, and I intend to support it. Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) .- I just want to say a word or two on this Bill. I think it is a very good Bill, and that it is going in the right direction. It will inspire increased con- fidence in the minds of people who have to place themselves in the hands of nurses, which many unfortunate people have to do. With reference to subclause (1) of clause 4, if there is any doubt, as suggested by the honourable member for Palmerston, as to whether the nurses who already hold certificates and have received systematic instruction in theoretical and practical nursing will have to pass another examination to entitle them to registration, I think that should be made clear, if it is not already clear. It appears to me that 5.0. the nurses do not have to undergo another examination. It is provided that thev have to prove " that during her training she re- ceived systematic instruction in theoretical and practical nursing from the medical officer and matron." Mr. PIRANI .- How will they prove it ? Mr. GRAHAM .- They can prove it by pro- ducing a certificate from the medical officer or the matron, or from the Hospital records. Another subclause dealing with the same thing under different conditions says, "and passes an examination." It appears to me, therefore, that it is not intended that they should pass another examination in the case mentioned in subclause (1). At any rate, I am of opinion that the point should be made clear as io whether that is the intention of the Bill as it now stands. With reference to subclause (1), I desire also, Sir, to say something about the time allowed to nurses to register. Nurses are to be enabled to register under this clause on payment of a fee of 10s., provided they make application to the Registrar on or before the 30th June, 1902; and I wish to point out that unless that provision is amended it will do an injustice to a con- siderable number of New Zealand nurses who may not be able to make application on account of their absence from the colony. They are absent, I may say, on a national duty. As the Minister himself knows, a number of trained nurses, who served for years in some of the principal hospitals of the colony, went in their official capacity to South Africa. They are, of course, gaining further experience there, and on their return to New Zealand, which may happen to be after the 30th June next, they will, unless the Bill is amended, be re- quired to undergo all the unnecessary trouble of passing another theoretical as well as practi- cal examination. I consider that would not, under the circumstances, be fair to them. I know several nurses from my own district who are now on duty in South Africa. One is the daughter of one of the Government " Whips" of this House. She is an excellently trained nurse. I know several other experienced and competent nurses in the same position, who have also had a long course of training. Now, I wish to point out to the Minister that this Bill, as drawn, would really prevent those nurses from registering under the conditions of subclause (1). I know they do not intend to come back to New Zealand until their services are no longer required in South Africa. That may mean that they will return to the colony after the 30th of June next. I want to ask the Minister whether he will agree to an amendment of the Bill to enable these nurses to take advan- tage of subclause (1) just the same as if they were in New Zealand now. With that excep- tion, I see nothing at all in the Bill to disagree with. I consider it is a step in the right direc- tion, and it is one that, I am sure, will be appreciated by the public, and lead to a con- siderable amount of public confidence in nurses who are registered as compared with those who are unregistered. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) .- Sir, I 