the company, and gave a written order to the company's solicitor to produce the document. This the solicitor declined to do. I find that in June last Mr. Cook's late partner, William Gray, and other large shareholders gave evi- dence on oath, in defending payment in respect of shares, to the effect that Mr. Cook assured them that the liability of the shareholders in this company was only 1s. per share, and that Mr. Cook had stated that this and other com- panies were entirely under his own control- that he had arranged for the other directors to be his nominees. A Mr. R. H. Abbott stated, in sworn evidence, that Mr. Cook promised him, if a market existed for the shares he would sell sufficient of the shares that Mr. Abbott applied for to make the balance fully paid up. At the last meeting of this company Mr. Cook's nomi- nee and employe, Howes, stated that if a resolution to liquidate was carried, the liquida- tion might be very expensive to the share- holders, as his employer, Mr. Cook, might claim to receive a dividend from the contributing shareholders on his vendor's shares. " Questioned as to the Auckland Beach Back Lead Gold - dredging Company (Limited), the witness said : It was registered in August, 1900, the promoters being Messrs. Cook and Gray, the interim secretary Mr. W. R. Cook, the vendor to the company Mr. W. R. Cook, and the capital £9,000-2,500 fully paid-up shares being allotted to vendor as part payment, also £500 in cash to the vendor, and the cost https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 of flotation and registration. The prospectus After states, 'Will yield excellent returns.' 2s. per share had been paid by the contri- buting shareholders the claim was condemned by Mr. Cook's own employe and expert, Mr. Chester, as valueless. This company was liquidated some months ago, but up to the present time no statement of accounts has been rendered. " As to the Tucker Flat Company, the witness said : Up to the 28th February last £479 4s. 9d. of the shareholders' money had been spent, and no attempt made to either design a dredge or build the pontoons. On the 15th July an extract from the share register states that £12 10s. was due on application-money, £90 on allotment- money, and #836 owing on the first and second calls. Included in these sums was £50 owing by Mr. Cook's wife, and £90 by Mr. W. R. Cook. That was on the 15th July of this year, and at that date no dredge had been ordered or contracts made. I find that the share register has been improperly kept, the shareholders' addresses not given, and pencil notes directing, in some cases, all notices of calls to be sent to Mr. Cook. I find, also, that certain shareholders have stated in sworn evidence that Mr. Cook promised that only 1s. per share should be called up, and that his co-directors should be his nominees. During the time that I was a director I declined to pass a transfer of 250 shares which Mr. Cook had, by a bill, taken over from a Mr. L. S. Benjamin. On my removal from this Board this transfer was put through by Mr. Howes, Mr. Cook's em- and who is now, as I have stated, chairman of the company. He passed the transfer with £25 owing. On the 15th July, 1901, Mr. Cook's bill to Mr. Benjamin was dishonoured. For what purpose, other than the promoter's benefit, is this company existing ? " The witness next referred at length to the Ross Day Dawn Gold-dredging Company, the circumstances in connection with which, he said, were much on the same lines. Ho alleged that, at the time when very large sums were owing to the company by Mr. Cook and his employés, Maceand Howes, other smaller share- holders were being summoned and threatened with distress warrants. " With regard to the Ngahere Company, the witness alleged that Mr. Cook's employé and clerk, Edward Mace, held no less than one thousand contributing shares, and up to the time that he (Easton) left Dunedin only £50 in respect of these shares, out of #100 due, had been paid ; and yet on the balance of those shares Messrs. Cook and Gray received 2} per cent. brokerage from the genuine or qualified shareholders. " As to the Wicklow Company, registered on the 3rd March, 1900, the witness stated that on the 27th July of this year application- money was owing on 250 shares, allotment- money on 1,250 shares, and on all these shares Cook and Gray had received 2} per cent. brokerage from the moneys paid in by the qualified shareholders. Mr. Cook, who was elected a director on the 9th April, 1900, received twenty guineas for attending one directors' meeting only during the year. "Mr. Easton added : ' I may mention, gentle- men, that I joined the Boards of these four companies for the express purpose of breaking up these rings of monopolists ; and I had no other object, as I have stated over my name and address through the papers of the colony, than to smash the companies up and break up these rings of monopolists.' "Mr. W. R. Cook's evidence was to the effect that grave charges had been made, and he wished an opportunity to look into them, in order to see how far they were true, though he knew a very great deal of what had been said was absolutely untrue. He would like to get all the documentary evidence for the Com- mittee's information. He had not been in Dunedin for more than three weeks during the past eighteen months. With a view of refuting or supporting Mr. Easton's evidence, he asked the Committee to order the production of the companies' books and to summon the secretaries and directors. The witness then proceeded to make a statement, reserving the right to ex- amine Mr. Easton subsequently. He declared (so it is understood) that he was never at any meeting when the shares in the Cook and Gray companies were allotted, and, personally, had nothing to do with the allotment. Possibly he might have been at one meeting when the allot- ment occurred. As to the statement that, of the twelve companies floated by Cook and Gray eleven would go into liquidation, he was pre- 