sent by the Hon. Mr. Chamberlain to Sir George O'Brien has been ordered to be laid on the table. The newspaper comments have not been laid on the table, nor is it usual to lay newspaper comments on the table. Mr. MASSEY .- We have nothing to do with newspaper comments. Mr. FISHER .- Sir, I did not ask that the newspaper comments should be laid on the table. I merely said that Mr. Chamberlain, in the letter to which I referred, had expressed a very decided opinion in regard to the news- paper comments upon Sir George O'Brien's action in Fiji. # LOCAL GOVERNMENT BILL COM- MITTEE. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) brought up an interim report from the Local Government Bill Com- mittee, recommending that the House should meet on Tuesdays and Fridays at such an hour as would enable the Local (Government Com- mittee to sit during the forenoon of those days, and complete its labours. He moved. That the report do lie on the table, and be referred to the Government for consideration. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) might say that he would think over the matter, and would per- sonally take the opinion of honourable members on the question. If he allowed the motion now before the House to pass, it might be taken that he acquiesced in it. The motion was passed by the Counties Bill Committee in his absence that morning. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) would like to point out that, according to the rate of pro- gress the Committee was making with the Bill, it would be entirely unnecessary to take away the morning sittings to facilitate the passing of the measure. He thought that one meeting a week for the next three weeks would finish the Bill, and, under the circumstances, it seemed unfair that they should trench on the morning sittings, which so far had been a great success. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) would like to say, in reply to the last speaker, that so far the Com- mittee had not dealt with any debatable matter in the Bill. The Committee were unanimously of opinion that leave should be granted to sit on Tuesdays and Fridays. Owing to the number of Committees sitting on Wednesdays and Thursdays those mornings were fully occupied, and it was almost impossible for the Counties Committee to do any work on those days. The work of this Committee was at present just as important as the business of the House, and he hoped that some arrangement such as had been aggested would be made. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) said that so many Committees sat on Wednesdays and Thursdays it was almost impossible for the Local Government Committee to meet. The general feeling of members was that they should not do Committee work on Saturdays and Mondays. Therefore, if the Committee was to make due progress with the Bill, it would be ! in reply, said that instructions had been given VOL. CXVII .- 20. Fridays. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) said the Committee thought they should have an opportunity of meeting on Tuesdays and Fridays, because on Wednesdays and Thursdays so many Commit- tees sat that the members of this very large Committee could not be got together. Motion agreed to. UNAUTHORISED EXPENDITURE. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked as a matter of urgency, When the Colonial Treasurer intended to lay on the table the return of unauthorised expenditure for the year ending 31st March last. According to the Public Revenues Act this re- turn should have been laid before Parliament within ten days from the commencement of the session. Last year it was laid on the table on the 29th June. This was the 13th August, and the House had not seen the return yet. Mr. SEDDON (Colonial Treasurer) thought the matter referred to might with advantage stand over for a notice of motion. HEALTH OFFICER FOR WAIMATE. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Minister of Public Health,-(1.) When the Health Officer will be appointed for the Town and District of Waimate? (2.) When the de- partment will be able to comply with the re- quest of the Waimate County Council, con- veyed in a letter dated the 1st July, that a thorough examination be made of the surround- ings, water-supply, et cetera, at a locality known as Princes Street, outside of the boundary of Waimate Borough, cases of typhoid having recently occurred there ? The Waimato County Council, in a communication to him, had raised this question of the appointment of a Health Officer. On the 19th June they wrote to the department asking who had been appointed Health Officer for the district ; and they received a reply on the 26th June, to the effect that, owing to unavoidable cir- cumstances, all the local Health Officers had not been appointed, but that an ap- pointment would be made at an early date. On the 1st July the Council wrote again, notifying that they had been apprised of the occurrence of two cases of typhoid in a certain locality, and urging the necessity of a proper medical inspection of that portion of the dis- trict by the Health Department. A reply was received on the 14th July to the effect that the department hoped to have the inspection made at an early date. Something like two months had elapsed since the request was made, and the object of the question was to point out the ineffectiveness of a system which failed to pro- vide for an examination in a case where the presence of infectious disease had been reported, although a period of something like two months had elapsed, and he thought the Minister would therefore see that there was justification for the question which he now put. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister of Public Health). 