for drawing attention to the matter, and was to be commended for referring to the subject in his report. TERRACE GAOL, WELLINGTON. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Minister of Justice, Whether the Government will this session place on the estimates a sum sufficient to provide increased accommodation at the Terrace Gaol, Wellington? Was the Minister aware that increased accommodation was required at the gaol in Wellington ? Re- ports had been made to the effect that the state of the Terrace Gaol was a disgrace to the city, that the association of the prisoners, three, four, and five in one cell, was detrimental to the discipline of the gaol, and that there were even worse reasons to be taken into considera- ion. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said it was his intention to allow the House to have the opportunity of saying whether improve- ments should be made at the Terrace Gaol, and & sum would be placed on tije estimates for the purpose. It was a fact, as the honourable gentleman stated, that the gaol was over- crowded. That was brought about by the failure to carry out the proposal to utilise the Mount Cook Gaol. At any rate, it was neces- sary that considerable alterations and improve- ments should be made in the Terrace Gaol, and the matter would come before the House later on, when the Public Works estimates were https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 brought down. CROWN LANDS FOR SETTLEMENT. Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera) asked the Minister of Lands,-(1) Whether he will, as expedi- tiously as possible, throw open the Crown lands for settlement in the Provincial Dis- tricts of Auckland, Taranaki, and Wellington ; and (2) will the Minister see that the roading of Crown lands open for selection keeps pace with settlement ? Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) might say that all the Crown lands in the Provincial Dis- tricts of Auckland, Taranaki, and Wellington that were at present ready for settlement were now open for application. To throw open all the Crown lands for indiscriminate settlement, whether they were surveyed, or explored, known or unknown, would not be conducive to profit- able occupation. As regarded the second part, it would no doubt be a most desirable thing if roads could be made before the lands were sold. The lands would be rendered more valuable thereby, and settlement would be greatly as- sisted. The matter had been, and still was, under consideration, but it was mainly a ques- tion of money, and if Parliament would vote the necessary funds it was possible to do what was required. In the meantime the construc- tion of roads to Crown and other lands had been placed under a separate department, with a view to the more vigorous prosecution of such works, and every effort would be made to execute such works promptly. Mr. McGowan Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) asked the Minis- ter for Agriculture, If he will, seeing that as the present misleading cable-messages are pub- lished as to prices of frozen meat on the Home market, cause the Agent-General to be in- structed to cable to this colony the actual prices, and to distinguish in the cable-message between "North Island " mutton and " Wel- lington." Mr. DUNCAN (Minister for Agriculture) said the Agent-General had already been instructed to cable the Home prices of frozen meat each week. The cables had been coming to hand since the 10th June, and had been duly supplied to the Press. The question of quoting for " North Island " and " Wellington " mutton separately will be looked into. LAND FOR SETTLEMENTS BILL. A message was received from the 7.30. Legislative Council intimating that the Council did not insist on certain of its amend- ments in this Bill. # RABBIT NUISANCE BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 2 .- " Section nine of the principal Act is hereby repealed, and in lieu thereof it is enacted as follows :-- "If within a reasonable time after the service of such notice any occupier or owner on whom the same is served has, in the opinion of the Magistrate adjudicating, failed or neglected to take reasonable or diligent steps to promote the destruction of rabbits on the land mentioned in such notice, he shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding five pounds if the area of the land is less than five hundred acres, ten pounds if such area exceeds five hundred acres but is less than two thousand acres, and twenty pounds if the arca exceeds two thousand acres.' " Mr. DUNCAN (Minister for Agriculture} moved, That progress be reported. Motion negatived. On the motion of Mr. HOGG (Masterton), the clause was amended by striking out the first two lines. Clause as amended agreed to. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister for Agriculture) moved, That the Chairman leave the Chair. The Committee divided. AYES, 14. Russell, W. R. Duncan Massey McGowan Graham Stevens. McGuire Hall-Jones Tellers. Haselden Mills Meredith Heke Rhodes Tanner. NOES, 35. Hardy Allen, E. G. Collins EII Arnold Hogy Field Hornsby Atkinson Flatman Lang Barclay Laurenson Bennet Fowlds Gilfedder Bollard Lawry Hall Buddo Mackenzie, T. Hanan Napier Carncross 