it optional or mandatory. If there is a con- dition or a clause in the Bill, or a principle involved, which is contrary to the public weal and contrary to my conviction. I am in duty bound to oppose that measure, and do my best to prevent it becoming law. I therefore cannot understand the vote of the honourable member for Riccarton and others, and I cannot under- stand the vote of those who voted for the second and third reading of a Bill to give the power of rating on the unimproved value, and who to-day are afraid to pass the Bill now before us. And, to show a further inconsistency, 10.0. the honourable member for Riccarton voted for Mr. Fowlds's amendment ; and what was it ? "Mr. Fowlds ( Auckland City) moved the addition of the following new clause :- "Section twenty of ' The Rating on Unim- proved Value Act, 1896,' is hereby repealed." The member for Riccarton objects altogether to rating on unimproved value, he says, and vet he votes for this amendment which repealed section 20 of "The Rating on Unimproved Value Act, 1896," and which made every rate leviable by the local body subject to the optional pro- visions of the rating on unimproved value. I say I do not, in the whole of my parliamentary career, know of anything so glaringly incon- sistent. Then, Sir, I have always maintained this : that if taxation is to be fair there must be equality of sacrifice-the taxation should be put on the shoulders of those most able to bear it. I shall prove before I sit down-I will take any of the large cities of the colony you like, any of the country districts you like, and I will show you that in the rating on unimproved value you have equality of sacrifice, and you place the burdens on the shoulders of those most able http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero to bear them. But, Sir, what has kept the world back ; what is it that is keeping New Zealand to some extent behind now? It is the fear of the invisible. There are those persons who are ever hesitating, afraid to go forward, afraid to make a change, because they fear the consequences. I say there should be no fear at all in respect to this principle of rating on the unimproved value. I say that what has caused objection to this measure has been the fear of the single-tax, because there are gentlemen in this House who support this Bill, and they are also single-taxers. For that one reason many other members, and many people outside this House, fear the passing of this Bill. I cannot understand it. I am not a single-taxer. My belief of what is reasonable and not extreme prevents me going that length, and if the single-taxers in the House had opposed this Bill, I believe the larger number of those who have opposed it would have been found supporting the Bill. Honourable members doubtless are consistent, and consequently could not very well, I suppose, have refrained from expressing their opinions ; but, taking the debate right through, taking the arguments for and against, I say that the weight is in favour of rating on the unimproved value, although, as far as this Bill is concerned, it is only a mea- sure to make it general instead of optional. Then, we are told that the result of a poll Mr. Seddon at Auckland should cause members and the Premier to pause in respect to this measure. I am one of those men who believe in being progressive. Mr. Fowlds put forward a very proper suggestion : that where a poll had just been taken, and where under the existing law three years must elapse before the poll can be renewed, that that three years should elapse- that provision be made in the Bill that that time should elapse before they are brought under the operation of the measure. I think. myself, that that suggestion is a fair one. and. as far as I am concerned, I do not want to deprive the citizens of Auckland of the result of the poll for the time now allowed by law. There is not the slightest attempt being made to force it on them. But why should so much be made of the case of Auckland? There have been thirty-five or thirty-six polls taken in the colony on the same matter, and thirty-three of them have been in favour of rating on the unimproved value. The result in Auckland is that only one-sixth of the total number in the dis- triet have declared against rating on the unim- proved value. Why, then, should so much be said of this single case, as against thirty on the other side, and why should that one case be brought forward as a guide for Parliament ? It is ridiculous to suggest that it should be a guide. I consider that, bevond taking it as the opinion of the Auckland burgesses, we should take no further notice of the poll. But let there be, as there ought to be, the same vote-the vote of the people-on this question, as on other questions. in lieu of the vote of the interested parties, with the great power they wield - power which has not been for the good of the people in the cities ; let the vote be the vote of those who reside in the cities, and then we would see what the result of a poll in Auckland would be. I would have no fear of the result of a poll under such condi- tions. Mr. LAWRY .- You have not changed the franchise. Mr. SEDDON .- The franchise will be ex- tended-there will be the lodger franchise -- and there will be only one roll on which men will be returned to represent their fellow-men. That, I say, is coming, and the sooner it comes the better. Those who pay rents pay rates. Those who inhabit the houses are those who pay, and it is nonsense to say that only those who have an interest in property shall be represented. It is uneven : it is unequal ; it is wrong. Then, I am twitted with having de- parted from the principle of the Bill when I stated, in answer to the member for Franklin, that if the Bill were passed I would be pre- pared to make provision to allow those to come from under it who expressed a wish, by a majority of their number, to do so. I say there is no departure from the principle what- ever. Take the thirty-three local bodies that have adopted the principle, take the general feeling of the people throughout the colony. and I say that there you have the test ; and if you were to have a referendum on the question to-morrow the answer would be in favour of rating on the unimproved value. 