producing at the close of the year a balance amounting to £532,564, which I indicated in my introductory remarks. I feel sure honour- able members will join with me in congratulating the colony upon such a successful result. # THE PUBLIC WORKS FUND. The transactions on both sides of the account of the Public Works Fund were largely increased last year. The ordinary expenditure exceeded that of the previous year by £315,000, and necessarily extra funds had to be found. To provide for the expenditure, the balance of the loan of 1899, amounting to $700,000, was raised, also $200,000 under the Act of last session. The total figures, as shown in the accounts which are appended, are, receipts, £1,901,787, The balance and expenditure, £1,809,021. brought forward was $139,749, and the balance at the end of the past year amounted to £232,515. LOANS TO LOCAL BODIES ACCOUNT. The balance at credit of the Loans to Local Bodies Account on 31st March, 1900, was £20,593. Debentures for £176,000 were created and issued during the past year, and refunds of unspent balances of grants, together with a pay- ment made in reduction of the inscribed debt, were received, amounting in all to £7,726. Pay- ments on account of loans were made during the year: to local bodies, £138,956, and to- wards opening up blocks of land for settlement, £37,390; leaving at the end of last year a https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 balance of £27,973 to the credit of the account. Up to the 31st March last, the total amount of debentures created and issued and carried into this account was £1,530,900, and the total disbursements have been : to local bodies, €1,138,497; to Lands and Survey Department, towards opening up blocks of land for settle- ment, £282,356; and to Public Works Fund, €89,800, in exchange for debentures under "The Roads and Bridges Construction Act, 1882." The business connected with the granting of loans to local bodies still continues to consider- ably increase, the payments last year being more than double those of the preceding year, and the largest amount that has been advanced since the commencement of the Act. This is no doubt attributable to the fact that late legis- lation has granted greater facilities whereby local bodies can obtain assistance. "The Go- vernment Loans to Local Bodies Act Amend- mont Act, 1898," which was specially framed for the purposes of providing for irrigation, water-supply, &c., has been largely availed of, and in consequence there has been correspond- ing increase in the amount of loans made. The Public Health Act and the Slaughtering and Inspection Act of last session permit of loans being granted for sanitary works, and for the erection of abattoirs. Applications under these Acts are now being received. By "The Government Loans to Local Bodies Act Amendment Act, 1900," the rate of interest on loans was reduced from 5 to 4} per cent. per annum ; local bodies also being able to readjust Mr Seddon 34 per cent. per annum-upon correspondingly extending the currency of their loans. Of the total inscribed debt of local bodies, amounting to £1,222,234, the following figures will show what a great advantage the Amend- ment Acts of 1899 and 1900 have proved to local bodies, and to what extent they have availed themselves of the opportunity of re- ducing their rate of interest :- Amount of loans reduced to- 874,443 4} per cent. .. .. . . 12,634 4 per cent. . . . 3} per cent. 335,157 . . £1,222,234 I am pleased to be enabled to report that the payments of the half-yearly instalments of in- terest on the inscribed debts continue to be fully and punctually paid. ## LAND-TAX AND INCOME-TAX. The proceeds of the land-tax only exceeded those of the preceding year by about $1,000, the department having been unable from a defect in the Valuation Act to place the increased valua- tions upon the rolls for last year. 'The income- tax receipts, however, brought up the revenue from direct taxation to an amount which it has never before reached, affording evidence of un- exampled prosperity in the colony generally, as well as careful departmental administration. When I inform honourable members that during the last nine years the income-tax has been in force the number of taxpayers has more than doubled, and the revenue has increased by £106,000 a year, the result must be considered satisfactory. A careful revision of the land-values of the colony is now in progress, but it will take some time yet to complete this work. The result so far is a net increase of the capital value of €8,390,000, and of the unimproved value of £6,375,000. The gain to the land tax revenue this year I estimate at £10,000, and I see no reason, notwithstanding the unfortunately low price of wool, why the land-tax should not increase year by year in sympathy with other heads of revenue until, at all events, the whole revision of the valuations has been completed. # THE LAND FOR SETTLEMENTS ACCOUNT. The balance brought forward amounted to £53,389, and by the sale of debentures under "The Land for Settlements Consolidation Act, 1900," funds were obtained to the amount of €219,000. Rents and other moneys came into the account to the extent of $72,796. On the other side the purchase-money for the acquire- ment of estates totalled #186,621, interest on debentures amounted to $50,910, and expenses to $14,305. The balance of the account at the close of the year was $93,349. The purchase of land for close settlement is being vigorously pushed forward, and it is pleasing to know that the estates which have been hitherto purchased have been satisfactorily settled. During the last year approximately 