ment and it, therefore, was subject to the taxa- tion imposed by the Stamp Act. Now, I think every one will agree with me that any gift of that nature given to the public, or to a public institution for the benefit of the public, should come within the province of statutory exemp- tions-that is, all similar gifts in the future. It will be seen, however, that this Bill does not cover the particular transaction referred to. The reason of that is, though we provide to free all such cases in the future, we consider it un- desirable to have retrospective legislation. We can place a sum of money on the estimates sufficient to cover the amount of stamp duty required under the Act, and in that way free this gift from the burden imposed. The trans- action of Dr. Campbell's gift is one that comes within the spirit although not within the strict letter of the law providing for ex- emptions, and, to set that point clear in re- spect to all future transactions of the kind, this Bill is absolutely necessary. I may add that we cannot view the act of Dr. Logan Campbell in too high a light as a public dona- tion. It was really a magnificent deed. He is a gentleman of very high standing in the colony and long associated with its history, and this is only one of many noble works he has performed on behalf of the people. It is one of those instances where individual merit is -crowned by acts which enable the many to reap to universal advantage. I am sure the House will be making a very graceful acknow- ledgment to those who are benefactors to man- kind by passing this Bill. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) .- I hope the House will generously make a retrospective exception in the case mentioned by the Minister intro- ducing the Bill. I will not say anything about retrospective legislation in the past, because I think this is a matter in which no party feeling can possibly intrude. The gift of Cornwall Park you may describe as a gift to the people of New Zealand. I cannot consider it as a gift especially to Auckland, although, of course, you cannot remove that gift of land from the pre- cinets of Auckland. Yet it is given to every inhabitant of New Zealand who chooses to visit that spot. It is an historic piece of ground, rich in Maori lore, and while I say I would not refer to any instance of retrospective legislation on the part of the Government as a precedent for what I am asking, because to do that would be to touch a note inharmonious to the spirit prompting the gift mentioned by the Minister in introducing this Bill, but when the Bill is in Committee I hope the House will generously give it a place amongst the retrospective privi- leges that Parliament can confer. I do not think the matter wants any further remark from me. The House must sympathize with the purpose of this Bill. We have several instances of gifts made by individuals-I do not think merely through the incidence of their death, but pur- posels and in charitable intent they have con- trived during their life accumulations for the pur- pose of benefiting the people of New Zealand after their death-and perhaps in nearly all in- charge of the Bill he did not explain the dis- Mr. Carroll disposed. not because the incidence or approach of death has made them indifferent to the value of personal possession or wealth, but from a con- trived purpose that they should confer benefits on the generations who live after them. Those are matters that we should have a pride and pleasure in supporting, and in doing such things as will encourage their continuation. I do not think, Sir, that the wealthy can in any way do better and perform nobler deeds for mankind than in leaving great bequests for the purpose of founding and fostering those institutions that will confer great benefits in elevating the social and national life of future genera- tions. It is unnecessary to allude to the munificent gifts made by Mr. Carnegie. Per- haps there are many of us who may have dii- ferences of opinion as to some of the methods by which his great wealth was accumulated, but I am sure there is no one. Sir, but will feel gratified that the millionaire is making such munificent gifts, and we hope that those gifts themselves will help to bring about the enlightenment that will lead towards the correction of those evils the existence of which we consider have enabled him to accumu- late the enormous wealth he possesses. I am socialist myself enough to believe that the time will come when communities and nations, in defence of the public interest and the public weal-indeed, of social freedom-will make regulations dealing with the enormous wealth that some persons are possessed of in this age - seemingly in many instances through little effort or skill of their own. I believe the time will come when the amount which at death such people may confer upon each child or relative will be limited, and that the remainder shall be diverted to the benefit of the commonwealth in the creation of edu- cational and eleemosynary endowments. It seems to me, Sir. that it is necessary that some control of the dead hand shall be assumed by the people, in order to neutralise the danger, owing to the enormous accumulations that some men become possessed of. I think it possible that a man possessed of thirty or forty millions-increasing and accumulating by the operations of compound interest through suc- cessive generations -- may become a menace to individual liberty in the community to which he belongs. I hope the House will adopt my suggestion, and will agree to pass retrospec- tive legislation applying to the Cornwall Park gift. It may have been modesty on the part of the honourable gentleman introducing this Bill that he does not propose to make it retrospec- tive; but he may be thinking that the House, in its native generosity, would itself introduce a clause making it retrospective, in appreciation of Dr. Campbell's gift. I hope it will be an incentive to other gentlemen possessed of ample means to make, in other parts of the colony, bequests for the welfare and pleasure of the public. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton). - I regret that in the speech made by the Minister in 