result in great loss, there was an opportunity of stopping the continual borrowing. But the honourable gentleman in charge of the Bill has not shown the House the necessity for raising another two millions. The loans granted during the last few years under the Act have been gradually falling off, and of necessity they must fall off. As the gap was filled up, it must have been patent to every one that those re- quiring loans under the Act would be gradually decreasing, and so that has been the result. The amounts have been gradually decreasing. And it is fair to assume that in years to come the amounts will still further decrease. Under the Act there was authority to raise three mil- lions, and the honourable gentleman informed us that there remains $760,000 of the old loan to be raised. I do not know where he got his information from. I suppose from the officers of the department, and one must therefore ac- cept that statement as correct, although it does not correspond with the balance-sheets as placed before the House. I have looked at the balance- sheets, and I find that of the loan there has been raised $2,350,000, leaving a balance of $620,000 only to be raised. Of course, the honourable gentleman might use the argument that that would strengthen his contention in asking for authority to raise more. I dare say the honour- able gentleman is referring to £140,000 which has not been subscribed. but which has been raised all the same under short-dated debentures. There has been inscribed as a loan $2.240,000, but if honourable members will look at the balance sheet as given in Gazette No. 48, they will find that there are temporary advances on the security of short-dated debentures to the amount of $140,000, so that of the loan there has been raised £2,380,000, and I cannot under- stand why the honourable member should tell the House that £760,000 is available, because it is in direct contravention of the accounts that have been placed before us. Mr. SEDDON. - The money can be raised and set aside without being advanced. There must be a certain amount in hand. Mr. J. ALLEN .- That will not affect the present loan. I understand the Premier to say that money may be raised and set aside. Mr. SEDDON .- It may be still held. Mr. J. ALLEN .- That is not the point. The money has been raised all the same. We know that $1,500,000 was originally raised, and part invested in Government securities. Mr. SEDDON .- There was available for ad- vancing ₺760,000. Mr. J. ALLEN .- That is not what the honourable gentleman said. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, he ought to have said it. Mr. J. ALLEN .- That is another story, and I think that the Right Hon. the Premier, who was on the point of rising to move the second reading of the Bill, should have continued to do so. Mr. SEDDON .- You are wrongly stating what he said. Mr. J. ALLEN .- You admit that he ought to have said it. There is the fact that the mover of the second reading said there was $760,000 available to be raised. Mr. SEDDON. - Not " to be raised," but " $760,000 yet to be raised under the authority of the principal Act, and of this only $560,000 now remains available for investment on mort- gage." Mr. J. ALLEN. -. It is either that, or, as the accounts show, that there is $620,000 yet to be raised. And now authority is asked for another two millions. I would ask, is Parliament justified in giving authority for this sum? I do not think it is. I maintain that this Go- vermment Advances to Settlers Office is being used, as it has been in the past, not for the purposes only of Government advances to settlers but for the purposes of general govern- ment, and that this authority that we are now asked to give for two million pounds is not so much for the purposes of the Advances to Settlers Office as for the general needs of the Government. Sir, if we are to have a fresh loan let us have a straight-out one. Let it be for aid to public works if you like, or for the purposes of Native lands or land improvement, but to utilise the Government Advances to Settlers Office for the general needs of the Go- vernment is not the right way to do it. I say it is better to be straightforward. It can- not be shown that there is any need of $2,000,000, for last year a little over $500.000 of advances was made by this office. That does not, however, represent the real require- ments, for there were repayments to the extent of over $155,000. Therefore, the real require- ments of the office were under $400,000. The advances on mortgage last year were $539,000, but the repayments amounted to $155,237, so that the real requirements of the office so far as loans were concerned were under $400,000. We may assume that that amount will decrease each year, partly because fewer loans will be re- quired and partly because repayments are going on all the time. Therefore, it is safe to assume that the requirements of the office will decrease from $400,000 to say $300,000 in a very short time. That being the case, we have available -so the Minister says-$760,000 of the old loan. That, I take it, will see us through two years from now, and I cannot understand why any fresh loan is being asked for this year. If there is any real necessity for a fresh loan it cannot be said that there is any necessity for two millions, and I think Parliament should halt especially at a time like this, before it gives authority for another two million loan for the Advances to Settlers Office. This is not the right time to go on the market. And I am quite certain that all the requirements of the office for another year, and I believe for another two years, will be met by the authority given under the Act of 1894. Mr. SEDDON .-- Oh, no. Mr. J. ALLEN .- The honourable gentleman cannot say it is not so. Even if the advances are half a million this year that is in progress, there would be sufficient of the old loan to ad- vance that half million to carry us on for another year. It has not been proved to us that there 