action is necessary, I wish to say a few words. The three clauses referred to deal with the services rendered by the "Tutanekai" in con- veving Volunteers and visitors to the Common- wealth celebrations on the other side, and to the payment for stores and supplies for the trip. The Auditor-General has objected to the payment in respect to these services being charged direct to the Marine vote, without there being a refund from some other depart- ment or from " Unauthorised." The matter came before the Committee; and the whole difficulty arises out of the amendment which was made last year in the Public Revenues Act. Honourable members will recollect what the result of the amendment of that Act has been in respect to other matters-how under that Act the Parliament was enabled to pay mem- bers $40 in addition to their proper statutory salary, a proceeding which would not have been possible but for the amendment of that Act. What has happened in respect to the £40 payment to members has happened in re- spect to the ordinary accounts of the colony. Payments have been made in connection with the ordinary accounts of the colony with respect to the Marine vote which could not have been made with the sanction of the Controller and Auditor-General, excepting for the alteration made in the Public Revenues Act by which the Governor in Council was allowed to come in and to interpret the law, or, rather, not to in- terpret the law, but to decide that certain votes https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 might be made notwithstanding Parliament had passed no direct vote on that account. These services include the sum of £600, in the first place, which was paid on account of the wages, and so on, and coal supplied for the "Tutanekai " to convey Volunteers and other visitors to Sydney; and they have been charged direct to the Marine vote. Mr. HALL-JONES .- Quite right, too. Mr. J. ALLEN .- "Quite right, too," says the Minister of Marine; and I am going to admit that it was right in the first place. But the Auditor-General sticks it up because there was no authority by Parliament for such ser- vice, and the Government refused to charge it to " Unauthorised." He has no objection to the Marine vote being charged with these accounts, as a service performed by the Marine Department for some other department which has to repay that service. That is where the difficulty has occurred. What has occurred before has been this: whenever the " Hine- moa " or the " Tutanekai" have rendered ser- vices for other departments, these services have been repaid by the department the service was rendered for, and the credit has been shown in the Marine Department vote. In this case that has not been done. The credit disappears from the accounts of the colony, and the Marine Department receives no credit for the work it has performed, while the Marine Department is to be charged with the supplies and provisions for the conveyance of these visitors to Sydney, $156 17s. in the first instance, and a further sum of $200, or something of that kind, in the Marine Department, and no other department is charged with them, and no credit is given to the Marine Department for having rendered this service to those departments. In this case the alteration in the Public Revenues Act of last session allows the Governor in Council to come in; and notwithstanding the objections of the Auditor-General that these sums should not be charged as desired against the Marine Department, they have been so charged. Now, Sir, excepting for the amendment of that Act, what has taken place under its authority would not have occurred, and the Marine Department would have received credit for these services rendered for some other department. Mr. SEDDON. - What department could you have charged them to ? Mr. J. ALLEN .- The honourable gentleman asks me what department. That is just the very point : there was no vote on the estimates for any department at all, and vet, in defiance of Parliament not having passed any vote for such services, the services were charged to the Marine Department. Now, there was a way of getting out of the difficulty, -but the honourable gentleman has not accepted the way suggested to him by the Auditor-General. There being no vote of Parliament for these services, and they being necessary, and in the opinion of the Treasurer or Minister should have been per- formed, there was a way of getting out of the difficulty. The honourable gentleman could have charged them to " Unauthorised expendi- ture," and to " Unauthorised expenditure" they ought to have been charged, and the Premier knows that perfectly well. What I object to in regard to this matter is this: that, now the accounts have been charged to the Marine Department, and not to some other depart- ment for whom the service was rendered, there has been a way provided for getting behind the votes of Parliament, and of charging accounts to other votes in regard to which Parliament has no knowledge ; and in this instance I do not know, and Parliament does not know, whether " champagne" is not included in the services rendered by the Marine Department-and I believe it is. With regard to the first three items that have been dealt with in this report, and which relate to services rendered by the "Tutanekai," in the way of provisions, wages, and coal, for the conveyance of Volunteers and other visitors to the Commonwealth celebrations at Sydney, the report says that no further action is necessary ; but in the fourth clause of the report we come to a different recommenda. tion. I think that clause says that the Con- troller and Auditor-General has done wrong- or something to that effect-in objecting to what has taken place. Clause 4 deals with the matter of the repurchase by the Bank of New Zealand of the preferred shares. The Bank of New Zealand paid, as directed by law, to the Public Trustee, half a million of money for the repurchase of preferred shares. But the law is absolutely clear on this other point : that any accrued interest that was due at the time the repurchase was made should be paid 