House by the Chairman of the Mines Com- mittee is a delightfully simple one, if members could only bring themselves to accept it. He explained that the whole cause of the trouble- the root of all this business which has kept us going the greater part of this afternoon-is simply that the Committee-room in which this unhappy Committee has to deliberate is far too cold. According to Mark Twain, there is a moun- tain in his country which is so cold that no one in its neighbourhood can possibly speak the truth. It seems that, according to the Chairman of the Mines Committee, some similar explana- tion accounts for the moral delinquencies which have taken place in connection with the deliberations of the Mines Committee. I do hope that, whoever the Minister is who is in charge of the heating apparatus of these build- ings, he will see that they are given an extra fire there for the rest of the session, and it is possible then that we shall not have any more trouble. I accept the lucid explanation of the Chairman in the spirit in which it is offered ; but I do wish to enter my protest, along with the member for Christchurch City, against the tone of levity which has been adopted, not merely by representatives of journalism in this House, whom we might pardon for such weak- ness, but by others who are not directly in- terested in that profession. We have heard even from a Minister of the Crown that the reporter and the editor who published that https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 report were simply engaged in a legitimate journalistic enterprise to which even the Minis- terial bench was constrained to pay its tribute of praise. Now that, of course, is reducing the http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero dignity of Parliament and reducing our Stand- ing Orders simply to the condition of a farce. Another member also stated that the person who furnished the report was the guilty person and should be punished. Well, Standing Order No. 229 says,- "The evidence taken by any Select Com- mittee of the House, and documents presented to such Committee, and which have not been reported to this House, ought not to be pub- lished by any member of such Committee, nor by any other person." The fact of a member of the Committee, or a servant employed by the Committee, furnishing the report does not relieve the person who takes advantage of the report and publishes it from the responsibility for his action. There may be half a dozen culprits in the matter; but the fact that there are five others does not relieve any individual of the six from the re- sponsibility. To my opinion, it is contrary to the dignity of this House to take any such view. According to our Standing Order, the reporter of that newspaper has simply been guilty of listening at the keyhole of the Legislature. No member of this House would think of saying that listening at the keyhole of a private room, and reporting the result of what was heard in that way, was legitimate journalistic enter- listening at the keyhole of the Legislature to words and transactions which, according to the expressed wish of the Legislature, should be kept an inviolable secret. Supposing the Dunedin Evening Star, on the evening in question, had come out without an imprint, instead of coming out with these three columns of confidential matter overheard in one of the Committee-rooms of the Legislature; in that case the offence would, of course, be trifling either morally or legally, and certainly would be the result merely of accident or oversight ; yet the publisher would have been fined £5, and the law would not allow the Court to inflict a smaller fine. They might also be fined for every copy of the paper, but they could not pos- sibly be fined less than $5 on any information duly laid. The result would have been that somebody in that newspaper office would have been rapped over the knuckles, and a good many somebodies in that office would have taken considerable care in the future to see that no such oversight occurred again. Now, what is the position here ? This is an offence wilfully premeditated and deliberate. It has supplied the newspaper with three columns of good copy in advance of every other newspaper in the colony, and we are going to deal with it in such a way that if a similar opportunity arises next week, or even this week, that paper would take the same action as it has on the occasion under notice. Is it not contrary to the dignity and privileges of this House that we should assert our dignities and privileges in that fashion ? An Hon. MEMBER .- Yes. Mr. ATKINSON. - It may be quite in keeping with certain lines of our practice regarding privileges and dignities, but it is certainly not a course I would like to see followed by this House, or any representative body that values its privileges and dignities. If the Postmaster-General had been present while the honourable member for Franklin spoke, I feel sure there was a suggestion made by that honourable member he would have been glad to accept, and that is that if this resolution is to be anything more than farcical in its results, anything more than blank car- tridge-or, as the honourable member for Avon called it by its Latin name, brutum fulmen-if it is to be anything better than that, I know of no better way to arrive at it than by adopting the honourable member for Franklin's suggestion that we should have a Committee appointed, according to precedent, which should investi- gate the matter thoroughly, and fix the re- sponsibility on the proper party, and then take such course as may be deemed advisable after the Committee has reported, and make sure that those who have been responsible for this breach of privilege will think twice at any rate before committing a similar breach. I hope the Minister will take this into consideration, and enable us to pay some practical heed to our own dignity and the conservation of our 