streets till four or five in the morning and then say to some young girl, "I am a Protec- tion Officer ; what is your name ? Where do you live ? "et cetera. Then they could invoke all their powers of persuasion, and the young girl in many cases would easily fall a victim. Look at the abuses to which it might lead. Let me say one thing more before I conclude, and that is this : Clause 12 is a very good clause indeed. I cannot read it for reasons that are obvious to honourable members, but I con- gratulate the Minister on introducing it ; it is necessary. As to clause 13, it is simply a ma- chinery clause. Clause 14 I do not think need have been put in the Bill, because I believe the law as it at present stands is sufficiently com- prehensive to meet all requirements as far as its machinery is concerned. I congratulate the Minister in charge on introducing the mea- sure. I believe a great number of amendments will be moved in Committee in the way of amending the wording of clauses ; but I hope members will allow it to have a second reading, because I honestly and conscientiously believe it will do good. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City). - I have lis- tened with very great pleasure to the remarks made by the Minister in introducing this Bill, and also to the remarks of the honourable mem- ber for Wellington Suburbs. I am glad to see that the honourable member for Wellington Suburbs is taking a decided interest in social as well as in economic questions, and that he is prepared to take an active and intelligent inter- est in questions of social reform, and I hope that will be the case with more young Now- Zealanders who may come into this Chamber. Though on many questions of social reform he and I differ, and he thinks that I am wrong, with regard to this question I entirely agree with him as to the necessity for a Bill of this description. But I differ from him with regard to its being unseemly for women to take up this work, for this reason : that women have engaged in it in Christchurch. I do not know what has been the case in this town, but as far as Christ- church is concerned women have engaged in the work there, and with very good results indeed. Mr. GUINNESS .- Why interfere with them ? Mr. ELL .- Those connected with that work . have not the legal power, and that is what they feel very much indeed. Ladies have been engaged in this work, and have visited some undesirable resorts in Christchurch, and have assisted in taking young girls out of those places, and have assisted in setting them on a better road in life. They have carried on a most useful work, and without degrading them- selves in any way by doing such work. Some people say that such work is undignified for ladies, and that the police should do it. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is what they are for. Mr. ELL. - Just so ; but, although there exists now in our law a power which enables a policeman without warrant to take charge of any child that he finds in a house of ill-fame, my experience has been this: I have been working on a Council of a society carrying on this work in Christchurch for some years now, and taking an active part in it, and I find the police are reluctant to take up this very neces- sary work. I know of one case where it took the society I speak of three months before we could get the police to take two children out of a house which was acknowledged to be any- thing but a desirable home for two girls, both of them being of school age - that is, under thirteen years. I know of another case where it was reported to the police that a poor little child was living with its mother, a woman of dissolute habits and a confirmed drunkard. I reported the case along with another member of the committee, but the police did not take action, although we ourselves had searched and tried to discover the whereabouts of the child ; but after some delay the police took up the work. We had frequently to bring cases under the notice of the police, but they said they had enough of other work to look after in the detec- tion of other crimes, and they said they had no constable they could set apart for this particular work. We urged this-and I am sorry the De- partment of Justice did not agree with the society : that the department should appoint a mission constable to assist the society -there is a similar society in this city for the protection of women and children. But the department did not see its way to do that. I say it would be a material assistance to these societies, and I still think so. The evil does undoubtedly exist in the large cities, and there should be a con- stable who could be at liberty when the neces- sity arose to take up work of this description. I hope the Minister in charge of the depart- ment will take the matter into his earnest consideration, and see if it cannot be done. It may involve a little expenditure, but I do not think-in fact, I am certain that the public would not object to it. They would be rather glad that assistance was rendered in this way. That there is a necessity for the Bill I know, so far as my own town is concerned. Any one who passes through the streets of Christchurch at late hours at night will see girls of fourteen, fifteen, and sixteen hanging about in dark corners, and in the recesses of shop-windows and other parts, and they are gradually drifting into a life of crime. It is that age which is the most dangerous age; it is the age when some authority wants to be put into operation to check them on their down- ward path. It is all very well to say it is the duty of the parents. Granted, it is a re- sponsibility that rests with the parents; but when the parents do not realise their responsi- bility, then, as the Minister says very rightly, it is the duty of the community to step in and say that through the neglect of their parents these children shall not drift into a life of crime and wrong-doing for the rest of their days. Un- fortunately, we have too many parents who are careless of the whereabouts and of the goings and comings of their young people. I have seen them out at night at half-past ten 