Seeing that the cost of the old-age pensions is alleged to have been a factor in creating the recent unnecessary alarm as to the financial position of the colony, it is well to set the matter at rest, in order to remove the erroneous impressions which have been formed. Last year the amount paid for old-age pensions was £197,292, and this year it is estimated that £215,000 will be sufficient to meet all claims. The increase is therefore £17,708; but, with a surplus of over half a million last year, and, so far, a buoyant revenue this year, that amount is not likely to materially affect the finances of the colony. The increased expenditure in old- age pensions must, however, not be treated lightly, and a careful supervision is necessary, for there are reasons for believing that imposi- tion is practised and that evasion of the law to some extent prevails. It is well known that it has now become quite a profession for some people to go round hunting up applicants amongst the Native race for the old-age pen- sion, and should such applicants prove success- ful these people charge them a high fee for services performed. In view of the large amount now paid, it will not be prudent to press for old-age pensions being made universal, or for any increase in the scale. HELP TO FARMERS AND PRODUCERS .- COOL STORAGE. The importance and desirability of helping those located on and living directly from the products of the soil is admitted by all. How and in what manner this can best be accom- plished is worthy of our best efforts. The establishing of new and increased markets will assist in this direction, and it is essential that the produce for export should be carried at the minimum rates on our railways, and that the cost of transit by sea should be reduced to the lowest limit. With this, however, storage and supervision is required at the distributing end, thus avoiding the forcing of products upon an already glutted market. In respect to exploiting or extending our markets, the trade expert that has been appointed procceds to South Africa next week. He is fully acquainted with what produce is available, and the prices at which it can be placed f.o.b. for shipment. From the information we have to hand it will be necessary to have cool-stores for New Zealand produce established in South Africa. It has also been urged that there is not sufficient storage in the Mother-country for our produce. This opens up a very wide question, and its success or otherwise depends to a great extent as to how far the New Zealand Government proposes to go in for taking control of the frozen-meat in- dustry, and as to what amount of support is obtainable within the colony. The erection of cool-stores in the Mother-country alone would be of little advantage. If, however, the pro- ducers and freezing companies, in conjunction with the Government, could divert the principal trade to the colony's store and regulate the output in Great Britain, the results would be beneficial. The cold-stores should, in any case, Mr. Seddon made this year for erection of cold-stores, and, subject to confirmation by our trade expert, the experiment should first be tried in South Africa. # TRADE WITH SOUTH AFRICA. It will be within the recollection of honour- able members that during the recess Govern- ment called for tenders from steamship-owners for a service between the colony and South Africa. The results were not very encouraging, the amount of subsidy demanded being too high for the service offered ; and the scale of freights was also unsatisfactory. This being the case. and seeing that the Shaw-Savill, New Zealand Shipping, and Tyser Line Companies had de- cided to establish a six-weekly service as an ex- periment, it was decided at the time to take no further action, but to await results. I regret to state there has been little or no improvement, and the condition of affairs is not to any extent improved. Small producers and traders have no chance whatever. Freights, as compared with those from Australia, are very high, and there is no regularity. We have therefore come to the conclusion that to be a success it is essential that a line of steamers trading with South Africa should not go beyond South African ports, but should return to New Zealand; and the autho- rity of the House will be asked to provide the necessary subsidy to authorise a contract being entered into for a period of not less than three years, and to invite public offers therefor. As illustrating the present situation and its draw- backs, I may state that offers were invited for a large order of oats from the Imperial authori- ties, with the result that offers came in from three large traders only : owing to the condi- tions, farmers or small traders could not tender, and the Government were unable to obtain the oats within the price limited, and the order was probably lost to the colony. Such a condition of affairs is not in the best interests of the farmers. It is impossible for the Government itself to take small parcels of grain from the producers, but an opportunity of obtaining suit- able freights should be given them to conduct their business as they think best. # OUR BOYS AT THE FRONT : RETURNED TROOPERS. It will be seen on reference to the Defence estimates that there is a large reduction this year as compared with the amount voted last year under the head of " Contingents." The cost of the First, Second, and Third Con- tingents was borne by the New Zealand Govern- ment, with the exception of the amount paid to them at Imperial rates whilst serving in South Africa. The Fourth and Fifth Contingents were on different terms, and were wholly paid by the Imperial Government. The First, Second, Third, Fourth, and Fifth Contingents have returned home. At the present time we have two contingents in South Africa - the Sixth and Seventh. They have taken the place of the Fourth and Fifth. It would be super- fluous for me to say more than that our brave 