clear up lingering doubts that may arise from a suspicion of that kind. I also hope that these two millions, or any part of them, are not necessary to make up any losses that have occurred, although it seems to me that in a lending department like this there will be necessity sometimes to make allowance for depreciation and bad debts. I notice in this balance-sheet that there is some suspicion of this kind that appears to me to be present. For instance, I notice among the assets, which I trust the Minister in charge when replying will explain. the following item : "Bills re- ceivable (Prior's deficiency), £1,090 11s. 7d." It seems to me that there was a deficiency some- where which has to be met by a bill. I do not know whether that is the right interpretation of it. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable member for Rangitikei will tell you all about it. Mr. PIRANI .- That was money that was embezzled. Mr. HERRIES .- Then, if the money was embezzled, I would like to know why it is put down as an asset. Mr. LETHBRIDGE .- He is paying it back. Mr. HERRIES .- I thought we would get some explanation, but why did not the Minister in charge give it. But it looks rather peculiar to see it put in as a bill receivable, and as an asset. If the honourable member for Rangi- tikei thinks it is a good asset, well and good, and I suppose it is all right. Then, we have " Interest receivable, overdue, £4,734 6s. 7d." I do not know whether that means that the interest has not been paid up, or that it is really an asset, and is only recoverable on ap- plication. I trust the honourable member in charge of the Bill will explain that when he is replying. Now, Sir, I should like to make some reference to the question of valuation. I see according to the accounts that this department pays the Valuation Department some $2,500, and that the settlers to whom the money is lent repaid to the department the sum of $2,398, so that practically the settlers are paying the whole of the valuation. Now, Sir, I would like to ask whether it is right to charge the settlers with the valuation. When the Valuation Department was instituted, the valuation of the Valuation Department was to be taken as the valuation under which loans to settlers were to be granted. Now, Sir, any one cognisant with the case knows that that does not take place, and that the valuations of the Valuation Department are not accepted as the valuations under which loans shall be granted, and that fresh valuatious are made, for which the unfortunate settler has to pay, whether he gets the loan or not. I say that when the Valuation Department was set up it was in- tended that the valuations of that department should be accepted by this office, and it seems to me, therefore, that it is wrong to charge the settler with the cost of the Valuation Department. The country settler is not only taxed in his rates for the cost of the Valuation Department, since the local bodies ment, but also again when he borrows money he is taxed to pay for the cost of the Valuation Department. He is got at in two or three ways to keep up this department. If these valua- tions are not accepted by the department, why should the settler be obliged to pay for fresh ones, and why should the department not go and look at the rate-book, where these valua- tions made by the same department are to be f und, and the advances lent on those valua- tions which would not cost a penny ? An Hon. MEMBER. - The borrowers would not like that sometimes. Mr. HERRIES .- That is so ; but I point out how the borrower gets had. He very often thinks that the value is too small if he wants to borrow; but he does not think it is too small when he is paying the rates. This is what happens : A settler applies for a loan, and a fresh valuation is made, because he thinks the value in the rate-book is too small. A fresh valuation is made, the amount is raised, and very often the loan is not granted ; but the valuation goes into the rate-book, and the unfor- tunate settler, though he does not get his loan, has to pay higher rates. That is a matter of general complaint in the district I come from. I cannot see why any charge should be made for the valuation, considering that it is done by a Government department. Of course, if a special valuation has to be made, then there is provision in the Valuation Act by which any one who applies for a special valuation can get it on payment of the special charge. I think that is all right. But where the department goes right through the county and makes a valuation, and charges the county for it, those valuations should be accepted by the Advances to Settlers Department, and the borrower should not be charged for the valuation, because they can be obtained without any fresh charge. The local bodies are charged for the valuation, and the settler should be exempt. I am sorry to see no amendment in that direction in this Bill. It is a matter of very common complaint in the country districts. As far as this Bill is concerned, it is largely a technical Bill to borrow two millions; but I think we are entitled to have some explanation as to what is to be done with that money, and as to the necessity of why this money should be borrowed at all. It seems to me that the department have got enough of the $3,000,000 already raised to last for two or three years, certainly enough to last for one year, and this Bill might well be relegated to next session till we see how the accounts stand. especially as we know that the financial position is very strained indeed. Hints have been dropped by the Premier of further taxation on the land, and we are now asked to consent to the further borrowing of $2,000,000, without the slightest bit of necessity having been shown for it by the member in charge of the Bill or any one else. It cannot be argued that the extension of the 1899 Act has anything to do with it because, as I have shown, the advances have not in- creased in proportion since that Act was passed. 