he was asked if he would not run the railways in America in the interests of the people-if the interests of the people were not to be considered when pooling the railway system. He said, " Hang the public," or something to that effect, showing that he, and that the plutocrats of his class, had a contempt for the public interests, and that his own pocket and the pockets of his fellow-plutocrats were the only considerations that ought to guide a railway king. Now, the honourable gentleman, I maintain, by running the railways on commercial principles, adopts the principles of Jay Gould-that, the railways being a good working concern, and capable of earning a splendid commercial return, the best possible commercial return ought to be secured by running them. Captain RUSSELL .- No such thing. Mr. NAPIER .- Well, we will see how the honourable gentleman's speech appears in Han- sard. I took down as fairly as I could notes of what the honourable gentleman said, and I re- gret if I failed to gather his meaning on this point of his speech. I paid the greatest pos- sible attention to the honourable gentleman while he was speaking. Now, Sir, the honour- able gentleman made a further alleged point in his manifold indictment against the Govern- ment-namely, that the public debt had in- creased by a sum of €6,000,000 in the period to which he referred, and he said that that was a greater debt than was incurred during the whole of the Atkinson Administration, with which party the honourable gentleman was associated. But was that not a disingenuous https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 statement ? Does not the honourable gentle- man know that the £6,000,000, if any fair analysis were made of it, does not represent real debt? Does he not know that a large portion of it is earning more than the interest which is being paid for it, and that properties are now held by the State representing a large portion of the money ? Was there any Advances to Settlers Department in exist- ence in the Atkinson days ? And has a large portion of this $6,000,000 not been de- voted to the purpose of giving loans to farmers, from whom the Crown holds real-estate securi- ties ? Why, there are thousands of deeds in the strong-rooms of the public buildings of Wellington to represent a large portion of the six millions-deeds which are absolutely liquid securities, which, if there came a financial crisis, or if circumstances required it, could be used for borrowing fresh money if neces- sary, as they are absolutely free and un- pledged. The money has been borrowed prac- tically for the settlers of the country; the Go- vernment merely lends its name : no real debt is incurred, no burden imposed on the general taxpayer, and if the names of the various indi- viduals whose deeds are in the Government safes were used instead of that of the Govern- ment or the Crown, these six millions would be reduced very largely indeed by that one item. Then, again, does not the honourable gentle- man know that a large portion of the six millions was expended in the purchase of Mr. Napier State, and which has been re-leased, and the rents from which are paying a greater sum annually than is sufficient to pay the interest on the money expended in the purchase of those estates ? We have acquired estates under the Land for Settlements Act. Was there any Land for Settlements Act in the Atkinsonian days ? If you analyse the honourable gentle- man's speech you will see that it is bristling with disingenuous statements meant to delude non-inquiring minds; and if his speech be examined and dissected it falls to the ground absolutely by the weight of the misrepresenta- tions it contains. Now, Sir, I will refer to various items in the Budget speech of the Treasurer. In the first place, I desire to con- gratulate the right honourable gentleman on the continued buoyancy of our finance and the evidence of stable prosperity which the Budget affords. If we recognise the signifi- cance of the surplus of #532,564 -- a truly mag- nificent surplus at the end of the year- I submit there is no justification for the lamentations and predictions of imminent disaster we have listened to this evening. The increase of the annual income over that of the previous year by $272,320 is an indication. I submit, of increasing prosperity ; and if we analyse the items which make up that increase we shall find that there is increased confidence in the trading community generally. I find from the headings of the various items of in- crease that the increased revenue shows this: that there was an increased spending-power on the part of the people ; that there were in- creased dealings in share stocks and in land; that the values of land have gone up; that there were larger incomes; and that there was a greater amount of travelling on the railways, both for business and for pleasure. Now, what are the elements of a people's prosperity ? Surely the people's prosperity must be gauged by the value of their posses- sions and the extent of their spending-power. and, tried by any of those tests, or all of them together, I submit the people of New Zealand are enjoying unexampled prosperity. There is apparently no risk whatever of any immediate cessation of that prosperity, or even of its serious diminution. The honourable gentle- man referred to the public debt, and to the increase of the amount of the indebtedness over that of last year. But he also upon this point was scarcely ingenuous, because he did not tell us that of the increased debt the greater proportion-well, more than half -- w.Is directly producing interest, and therefore that there was in respect of that no additional burden on the people of the colony. Over $800,000 is directly producing interest, and of the balance a large sum is indirectly producing interest and has placed a large but unascertain- able sum in the pockets of the people, because I find that of the balance over half of the in- creased indebtedness has been spent upon roads and bridges and other works of a permanent and reproductive character, using the word "permanent " in its ordinary sense. Other 