Mr. J. ALLEN .- Forty-six polls have not been taken ; forty-five have been taken ; but the honourable gentleman will find, if he studies the return, that in five instances the polls are duplicated-they were rejected in the first instance and taken again. Then, he also said the rating on unimproved value was only rejected in three boroughs. Why did he say in three boroughs? There are more than three cases of rejection. The facts are these : that in forty different districts polls have been taken. I do not mean to say that there are not more than forty polls, but in forty districts polls have been taken, and in thirty-three of these it was carried, and lost in seven. The number of votes recorded in the districts in which the polls were carried was 6,868 for the proposal, and 1,538 against, and in the districts in which the proposals were lost the voting was 875 for and 620 against. The total in both cases was 7,743 against 2,158. The whole point, how- ever, is this : the Bill desires to make rating on unimproved values compulsory, and this return is produced as an argument for making it compulsory ; but the return shows that in only forty districts has the attempt been made to bring this Act into force, and in only thirty-three of them was it carried. How many districts are there in New Zealand ? There are over eighty counties and nearly one hundred boroughs, and I am not counting Road Boards ; and because in thirty-three small dis- tricts, of which I shall have something to say later on, this Act has been brought into force, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 that, forsooth, is said to be an argument for making this compulsory. Sir, this Bill is not a Bill upon which we are expressly invited to discuss the principle of rating on the unim. proved value. The Bill is a Bill to make rating on unimproved value compulsory all over New Zealand, and that is the point we have to con- sider in this second reading debate. Now, I maintain that so far as this return is con- cerned, and so far as our experience teaches us at the present time, there is not sufficient argument to induce us to call on all the local bodies to alter their present system of rating. Debate interrupted. The House adjourned at half-past ten o'clock p.m. # LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Tuesday, 6th August, 1901. Third Reading-Cemeteries Bill-Ashburton County Council Empowering Bill -Woodville County Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. THIRD READING. Police Offences Bill. CEMETERIES BILL. A message was received from the House of Representatives transmitting for the considera- message from His Excellency the Governor in the Cemetery Trustees Validation and Appoint- ment Bill. On the question, That the amendments be agreed to, The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said he did not think there need be any difficulty in regard to this amendment. When the Bill went through the Council they amplified it in the direction of making it possible for members of Road Boards to be trustees of cemeteries. County Councils stood on a footing of their own, and it was held that Road Boards were not on the same footing as County Councils and Town Boards of the ordinary class. The clause pro- posed by His Excellency the Governor was to meet clause 3 as originally printed, which dealt with the Rotorua Cemetery. The clause would now read : "It shall be lawful for the Governor to appoint the Rotorua Town Board as trustees of the Rotorua Cemetery." The Hon. Mr. McLEAN said he did not think it was usual for these amendments to be treated in this way, and he thought they should be put on the Order Paper. Members did not know what the amendments were. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said he had no objection to the amendments going on the Order Paper, and being made an order of the day for Wednesday. Motion withdrawn, and amendments made an order of the day for Wednesday. # ASHBURTON COUNTY COUNCIL EM- POWERING BILL .. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY. - I move the second reading of this Bill. It is a technical Bill extending the power of the County Council to make by-laws with respect to waterworks. It has passed the other House, and, as it will go to the Committee, I do not think it is neces- sary for me to say any more. Bill read the second time. WOODVILLE COUNTY BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. SMITH .- In moving the second reading of this Bill, I would point out to the Council that it is simply an at- tempt of the people in this part of the dis- trict to abolish the Road Boards and make one rating body instead of two. Meetings have been held in different parts of the dis- trict, and they have come to the conclusion that it is unnecessary now that there should be two local bodies rating over the district, with two lots of expenses - Clerks, adver- tising, and Inspectors: This Bill has passed the other Chamber, and has also passed the Local Bills Committee of the Council. The amendment put in contains amendments agreed to by the people themselves. It was omitted in the other Chamber, but has been put in by the Local Bills Committee with the consent of all the parties. I move the second reading of the Bill. Bill read the second time. The Council adjourned at ten minutes to three o'clock p.m. 