of the report that the Government have brought down this Bill. If so, they might have told us, because this might have had some weight with us in supporting the measure. The report is very interesting. It goes on to show that pre- vious to the Crimean War though women acted as nurses yet they were not trained as nurses. Since that time, however, they have been trained, and that is due to a great extent to the influence of Florence Nightingale. It is only in recent times, therefore, that we have had trained nurses following nursing as a profes- sion. It may be presumed that in nursing, as in other things, there are degrees of ability. There are, no doubt, good nurses and bad nurses ; it is therefore very desirable, both in the interests of the general public and of the nurses themselves, that the capacity of each woman who follows nursing as a profession should be ascertained. In this way efficiency may be expected to reap its due reward. Train- ing, however, is not everything in a nurse. She must have good sense, a kindly disposition, and many other virtues. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- I think, Sir, this is capable of being made a good and useful measure. I think it is desirable that registration should be applied to nurses in order that the standard of the profession of nursing may be raised. What I do object to in this Bill is that it supplies registration only for one class of nurses, and that those whose lot has been cast in public hospitals will be placed in a superior position to other nurses, who may possibly have had an equally extensive experience of nursing, and who also may be thoroughly capable, but who would be pushed out in the race for occupation by those http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero who happen to be registered. That, I think, is a blot upon the Bill. In the colony there are a number of nurses who, as I have said, have been following the profession of nursing for a num- ber of years, and whom medical men employ from time to time. In many cases those nurses have attended the very excellent classes that are organized by the St. John Ambulance Society, have passed the examinations of that society, and have received certificates of proficiency. Apparently, unless they happen to have passed through a public hospital they are not entitled to register. Now, I sincerely hope, when the Bill is going through Committee, the Minister will be pre- pared to accept a new clause under which nurses who have not passed through hospitals, but who are able to pass any set examination that may be established under this Bill, and have had sufficient experience, shall be entitled to registration and to a certificate such as those nurses obtain who have passed through hos- pitals. I object very strongly to those parts of the Bill which levy a fee, in some cases of 10s. and in other cases of $1, for registration. 1 cannot understand why the Ministry should feel it necessary to impose so large a sum on a young woman just starting in life as a nurse. If the Government were to charge some small sum, such as half a crown, it would be quite Mr. J. W. Thomson expense that will be involved ; because, having now a large Public Health Department, which employs a highly trained officer as its head, and district officers, who are medical men, it will be quite possible for the Government to obtain sets of examination-papers without paying large sums in the shape of fees to the examiners. I cannot therefore understand why the Govern- ment should demand so large a sum as £1 for registration. With regard to the general prin- ciple of improving the status of nurses, I think honourable members will agree that it is desirable, once this system of registration has been adopted, to extend the principle to some extent to the female attendants at lunatic asylums and other public institutions, because I find that in the Bill the word " Hos- pital " is defined as meaning only a public hos- pital. Now, I think the Hon. the Minister in charge of the Bill will know that there are a number of very excellent private hospitals of very high standing in Christchurch and Dun- edin and other centres. Some of them, I believe, are in some respects superior to most of the public hospitals so far as their appointments are concerned, and I think it would be exceedingly unfair that women who have been employed as nurses in these private hospitals for years should not be entitled to register in the same way as those who have passed through public hospitals. Speaking generally, I think the underlying prin- ciple of registering nurses is a useful one. The introduction of this Bill may not be evidence of any great amount of Ministerial initiative, which the honourable member for Bruce de- plored, but it evidences initiative in a certain direction, and it is possible, now that initiative has broken out in matters of social legislation, that it may grow, and we may have progressive developments of it. We have had a great deal of initiative in regard to land legislation, finance, and taxation, and a number of other things, and I welcome a further development in this direc- tion. I shall support the second reading of the Bill, but I hope the Minister will agree to the registration-fee being reduced to 2s. 6d. I hope, also, he will agree that the advantages of regis- tration shall be extended to those nurses who are outside the ordinary public hospitals. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City). - With the honourable gentleman who has just sat down, I congratulate the Government on having introduced this Bill, and, with him. I regret that the present scope of the Bill will exclude a number of nurses who, perhaps, are quite as well qualified for the position of nurses as those who have passed through our public hospitals. Not that I have one word to say in disparagement of the nurses in our public hospitals, because I believe they will compare favourably with those doing similar work in any part of the world, but the interpretation clause distinctly excludes all private hospitals through- out the colony. Now, speaking of one of those institutions at any rate -- the one with which I am best acquainted, the Strathmore Private Hospital-I can say that it is a model of scientific perfection, and that the nurses 