Constitutions under which the American States are working. There are two classes of Consti- tutions-the written and the unwritten. The British Constitution is unwritten. It has no restrictions. It is a growth built up from precedent to precedent, and consequently knows no power that can restrict its operations. Our Constitution is different. It is a written Con- stitution, and under it the Parliament of New Zealand alone has the power to make laws, and it has no power, according to the decision of the Judges of the Supreme Court of America, to delegate its powers to the people. This, perhaps, is not so important as the fact that we have now what is practically a referendum, in the people's representatives having to go before the constituencies every three years. I do not see that the principles contained in the present Bill would, under these circumstances, expedite matters. A measure must be twice rejected in both Houses-that is, it would take two years to refer it to the people ; and, under these cir- cumstances, I do not see how it could be re- ferred to the people much sooner than it is under the existing system. Now I come to Switzerland, the home of the referendum. I find it is a country divided into twenty-five cantons, with three thousand communes. Several of these cantons are so small as to have only thirteen thousand inhabitants, and these small communities are subdivided into smaller communities again, until there are three thousand communes ; and, even then, there are smaller bodies, called parish meet- ings and school districts. These small bodies have almost all the paraphernalia of govern- ment-their executive and all that-and for five hundred years these people have been trained in the exercise of the referendum, for in many of them every male citizen has a right to come and take a seat in the common council. So you see they have been educated up to this, and this makes a great difference as compared with people who have had no education in it. But after all this education the results are not what progressive people would deem satisfac- tory : Since 1875, when the national referendum was adopted, it has been exercised forty-one times, out of which the measures were accepted seventeen times and rejected twenty-four times, and a great authority on the question says that never yet has a measure been accepted by a majority. What happens is this : People who are indifferent neglect to vote, and consequently those who are rabid on the question vote, and carry or reject it. There have been tricks played in regard to it, for objectionable matters have been put into very popular measures, and these objectionable matters have passed under cover of the popular measure. As an instance of what they rejected, I might first say that there was a valley that wanted improvement. It was a splendid valley, and one to the advan- tage of the people to improve, but one set of people were pitted against the other, and conse- quently the measure was lost. This is what M. Deploige, in his great work on the subject, says about it :- Hon. Mr. Twomey to the canton. To improve a great valley, to protect it against periodical floods, to bring into cultivation some very important land at a relatively small cost, might have been ex- pected to meet the approval of all men. But politics interfered, and the Radicals voted to a man against the proposal. They very cleverly exploited the jealousy which the sotto (Genève felt towards the sopra Genève, for whose ad- vantage the improvement was undertaken. The result was the law was rejected, and the State Council resigned." An Hon. MEMBER. - What book are you reading from ? The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- Deploige's " Re- ferendum in Switzerland." Here was a matter of great importance, and because the politicians worked the oracle it was not carried. Here is another instance : A State bank was proposed, and it was rejected. And in most instances the progressive measures almost invariably have been rejected by the referendum. Here is what the author of this book says :- "I came back from Switzerland with a large memorandum-book cram full of notes taken here, there, and everywhere, just as I happened to meet my informants-professors, deputies, journalists, public servants, popular leaders, Catholics, socialists, and Radicals. In this curious collection violent abuse and enthu- siastic eulogies mingle on every page. The referendum is an excellent thing, an incom- <!-- PageHeader="\--" --> parable institution : you turn over a leaf and this wonder is suddenly termed a reactionary measure, a clog and a hindrance to progress." One of the people he consulted says, - "Those devoted to active politics are utili- tarians. With them it is a matter of calculat- ing the gains and advantages that their party or cause may hope to obtain from the referendum. It is not surprising, therefore, that the mem- bers of the Government and the majority should speak ill of the referendum, or that the chiefs of the Opposition should have no terms too flattering for it. The former owe nothing to the institution : quite the contrary." Thus the majority owed nothing to the in- stitution of the referendum, but quite the con- trary. Another extract says,- " All politicians do not regard the referendum in this light : there are some rare exceptions." Thus it will be seen from this that few poli- ticians favour it. Then, there is the outstand- ing fact : that in many cantons it has been restricted in its operation, and some will not have it at all. One of these is Fribourg. and here is what is said of it :- " Fribourg is the most curious of all. The cantonal referendum is one of the planks of the Radical party, and the Government and the majority will not have it at any price. It has been said, therefore, that Fribourg is not a democratic canton. If, on the other hand, the eagerness with which the electors go to the ballot-box on voting-days is any criterion of the intensity of the democratic opinion in that country, then Fribourg is one of the most de- mocratic in Switzerland." 