an ordeal to intrust to Justices of the Peace as well. And, again, if Justices of the Peace were included in the list of officers by whom this duty could be carried out, why not also include the officer in charge of the police in the district? It was evidently very simple, and there was nothing difficult or of a technical nature about it. All these officials might be intrusted with the power to take the evidence and to grant the certificate. On the general question, however, of vaccina- tion he had a most decided opinion. He spoke as a parent of children, and had not the slightest diffidence in declaring that he had never had any of his children vaccinated, and never would. He was not speaking so much from medical authority in taking this stand, but from very sad experiences that had come under his notice. Although Government officers so far had not thought fit to prosecute him for non-compliance with the law in this respect, they were at liberty now to do so if they chose. To demon- strate his strength of conviction he had freely confessed that none of his children were vacci- nated ; and he would go further, and say that if the Almighty blest him with others hereafter he would take good care that they should not undergo an operation that was so questionable in its benefits. Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) was very pleased to hear these protests from all sides of the House in reference to any attempt to alter the law in regard to the exemption from vaccination. He sincerely hoped that those https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 members who protested would carry their protests further, if necessary, by their votes in the House. Last year they had a new Public Health Act, and many members who, like himself, had conscientious objections to compulsory vaccination worked very hard to get the modified exemption which was ulti- mately given by that Act. They never knew where they were; there seemed to be no finality. The Government were continually introducing into amending Acts of Parliament something that would undo what had been done in a previous session, and it was wrong that that should be done. Last year's legis- lation provided that children could be ex- empted from vaccination if their parents or guardians had conscientious objections to it, and made known those objections to a Magistrate or any Registrar, and people were just getting to know and to under- stand the facilities that existed to enable them to claim such exemption. After the Act was passed last year numbers of people waited on him - probably they waited on other members as well- and asked him what they should do. They had waited on a Magistrate, and the Magistrate, notwithstanding the exemption clause, said they would have to pay a fee of half a crown. He (Mr. Graham) saw one of the parents who refused to pay the half a crown, and sent that parent back to the Magistrate with a note that no fee could be charged, and it was then found that no half a crown needed to be paid at all. However, all who had paid the half a crown-and many poor people had done VOL. OXVII .- 25. so-did not get it back again once it had found its way into the Government chest. It was now proposed to contine the power to the Magistrate alone, and to take it out of the hands of the Registrars. Well, people now had to go to the Registrars to register births, deaths, and marriages, and marriages were also frequently solemnised by the same officer ; and if he did all these various analogous duties, surely he might be allowed to carry out the duties with reference to conscientious objections to vaccination. The law ought at least to be allowed to remain as it was. It already gave a minimum of concession in return for a maximum of trouble. Those members of the House who themselves held conscientious scruples against vaccination had no little amount of trouble last year to get the con- cessions made, and the Government should not now try to further limit the already limited opportunities that people possessed in the way of exemption. Like the honourable member for Napier, he also had a large family, now grown-up, and they were as healthy as he was himself, and not one of them had been vaccinated. He had many notices served on him-ordinary notices and peremptory notices -but he took no notice of them ; and when he told the Registrar of that time that he had con- scientious objections to vaccination the officer said he held a like opinion, and that if he had children himself he would do the same thing. He (Mr. Graham) trusted the House would not only strongly protest against the proposed alteration, but that they would also support that protest by their votes, so that the large number of parents op- posed who had conscientious objections might give effect to them without being put to needless trouble. Exemption from vaccina. tion had to be claimed now within four months of the birth of a child, otherwise it could not be obtained ; and, as a matter of fact, many country and back - block settlers had not the opportunity during that time of going into a town where they could see a Magistrate. He knew from personal experience of mothers who would sooner go anywhere or before any one other than before a Magistrate, and he knew also that Magistrates were not willing in all cases to be obliging in the performance of these duties after they had been forced upon them. They looked on the duty as one that was being thrust upon them-one they ought not to have added to their numerous other duties-and, taking all the circumstances into consideration, he was firmly of the opinion that if the law was to be altered at all it should be in the direction of extending the opportunities that already existed. He would like to see a provision put into the Bill giving the people the right to make declarations before any police officer or any Justice of the Peace, in addition to Magistrates and Registrars. It was certainly not fair that parents should be compelled to have poisonous virus injected into the systems of their children, and he hoped the House would strongly oppose the inclusion of the clause in - the Bill. 