from his own personal knowledge. He was sur- prised at the number of districts in which these animals were becoming numerous. He had received complaints from the owners of home- steads at the inroads they were making. The request made by the association was that he should ask the Minister to put a sum on the estimates to assist the settlers in extermi- nating these pests. The soil in the North of Auckland was too hard for rabbits to burrow in, and they were, consequently, not troubled with them to any very great extent. There certainly were rabbits there, but they were not in such numbers, excepting in a few localities, as to necessitate assistance from stoats and weasels being given to exterminate them, as in other parts of the colony. Owing to the increase of stoats and weasels it was be- coming difficult to keep fowls, and even young lambs. Some time ago he had a note from a gentleman, who did not live near the place were the present complaint came from, stating that they were actually attack- ing the young sheep. It seemed to him that there was very good reason for the Govern- ment taking the matter in hand. He was afraid that this pest would become one of the most difficult to keep under, because there was so much cover in the forests and broken country in the North. It was not like the South, where they were to be found in moun- tainous districts. Unless something was done it would become next to impossible to keep fowls and small animals, unless they were surrounded by wire fences and were kept in rat-proof enclosures. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister for Agriculture) said he had not had one single letter of complaint from the North of Auckland about stoats and weasels. Mr. MONK said he could give the Minister the letter referred to. Mr. DUNCAN said it would be the first that he had had from that quarter on this subject. He was not aware that the Government had ever put stoats and weasels in that part of the country. Mr. MONK .- But the Government had in- troduced them here, and they had found their way to the North. Mr. DUNCAN did not see how they could very well run from the South Island to the North Cape. Mr. MONK had come across them seventy miles north of Auckland. Mr. DUNCAN was of opinion that they had been carried there in people's pockets. He was not sure that stoats and weasels would do the damage that was feared. For the past seven years they had been close to his fowl-yard, and he had not had one of his poultry interfered with. Nobody was complaining about them. Ferrets were, in his opinion, much worse than they were. Stoats and weasels went more for small birds and rabbits, but a ferret would attach a full-grown fowl. It was going rather far to ask the Government to put a sum on the estimates Mr. Monk never put there by the Government. Mr. MONK said they were getting on the North Cape. Mr. DUNCAN was of opinion that they had been carried there. They could not have found their own way there from the Wairarapa or the South Island. He did not see his way to put anything on the estimates until he saw there was more necessity for it than at present. Mr. MONK said they had been placed in the Wairarapa, and somehow they were persistently travelling northwards and increasing to a dan- gerous extent. Particularly little children were being bitten by them, and, as an instance, some of the brutes had taken up their abode under his son's house, and it was difficult to get rid of them. Mr. DUNCAN could inform the honourable member that the Government never placed any in the North Island. The honourable member would have to read his history. Mr. MONK said the Government sanctioned their being introduced there. Mr. DUNCAN .- The Government gave no special sanction, and those that were crying out about this pest were likely the very people who introduced them, and they should be respon- sible. LAND TAKEN FOR DRAINAGE PURPOSES. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) asked the Govern- ment, If they will provide some means whereby land taken for drainage purposes by a local body could be transferred more cheaply than at present ? The local bodies were very desirous to have some method by which land taken for drainage purposes might be transferred more cheaply than at present. Especially was this necessary in the case of small pieces of land. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said this question appeared to relate to land taken com- pulsorily by Proclamation under " The Public Works Act, 1894." The expense which a local body was put to thereunder was : First, for a survey and plans of the land to be taken ; secondly, for twice advertising notice of inten- tion to take the. land ; and, thirdly, for ad- vertising the effect of the Proclamation once. The survey was the principal cost, and, as the title must be issued under the Land Transfer Act, the survey could not generally be done without, whether the land be taken by Procla- mation or by ordinary conveyance. The ad- vertising was necessary to give persons in- terested in the land proper notice, and, as no registration or transfer fees were charged, it was not easily seen how the cost could be cheapened. It was possible that in a few in- stances, where a small piece of land was required, it was cheaper to obtain it by con- voyance, if the owner was willing to sell ; but where much land was required a Proclamation was very much cheaper. Some local bodies employed lawyers to prepare the declaration and memorial to the Governor to issue the Pro- clamation and carry out the procedure laid down in the Act. This was quite unnecessary, 