gerer. However, if the place was to have such an unpronounceable name it ought to deserve some consideration. The department believed that a new post-office was obviously required ; but until the public-works estimates were finally considered by Cabinet, he could not pledge the Government to have it built during the coming year. It was, however, on the list recommended by the department for favourable consideration. # SINGLE RAILWAY TICKETS. Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether he will extend the system of single railway tickets, which are now avail- able for one day only, so that they shall be available for at least one week, as such altera- tion will be a great public convenience ? In asking this question he was anxious to know why the system of granting single tickets for one day only had so long prevailed. It was annoying to a passenger that, in the event of taking a through ticket, and finding it necessary to break his journey, he should have to take out another ticket next day. It was also trouble- some to have to take two or three tickets for one journey, and made more trouble for the de- partment. The cost of a return ticket was twice that of a single ticket, so that no loss would occur to the department if the con- cession were granted. He hoped the Minister would agree to his reasonable proposal. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said he had indicated a few days ago that the ques- tion of single tickets was now being fully con- sidered by the Government. He recognised the great convenience it would be to people to be able to use their tickets beyond the limit / http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero under the existing system. The reason why the change had not been made was entirely owing to the difficulty of checking : that was what had to be got over. It would require the name of every station to be printed on the sides of the tickets right through the journey. The honourable gentleman would see, if a single ticket were to be used for conveyance to-day, and a person got out at a station forty miles away, and then desired to continue his journey the following day, the department would require to have the first stop checked. Mr. WILLIS .- They are used from 4.0. one to the other in America at present. Sir J. G. WARD said there were private com- panies in America, and very great competition amongst them. They had a way of conducting their railways in America that he should be very sorry to follow here in many respects. had not been feasible under the old system to take the matter up here, but now that they had a universal system of charging for single tickets, and return tickets at double these rates, he thought the check system could be adopted ; and as soon as arrangements were matured for bringing it into operation it would be put in force, but on a more liberal scale than was indicated by the honourable member. master-General, What is the result of the " com- munications sent by him to the different portions of the Empire" (see Hansard, Vol. 113, page 313) with a view to bringing into operation a general penny-postage rate for newspapers irre- spective of weight ; and whether there is a pro- bability of this being effected, and, if so, from what date? On the 29th August, 1900, he had asked the Postmaster-General whether, in con- nection with the penny-postage system for let- ters, he would also be able to arrange that news- papers might be forwarded to Great Britain, Canada, Australia, and Cape Colony at the same rate-namely, Id. per paper. The post- age at present on weekly papers was 31d. or 4d. for each copy, and a large number of persons who would be glad to send Home papers were prevented doing so by reason of the prohibitive rates. This was one of the best means of ad- vertising the colony, and the honourable gentle- man, in 1900, in his reply, expressed his sym- pathy with the question, and said he was quite favourable to bringing into operation a penny newspaper rate within the Empire- that he was then communicating with London and other countries interested, and hoped for a favourable reply. He wished now to ascertain whether the result of his inquiries had been favourable, and if there was any prospect of this reforin being carried out. Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) said he had communicated with the different por- tions of the Empire referred to, but he was sorry to say that in each case the reply was unfavourable, and there appeared to be no im- mediate prospect of inducing the countries named to accept our newspapers at the uniform penny rate. He was exceedingly sorry for this result, but the department had done its best in the matter. They had offered to admit the 1 newspapers from those countries at the penny rate if they would agree to take our papers at the same rate; but unfortunately the Postal Union, which was a very powerful organization, ruled in the matter ; and, although represent- ations had been made to that body, the reply had been unfavourable, and they would not agree to the suggestion. He would, however, keep on representing the matter, and hoped finally to succeed. # RIVERS COMMISSION. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motneka) asked the Minister of Mines, When does he intend to lay the report of the Rivers Commission before this House ? This Commission had sent in its It report some time back, and some members who were considerably interested in the matter were anxious to hear what the report was. He hoped the House would get it very soon. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) said that the final report of the Rivers Commission was now in the hands of the Printer, and would be brought down and laid on the table as soon as it was ready. 