and in another the rural population, also the total actual and the total with the nominal ad- dition added. Auckland is three miles and three-quarters by two miles and five-eights, and has a rural population of 216. Caversham is four miles by one mile and a half and has a rural population of 1,996. Mr. MORRISON .- Where do you get these figures? Mr. ELL .- I am simply taking the figures from the official map issued by the Boundary Commissioners. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- What is the defini- tion of " ru: al population " ? Mr. ELL .-- The honourable gentleman knows St. Albans, in the Christchurch electorate. He knows that in a part of St. Albans there are dairy farmers-that is counted rural - and to the population contained in that rural area 28 per cent. may be added. In Invercargill there is a rural population of 5,125, and the Com- missioners are entitled to add 28 per cent. to that number. Now, the Invercargill 8.0. electorate is five miles and three- quarters by five miles and a quarter, and the adjoining electorate, Awarua, is ninety - six miles by forty-three miles. One can under- stand the reasonableness of adding 28 per cent. in a case like that, where the population is spread over a vast area. I contend that . when the law was passed in 1889 it was never contemplated by the Legislature that 28 per cent. should be added to the rural popu- lation contained in the Invercargill electorate. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 Lyttelton is eight miles by five miles, and my honourable friend the member for that district is, I know, a sound democrat, and believes with me that we should have repre- sentation according to population. That should be the basis upon which we should have repre- sentation in this House, so far as we can get it. As I have already stated, a good deal of reason can be given in behalf of granting con- cessions to rural populations in scattered dis- triets. Riccarton is ten miles by ten miles. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- It is far bigger than that. Mr. ELL. - I submitted my maps to a draught man in the Lands Department, and they were sealed, and this is the rough esti. mate of the length and breadth. Mr. RUSSELL. - It is very rough. My dis- triet is about eighteen miles long. Mr. ELL .-- As to Napier. it is seven miles by four miles and a half, and I do not think honourable members can contend that it is reasonable to grant concessions to a rural popu- lation in such a small area as that. Honour- able members will see in the Bill that the only electorates placed in the schedule to which I am contending that the 28 per cent. concession shall not be given are Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, Auckland, Caversham, Napier, Lyttelton, Avon, Riccarton, Parnell, Timaru, and Invercargill. If the 28 per cent. conces- sion is taken away it will not unduly extend Mr. Ell in this Chamber should be according to popula- tion. I will not dwell any longer upon this. I think I have explained it pretty clearly to honourable members. I have also pointed out. that the original intention was that the 28-per- cent. concession should be granted only to those districts in which population is very scattered, and which had a very great area in their boundaries. I move the second reading of the Bill. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- It is not very often that I second a motion proposed by the honourable member, who is generally too far advanced for me ; but on this occasion I have much pleasure in doing so, for the reason that I think if the principle of the Bill were carried into law it would be beneficial for the country districts. As he has informed you. it was never intended that city electorates should get the 28 per cent. increase given them for the benefit of the country portion of the districts : but, as he has pointed out so clearly, they do get it under the present law. And how do they get it? It is in this way: the boundaries of the electorates are not always coterminous with the boundaries of the boroughs, and the Act of 1889 says that the 28 per cent. shall be added to all population outside any borough or town district of over two thousand inhabitants. But the city electorates, or the electorates called city electorates, very often have boundaries beyond the boundaries of the borough, and so include a population which is not within a borough containing two thousand inhabitants, and therefore that population, though in- cluded in a city electorate, is still entitled to have the 28 per cent. added to it. Now, I do not think any honourable member will contend that that was what was intended by the Legis- lature when it passed that Act. Mr. FISHER .- Is that actually so ? Mr. HERRIES. - Yes ; there is no doubt about it. Mr. FISHER. - It is not so in Wellington. Mr. HERRIES. . Then, if it is not so in Wellington, the honourable gentleman need not oppose the Bill, because it will not affect Wellington ; but it is correct so far as the other boroughs mentioned in the schedule are con- cerned. I do not say that the schedule is por- fect, I do not know enough about the figures : but certainly, so far as the city electorates are concerned, thev ought not to be allowed any portion to which the 28 per cent. is added. Though agreeing with the principle the honour- able member has enunciated -- which I think a very proper one-I doubt whether this Bill will give effect to what he proposes. He must know that before next Parliament sits the boundaries will all be altered, and the electorates in the schedule will be altered, and it is quite possible that when the new boundaries are given, even if this Bill passed, some population subject to the 28 per cent. increase may be included in the electorates mentioned. The consequence is that he will have to pass a new Bill with 