intended to discredit the construction of the Makohine Viaduct, which, unfortunately, some persons had been trying to discount most un- fairly for some time past. It would be found that there was nothing in what the honourable member had stated, and that the Public Works Department was doing all it could to push the work on, and have it completed in sufficient time to be utilised for general traffic. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) did not understand the honourable member for Bruce: he never could. His difficulty was to ascertain what the honourable member was driving at. He had heard the question asked,- Why has not man a microscopic eye ? For this plain reason : man is not a dy. Evidently the honourable gentleman had a fly's eye, and saw in this motion what it was impossible for other honourable members to see. What did the motion ask for ? This : "That there be laid before this House a return showing the expenditure incurred in connec- tion with the construction of the Makohine Via- duct up to the 30th June last." To persons of average comprehension that was surely suffi- ciently expressive. It asked, further, for " the estimated cost of the viaduct when complete and the date on which the Public Works Depart- ment expect it to be open for traffic." That ex- pressed everything that could possibly be desired in connection with public expenditure upon the Makohine Viaduct. Then, as if the motion was not sufficiently expressive, the mover and the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 Minister for Public Works afterwards consulted, and agreed upon certain amendments, which were quite satisfactory to the honourable member for Franklin, who moved the motion. Then, they were told by the honourable member for Bruce that the honourable member for Frank- lin acceded to the amendment suggested by the Hon. the Minister for Public Works because of his innocence of parliamentary wiles. This was the very first time he had ever heard it stated that the member for Franklin was so innocent as to fall into the traps laid for him by the Minister for Public Works. Surely it could not be said there was anything underhand in what those two honourable gentlemen had done. They had all seen them walk to the table of the House and consult as to the amendments to be in- serted which would give effect to the views which they both held. More than that : the Minister for Public Works had promised the House that he would put the terms of the motion in such a form as to make it understandable even to that member of the House who might be possessed of the meanest comprehension of them all. If the member for Bruce had his microscope about him he wished the honour- able member would lend it to him, so that he might be able to see what the honourable gentle- man was driving at. When the honourable member for Franklin replied, he (Mr. Fisher) hoped he would say what interpretation he placed upon the speech of the honourable member for Bruce. And, as to his being im- posed upon by the Minister for Public Works, it should be remembered that the honourable position amongst those gentlemen who sat in that cold region on that far-off side of the House. He (Mr. Fisher) thought the member for Franklin was able to take care of himself without the assistance of the member for Bruce. It must be evident to the member for Franklin that the member for Bruce had his interests somewhat too closely at heart. He hoped the House would agree to the motion in its amended form. Mr. MILLS (Commissioner of Customs) had heard the motion read, and had understood it very clearly. The honourable member for Franklin was perfectly satisfied with the expla- nation given by the Minister for Public Works, and agreed to accept the return asked for with some slight alteration. If the honourable mem- ber for Bruce wished to have any further in- formation than that expressed in this motion he could give notice of it. That would be a very simple matter, and one that could be dealt with in the usual course. But what he had risen for principally was to deny the statement that the Minister for Public Works had any idea of doing what the honourable member for Bruce said-namely, to concoct a return. He objected to those words being used, because he thought they were unfair, and they naturally tended to cause unpleasantness and lead to a protracted discussion. He was quite satisfied that when the return asked for was produced it would satisfy honourable members, including even the honourable member for Bruce. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said there was one objection to the motion as amended by the Minister- Mr. FISHER .- I thought so. Mr. PIRANI said he thought that, if the Minister put the value of the machinery when the work was completed, there might be some- thing in it, because some of the machinery would undoubtedly be of very little further use, and a deduction ought to be made to that effect. Otherwise he did not see how the motion could be improved. As it was, the Minister would give only what he thought fit. It would there- fore be of advantage to get him to furnish a return giving some information about the matter. In the discussions that had taken place it had been stated that the work had cost a great deal more through being carried out by the Government than if it had been done under the contract system. To his mind, it was far more important to know whether the work was being carried out expeditiously than what the cost would be, for the reason that the longer the work took the longer would they have to pay interest on the cost of the rest of the line that was being completed. Independent of the cost altogether, he would like to have some indication given as to the probable date on which the work would be finished. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) said, a short time ago he replied to a question put by the honourable member for Franklin. He claimed that he had not spoken to the motion. He had no wish whatever to prevent the motion being put to the House, 