fit to take a position on a vessel and be em- ployed by any shipping company in the world. That is the sort of ship I would vote for, but not for a floating prison. Some speakers in this debate have referred to the fact that boys guilty of petty larceny would not be allowed on board a man-of war. I come from a place called Belfast, which is surrounded by beautiful gardens, and I venture to say that if those gardens could speak they could tell tales that would make some men ashamed of themselves for talking so much about petty larceny. What is petty.larceny ? One boy goes along the street and he sees some apples in a garden. There is not the least necessity for him to steal those apples because he has plenty at home; but the apples tempt him -they have tempted others before him. Yet that boy is let off with a caution, because his parents are respectable. The other boy, as he walks along the street, and perhaps has not had a good meal for weeks, sees a loaf of bread in a shop-window. That tempts him ; and I say he has more justification for his larceny than the boy who takes the apples. Yet he is convicted of petty larceny, and branded for all time; and if we keep these boys out of the public service I say that the punishment is too severe for the offence. I say by all means have a training-ship pure and simple, but I agree with the Minister of Educa- tion that, in regard to such a thing as the "Sobraon," we should have none of it. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. - I would like to say a few words in order to clear up one point. The point I referred to in connec- tion with the "Sobraon," and which has also been referred to by other speakers in the course of this debate, was as to the eligibility of boys from a ship like that to get into the navy. It is a very important point, because if they are eligible, then, of course, one advantage possibly to be derived from a training-ship is clear. have here the evidence which was submitted to the Committee of the Council a few years ago. When Captain Leah. of the " Mildura," was being examined he was asked by the Chairman this question :-- " Under any conditions whatever do you take boys from reformatory ships, such as, for in- stance, the . Sobraon,' in Sydney ?. No; we take no boys unless they bear a thoroughly good character." Then I asked these questions :-- " You say that, as far as the navy is con- corned, boys are not taken from reformatory ships : that is an actual fact, is it ? - Yes. " Are you acquainted with the different kinds of training-ships at Home - I mean in the Old Country? No: i am only acquainted with our own. " How many have you, more than one ?. .. Yes ; four or tive. " And they take the boys, do they ?--- The boys are recruited by recruiting parties. These Hon. Mr. Gourley where about the ages of fourteen or fifteen. " Only boys of a thoroughly good character, of course ?---- Yes. "And their training then commences ?- Yes ; the boys go through a training course of from eighteen months to two years in a training- ship. " And that is the way Her Majesty's ships are manned ?- Yes: very few are taken from the merchant service. " In addition to these training ships there are others, like the 'Worcester': do you know anything of that class? - No, nothing whatever ; they are purely for the merchant service. " With regard to reformatory ships : do you know anything of that class ? No, nothing. " Do you know anything of the ' Sobraon ' in Sydney ?--- >o." Then, the Inspector-General of Schools gave evidence to the effect that "the navy is prac- tically closed to reformatory or industrial- school boys, though it is open to boys who have been trained for bands." Then, here is the report of the Inspector of Reformatory and Industrial Schools of Great Britain, for the year 1896. He states, -- "The fact that the boys from industrial- school ships -- except band boys -- though not excluded from the navy, are not welcomed there because of their antecedents a serious matter, for it means that the most powerful stimulus to stir the imagination of a boy on one of the industrial training-ships-namely, the hope of one day entering the Royal navy, which is to boys the highest embodiment of sea life is of small avail." And in a letter to the Minister, which was copied in 1836 but was written in 1-95. in reply to a letter from the master of the Burnham School, Captain Baker, of H.M.S. " Katoomba," said that " no boys could be received on board Her Majesty's ships from establishments of a reformatory nature." I do not think I need go further, but I have shown that I was quite within the mark when I stated that the boys from the "Sobraon " would not be welcomed into the Royal navy. There is only one other remark that I desire to be permitted to make, and that is that I should feel obliged if the honourable gentleman would agree to strike out the word " unanimous " from his motion. do not think it is altogether a fair way of putting a resolution to this Council, because, although there may not have been a division upon the question, yet it does not follow by any means that the vote was unanimous. For instance as far as I can remember, although I did not support the honourable gentleman's resolution last year, I had so much sympathy with his object and aim that I did not in any shape or form force the matter to a vote. I allowed the matter to go on the voices, and I do not think I should afterwards be brought into it by having the word " unanimous " put into a motion of this kind. I will not divide the Council on this 