Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) asked the Government, If they will submit the proposed scale of teachers' salaries, and allowances to Education Boards for building and maintenance, to the Education Boards for consideration before giving effect to the recommendations? The Education Boards of the colony were naturally very anxious to know what would be their posi- tion after the amount had been agreed to in regard to teachers' salaries, and he thought perhaps it would be wisdom on the part of the department if they would submit to the Educa- tion Boards for their consideration the proposed scale of teachers' salaries, and also the allow- ances for building and maintenance. Building and maintenance was now the principal busi- ness of Education Boards, and he thought it was necessary they should be consulted before a decision was arrived at, to afford the Boards an opportunity of expressing their views on the matter. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) said a Commission had been set up to deal with this matter, and representatives of Education Boards, of the school teachers, and Inspectors were appointed to that Commission. He believed the report of the Commission would be such as would satisfy the members of the House. He was afraid that if members of the Education Boards were now again called upon to express their opinions, before a decision were arrived at, it would lead to such delay that no colonial scale of salaries would be adopted this Parliament. However, after the report had been circulated among the Education Boards they could make what representations they pleased. But he, for one, would not delay http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero the legislation that might be thought necessary merely for the purpose of obtaining the assent of all the Education Boards, or the majority of the Education Boards, to the proposals con- tained in the report. He thought the House had confidence in the gentlemen who composed the Royal Commission. When they had the report of that Commission before them they would know better what was the position, and be believed members would be justified in taking upon themselves any responsibility in carrying out the recommendations of the Commission. Mr. BUDDO asked, What about the allow- ances to Education Boards for building and maintenance. Mr. HALL-JONES said that would be gauged from the amount required towards cost of the teachers' salaries. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL asked when the report of the Commission would be circulated. He understood it was handed in yesterday. Mr. HALL-JONES believed it was now in the hands of the Governor. and as soon as it was returned it would be laid before the House, printed, and then circulated as speedily as pos- sible. SUBSIDISING PUBLIC LIBRARIES. Mr. LANG (Waikato) asked the Government, If it is their intention to continue to assist pub- this session for the purpose of subsidising the public libraries throughout the colony in the same manner as they have done during pre- vious sessions ? He hoped the Minister would reply to this question that the Government not only intended to continue the subsidy, but that they would increase it to the amount at which it formerly stood. He might remind the Minis- ter that in 1883 and 1884 the sum paid by way of subsidy to the various libraries was €6,000 for each of those years. Considering the large amount of good the subsidy had done in the way of encouraging these public libraries, more particularly the small libraries in country districts, he hoped the Minister would see his way to say the Government would increase the subsidy to the former amount of $6,000. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) was very sorry that he was not able to give the honourable member the satisfactory answer that he desired- namely, that the vote for this purpose this year would be equal to $6,000. He thought if the House voted an amount equal to that of last year- $3,000 -he (Mr. Hall-Jones) for one would be satisfied. The local people must remember that it was a matter of duty with them to assist these libraries, and that the subsidy of $3,000 frem the Government was a very reasonable con- tribution. RAILWAY TO ALEXANDRA. Mr. BENNET (Tuapeka) asked the Minister for Public Works, If an alternative survey of the railway from Chatto Creek, via Spring Vale terraces, to Alexandra can be made, with the view to obviate the necessity of crossing by means of three costly bridges over the Manor- burn and Manuherikia Rivers and the conse- quent delay during construction? He asked this question at the request of a number of his constituents, who were under the impression that if a deviation of this route were found practicable it would save the cost of three ex- pensive bridges, and there would also be a con- siderable saving in the cost of construction, and likewise in the time required for construction. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) was obtaining additional information with regard to the portion of the route of the Otago Central Railway referred to by the honourable member. He was down there two years ago with the District Engineer, and to an outsider it appeared to be a more direct route ; but, although it might be a more direct route, the cost of construction alongside the river by the steep face of the cliff would be much in excess of the first survey that bad been made. However, he intended to make further inquiry into the matter, but he did not think it would be a better route than that which had been surveyed. An engineer would be starting in a few days to test the matter. KAWAKAWA-WHANGAMOMONA RAIL- WAY. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) asked the Go- vernment, If they will this session take the - 