cient to justify the statesmen of this country in insisting that this colony shall be prepared to resist any invader that may embark upon the enterprise of conquering this country ; and the report recently issued by Captain Crutchley, Secretary of the Navy League, shows that the Lords of the Admiralty themselves are uneasy at the present condition of the British fleet. When the Lords of the Admiralty recently visited Malta they found a rather alarming state of affairs. They found, of course, what they should have known before they left England-that there is no breakwater there, although Malta is within 210 miles of an important torpedo-station. They found that nothing had been done for the defence of Egypt ; and it is now stated, and with authority, by one of the most eminent naval officers-a man who will probably be First Lord of the Admiralty in a few years, if not in a few months-that there is a deficiency in all classes of vessels -battle- ships and destroyers, that there is a complete absence of fleet auxiliaries, and that the fleet generally is not in an adequate state of prepara- tion for war. Well, Sir, if we receive those statements on high authority, and recognising the fact that we live by our commerce, and recognising the further fact that France and other nations are building large numbers of commerce destroyers, we must admit that the British fleet may not be in a position to convoy our commercial ships and to adequately defend this colony ; and, though I feel satisfied that if an enemy lands in this country our Volunteers would give a good account of themselves, and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 that such an enemy would easily be annihilated, I would urge that the minimum requirements agreed to by the admiral of the station and the Defence Committee should as speedily http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero as possible be fulfilled. Now, Sir, another item of expenditure is that of the Agricul- tural Department, and I submit that that also was an expenditure which may be regarded as reproductive, because if we educate our farmers the increased knowledge must neces- sarily result in increased production. In re- ferring to the railways, I have dealt with the remarks of the honourable gentleman with regard to the alleged excessive expenditure in proportion to the income received ; and I would point out one or two salient features of the Budget which I think ought to bring home to the minds of the settlers generally the excellent manner in which the railways are now being ad- ministered. In the year 1894-95, the railways carried 3,905,578 passengers, while during last year they carried 6,243,593 passengers. During the last six years the revenue-producing power of the railways has increased by no less a sum than $576,385. Those facts, I submit, are a sure indication of the general prosperity of the country. I shall also support the Government in their proposal to introduce a system of cool-storage, and also in the chartering of vessels to develop external trade. The honourable gentleman passed lightly over these items, but I feel quite satisfied that if the Conservative party were to come into Mr. Napier . external trade, just as their former tenure of office resulted in a paralysis with regard to land settlement. The San Francisco mail-service is referred to in the Budget, but not in as emphatic terms as I would like to see it alluded to. There is no doubt that that service is the best for com- mercial purposes, and the most economical of any of the mail-services of the colonies, and I trust some practical proposals will be submitted to the House for insuring the permanency of that service. The right honourable gentleman will have noticed that an effort is being made by the people in Queensland to divert the steamers to Queensland direct, and I submit that that would involve, necessarily, the cut- ting-out of New Zealand. I trust that no such calamity will be permitted. Then, there is one paragraph in the Budget speech which I do not quite understand, and that is with reference to trade with the annexed islands. Now, as far as the islands which have 9.30. been annexed to New Zealand are con- cerned, they are now provinces of New Zealand. They are just as much a province of this colony as Canterbury or Auckland is, and the laws of New Zealand apply to them just the same as they apply to any city in the colony. To suggest, therefore, that goods from one province going into another province of New Zealand should be subjected to continued Customs imposts is a suggestion that I do not agree with. I submit that the products of New Zealand should now be allowed to go into the islands free, because they are a part of the colony. It must neces- sarily be so. I do not see how one province can set up a system of taxation against another province, and I hope that the laws of those is- lands, such as they are, are being adjusted. We ought to give those laws an overhauling at as early a date as possible in this House. I trust everybody will now recognise that the islands are part of the colony, and that the laws of New Zealand shall apply to them as well as to other parts of the colony. I notice with satis- faction that the ordinary expenditure on public works was greater than that of the previous year by £350,000. That is satisfactory. I hope that, instead of crying a halt in the public works policy, as suggested by the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, it will go on at an accelerated pace. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- What, at 4 per cent. ? Mr. NAPIER .- I am pleased that the Trea- surer has placed the construction of the North Island Trunk line in the category of national works of the first rank. I think the House is unanimous with him on that point. Members from the North and the South are all agreed that the North Island Trunk Railway is a national work, and therefore that there should be no hesitation in proceeding with its construction as fast as finance will allow. I submit that the viaducts should be got ready as soon as possible, so that we will not have to wait on the forma- tion, and that when the formation is sufficiently advanced the viaducts ought to be ready to be erected, so that the time for opening the line will be in accordance with the promise 