definite answer from the Premier, if it could be given without causing complications, as to whether it was the intention of the Govern- ment to acquire the 11,000 acres. He under- stood that there were only two Natives at present interested in this block, and they were desirous of selling it at a reasonable price, and, as they had plenty of land apart from this 11,000 acres, the Government would see all objections on that score were removed ; and, as negotiations were entered into with the Natives prior to the passing of the Native Land Act, legislative restrictions did not interfere with the purchase. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, if his memory served him aright, negotiations were proceed- ing ; but he was not going to bind the Govern- ment in reply to a question, otherwise the hands of the Government might be forced, and they might have to pay more for the land. The honourable member was within his rights, and was, no doubt, doing what his constituents required of him in calling attention to this matter, but he (Mr. Seddon) was also within his rights when he said that this matter had not been overlooked, and that negotiations were proceeding. The Government, however, would take their own time and their own course, hoping ultimately to bring the matter to a suc- cessful issue. OLD SOLDIERS' CLAIMS. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked the Government, Whether they intend this session to bring in legislation to deal with outstanding claims of old soldiers ? Every session they had a crop of petitions from old soldiers, who, rightly or wrongly, thought they had been neglected. Many of them, he knew, had not been able to go before the last Commissioner appointed to inquire into these claims, owing to his visits not being sufficiently advertised. Many had been dismissed on mere technical grounds. He trusted the Government would settle these claims, and, if some of them had been thrown out on mere technical grounds, every consideration should be shown towards those who had done good and faithful service to the colony. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said a reference to the Order Paper would show that there was a fair amount of work for members to get through. He had answered this question in the negative on more than one occasion, and the honourable member would recollect that when they passed the last measure dealing with old soldiers' claims the House and the country were told it was to be final. Mr. HERRIES .- Some of them were not investigated. Mr. SEDDON said the Commissioner ap- pointed travelled from one end of the colony to the other, and his salary and expenses amounted to something like $2,000, and, as far as he (Mr. Seddon) knew, the work was Mr. O'Meara way there might have been some few cases overlooked, the better course would be for them to petition the House. As to amending the law in respect to this matter, members bad already so much work to do that he would hesitate to call upon them to deal with the question this session. # RANGIORA RAILWAY-STATION. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) asked the Minister for Railways, When he intends to authorise the erection of a new railway-station at Rangiora in place of the present antiquated and inconve- nient accommodation ? The description of this station was not his own, but was embedied in & resolution that had been passed by the Borough Council. This was one of two railway-stations in North Canterbury that had had considerable additions in regard to goods-sheds and siding accommodation during the past five-and-twenty years, but nothing had been done for the ac- commodation of passengers. At this particular station at the present time there was only office-room. There was no accommodation for shelter. It was not fair to the travelling public of North Canterbury that they should have only the accommodation at these railway-stations that was necessary when the population was not half what it was at the present time. The station-buildings were inadequate, and were at too great a distance from the main-line. He trusted to get a favourable answer. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) was very sorry to hear such a condition of affairs existed in the honourable member's district, but he regretted to say, from the report he had upon the matter, that it was considered the present passenger accommodation was sufficient, and there was nothing to warrant the erection of a new station there at present. MCLEAN'S RAILWAY-STATION. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Minis- ter for Railways, Whether he will make provi- sion for the erection of a grain-shed and improving the loading- bank and siding at McLean's Station, on the Waimate- Waihao Downs Branch Railway? A number of the settlers of Waikakahi had already approached the Minister upon this question, and he would like now to hear what the honourable gentle- man had to say upon the matter. Sir J. G. WARD ( Minister for Railways) said the traffic at this station was not sufficient to warrant the department incurring the expense that would be necessary to give effect to this request. He was informed the existing accom- modation was ample for the amount of business done at the station. The total amount of grain forwarded through this station during the last six months was 3,760 bags. MAIL-DELIVERY. Mr. HOUSTON (Bay of Islands) asked the Postmaster-General, If he will take some steps 