views on such questions have very often been supported at the poll simply because of the general usefulness of their carcer, in spite of the unpopular side which they have taken on some of these particular questions. But rather than that these questions should be put in front of the public, especially at election times - rather than that they should be traps to the unwary yomig politician when he is trying to cut his eve-teeth :- I would sooner see them dealt with in a straightforward way, and let the people say whether they want anything of the mature to which Ihave referred. Most of them are questions to which " Ave " or " No " can be given. Take the Bible-reading-in-schools ques- tion: Does any one say that every elector in the colony does not know what that means, or that he is not prepared to say " Ave " er " No" on that question ? Well. I say there is a matter which might very well be referred to the electors of the colony, if the question is of the import- ance which some people seem to think it is. I have no doubt in my own mind that it was settled once and for all when the Education Act was passed in 1877, and I am not afraid of the question being brought up in any shape or form, now or afterwards. But I know this: that there are certain parts of the colony where the public mind is being disturbed by the con- stant reiteration of the ery that " we must have the Bible in schools " An Hon. MEMBER ... . That is a different thing to a poil. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I hope the honourable gentleman will not be in a burry. That is one question. I will deal with that question as well. I wish to state the one thing first. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero An Hon. MEMIRER .-- You are putting the cart before the horse. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- No, I am not. I am starting absolutely in a logical way. I began, in the first place, showing that we have got the referendum in one shape in this country -- that is, in regard to the Alcoholic Liquors Act. Then I seek to point out that there are other questions which might fairly be settled in the same way, and I think that without any abro- gation of legislative power the Legislature might very fairly remit such questions to the public, to be solved by the elceters in the most direct way possible. I admit there is a diffi- culty of expense; but expense ought not to enter into the question of constitutional practice, he- cause if the question is worth putting, and if the State requires the question to be solved, it ought, I think, to be prepared to pay the piper. But. still, I admit that it would cost a i good suin of money, and therefore I should be sorry to see this question put too often. I would very much rather see New Zealand adopting the practice of the American States, and of the Federal Government, which, as far as possible, concentrate their efforts in the direction of ob- taining an expression of the popular will one day in three years. If you put as many ques- tions as you like to the electors on the one day publie bedies en the same day as you can. The difficulty nowadays is that we have got so many local authorities-we have got so many days of dection that the janblie mind is hardly equal 10 the distraction of what an old friend of mine 1 used to call "reaming from poll to poll." It is a long way to travel- from pelo to pole -- and the electors in the past have made complaint, and with reason, that there are too many of these local elections, which might very well te concentrated on one day in the year. You should cieet your County Councils, your Borough Councils, your Read Boards, and your School Committees all on the one day, and the trouble of the vear would be all over. Probably they would all be cheted en very bannenious principles, and you would have local bodies perhaps that would be more in harmony with each other than we have them now. How- ever. that is merely by the way. But at the same time I believe in concentrating the exer- rise of the privilege of casting votes; and if the referendum was adopted in this country I should perhaps le inclined to restrict the referendum to being submitted, if possible, to such a time as the general election day. How- ever, I have endeavcared to show we have got the referendum in one form already. We have got questions which might very well be solved by a reference from Parliament. But then comes the question of legislatien-and those members of the Council who have spoken on the subject seem to me to have been extra- vagant, almost, in their denunciations of the proposals of this Bill. I do not know what is the opinion of this Comeil of these minds that have certainly erected the biggest legislative mounment of patience and per- tinacity over on the other side in the shape of the Commonwealth Act of Australia. I do not know what is the opinion of the Council as to the statesmen who have effected this great work ; and it is a strange thing that if honour- ale members of the Comeil will only read the Commonwealth Act, and study its provisions as regards this very question, they will find that nearly every provision we have got in this Bill is inserted there. And why is it inserted there ? Simply because the Commonwealth Act is the result of growing minds and living needs, and that the Act has been constructed so as to pro- vide the new Commonwealth of Australia with the latest methods of legislative machinery. They have got a Senate there. Some honour- able gentlemen were kind enough to say this Bill was an insidious attack on the privileges of this Council, and that it was absolutely a menace to their very existence. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI .- Not here. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WAI KER .- It was said -- if not in those exact words, in words quite as strong; and, judging by the looks of the speaker, I should say that words were hardly sufficient to express exactly his sentiments on the ques- tion. But compare our condition with the Commonwealth of Australia. There they have got a Senate, which has been put in a command- 