"'Money-lender ' includes every person (whe- ther an individual, a firm, a society, or a cor- porate body, whose business is that of money- lending, or who advertises or announces him- self or holds himself out in any way as carrying on that business." The borrower can have the case reopened before a Court, leaving it to the Court to make a fair adjustment as between the parties. This is provided for in section 3. Section 4 provides that a money-lender must be registered, and that is a provision which I think should have been enacted long since. It also provides the penalty for a money-lender who fails to re- gister, or who does not carry on his business in accordance with the provisions of this Bill. The following clauses are machinery clauses, to give effect to the main provisions of the Bill. Then, there is the penalty clause which is cus- tomary in such measures. The penal clause is the same as in the Imperial Act. The Bill itself is almost word for word that of the Im- perial Act. The Bill can be objected to by no honest man, because it simply provides for an honest adjustment as between the borrower and the lender. I move the second reading of the Bill. Mr. HANAN (Invercargill) .- Mr. Speaker, I intend to support this Bill, because I believe in the principle it contains ; but at the same time I intend. in Committee, to endeavour to secure one or two amendments. As this Bill is drawn, Sir, I have no hesitation in saying that if it is carried it will be a complete nullity, and I in- tend to point out to the House and the Minister my reasons for making that statement. In clause 2 we have the definition of the term "money- lender " It goes on to say,- " But does not include- "(1.) Any duly licensed pa vnbroker in respect of business carried on by him in ac- cordance with the provisions of ' The Pawnbrokers Act, 1868'; or "(2.) Anv society registered under 'The Building Societies Act, 1880' ; 'The " (3.) Any society registered under Friendly Societies Act, 1882'; "(4.) Any body corporate. incorporated or empowered (before the passing of this Act) by a special Act of Parliament to lend money in accordance with such special Act ; or " (5.) Any person bona fide carrying on the business of banking or insurance or any business not having for its pri- mary object the lending of money, in the course of which and for the pur- poses whereof he lends money." Having regard to the concluding words of the definition in clause 5, it must be plain to honourable members that it is easy for a money-lender to combine with his business some other business. He may be a commis- sion agent, a lawyer, or a shopkeeper. He may say that his business is that of a com- mission agent, and that that is his primary business. Well, under those circumstances, I have no hesitation in saying, without fear of is a useful provision, because, if a man be- Mr. Hall-Jones contradiction, that this Bill does not touch him at all. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why should it touch him ? Mr. HANAN .- I am speaking of the Bill as it is drawn now. I say it is a complete nullity, because it may be evaded in the direction I have indicated -- namely, that a man can com- bine another business with that of money- lending, and he may contend that the money- lending is not his primary business. I think that is plain to any member of the House. What I should like to see in a Bill of this kind is the rate of interest fixed. That is to say, fix a limit of 10 per cent., and --- An Hon. MEMBER .- You cannot do it. Mr. HANAN .-- Allow me to proceed, and I will explain. In other countries a limit has been fixed. What I propose is that where interest over, say, 10 per cent. is charged. at the instance of the borrower, if he considers the amount excessive, application could be made to the Court, which should make inquiry into the transaction and decide what is a fair rate. Where the charge is 10 per cent., or under 10 per cent., there would be no right to apply to the Court. Thirty per cent. may be charged, and, being over 10 per cent., it would be open to the borrower to go to the Court and ask the Court to say whether the charge is fair and reasonable; and the Court, having regard to the transaction and to the risk, will then determine whether the charge is fair and reasonable. The Court may come to the conclusion that 30 per cont. is not too much in that case, and, if so. that amount will be awarded. I do not say there should be a maximum charge of interest fixed, but there should be the limit I have mentioned of 10 per cent. ; and in regard to any amount over the 10 per cent. application could be made to the Court to determine as to its fairness. Mr. HALL-JONES .- No matter who may lend it ? Mr. HANAN. - Yes ; because I cannot see any reason for a distinction. Every person who lends money as a business is a money- lender. At the same time I would not object to some of the exemptions that are made by this Bill. An Hon. MEMBER .- Suppose a couple of pounds is borrowed ? Mr. HANAN .- Well, if the charge is over 10 per cent., it should be open to the Court to inquire into the transaction at the request of the borrower, and say whether the rate of interest demanded is fair, and should be paid. What we want is that the present outrageous rates of interest charged by Shylocks should be diminished -in other words, to relieve necessi- tous borrowers from the heavy obligation to pay usurious interest. Now, this is an exceedingly difficult subject to deal with. Take, for in- { stance, the definition of "interest ": The definition of "interest " should include fine. or renewal charge, otherwise there would be evasions of the Act. It is doubtful whether clause 3 covers that objection. Then, clause 4 