in strikes, and he will go a long way in | the stuff, in the same way as the bootmakers arbitration before resorting to them. Well, Sir, what will be the effects of its action ? If they only allow one apprentice to three or four journeymen, which is now being done, how are the industries of this colony to be carried on, to say nothing at all about an increase of industries ? If we were to allow the young people of this colony to be trained as they ought to be trained, what need would there be to send $200.000 to America for a lot of rolling- stock, badly made and unsuitable, each car- riage weighing 34 cwt. more, and costing a larger sum than those manufactured here ? Why, under an award of the Arbitration Court, I know the case of a respectable man in Dun- edin who has two sons he wishes to take into his business, and for two years he cannot take them in. They have done with their schooling, and, forsooth, they will have to knock about the streets, and become vagabonds instead of being at work, in consequence of this class of legisla- tion. It is wrong that legislation should say to the young men of this colony, when they want to learn a certain trade, "This trade is full ; you must go to learn something else," and when they go to another trade they are told the same thing. There is no room for them; and what are they to do, where are they to go? Let us come to the practi- cal point. Let us take the boot trade. That is the largest trade in New Zealand, and it has the biggest and strongest union or federa- tion in the colony. What is the condition of that trade now ? One large employer in Dunedin had about two hundred hands in his employ. but he has not half that number now, and his case is not singular. American boots and boots from other countries have been deluging this country, and our industries are being ruined In this matter, Sir, the Arbitration Court has taken a great and a wise departure. But, when the flood-gates are open, is it easy to stem the current ? What has the Arbitration Court done ? Seeing the position of this trade, they have abolished, as I understand, the restric- tions on machinery, which was the great curse of the whole thing, and they have allowed every emplover to manage his own affairs as he feels disposed, so long as he does not pay below a certain rate of wages. Well, there is some hope of the industry being saved from annihilation, and if the Arbitration Court succeeds they will have done a good work. Well, Sir, there are other industries just as much in jeopardy as the one I have mentioned : and can we stand by and pass these Bills at this stage? For myself I do not think there is very much in this Bill that any one should care so much about. There are some good things in it. There is a certain fear created amongst employers, and a worry exists that is not good for trade. Although we have known employers exaggerate what is to happen to them, yet if they take fright we do not know what may occur. The Hon. Mr. Rigg said that this was a want of energy on the part of employers. Well, if the employers are to be worried and harassed like the bootmakers they will import Hon. Mr. McLean have imported theirs. Therefore, Sir, although there might not be much harm in this Bill, I hope for a season we shall be content. It is the constant bringing-forward of these labour laws that is causing the general irritation, and it is said that the Govern- ment are the cause of the labour laws. It does not matter what Government may be in power, the labour laws will have to go on, and any flaws found in their working must be recti- fied. Something has been said about the head of the department. The head of the depart- ment has been very judicious in working the Acts. He has not dragged cases into Court as he might have done. He has handled his In- spectors carefully, and lots of difficulties have to my knowledge been smoothed over instead of taking cases into Court. It is that sort of gentleman that we should have in that position : but I think he should get resolutions from both employers and employés before he proposes amendments of the law, and then he would not. produce one-sided laws such as he sometimes proposes now. When the one-sidedness of these Bills is pointed out to him he sees the folly of them himself. I see in these laws a danger, and probably this Bill should be de- layed until we see what might be brought forth in the shape of abuses by the keeping of an overtime-book. I think these new clauses should, at all events, stand over. There is this great danger in pressing the matter too strongly : that employers will commence to think that if they are to be treated in this way they will say to their employés. "So far shalt thou go and no farther ; you shall have that which the law allows you, but no more." Thus we shall have a state of matters that we should not have. Every one should try to promote good feeling between employers and emploves, and not stir up strife. I think that too much strife is being stirred up in the Arbitration Court, for I never see much of the conciliation part my- self. Of course, there are some good Conciha- tion Boards and some bad ones, and it is not fair to class them all together. Some have done good work, and have settled a good many cases without having to send them to the Arbitration Court at all. There are others, however, that are undoubtedly sur- ring up strife in order to keep matters going. Such conduct as that, we know, can only end in the extinction of the Boards. The Boards should therefore have fair warning not to draw out disputes that might be settled without causing irritation. I am sorry, Sir, to have to take up the time of the House so long, but I consider it behoves every one, now that the feel- ing is getting somewhat exaggerated, to try to prevent the irritation going further, and to smooth the differences there are existing be- tween the employers and employés, and, above all things, we should try to keep our industries in the colony going, so that work may be found for our people. Our people should be educated to do the work. It should not be necessary when times get brisk to have to send to Australia, or elsewhere, for men. We should avoid that by- 