training-vessel. And we should not forget, also, that we are a maritime colony, that we are a colony circumscribed with a coast-line, and we ought to look forward, I think, to developing lads trained and with a taste for a maritime life. Not only could we recruit our ordinary mercantile marine, but also we should be able to some extent to assist the recruiting of the Imperial navy. I do not know how it is, but evidence was given before the Federation Commission by, I think, witnesses either in Wellington or Dunedin in reference to the young New Zealand lads who are apprenticed to mechanical engineering ; whether it is from the education they receive here in the school, or from their natural mental capabilities, or from the mode of instruction they receive in the foundries I cannot tell, but the evidence given most emphatically before us was that any young man in these foundries, after he has passed his apprenticeship-or what is tantamount to his apprenticeship - is always sure of a good position on board a steamer as an assistant in the engine-room, and I have no doubt what- ever that a very large number of our youths from New Zealand hold very good positions in the mercantile marine of this and other colo- nies and throughout the world. Therefore I am very strongly of opinion that it would be an excellent thing for this colony if we could get one or more of these training-vessels here, and it is well worth the trouble of the trial. I do not think the expense to the colony would be very large, and I should hope and believe that the Imperial Government would place at the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 disposal of the Government of this colony freely and cheerfully one or more of the obsolete ships, which would be the very thing we want in this colony for this purpose. The "Sobraon " is a very large vessel, and cost the New South Wales Government, I think, some £12,000. We do not want so large a vessel, and we could begin modestly at first. I am one of those sanguine in the matter, and I believe that ultimately it will turn out a great success. hope this resolution will be agreed to by the Council, and that the Government will give effect to it. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I think I have already stated this session that when in Sydney I was very pleased to go and see the "Sobraon," and what our party witnessed there was most encouraging. The boys were bright, well-controlled, clean, happy, and all that boys ought to be, and it was a sight that I would not have missed for a great deal. But the honourable gentleman who has just pre- ceded me has asked the question that I have asked myself, What is there that makes the difference between a training-ship and an indus- trial school on shore? That is the difficulty. Because, given good managers, the same re- sults ought to accrue either on shore or on the water. An Hon. MEMBER .- Oh. no. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .-- Well then, if you do not admit that, you must admit that Hon. Colonel Pitt on shore, and that humanity generally-even adult humanity -- is better and purer on board ship than on shore. Of course, if you admit that, you admit certainly a great part of the premises. Possibly masters and teachers are better on ship than on shore ; but that is the problem that I have been unable to get a satis- factory answer to. We do our best to fit up industrial schools on shore, with good managers and teachers, and we do all we can to make the instruction useful and the discipline sound and good, and surely if we have got the right men we ought to get just the same results as they do on board ship. There are, I will admit, two points of difference. In the first place, senti- ment, of course, has a great deal to do with boys' lives, and I believe, myself, that the clothing of these boys in the King's uniform -- for they are dressed like little men-of-war's- men-has an unconscious effect on their lives. and that they try to live up to what they believe to be the traditions of the profes- sion. I quite admit that ; but, still, we can put our young fellows in a uniform on shore and see if that would not have the same effect. Of course, there is another advantage in having the school on the water, and that is that it is a prison, and yet it does not look like one. Bows cannot run away from a ship, even though it is anchored in a harbour, whereas it is a con- stant trouble with a certain class of cases that on shore they are always trying to run away. and we are compelled to treat them absolutely as prisoners, which is the very last thing we want to do. I admit on those two points there is something to be said in favour of the in- dustrial ship as against the industrial school on shore. As regards it being a school which will in any shape or form add much to our growing maritime population, I do not believe. The Sydney authorities could not give me much that was very convincing on that point. In fact. they admitted that they sent boys into the country, and that the number that finally I went to sea was comparatively small. I am quite certain that last year, in proportion to the number of our population, we sent as many boys to the sea as the Sydney people did. I believe we are sending away as many boys to the sea as can get away in any case, and certainly as great a proportion as the Sydney people do. Therefore I do not think there is much in the argument that we would be adding to our sea-going population. much as I admit the desirableness in a country like this of our doing everything to encourage a sea - going population ; because the sea is our privilege. it is our heritage, and it is our defence, besides being the means of livelihood for many of us. So that from every point of view we ought to consider our obligations to the sea, and we ought to always keep in view the propriety of training as many of our sons as are suitable for it to do their work on the salt-water. I do not think the Sydney experience will encourage me to say that there is very much difference whether we have our school 