Mr. Isitt, who I believe by his misrepresenta- tions disgraces the cloth he wears-and I will tell him so if I meet him-delivered an address at Taranaki. He said, in effect, that he could not expect to get fair-play from the Committee, because there was only one Prohibitionist upon it-namely, Mr. Thomson, the member for the Clutha. Sir, I could have got the reverend gentleman before the bar of this House for a breach of privilege. We sent the reverend gentleman down a report of his evidence for correction ; but the reverend gentleman altered every single one of the questions of my cross- examination of him to fit in with his replies. I need not say anything more about this ques- tion excepting that Wahanui, the great Maori chief, told me that he had made a huge mistake when he approached the Stout-Vogel Govern- ment and asked them to keep licensed houses out of the King.country. I saw the greater chief Rewi just before he died, and he told me the same thing. I saw just before I came down here one of the most intelligent men asso- ciated with the Maori race - Mr. Arthur Ormsby. He told me he hawked a petition all around the King-country with a view of getting signatures for prohibition. He said, "I have since gone round and interviewed the whole of the Natives, and what the Natives really want at the present time, and what the Europeans in the King- country want, is to be enabled by vote, as they did at Clutha, to decide whether they should have licensed houses in the King-country or not." I think we all know that a great American has recently been through New Zea- land, a gentleman who contested with Mr. Mckinley the position of President of the great democracy of America. I mean Mr. Woolley. Mr. TANNER .- Nothing of the kind. Mr. LAWRY. - Who did he contest it against ? Mr. TANNER .- He never was fairly in the contest. Mr. LAWRY .- Then, I have less respect for his friends than I had before, for they said he did. But, Sir, a lot of fanatics in Auckland gave this gentleman a breakfast. At that breakfast he is reported in the New Zealand Heraid -- which never makes a mistake, one of the greatest journals of the world, a journal that abused me and others into Parliament, a journal that helped to put those honourable gentlemen on the Government benches with a stronger support than can be claimed by any other Government in the British dominions -- this journal said that Mr. Woolley stated at that breakfast that he was proud to know-1 am speaking from memory -- that there was an affinity between the two great races in this country. the aboriginals and the European settlers, and that he was very proud to know or realise that he had come to New Zealand many years after the time the Maoris had baked missionary for breakfast. I hope, before this gentleman leaves the colony, he will correct that statement and say he knew nothing whatever about it. My honourable friend the member for Napier will bear me out when I Mr. Lawry say that if there were any earnest people in New Zealand that the Maoris respected it was the missionary. At a time when it was scarcely safe for Europeans to go about in any part of New Zealand the old Maoris respected those people who came here at great sacrifice to teach them the Gospel and Christianity. I say the Maoris never killed a missionary for the pur. pose of using him in a cannibalistic sense. The honourable member for Napier, and the Native Minister, if he were here, would tell the House that the only two missionaries the Maoris ever killed were the Rev. Mr. Volkner and the Rev. Mr. Whiteley. And why did they kill them ? Because they were infatuated with fanaticism, and believed they had to do so to please some deity in whom they believed. It is a very wrong thing for a gentleman like that to come to New Zealand and make a statement of that nature ; and it is to be hoped the gentleman will apologize before he leaves our shores. I cannot help expressing the strongest dissent from the statement made by the principal De Wet of this Parliament. I refer to the honourable member for Hawke's Bay. He is doing here what De Wet is doing in South Africa -- he leads a guerrilla warfare. He said there never was a period in the history of the colony when farm-produce was so lou ss at present. Surely he knows nothing wiat- ever about the condition of the country. The condition of the country at present is that. although there is a decrease in the price of wool, there is a corresponding increase in the price of the carcase. I was speaking, when in Auckland, to a gentleman who holds a seat in the other place. I said the decrease in the price of wool must make considerable difference to his income. He said that what he lost in the price of wool he obtained in the increased price of the carcase of the sheep, and also on the We have been told that the Giw- lambs. vernment ought to have increased the facilities to bring people out to take up land. We have heard it stated on the floor of the House that the Government ought to increase the facili for settlement by outsiders. Personally, bio not believe anything of the kind. As I think I stated at one time, we ought to keep New Zel <!-- PageHeader="\-" --> land for New-Zealanders. I should like honour- able gentlemen to reflect for one moment that we have in our country thousands of childtel. --- children who are brought up to understand milking cows, feeding cattle, herding shop. and driving horses. If we unduly induce pe ple to come to this country to take up the limited area of first-class land we now possess. w.a. will the inevitable result be ? We shall place these children, when they become men and <!-- PageHeader="1" --> women, in a worse position than my honouracle friend Mr. MeNab's father and I myself were in when we came to this country. Sir. I believe in the settlement of the country, but I believe in the gradual settlement of the country by the sons and daughters of the " sod." I believe that the settler of New Zealand is the backbone and mainstay of the country, and I would like to say at this particular stage that I am sure the Government of the present time, by bringing 