the land carry to the acre ? The Hon. Mr. ORMOND said, About one sheep and a half to the acre, he should think. But Hatuma was a place which he had seen many times under varying conditions. It was a badly- watered property, and how the small settlers would get on in dry seasons, any one who knew Hawke's Bay might guess. The price of Ha- tuma, as near as he could get at it, was about £5 4s. an acre. That was without any roading, surveying, or other incidental expenses, which he would not estimate, simply because he did not want to say anything which could not be thoroughly substantiated. But this little book said that roads were to be provided and access given to each section. The whole cost, at $5 per acre-much less than it cost-would be £65,110 for these fifteen sections, and it could easily be seen that providing properties of this kind for very few people was something which was never contemplated by the Land for Settlements Act. That was what he was try- ing to make apparent, not only to the Council but to people of New Zealand outside the Council who would consider this subject, because, in his opinion, what he had stated was never intended by the Land for Settlements Act. As to the rental of Hatuma, he might state that various rentals were given-7s., 6s. an acre, and so on. He estimated that the very lowest rental would be this-that by the time any one of these settlers, small or large, had fenced in his block and stocked it and put the smallest of whares on it, his rental, including https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 rental to the Government and interest on his money, would be 10s. an acre a year at the very least, and probably it would be more. With wool at present prices it did not need / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero him to demonstrate that any such rental would be absolutely impossible; and he did not think the colony ought to be in the position of creating a class of tenants on terms which, in the end, it would be impossible for them to comply with, and which would oblige the Government before they had done with them to largely reduce their rentals. He had instanced the case of Hatuma because it showed how the Land for Settlements Act was working in respect to that particular class of property. Since the Hatuma case was settled, action under the compulsory clauses had been largely pressed upon the consideration of the Government, and one property, Forest Gate, had been taken. He would have something to say about that directly. Notices had been given in the case of three others, but no notice had yet appeared in the Gazette with regard to them. None of them were suitable for close settlement. At the present values which the Valuation Department had managed to have placed upon the land in the Hawke's Bay District, he did not believe any of those pro- perties would, if acquired, pay the Govern- ment. In his opinion they would not be safe investments, nor at those values would settlers be able to occupy them profitably. Believing that, he thought it was his duty to place those facts before the public and before future in the settlement of land of the class of Hatuma, it might not be said that the whole position was not clearly put before the land was acquired. As he had already stated, the second block in Hawke's Bay that the Government had taken was a property called Forest Gate, which consisted of about eight thousand acres, and which had belonged to an old settler, Colonel Herrick, who died some time ago. He was an officer of the Colonial Forces, and was actively employed during the Native wars. He was in command of the expedition at Waikare- moana against Te Kooti, and had performed good services for the colony. The estate was not a big one, nor was it of high quality. He left a widow and five children. Three of them were grown up men, whose ages range from twenty-five to thirty years, and there were two daughters. The estate contained a little over eight thousand acres of land, which, in his opinion, was not suitable for close settle- ment. He should say, in fairness, in refer- ence to the Forest Gate property, that when the proprietor, Colonel Herrick, died, he left an executor, who, knowing that the place was not a very good provision for the family, saw his way some two years ago to acquire, as he thought, a better place where those young people could have a better chance of settling. That was, provided he could sell Forest Gate. It was therefore offered to the Government, which declined it, for the reason that the price asked was considered to be too high. The family was very much pleased at that. The widow desired to end her days there. In the meantime the chance of getting the property which it was thought could be acquired out of the money to be got from the Government for Forest Gate was lost. Then, after that, they were served with a notice that the Government had taken the place. In his opinion that was a very harsh proceeding. The family consisted of, as he had said, five young people and a widow. The property was extremely moderate in size, and it would not provide for more than double the number if it were cut up into pieces which it would be profitable to occupy. Why the Board thought it necessary to be so harsh and arbitrary as to take a small property of this kind from a family who had been born and brought up on it, it was very difficult to say. There was a very strong feeling in Hawke's Bay that this was a cruel and wanton act, and it was generally thought to be one which ought not to proceed further. However, there it was. Notice had been given that the land was taken, and the young people had no other place to go to. This was the return an old settler who had done good service to the colony met with, under the compulsory clauses of the Act. The case, however, was not yet settled, as it had to go to the Court to decide as to what the Govern- ment had to pay, and if it had to pay in the same proportion as it had done in the case of Hatuma, he ventured to say this place would be an equally bad bargain. In regard to the other two properties, there had been no notification of their having been taken, except a statement 