case. He had it on very good authority from people in the district, that no evidence had been taken; and it was said none of the pillars had been removed in the mine, and that there were millions of tons of coal yet remaining in the mine. It was only right this document, con- taining the evidence of the miners interested, should be attached to the report ; and if the honourable member for the Grey could see his way to have it attested by the petitioners it might give the statement more weight. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he did not think any member of the House knew more about the Wallsend Mine than he did. The closing of that mine had always been a mystery to the people on the West Coast, and there could be no doubt the sale to another company which had another mine to work had something to do with it. It had always been known amongst the miners that, although one part of the mine was somewhat faulty, there was any amount of coal. This was what the men in their petition said :- " The dip when the mine ceased operations was driven some 20 chains ; good coal for the whole of that distance, and no bords worked ; in position to start at least thirty bords, giving room for 120 miners double-shifted (usual method)." The report of the evidence taken in 11.30. Wellington was so diametrically op- posed to what these miners alleged to be cor- rect that they endeavoured, in the only way https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 they could, to be heard, and that was by send- ing a letter to the Commission and asking the Commission that it be put in as evidence. All Commissions did that, and they found in the Federation Commission's report opinions of various gentlemen which had been sent in by letter. Mr. MASSEY .- They went before the Com- mission. Mr. SEDDON said, Yes; but what was the difference? If the Commission had had the opportunity of considering this letter, probably it would have treated it in the same way, and it would have been embodied in the evidence they had taken. Captain RUSSELL .- The Federation Com- mission embodied no letters in their evidence. Mr. SEDDON said, No; but they formed part of the proceedings, and were embodied in the records. This letter could not be received in time, but he could assure honourable mem- bers that the names he found appended to the letter -the first name was that of Robert Russell, who was Mayor of Brunner, and he knew nearly every name that was on the letter, and he believed that those men would be as careful in the matter of putting their names to a document as any member of that House. He spoke from personal knowledge of the men. It was unusual for separate communications to be laid on the table of the House, but this was not an ordinary communication. An Hon. MEMBER .- Do you speak for the lot ? Mr. SEDDON said he knew nearly the whole of them ; and he might say, from his own per- said he knew to be correct. At any rate, it was an unusual circumstance, and the honour- able member for Hawke's Bay was quite right to call attention to it, because members would demur to ordinary communications received by members being laid on the table of the House. The circumstances in this case were special. This letter could not reach the Commission, for, he presumed, the Commission had ceased sitting, and they only asked that some oppor- tunity should be given them. After this had been laid on the table, he would ask that it be referred to the Mines Committee, who would get hold of these men and sift the question as to the closing of these mines, so that they might know once and for all if the public estate was sacrificed, as he believed it undoubtedly was. He would move, after this had been laid on the table, that it and the report of the Royal Commission, if deemed necessary, be also referred to the Mines Committee. ' Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) would like to say a few words in reply to what had been stated by the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, who seemed to say that it was a worthless paper, because the evidence had not been given on oath and the witnesses had not been subjected to cross-examination. The honourable gentle- man had said it appeared to him the Commis- sion had sat in the district, and that the people were afraid to submit themselves to cross- examination. Well, if the honourable gentle- man would look at the names on the petition he would see that the first one was " Russell," and must admit that no one of the name of Russell was likely to be afraid of cross-examina- tion : and the other names would also suggest the same conclusion. When the Commission sat in the district no questions were asked as to why this mine had been shut down, but when the Commission returned to Wellington it examined Mr. Martin Kennedy, a part share- holder, and also Mr. Joachim, the general manager of the Westport Coal Company, which also had a share in this mine, and which com- pany, as honourable members knew, owned the whole of the mines in the Westport district. Now, at this time they were working the mines of the adjoining districts of Grey- mouth and Westport, and for some un- known reason, as the Premier had told them, -- the people of the district never knew why- that mine was shut down. Then, when the Commission got to Wellington the gentlemen named came before them and said that the mine was faulty, that the coal was filled with stones, and that the result was such as not to warrant them going on with the work of the mine. When this evidence was telegraphed to the papers on the West Coast, Mr. Russell, the present Mayor of Brunnerton, who had been one of the overseers in the mine, and others, saw that the statements were incorrect and had been made under some misappre- hension, and they consequently resolved to send this document to the Commissioners. The Royal Commissioners unfortunately had by this time closed their sittings and sent in 