only we should give immediate and favourable replies in every case. One's sympathies are always with those who have or are suffering ; but we are here to do our duty, and that is what we try to do. Take the instance of the fire petitions ; it would mean placing large sums of money not upon the particular department honourable members imagine ought to make provision, but it would mean placing a very large sum on the consolidated estimates and providing it out of the consolidated revenue, and asking the people of the colony to make provision for the unfortunate position of the petitioners, even though no want of proper care or safeguarding on the part of the Railway Department has been shown to have existed. Yet the Government are asked to provide many hundreds and thousands of pounds, and, I say, if the honourable members who form these Committees had the responsibility thrown on them as the Ministers have-to carefully review the recommendations-they would have to do what the Government endeavours to do to the best of their ability-to go through them, dis- carding ordinary motives of sympathy, and do what they believe to be just and right. And because the honourable member has not been able to get his way in relation to some petition, he makes the intimation to the House that he proposes to resign his seat on a Committee. Mr. LANG .- No; that I have done so. Sir J. G. WARD .- Well, that is not the way to effect reforms. If the recommendation of a Petitions Committee is being improperly set https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 aside, the right way would be for the honour- able member to stick to his position on the Committee, and keep on making representa. tions, and pointing out the want of proper / http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero attention on the part of the Administration ; and I can assure the honourable member no member of this House would have more cour- tesy extended to his recommendations or views than the honourable member for Waikato. am sorry to see he is running away from what it is right for him to do, and I would recom- mend him to reconsider his position, and if any case is not rightly attended to, by representa- tions -- by correspondence with the Minister in charge of the particular department that the petition should come before-he should ask that it should come up before Cabinet for consideration at the right time, before the supplementary estimates are being framed. Honourable members will agree with me when I say that it is the duty of every member of the House, apart from members of the Ministry, to sift with care the many petitions that are sent up to the House for consideration. Some people even believe that if anything untoward happens to them by misfortune or accident they have only to make an appeal by petition to a Committee of the House, and they will get redress, and every consideration will be given to their claim. There has been a great deal tco much of it. There is one case where a spark flew into a man's eye, a considerable distance away from the railway-line, and he petitioned the House for compensation, on the ground Sir J. G. Ward and damaged his eye. An Hon. MEMBER .- He got $50. Sir J. G. WARD .- Yes; he got $50 upon the strong representation of a Petitions Com- mittee, who recommended that he get $:00. I do not remember the man's name, but I remember the case. Then, I think after that, some honourable members, prompted by a humane desire to see that this unfortunate man- who had in his affliction the entire sympathy of every one, no matter whether the spark came from an engine or not . re- ceived justice, made further strong representa- tions, and urged that the sum be increased by $100. The Petitions Committee made a strong recommendation about it. The evidence did not justify anything at all being paid. And so it goes on. If a person is riding or driving near a train, if his horse bolts, and anything happens, he immediately petitions the House and expects to receive consideration for him- self, his horse, and his dray. You necessarily sympathise with them; but why the Govern- ment should be asked to pay for unfortunate accidents-with which State departments have no more to do than if the man were travel- ling on horseback past a six - storied brick building, and by a convulsion of nature it happened to tumble over and cause his horse to bolt-why they should ask the people of the colony to provide them with monetary con- sideration for their misfortune I am unable to understand. The petitions with which every year I have had anything to do I know myself are carefully reviewed by more than one Minis- ter, in order that they may be properly deait with : they are thoroughly sifted, and then brought before the Ministry for the considera- tion of the whole Cabinet. Time and again, where necessary, they are gone through care- fully in this way. When the Government is doing in this what they believe to be in the interests of the colony, fault is found by the I member for the Bay of Plenty and the member for Waikato. Instead of having their criticism in a thankless and difficult task, we ought to have their sympathy, support, and co-opera- tion- Mr. HERRIES .- We give you our sympathy. Sir J. G. WARD .- We get that pretty well all round ; except in some cases, where we get the reverse. An Hon. MEMBER. - How about B .- 1 ? Sir J. G. WARD .- B .- 1 will be laid on the table as soon as it is ready, which I have no doubt will be particularly gratifying to my honourable friend. He has already had the assurance of the Government that every effort is being made to have it ready to be laid on the table. I can assure honourable gentlemen that nothing has been left undone by the Govern ment to have the returns from the different departments ready to be laid on the table. It is the easiest thing in the world-I have done it myself often, and I am likely, I suppose, to do it again - to find fault and criticize, and sav that particular work should be available at a particular time. Ministers cannot-nor are 