ment ought to be held with a tighter grip. There ought to be some more powerful control at the head of affairs. There ought to be a complete abolition of this rule-of-thumb system. The education system ought not to be allowed to drift at the sweet will of the Education Boards. That sums up all that I have to say on the subject. I want to see a firmer grip held by the Minister of Education, and an attempt made to model the system on the plan of my Public Schools Bill, which is as perfect as human ingenuity can make it. That Bill has met with the approval of the deepest thinkers on the subject in this colony, and I again express the hope that I may live to see it become the law of the land I now come back to where I started, and close with this remark : We see a want of direction from the educational head, and from the Ministry, the Government of the day. We see this continual tinkering with the Education Act, and so, in- stead of finding that the Education Act is a sacred thing that must not be touched, here we are, year after year, monding and botching it, and scattering amending Acts broadcast over the statute-book of the colony. May this state of things soon be brought to a conclusion through the efforts of some great man of commanding intellect. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- I have listened with very great interest to the speech that has just been delivered. and to a number of the other speeches that preceded it. I shall confine my own remarks entirely to one point. in connection with this debate. I regretted to hear not only from the member who has just sat down, but from a number of others, re- marks that seemed to suggest that they are in favour of raising the school-age from five to seven. Now, Sir, I do not know, neither can I tell exactly at the present time, whether clause 4 of this Bill is intended to raise the school-age to seven. Mr. PIRANI .- It does not alter the existing law. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .-- But I notice, while the school-age is five years, the honourable gentleman provides in this Bill that they shall not be compelled to attend unless they are seven years of age. Mr. PIRANI .-- That is the present law. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .-- Judging from the remarks that have been made by honourable members during this debate, it appears to me that there is a strong feeling in the House that the school-age itself should be raised to seven. Hon. MEMBERS. - No. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. -- I do not think honourable gentlemen who say " No " heard the speeches and the remarks to which I am rofer- ring. I am referring not merely to the speeches made, but to remarks which honourable mem- bers made during the delivery of those speeches, and I say if there is any attempt made in this House to raise the school-age from five to seven years, it will be met with the utmost hostility Jfr. Fisher years, are to a very large extent mistaken. I have had the opinion of some of the ablest school- masters in New Zealand upon this question, and they have informed me-and I have no doubt they are correct, and from my experience as a parent I can indorse their opinion - that if children are not brought under control in schools until they are seven years of age, in many cases it is almost impossible to " break them in," if I may use that term. Honourable members will understand the sense in which I use the word. The real effect is this: that while no sensible man-particularly no parent -would advocate that the full strain of mental work should be placed upon children at the age of five years, it is most important for the future well-being of children that they should be brought under discipline at an early age - sav. five years, learning physical drill. the simple subjects, and generally on kindergarten lines. I may say, if I may intrude upon the House personal matters, so far as my own family is concerned, that we have discriminated as to the individual child. In some cases, we have not sent children to school -- not even to learn their letters until they were seven years of age, and. in other cases, we have been glad to send the child to school at the age of five, feeling sure only good could result. I understand that the school-age is from five to fourteen wars, and 1 shall always stand up against anything that may result in the school-age being lowered. The member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) spoke just now from the point of view of the finances of the Education Boards, and it would be a very serious thing, so far as the Boards are concerned. if they were to lose the capitation grant on children who are between the ages of five and seven years. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is where the shoe pinches. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - 1 do not know what the honourable gentleman means by saying "that is where the shoe pinches " ; but I am sure that if capitation were not paid to Educa- tion Boards for those children who attend schools between the age of five and seven years, the result would be to seriously affect the finan- cial position of the Boards, and to necessitate their being assisted in other directions. The teachers' salaries, of course, would suffer, and vet at the present time we have a Commission engaged in the task of finding some method by which the salaries of the teachers may be in- creased. As I have said, I merely rose to enter my protest against any proposal to raise the school-age, and if I thought this Bill would go in that direction I would give it uncompro- mising hostility. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- In reply, I de- sire to thank members for the kindly way in which they have treated this Bill. Mr. FISHER .- Including me ? Mr. PIRANI. - Yo, including the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) who, when he speaks on education. generally treats the matter 