Act does apply to them, or that it means ruin | to the farmers. Mr. FLATMAN. - Why not make it plain before any one is ruined. Mr. SEDDON .- If you are always going to legislate for everything that has never been in- terpreted by a Court where are you going to stop? To my mind the law is perfectly clear at present : and even supposing the law we passed, although not intended, did apply to the farmers, it is safer, more economical, and better for the farmers than the old Employers' Liability Act. That is my reply to that. However, Sir, I only rose, in respect to this motion, to do justice as far as I could to those who at the present time and under adverse circumstances are administering our laws. I say that a great deal of the blame that attaches to them should never be laid at their door, because we have widened the scope of the legislation-we have brought in a large number of trades and workers that the law previously did not apply to ; and, that being the case, we ought to give a fair time to the Boards and to the Court to do their work, and then after that I believe there will be a general consensus of opinion that we have done the right thing. Sir, I shall give the return, but I say its appli- cation will not be fair if given now, because of the extra work thrown on these bodies. I hope, Sir, that the information I give to the House will be accepted in the spirit in which it is given, and that it is done with a view to doing what is right to all parties concerned. Mr. MONK (Waitemata). - I would like to correct the impression which I think the Premier has that the Workers' Compensation for Accidents Act does not apply to the home- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero steads of farmers. How is it, then, that it is being interpreted so by the legal fraternity, who are insisting now, in mortgages lent upon country lands, upon the insertion of a clause compelling the borrower to pay for a policy, so that the Workers' Compensation for Accidents Act, shall not interfere with their security ? Mr. SEDDON. - They may have some shares in this Oceanic Company. Mr. MONK .- I think that is very unfair. The Premier does not seem to desire know- ledge ; he only desires to bafile. Now, there is certainly a feeling throughout the country districts-and I say it with good reason-that the Premier is neglectful of the interests of the country people, and is simply conserving, as far as he possibly can, the interests of the city unions. When I put the question to him, asking if he would expand the workings of the Conciliation Boards and Arbitration Court, so as to enable them to operate in the interests of farmers, he would allow them no relief ; but they now show a disposition to help themselves. What was more equitable than my suggestion that the Conciliation Boards and Arbitration Court should be applied to matters relating to the country districts ? But he would not make this concession ; and I say, where was the con- cern he now professes for farmers, when he made all their local bodies subject to the deci- sions of the Conciliation Boards and unions in Mr. Seddon the cities, to their inconvenience? For, as I pointed out last session, the country people are receiving grants of money, and endeavouring to make them as productive as possible in the in- terests of roadmaking ; but they are not allowed to do so. It is in this way : In the winter time the country people are willing, in their own interests, to take jobs and to improve roads at a lower rate of wages than the city people rightly expect to receive; but they are pro- hibited from doing so, and must pay a cer- tain rate of wage, although the farmers them- selves are willing to employ their men and teams during the slack periods of the year at a lower rate of wages than would be accepted during the busy season. What was more inequitable than that a freedom of that kind should be taken away, and thereby the amount of improvement which these local bodies can secure out of their grants is limited ? Then, again, the Premier the other day said to a deputation which met him that the dairy and meat industries are receiving subsidies equal to $20,000 a year. Let me declare that the country people are getting no advantage from the regu- lations of the Goverment, but those for which they pay a price brings a profit to the Govern- ment. To commence with the sheep-tax. Does it not bring in a considerable revenue to the Government over and above the cost of inspec- tion, and the cost of that department ? What about the valuation of country lands by men who are travelling continually all over the country, and some of whom are, as the honourable member for Marsden said, simply ne'er-do-wells, and cost the people, mostly the farmers, $26,000 a year? Can the Premier point to one single department, professedly operating in the interests of the country people, upon which he is not in some form or other making a handsome profit ? Why, I believe that the Belfast meat-freezing establishment in Canterbury, as soon as the Slaughtering and Inspection Act is brought into operation, will have to pay a sum of not less than $853 a year, reckoning as a basis the number of animals killed last year, and upon that there will be a clear profit to the Government of over $400. Then, look at the price which the country people have been receiving for their oats down South. Now, the Premier took great credit to himself because orders had been received for 50,000 tons of oats-by the returns I see it is getting on to 800,000 bushels for the year. We are all very thankful that these oats have been sent away, but the producers of these oats have been receiving next door to starvation prices. I am informed that they have received 1s. to 1s. 2d., and in a few cases as much as 1s. 3d., a bushel, while the prices received by the middle- men have been 1s. 7d. to 1s. 9d. Who got the profit there? Not the farmer. Mr. SEDDON .- They will have to pay the freight, and the cost of rebagging. Mr. MONK .- We know that ; the prices I have mentioned has not covered that. An Hon. MEMBER .- What has this to do with Mr. Graham's return? Mr. MONK .- It has to do with the return, 