that if we had a compulsory clause in the Bill, and if strychnine was used in the way he had seen it used, there would not be much difficulty in keeping these birds within bounds. We should never get rid of them-they were like the rabbits-they would always be with us; but he thought, at the same time, that they could be reduced to such a state that their effect would scarcely be felt. He intended to introduce the Bill again, and, if possible, get it carried. # MASTERTON COURTHOUSE. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) asked the Minister of Justice, If he will make provision this year for the erection of a new Courthouse in Masterton ? The people of Masterton had been looking for- ward to the erection of a new Courthouse for a number of years. He thought the Minister was acquainted with the present structure. It was a building of wood, which had been erected a considerable time ago. No doubt it had answered very well its purpose in the past, but the business had materially increased. They bad now a District Court at Masterton, and improved accommodation was required. The present building might be advantageously con- verted into a police-station, but he thought it desirable that a Courthouse should be provided of a better character, and something more in keeping with the other Government buildings now in Masterton. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said he was not aware that this building was in such a dilapidated state as the honourable member led the House to believe. He was quite sure the honourable gentleman was anxious to see that progressive town looking as well as possible by means of the Government / http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero buildings erected there. He would be very pleased to take an opportunity of visiting the district, and seeing for himself the necessity for a new Courthouse. LEVIN AND WERAROA TOWNSHIPS. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked the Government, Whether, with a view to the probability of electric power being required at some future time to light the Townships of Levin and Weraroa, and Government institutions in these districts, with electricity, and for the purpose of providing a high-pressure water-supply for the same townships and institutions, a reserve of sufficient area will be set apart on the Ohau River or Makahaka Stream for the purpose of constructing a dam and other necessary works for the above purposes? A reserve might be set apart by the Government, either in the Ohau River or the Makahaka Stream, for the purpose of the erection of a dam, and other necessary works for the purpose of supplying electric - lighting power and high- pressure water-supply to the Townships of Levin and Weraroa, and the Government in- stitutions in that district, when the proper time came. He would point out to the Minister that the district was growing very rapidly, and apparently there was going to be quite a crop Mr. Duncan electric - lighting and water - power would be required. The danger was that the whole of the Crown lands there might be disposed of without this matter being attended to, and he called the Minister's attention to the fact in order to obviate that. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said the upper waters of the Ohau River and the Maka- haka Stream were Native or freehold lands. Possibly a reserve with a sufficient elevation could be obtained within the Horowhenua No. 6 Block to provide a high-pressure water- supply, and this could be attended to, he thought, when a further subdivision of that block was made ; but this was not likely, as the river left the Crown lands before it attained a sufficient elevation. The supposition was that there were no Crown lands at a sufficient elevation to be of It was all Native any service for this purpose. or freehold land. Mr. FIELD .- Will you see about taking some of that ? Mr. DUNCAN said he would have a report made to see whether there was any site that would be of service. If there was it would be reserved. # PATENT RIGHTS. Mr. LAWRY (Parnell) asked the Govern- ment, If they will take effective steps to pro- tect patent rights against spurious imitations ? The question of patent rights was supposed to be protected by law, but there were spurious imitations by the introduction of a screw or the changing of a crank, or something of that kind, for which a patent was issued as though it were a new invention, but which to all intents and purposes was nothing but a spurious imitation. He hoped the Hon. the Minister would see his way to protect in- ventors in such cases. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said the honourable gentleman's question put him in a very difficult position, and he was afraid he would be unable to give the answer the honourable member would like. Provision was made by which patentees were able to protect themselves, but the suggestion in the question was that the Government should undertake the responsibility of protecting patentees. He did not think that was a position the Government could take up, unless the fees charged for patents were very much higher. It could hardly be expected that the Government, having granted a patent, and the patentee having the right in the country for which it was granted, should follow that up and protect the patentee when he had the means of protecting himself by the law of the land. WASTE LANDS BOARDS. Mr. LAWRY (Parnell) asked the Minister of 1 Lands, If he will this session introduce a Bill to make Waste Lands Boards elective ? Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said that Land Boards had under the statute law very considerable powers, and he thought it would be difficult for the Government to keep an 