unconstitutional for the Auditor-General to pass a payment that is not clearly included in the Appropriation Act. The honourable gentle- man knows this too : these payments that are objected to are payments which were not even passed on the estimates. They are not em- bodied in our Acts as legal payments; and, therefore, if the House does not embody those extra payments in our Acts, as it ought to do, then it is the duty of the Auditor-General to refuse to pass them. Where is the Auditor- General to take his instructions from ? He is an officer of Parliament, and if Parliament do not give him instructions in the only consti- tutional way they can give those instructions, whom is he to take his instructions from ? The honourable member told us also-I do not know where he got his information-that the Auditor-General had refused to pass pay- ments to railway servants in excess of the wages laid down in the Classification Act. Where did the honourable member get that information ? Is it true? or did he invent that information, like a good many of the precedents quoted in the Supreme Court are invented at times? If the honourable member will look up the Appropriation Acts and the estimates for several years since the Classifica- tion Act was passed he will there find a sum voted to give 6d. a day extra to certain men in the railway service. There has never been any objection to that payment. It has been made year after year. Why? Because it has been included in the Appropriation Act, where it ought to be included, and where these sums which are objected to were not included. The honourable member knows as well as I do that the greatest safeguard a constitutional country can have of the proper expenditure of its public moneys is publicity. As far as I am concerned, I do not care a button if we had not the audit- ing of the Public Accounts of the colony at all, provided particulars of every single item of ex- penditure was laid on the table of the House at the commencement of Parliament ; but I will guarantee that the Government will not even appoint a Committee of its own supporters and lay before that Committee every item of expen- diture during the last financial year, or in any financial year during their term of office. That is the reason for this clause in the Public Re- venues Act-namely, to provide that where the Government propose an expenditure that the Auditor-General says is not in accordance with the law the items of that expenditure shall be laid before the House, and the House shall deal with it as they please. But, unfortunately, as the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) pointed out to-day, the House is abrogating all its privileges. Standing Orders are nothing to us now, and under the rule of the Government any such thing as obeying the law of the land is utterly unconstitutional if it harasses the Government. I will give the honourable member an instance in which this practice of the Government has already worked evil in the colony. In 1897 there was a dis- pute between the Audit and the Mines Depart- Courts certifying to abstracts of receipts of Receivers of Land Revenue, and the Govern- ment, instead of compelling their officers to obey the law, actually amended the law, and repealed in the Mining Act the refer- ence to the Wardens, resting content with a statement by the Receiver of Mining Reve- nue alone. We know that the Receivers of Mining Revenue are, as a rule, in remote parts of the colony. Their accounts cannot be checked with the facility that the accounts of those in the centres of the colony can be. One officer in Otago, from the date of the passing of this Mining Act, embezzled receipts under it until the amount came to something like &700. Mr. SEDDON .- It so happened that in this case the accounts were certihed to by the Warden as being correct. Mr. PIRANI .- That is impossible, simply because under the law they are not required to be certified to by the Warden. If the honour- able member will read the Mining Act as amended by himself he will see that is so ; and I say this: It is far more in the interests of true democracy that the expenditure of the public moneys in this colony should be safe- guarded, even if the Administration is harassed, than that that sort of embezzlement should be encouraged. A very peculiar incident in this debate has been the forensic knowledge dis- played by the honourable member for Auck- land City (Mr. Napier). The more I hear the opinions of that honourable member the more I am astounded to think that a member of the legal profession can stand up and give utterance to them. There was another re- markable fact. Under the Standing Orders, Committees are supposed to bring down, in addition to the report, the minutes of the proceedings of the Committee and the evi- dence, if any. Neither the minutes of the pro- ceedings nor the evidence have been brought down. Now, the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) is the Chairman of the Committee, and members will remember that the honour- able gentleman protested to-day against the Standing Orders being violated by the Govern- ment ; and yet he brings down a report, and violates the Standing Orders himself. I would say to the honourable gentleman that before he protests so much about the Government not obeying the Standing Orders he should obey them, and so prove to the Government by example that he is sincere himself. But although the honourable gentleman did not bring down the minutes and the evidence, the Premier actually has them in his pos- session. Now, I would like to know under what authority in the Standing Orders, or of Parliament, any member of the Committee -the Premier not excepted - excepting the Chairman or the Clerk, has the custody of the papers of the Committee. The Premier actually wanted to deceive the House by tell- ing us they were his private notes, taken by himself, I suppose, in shorthand. Why, there was nobody in the committee-room, except the shorthand writer employed by the Committee, 