who are prepared to undertake this duty of rescue work are deserving of the heartiest praise and every credit. It shows that they care for the welfare of neglected children, knowing that it is in the interests of such children, and in the interests of the colony as a whole, that the moral children should not be neglected, but should be cared for, so that any downward tendency on their part should be arrested, con- sequently thereby promoting individual and national moral progress. No v, we have heard something about the bringing-up of children in this colony and their behaviour, and I have no hesitation in contending that our boys and girls are as well behaved and as moral as any children in any part of the world. Well, so far as the general reputation of the colony is con- cerned for the morality and good behaviour of its children, I need only to allude to the general conspicuous good conduct shown by our boys who went to South Africa. Is it not a fact that the young men who went from New Zealand to fight for the Empire in the Trans- vaal established for themselves a character that was excelled by no others from any part of the world, either as regards morality, honour, man- liness, or so far as courage and heroism were cencerned ? Mr. LAWRY .- By this Bill you want to say they are blackguards. Mr. HANAN. - This Bill does not affect them. or in any way reflect on their character. I say the creditable testimony I have mentioned in regard to our boys who went to South Africa is https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 one we have every reason to be proud of. Now, this Bill is simply a preventive measure to check the growth of juvenile impurity and to suppress juvenile depravity where it existed. This should be the aim of all right-thinking citizens. Its object is to insure that neglected children shall not, as it were, be allowed to fall into crime, but that they shall have care and attention, so that they may grow up a credit to themselves and to the land of their birth. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .-- 10.30. Sir, I should like to add my protest to that of the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) against the Government introducing Bills of the class of the one at present under discussion, apparently with the intention of wasting the time of the House. Sir, one has only got to look round this Cham- ber to see the small interest that is taken in this Bill. For the whole of this week we have simply been doing what soldiers call "marking time." Sir, I should like to know from the Minister in charge of this Bill how long this is to go on. When are we going to have Bills brought down that will be of some good to the country, and stop all this namby - pamby kind of stuff that we have been getting for the last week or so in this House? If the whole of the Bills we have been endeavouring to pass this session were thrown out, the country would be no sufferer. This Bill has no doubt been introduced with the most laudable inten- tions, but the country would not suffer if it was never passed. It has been before us ever Mr. Hanan think the country is a bit the worse for its not being on the statute-book. The Bill is probably introduced with the intention of doing away with an evil which is lamented ; but the question is whether the Bill would not be worse than the evil it is proposed to cure. It seems to me simply machinery for procuring billets for certain persons. Under this Bill " Protec- tion Officers " will be appointed. The billets will be given to people of the proper colour. It is quite certain that the presidents of Liberal leagues and ladies' societies that have re- turned certain members to the House on the right side would be appointed as Protection Officers. It does not matter whether they go out into the streets or not. The honourable member for the Suburbs was rather concerned about what would happen from the ladies being out at that time. He need not be the least bit afraid. These ladies will not go out into the streets. Why should they ? They will be ap- pointed ; they will draw their salaries, and that is all they will be required to do. An Hon. MEMBER .- The salaries may be nothing. Mr. HERRIES .- There is no billet without a salary The salaries may be small ; fortu- nately the Government can get services for very litle. Just as a J.P .- ship perhaps gets a good many votes, so would a Protection Officer secure some for the Government. Perhaps they will be allowed to put " P.O."-Protection O)n cer -after their names - " Mrs. Smith, P.O." would sound well. Perhaps they would get no salary, but they will be allowed to put that after their names like J.P.s, and that would be as good as a salary. I quite believe that my friend the mem- ber for Christchurch City is in earnest about the Bill. I know there are many estimable people who are really endeavouring to purify the world, and who will always continue to do so. I sav, all honour to them ; let them continue, and I shall be quite willing to give them a certain amount of power. But what I see in this Bill is that power will be given to those who ought not to have it-that power will be given to Liberal supporters, . ho will not do the work, but will draw the pay. Coming to the question here of the mechanism of the Bill, it seems to me that the more we look at it the more unworkable it seems to be. Under the main provisions of this Bill it is supposed to deal with young boys and girls out in the streets in the evening, and the provisions read well as long as everything goes all right. The Protection Officer goes out and sees a boy or girl walking the street ; he accosts them : if he or she does not see fit to answer properly he is to take them home. But, supposing the boy refuses to answer, or clears out, or says he is over fourteen years of age, no provision is made for dealing with a case of that kind, as being out at night is not an offence at law, nor is it made an offence under this Bill. My own idea is that the children will get to know the Protec- tion Ofheers, and will clear out of their way when they see them coming. Mr. DUNCAN .- Will not that be a good thing ? 