tention whatever of reflecting on the personal character of any honourable gentleman of this Council, or of any other person whose misfor- tune it is to be engaged in the liquor traffic. This explanation will, I trust, settle the diffi- culty which developed as a result of the protest against the language which I used, for it is ever made easy for an erring honourable gentle- man to rehabilitate himself in the good graces of this Council. But, as it is very desirable from every point of view that the question as to whether the language I used was unparlia- mentary or not should be definitely settled, as the Council last night desired to have your opinion, Sir, on that point, and as it will not be decided by you if the matter be left as it now stands, I repeat my allegation by declaring that the trathe which is pronounced by the highest ecclesiastical, medical, and judicial authorities to be the most fertile cause of crime, misery, insanity, pauperism, disease, and death may be fittingly described as "detestable." The Hon. the SPEAKER .- The honourable gentleman has explained at full length his view of the position, but, as I pointed out in the few words I felt it my duty to address to the Coun- cil, it is not a question of whether the words were unparliamentary or not. The honourable gentleman is well aware the ruling of the Chairman must be sustained, even if the Chairman is wrong. I understand the honour- able gentleman withdraws his words in obedi- ence to the ruling of the Chair. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- I do. VICTORIA COLLEGE. The Hon. Mr. REEVES asked the Minis- ter of Education, If the Government and Go- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero vernors of Victoria College have come to any decision as to a site whereon the College build- ings shall be erected ? Honourable members would remember that the Victoria College Act was passed in 1898, so that it was nearly four years ago now since the measure came into force. From that time to the present there had been a considerable amount of discussion between the College Governors and the Govern. ment as to where the College should be housed. It was time now some decision was come to on the question. It was not a mere local matter, but a matter of general policy, and one that affected the good of all the provinces bordering on Cook Strait. He believed he was right in saying that the Government and the Governors of the College could get a place that was far more suitable than Wellington for the erection of the College. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said, in reply to the honourable gentleman, he could only state that no decision had been come to on the matter between the Government and the Governors of the College. SHOPS AND OFFICES BILL. This Bill was further considered in Com- mittee. Clause 20 .- Office hours. The Hon. Mr. BOLT moved to insert the words " or offices of forwarding agencies." The Committee divided. AYES, 25. Kelly, W. Arkwright Scotland Louisson Smith, A. L. Bolt Feldwick McLean Swanson Gourley Montgomery Taiaroa Ormond Harris Tomoana Jennings Twomey Pinkerton Johnston Reeves Walker, W. C. Jones Rigg Williams. Kelly, T. NOES, 2. Barnicoat Shrimski. Majority for, 23. Amendment agreed to. Clause 24 .- Exemptions. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON moved, That subsection (1) be struck out, namely :- " (1.) It shall not be deemed to be a breach of the last preceding section if, while an office is by this Act required to be closed, an office- assistant is employed in the office in the cases and for the purposes following :- "(a.) In the case of a cashier, or cash-book keeper, for the purpose of balancing his cash or cash-book after the close of the day's transactions, where a daily balance is usual. "(b.) In the case of a ledger-keeper, for the purpose of the periodical balance of his ledger. "(c.) In the case of any office-assistant, for the purpose of the yearly or half-yearly balance of the business of the office : Provided that he shall in no case be employed under this subsection for more than three hours in any one day, nor for more than four weeks at each balance, nor unless at least two weeks' previous written notice of the date of the balance has been given by the occupier of the office to the In- spector. " (d.) In the case of any office-assistant, for the purpose of writing up the books for the day's transactions, or clearing up arrears of office-work generally : Provided that he shall in no case be employed under this subsection for more than three hours on any one day, nor for more than six days in any one month. " (e.) In the case of a messenger or caretaker, for the purpose of attending on any office-assistant lawfully employed in work under the provisions of this section." The Committee divided on the question, " That the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the clause." AYES, 21. Arkwright Kelly, T. Rigg Scotland Bolt Kelly, W. Shrimski Feldwick Louisson McLean Gourley Smith, A. L. Harris Swanson Montgomery Johnston Ormond Taiaroa Walker, W. C. Pinkerton Jones 