Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds) told us that after he had listened to the speeches delivered he was more convinced than ever that the only just principle of taxation was taxation on the unimproved values of land ; and I would ask him, and I would ask honourable members, if they are convinced that this is the only just principle on which taxation should be levied, are they not prepared to submit the justice of that principle to the people? Will not the people themselves perceive that justice? I have never known the people so stupid and blind in their own interests that it was necessary you should thrust justice upon them ; and I think the people in this mat- ter. as in other matters, are to be trusted to discern the justice of it for themselves. The honourable gentleman said, when reminded at the time, that he recognised that the people had permissive power to put the system into operation ; but he said the permis- sion was the wrong way about. The people now have the right to say whether or not they will adjust their taxation on the unim- proved value of lands ; and that is a direct vote of the people on an affirmative principle, and the honourable gentleman would submit the vote on a negative proposition. Who ever heard of the people being asked to vote on a negative proposition ? We ought to consider the people in this matter, and we ought not to expect them to vote against this thing unless it is put before them as an affirmative principle. They now have the right to vote against an affirmative principle, but surely they have no right to be ex- pected to vote on a merely negative proposition. Now, Sir, we have been told over and over again to-night that out of some 500 rateable districts in New Zealand only thirty-five had put the principle into operation. I do not regard that as telling against the principle of rating on the unimproved value, because I believe that number will grow steadily and steadily, and I am quite sure that, growing in that way, it will give rise to much less friction and much less dissatisfac- tion than it would be likely to if imposed on the people by statutory law. But, Sir, what sur- prised me most was to hear the honourable mem. ber for Auckland City- and he will pardon me if I say that he seemed to treat honourable mem- bers who oppose this Bill, while not opposed to the. principle of rating on the unimproved value, in a somewhat cavalier manner. Although we were led to understand that the honourable gentle- man was suffering from a somewhat severe cold, I really thought-my honourable friend will pardon me for referring to him as the lead- ing apostle of single-tax in New Zealand -we should have had a flood of light thrown on this Bill that would have been absolutely and over- whelmingly convincing ; but, Sir, we did not get it. And, although the honourable gentle- man was surprised at the speeches of 9.4. those who represent labour, I must confess I was equally surprised at the speech of the honourable gentleman who represents the single-tax. He said that he believed in I say, that being so, are not the people them- selves the best judges of what is just in prin- ciple for them ? They have the right to vote now. An Hon. MEMBER .-. Not the people. Mr. COLLINS .- Yes, the people ; the same people who will be affected when this Bill be- comes law-exactly the same people. Then the honourable gentleman went a little further. He said taxation should be on everything which derives value from the expenditure of the taxa- tion ; and I agree with him. He then went on to declare that property in no way is benefited from the expenditure of taxation. Now, Sir, while there is some truth in what the honour- able gentleman says, it is not all truth ; for, while it may be perfectly true that the actual value of a building depreciates-that the actual value of a factory as a building, or, if you like, a tannery as a building, and so on, will depreciate - year by year, nevertheless the factory or build- ing that is utilised for a particular kind of work is increased in value through the expenditure of public money. Not only has the land in- creased in value, but the building has a fac- tory value, quite apart from the value of the site upon which it stands, and which is given to it by the very roads which the taxes have made ; and the tannery or factory would be absolutely useless were the roads allowed to fall into such disrepair that it would be impossible to get the raw material to or the manufactured goods away from it. The honourable gentleman must see that he cannot dissociate the expenditure of public money from the increased value of a factory as a wealth-producing concern. Then, the honour- able gentleman said he would like to show how this Bill would affect workmen's homes. Now, I know the difficulty of attempting to prove any position by merely quoting isolated ex- amples. It is possible to quote any number of statistics both in favour of and against this proposition ; but I want to point out this : that were we starting de uevo, were we founding an entirely new community, a community which should grow up under the operation of this Bill, I could understand fully the justice of what the honourable gentleman says. But the question is now one of applying this principle to dis- tricts where already serious anomalies exist which this Bill would not remove, but, in many cases, would intensify : I mean the matter of compelling the people to carry out this principle of rating on the unimproved value. Take, for instance, the immediate surround- ings of one of the centres of population. The matter has been referred to before, and I have no intention of wearving the House. You will find in the immediate suburbs, and within the boundaries of a city like Christchurch, a quarter-acre section held by a working-man, who has built a house upon it costing, say, 2200 or $250. He has taken the quarter-acre section because he wishes to grow upon it the vegetables required by his family. The very next quarter-acre section will be occupied by, probably, a much wealthier individual, who has 