contracting parties, having granted concessions to the Eastern Extension Telegraph Company inimical to the Pacific cable. Canada strongly resented the transaction, and at one time it looked as though the error committed would imperil the cable. I am pleased to say that the trouble has passed over, and progress is being made with the work. It is not likely that any claims for payment on account of interest will come to charge this year. The Pacific cable will serve as an additional cable route for England, and doubtless the Board will see the propriety of allowing a local service being established between Australia and New Zealand. The rates for the existing lines be- tween Australia and New Zealand are not satis- factory, and it would be in the interests of the Australian Commonwealth, as well as of New Zealand, to have the whole of the cables be- tween these two countries State-owned. ADDITIONAL FUNDS. The minds of honourable members having been relieved in respect to the Consolidated Fund Account, the next-and to many mem- bers the most important-matter demanding attention and consideration is the public works expenditure, the amount of money to be ex- pended, and the amount of money proposed to be raised. It would be out of place for me to trespass on the domain of my colleague the Minister for Public Works by going into details. I may say, however, that we estimate there will be an expenditure of about $1,950,000, the expenditure on railways and roads being approximately about the same as last year. The balance on the 31st March last was £232,515. To this may be added £800,000, the balance of the million loan of last session, and we propose to transfer to the Public Works Fund $500,000 of the surplus of the past year, making the total assets £1,532,515. Seeing the estimated expenditure is £1,950,000, it will therefore be necessary to ask authority for a further loan. In endeavouring to bring our borrowing within reasonable limits consider- able difficulty has been encountered, owing to the heavy expenditure and liabilities which have been incurred during the last four months, and I have some misgiving as to the amount to be asked for which will be sufficient to carry us on till next session ; certainly the greatest care and economy will require to be exercised by myself and colleagues to keep the public works expenditure within the ways and means. We shall be aided in this endeavour if honourable members will restrict their de- mands in respect to the requirements of their districts. The time is most inopportune for extensive borrowing. The prolonged disturbed conditions in the Mother-country, caused by circumstances well within the knowledge of honourable members, has had an effect on the financial world of an abnormal character, and to such an extent as to render it unwise to ask for more than one million ; for a larger sum might prove, at this juncture, injurious to the credit of the colony. Mr. Seddon £ 232,515 Balance brought forward Balance of loan of last session . . 800,000 Transfer from Consolidated Fund 500,000 1,000,000 .. New loan .. . 2,532,515 Estimated expenditure 1,950,000 .. £582,515 Balance .. # GREATER NEW ZEALAND. The action of the Imperial Government in agreeing to the extension of the boundary of the colony so as to include the Cook and other Islands has given general satisfaction, and such enlargement taking place on the day of the arrival of their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York was pleasing in the extreme. The fact that the inauguration of Greater New Zealand occurred on the occa- sion of the visit of our future King will ever be a pleasant recollection. Colonel Gudgeon, C.M.G., has been appointed Resident Agent for New Zealand, and the well-being of the in- habitants of the Islands will be our first care, and nothing will be done which will tend to disturb the harmony now existing. In respect to revenues-Customs, Postal, et cetera -- there is no present intention of materi- ally altering the existing conditions. The present revenues enable the Islands to be self-support- ing. Seeing that goods from New Zealand will ultimately be admitted into the Islands free of duty, there will, of course, be a loss of revenue, but this will be more than compensated for by collateral advantages. Mr. Percy Smith has very generously undertaken to go to the Island of Niue for a period of three months, and whilst there he will introduce the new order of things, which we hope will be to the benefit alike of the natives and of the people of this colony. On several of the islands, particularly Pen- rhyn, a Resident Agent will require to be located to see to the interests of the natives, and also to protect the interests of this colony. The cost entailed by the appointment of such Resident Agents will be more than recouped by revenues directly received, so that each of the islands will be self-supporting, and that with- out imposing any direct taxation upon the na- tives. As previously intimated, Parliament will be asked to extend the operations of the Ordi- nances now in force in the Islands pending other provisions being made ; it would not do for the whole of our laws to be enforced in the Islands, for the operation thereof under existing con- ditions would only result in friction and con- fusion. # SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION. In dealing with the many questions neces- sarily involved in placing the Public Accounts before honourable members I have endeavoured to be clear and explicit, not withholding or un- duly extending the information which is neces- sary in order to afford a lucid explanation of the finances of the colony. The Budget proves 