continue as at present. I would either repeal the Standing Order, and allow the reporters of any paper to be present at Committees, or, if I intended to maintain the provisions of the Standing Order, which says that the proceed- ings are to be kept secret, I would take such precautionary steps that the secrecy should be inviolable ; and certainly no member can say the course proposed by the resolution, if not followed up by something more drastic, is of that nature. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) .- It appears to me that the House is in the position that it is absolutely necessary to determine upon one of two things : either we should rescind the Stand- ing Order, which has been in existence ever since there has been a Parliament in this colony, prohibiting the publication of evidence taken before a Select Committee until it has been laid before the House, or we should take means to enforce that Order. There can be no possible getting out of that position. Parlia- ment is often spoken of as being the highest Court of the realm. Now, if a newspaper offends against the rules of the Supreme Court it is punished for contempt, and if it offends against the rules of this House knowingly, then it is for the House, as the highest Court, to say what should be the result to the paper so offending. It is all very well for honourable members to get up and ridicule proceedings of this kind. Some honourable members seem to think all they have to do is to pat on the back any newspaper reporter who shows him- self smart enough to get round the Standing https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 Orders of the House. That is only one view of the case, and, in my opinion, a mistaken one ; the real position being that either the House must insist on having its Standing Orders re- / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero spected or must be content to be placed in a position of contempt. It has been urged that the House itself does not always rigidly observe its own Standing Orders. That, I am sorry to say, is only too true; but two blacks do not make a white, and because the House does not always adhere to its Standing Orders, it does not by any means follow that it ought to condone the breach of any of its regulations by any out- side party. As I have said, we have only two alternatives from which to choose : either to insist on our Standing Order being obeyed, or to repeal the Standing Order altogether. I do not think the House is prepared to adopt the latter alternative. I do not think any single member would say that the evidence taken before a Committee should be allowed to be published in a newspaper in detail before it has been laid before this House. It is not fair to the parties before the Committee that it should be so published, as such a publication is calculated to lead to a prejudging of the case, and to the placing of the matter before the public in an incomplete and unsatis- factory form. Therefore, Sir, I think that what should be done is this: that we should pass a resolution affirming that a breach of the Mr. Atkinson follow the course taken on a previous occasion by appointing a Committee to inquire into the matter, and bring down a report of the whole facts of the case, and then it will be for the House to say what should be done. And, Sir, though I do not prejudge the matter at all- I am simply stating a hypothetical case-if it is proved to the House that a breach of the privileges of the House has been committed by any particular person, or by any particular newspaper, then I think it will be for this House to pass a resolution and take such action as will show to that person or newspaper that this kind of procedure does not pay. It could. indeed, be made so expensive a course that no newspaper would proceed on those lines in the future. That is the direction in which we should go, or we should at once altogether abandon the Standing Order which has in this case been infringed. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) .- Sir. I agree entirely with those who say that we ought to do one of two things : either to amend our Standing Orders-that is, to repeal this par- ticular Order-or to act up to them. Does any one mean to say that this House cannot pre- vent or cannot discourage newspapers from pub- lishing premature reports or proceedings of Committees? It would not bring up the in- flu ntial Dunedin Star or the Evening Post to fine them £5. This afternoon's transaction is worth hundreds of pounds to this journal already, even if it is fined. The House would be more likely, if it wanted to carry out what is laid down in the Standing Orders, to fine that journal about £500 at the start, and then dis- courage it gradually by raising the fine 100 per cent. for each subsequent offence. What has been our experience in the past ? Since I have been in Parliament I have seen five or six similar farces of this sort, and they have always ended in smoke. Here is the logic, looking this House right square in the face : Are you going to perpetuate this farce, or are you going to say that those who make a breach of our laws by deliberately publishing for commercial gain certain information that the Standing Orders declare to be privileged, are to be punished for it, or are the offenders to be let off scot-free. with the further additional advertisement of the farce in Parliament, like this afternoon? Now, I submit we have now come to the time when this House has got this to do : First of all to declare this is a breach of privilege, and then carry a subsequent resolution in terms of that enunciated by the member for Franklin, that a Committee be set up to discover the facts. There can be only one finding as the result of that Committee's deliberations, because the offence is not for disclosing information -not for giving it informally-but for publishing it. If any member of the Committee publishes, or any other person publishes, such information, the offence is committed. Now, I quite agree with my colleague for the City, that it would be perfectly intelligible to open the doors of Com- 