Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- The Midland Railway Commission had to go round and examine a great many witnesses, and I venture to say, without egotism, they did their business to the satisfaction of the Government, the debenture- holders, and the country, as far as the scope of the inquiry permitted. Mr. GRAHAM .- They prepared their report in two days. Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- It did not take them very long. I will undertake to say that if the same question had been referred to the Cabinet it would take about six years-in fact, I doubt very much whether they would ever do it at all. Sir J. G. WARD .-- They had the services of a railway officer to prepare it for them. Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- I must give the Rail- way Department credit for having some very able men. If all the officers in the honourable gentleman's department were like the Gene- ral Manager, and the late Assistant General Manager, and the late Chief Commissioner of Railways, it would be better managed than it is, and the taxpayers would be getting better value for their money than they are getting at the present time. I do not wish to detain the House in connection with this matter, but at the same time I do not see my way clear to discuss the Financial Statement at all until we get the reports that I have mentioned. If any member brings forward a motion to postpone the debate, I shall certainly feel inclined to vote in favour of the debate being delayed until these reports are laid on the table. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- The Minister brushed away in a very light and airy manner the fact that these reports are not laid on the table of the House up to the present date. Now, Sir, I think it is about time the House did make up its mind as to whether the Public Accounts of the colony are to be prepared in time to be of value to members in discussing the finances of the colony. The fact is plain to everybody that the B .- 1 paper, which con- tains the Public Accounts of the colony, will be brought down so late that it will be practically useless for the purposes of the financial debate. Take, for instance, last year : the Public Ac- counts of the colony were laid on the table on the 3rd October. By that time Parliament was very nearly over ; and I take it that the Public Accounts this year will be brought down so late as to be useless. Now, with respect to these other papers, the Minister for Railways has referred to the Railways Report, and he states that the reason why that report is not down yet is that the railway officials were busily employed at the time of the visit of the Duke and Duchess. Well, the Duke of York was only here in New Zealand for a few days. The preparations for his visit may have taken a fortnight of the time of the railway officials ; I do not suppose they would take more; and the whole time of the railway officials could not have been longer than three weeks. Therefore there is no reason why the report itself should be very much later this year than it was last year. Last year the Railways Report was brought down on the 17th August, and I do not myself see that the excuse the Minister for Railways has urged is any real excuse at all, because the Duke of York did not come here until nearly the end of June. Now, why was not this report ready and in the hands of the Printer before the Duke of York came here at all? Our accounts for the year end on the 31st March, and that report could have been prepared, and along with the B .- 1 paper, placed in the hands of the Printer before the House met. Then, the honourable gentle- man urged that the Government Printing Office is blocked, and the reason why we cannot get these reports is because the Printing Office is so blocked. Now, Sir, why is it blocked ? If these papers and reports had been in the hands of the Printer before Parliament met that block would have been avoided. I have never known a session in which returnsordered by the House are so long in being placed on the table as is the case this year. I do not know the reason for that. and I cannot understand the reason for it. With respect to the printing of these reports of the Mines, Railways, and Lands Departments, I maintain they ought to have been prepared and placed in the hands of the Printer, and actually printed, before Parliament met, and I do not see why they should not have been ; and I again assert that the block at the Printing Office, which is assigned to-day as the excuse for these reports and papers not being ready, would have been avoided had the course I indicate been followed. With respect to the Lands Report and the Railways Report, and the Mines Report, I myself have been going through the Financial Statement, and I have come to this conclusion-and I wish, Sir, to make it public: that I take it to be absolutely impossible and unwise for any member to dis- cuss any question with respect to the railways or the lands in the financial debate without having had the opportunity of going through these reports. I shall myself refuse to discuss any questions dealing with lands or railways until we have got these two reports laid on the table. Other members may make an effort to discuss them without having these reports laid on the table. I do not see how they can, and especially how they can bring themselves up to date unless these two reports are on the table. Last year the Lands Report was laid on the table on the 7th August. Now, why is it not on the table on the 7th August this year? It cannot be the excuse in respect to the Lands Statement that the officials of the Lands Department looked after the Duke of York and his visit ; and I see no reason at all why the Lands Report has not been laid on the table even earlier this session than it was last. Then. Sir, with regard to the Mines Report, that report was laid on the table last year on the 31st July, and we have no statement of the Mines Department now on the 23rd August, twenty-three days later than last year-and last year the presentation was surely late enough. Nor is there any reason that the excuse should be urged in respect to the Mines Report that the officials were engaged 