should be fair, square, and above-board, it is the accounts of the Advances to Settlers Office. But we have got no information what became of this #200,000, and, just the same, I believe we would get no information about the two millions if it was borrowed. There- fore I think I was perfectly justified in voting against the larger sum being borrowed. I think the sooner this particular office is removed alto- gether from political control the better, because at the present time the feeling all over the country is that if a man is of the right " colour " he gets an advance, and if he happens to be of the wrong " colour " he gets nothing at all. Mr. MILLS (Minister in charge of the Ad- vances to Settlers Office). - Sir 1 am rather surprised to hear my young political friend re- iterate the foolish charge that he made the other night in reference to right "colour" being mixed up in this department. I was very much astonished when, to verify his state- ment, he produced a letter and read it to this House, and although he promised to hand it over to me, and furnish the name of the writer, I have never seen it yet. Evidently the honourable member thought better of it, and considered perhaps it would be wiser not to pass that letter on to me. However, I took down some of the particulars given to me, and, knowing it was casting a reflection on the office itself, I have taken the trouble to look into them, and find out how much truth there is in the statement made by my honourable friend. Now. let me tell him that it is quite true that a certain party-I will not mention his name -applied for a loan ; and after he had made his application the loan was granted. The mortgage was actually executed, but, would you believe it, when they came to search the Deeds Ofhce they actually found that this friend of the honourable member for Patea, who had sent in his application to the office to borrow this money, had never disclosed that he had a second mortgage over this property. He never even showed it in the application he made. He made a statement which was false, and, if under the Justices of the Peace Act, would have run him quickly in to a certain place I will not name. And, I suppose, this is the man who the honourable member says was refused a loan because he was not of the right "colour." Well, we must all acknowledge that he was not of the right "colour " in another sense, for his " colour was very bad, there can be no doubt about that, and I do not wonder that the Board looked very askance, and will do for a long time to come, at any other ap- plication coming from that particular appli- cant. When they discovered this fact, which had been concealed, he was immediately told that he could not get this advance unless he released his second mortgage. This he was unable to do, and. the property not being worth sufficient to advance enough to release both mortgages, the consequence was that the Board suffered a lot of gratuitous humbugging, to use no stronger term, from this particular applicant. Mr. Haselden aspiring politician, can be forgiven for accept- ing a letter from anybody or nobody, and coming to this House and making the statement he did the other evening, and which he reiterated this evening, because he lacks exi erience. Mr. HASELDEN .- There was nothing about the mortgage in the letter : but I am quite pre- pared to accept the Hon. the Minister's statement. . Mr. MILLS .- All I would say is this: that it would be advisable for my honourable friend to look more carefully into matters of a similar kind, and be very sure of his evidence before he makes such a charge against any department of the Government in this House. I am quite satisfied that before he has been in Parliament two sessions he will begin to realise what the re- sponsibility of his position means far better than he does at present. Well, Sir, he says also that he has been in a financial fog about $200,000. I do not wonder at my honoural le friend being in a mist, because the honourable member for Riccarton, who prides himself on being a finan- cial authority, has been in a thicker fog and mist over the balance-sheet all the time, and he has evidently conveyed some of the misty feel- ing to the honourable member for Patea. I am sorry that the honourable member for Riccarton is not in his place; but in the meantime, and until he puts in an appearance, I will say a few words with regard to a statement made by Captain Russell, the member for Hawke's Bay. His was very mild criticism, but in his speech on the second reading he said that this money was being raised for " ulterior purposes." Now, an expression of that kind against the Government is not a pleasant one, especially when there is no truth in it. From that he went on to assume that there would be no more money required for making advances by this office beyond the $500,000 in one year. A much larger which is quite erroneous. sum will be required, as the Premier has ex- plained to-night, for no one can say what will be the amount advanced during the current year if you have the money to advance. It is simply a question of ways and means ; but if the House limits the department to $500.000 per annum it would simply be impossible for them to lend out more than they had at their disposal. Every good business-man know that. Therefore, when the honourable member for Hawke's Bay made that statement he was working on the assumption that no larger sum would be required. He also said be had a conviction there was sufficient with- out any further loan to carry on with until next year. Well, I do not find fault with the honouralle member for that, because every one is entitled to have an opinion and hold convictions, and we can agree to differ. But I would point out to the honouratle member that he has not got the responsibility of working the department, and I have : so. naturally, I prefer to abide by the advice of the Superintendent, who has the charge of the office and the departmental work, and knows what he is talking about. Now I come to 