think the price is altogether beyond the value of the land. That is my real objection to the Bill. Had we left the price to be determined by a Compensation Court, I should have viewed this Bill differently. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) .- I have listened with considerable interest to the dis- cussion which has taken place, and I must con- fess I am becoming exceedingly interested- and, I suppose, a good many other members are also-in the affairs of the City of Welling- ton, because they appear on the floor of this House so often. I was considerably impressed by what fell from the honourable member for Wellington Suburbs, in whose constituency, I understand, the property is. I do not observe in this Bill any provision for taking a vote of the ratepayers. An Hon. MEMBER .- Read clause 5. Mr. BARCLAY .- I suppose the contention of the honourable member is that under "The Municipal Corporations Act, 1900," a poll would be necessary. I think, however, some time ought to be given us to look into this mat- ter, and, therefore, I move, That this debate be adjourned for a week. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City). - I appeal most earnestly to members of this House to consent to the adjournment of this debate. The proper legal notices, I suppose, have been given of the intention to introduce the Bill, and it has passed through the usual examination by the Local Bills Committee ; still there has not been afforded to the people of the city, nor to one of the members representing the City, such infor- mation as we ought to possess before passing a Bill of such importance. I have not had time to master the Bill, although I know 4.0. sufficient of its contents to justify me in opposing its further progress at this stage. I am aware that there is a very strong feeling on the part of the majority of the people of this city that this Bill should not pass, and we are anxious to have an adjournment of the debate in order that we shall be fully armed with the opinions of those opposed to it, and with the fullest information before it goes to the second reading. I ask honourable mem- bers to pay some deference to the opinion of the member for Wellington Suburbs and myself, who represent the majority of the citizens of Wellington. I personally am aware that there is a very strong feeling against the Bill, and I stand here this afternoon to appeal to members who cannot possibly be familiar with the whole circumstances surrounding this Bill, and the purchase of that land, to give us time, to get all the information we desire to have before it goes to the second reading. I am making this appeal to honourable members because I know it to be the wish of the great majority of the citizens of Wellington that the Bill should be allowed to stand over in order that full expression may be given to their views in regard to this proposed purchase of Miramar. An Hon. MEMBER .- They can express that at the poll. Mr. Wilford proposal was before the House on a former occasion. Of course, if members in their wis. dom decline to give us further time to consider the contents of the Bill, we must leave the decision to them ; but I do seriously hope that the House will agree to the motion for an ad- journment, on the ground that we feel that we have not had time to consider all its provisions, and also that we may be able to consult the people themselves, who maintain that they have not yet had the proposal fully placed before them. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) .- As to this question of the adjournment of the deb :. te, I say that, if the citizens of Wellington declare that they are not in favour of the acquisition of Miramar, this Bill, if passed into law, will be no better than waste-paper. Here in the Bill is a definite proposal, "Will you give us power to borrow money to do that? " Everything is bound down hard and fast, so that there can possibly be no evasion or malversation. That being so, I would ask, Is there any necessity for delay to get further information for honourable mem- bers? I would further point out that the whole thing is dominated by a poll of the citizens. Can anything be fairer than that ? I could enlighten honourable members of the scheming and the plotting and the intriguing of wealthy syndicates and landed interests of this city to militate against the scheme. I can do that later on. There is a foul conspiracy of landed proprietors to prevent the citizens getting this property, so that they will be the better able to sell their own land ; but I will content myself by simply making that statement at present. It will be well for some of those gentlemen if they do not push their intrigues too far. This is a democratic measure, and in accordance with all our municipal legislation. There is no necessity for further inquiry. The Bill simply sets out how the land shall be dealt with after a poll of the citizens says that it is to be ac- quired, and if honourable members will take an unbiassed view of the case they will not vote for the adjournment. Mr. MEREDITH .- Has the question been before the public ? Mr. HUTCHESON .- Yes, it has, and is now ; and the public is taking the liveliest interest in it. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) .- For obvi- ous reasons I rise to support the suggestion that the debate be adjourned for a week. In deal. ing with local Bills members not immediately affected by local considerations must be more or less at the mercy of those local members who are acquainted with the facts. In this case we find the honourable member for Wellington Suburbs and one of the members for Welling- ton City-the one opposing the Bill, and the other asking for an adjournment. I admit that it is difficult for me to at once express an opinion in regard to this measure, and, if I should be called upon to do so now, I could scarcely give an intelligent vote on the matter. 