valuable buildings or whether it be applied to almost unimproved sections in the suburbs, and they show in almost every instance, if worked out, to be for the benefit of the bulk of the people. I believe that eventually we will adopt this system. I do not know whether we are going to carry it through to-night or not, but I believe that the rating on unimproved values will actually be the system in vogue all through this colony in a very short period, and I only trust that the perio i may be shorter than some gentlemen who have already spoken seem to wish. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) .- We have just heard a very interesting speech from the honourable member for Lyttelton, who aspires to be one of the leaders of the single-tax movement in New Zealand, and I believe that we have got to thank that honourable gentle- man and two or three gentlemen in this city for the whole of the time wasted on this Bill. I believe that the honourable member was good enough to form a deputation some time ago to the Premier, urging upon him the necessity of bringing in this Bill ; and, now that his vanity has been a little bit pleased by having had this question discussed for the last twenty-four hours in this House, I think it would be a very good thing if the honourable gentleman would tear himself away from that flourishing Town- ship of Lyttelton and go and take a farm and try and get a living off the land, and then come back and tell the House what he thinks of the single-tax movement, and of land-taxation in general. I would say that there are very few places where the land is more heavily taxed / https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1. 32106019788246 than in New Zealand, when you come to reckon the load of taxation for various purposes ad- ditional to the land-tax. I have no wish to make a long speech on this question. I have been listening to the whole debate, and I have sometimes asked myself the question why this Bill was brought in at all. Who has asked for the Bill? The honourable member for Lyttelton and two or three of his friends. And then to please these two or three gentlemen who hold extreme views on this question our time is to be wasted in discussing this measure. I fail to see why the Premier should be so anxious to deprive the ratepayers all over the colony of any discretionary power with refer- ence to this question. Every local body in the colony now has it in its power, by a poll of the ratepayers, to say whether their rates shall be levied on the unimproved value or not. Why not leave the people to decide for themselves ? I am not going into the question of whether it would be right or wrong to go in for that principle, because, candidly speaking, I have no objection to the principle of the unimproved value in rating, provided we can get a proper valuation and a proper definition of what is the unimproved value of land. In the large cities I admit it is a very easy matter to settle that question ; because, if a section is not built on, the unimproved value is settled by what it will realise in the open market-what it will sell at. That is all very well in the city ; but go into the country, and Mr. Laurenson Department to-day who can go on a farm and are competent to say what the unimproved value of that farm is? I have not known one officer of the department who can do it. I need only refer to the illustration given by the honourable member for Ashley a short time ago, when he referred to one farmer in his district who some years ago took up a farm on swamp land that had been lying unoccupied for a num- ber of years, which was then valued at 4:2 per acre. He had the pluck and sufficient capital to go in for improving it. He spent probably nearly the whole of his lifetime and probably all the capital he was possessed of in improving that land. He has now got it up to such a high state of productiveness that the capital value is estimated at $30 an acre. Now, who is to decid . what the unimproved value of that land is to-day? Who is to say what assess- ment shall be placed on that land for taxa- tion purposes? Is it to be one of the peram- bulating creatures called land valuers by the Government-men who never owned an acre of land in their lives, and who have been a failure at everything they have tried in their lives ; men who have been dead-beats in every occupation they have been at? Yet these men, having got occupation under the Government as land valuers, go on to a farm and presume to tell the farmer who has worked all his life on the land what the unimproved value of that farm is. And if the farmer does not accept their valuation, these men, having the funds of the Government at their back, can employ as many witnesses as they choose to bring forward, and who will go into Court and swear to any valuation these men may put on the land. That is the position every occupier of the land is put in. Men can be got to go into the As- sessment Court and give any evidence that the valuer wishes them to give-men who have no regard whatever for the sacredness of an oath, and who are quite prepared to swear to any- thing, and I am afraid you can hire them by the dozen for that purpose. And. Sir, they are hired for that purpose. An Hon. MEMBER .- In Whangarei. Mr. R. THOMPSON .- Yes, it has been done in Whangarei, and it is done in other places ; and I say if you pass such a measure as this it is the duty of the House to define what the unimproved value of land is, and how it is to be assessed, and not leave it for inexperienced men and men who really know nothing about the value of land. Now, we will take, for instance, a small borough. There are many of these small boroughs in the colony, perhaps contain- ing two thousand acres of land, while the busi- ness of the borough may probably be centred on ten acres of that land. Within the last few years many of those small boroughs, through the influence of business people, have gone in for loans for draining, water, and various other purposes ; and if you pass such a Bill as this you immediately relieve those who are re- sponsible for the loans of most of their taxa- tion, and you throw nearly the whole burden of those loans on to the small farmers who are 