have had considerable experience myself of it, for the reason that Iam continually meeting the nurses, the visitors, and patients that at differ- ent times have passed through the institution, and I can say this : that during my experience of some sixteen or seventeen years I have not come in contact with one patient who has been dismissed from that institution but that has spoken in the highest terms of the kindly treat- ment that they have received, and of the manner that they have been attended to I have heard very many say that they have been better attended to than they possibly could have been in their own homes. They have been thankful, -though unwilling to enter the hospital in the first place, as some people are biassed against such institutions - that they had entered that institution in their sickness. As I said in my opening remarks, although the member's state- ment will be circulated as a fact, vet I certainly think he must have been deceived by the state- ment made to him by the patient, and that the statement he made here this afternoon was either exaggerated by the person who communi- cated with him, or that he is now exaggerating for the purpose of speaking at all times against the city, which is next to the borough of which he is the Mavor. I think we might expect the honourable member to speak kindly of the City of Dunedin and its institutions, instead of, as he does, taking every oppor- tunity of discrediting everything in connec- tion with it. Sir, that was my chief reason for rising to speak this evening. But, coming back to the Bill, I think it is a good measure, and that it will result in the nurses being better trained, and, consequently, better able to follow their calling than they otherwise would be. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- I did not read the paper of Dr. MacGregor, spoken of by the honourable member for Waihemo, but experience teaches me that nurses, like poets, are born, not made. The setting-up of a nurses' guild such as is proposed by this Bill may in- crease the status of the nurses, but it cannot increase their ability. Then, there is the objec- tion that the establishment of a nurses' guild may lead to the exclusion of very many experi- enced nurses who may not be able to pass some set cram test. There are many women in this country - many within my own knowledge- who might not be able to pass a skilled profes- sional examination, and yet I know them to be most efficient and capable nurses. The setting- up of a guild such as this would possibly exclude them. They are not of the "Sairey Gamp" class. They are women who have world wide experience of the ills not only of their own sex, but of the other sex. When the skilled aid of the physician has reached its limit and is of no further avail, then comes into play the natural talent of the skilled nurse. The nurse then in reality takes the place of the doctor. As to the exclusion of experienced women who would be barred by the setting-up of this insti- tution of skilled nurses, I want to know how that objection is to be met. for in serious or critical cases the medical profession naturally Mr. Arnold nurses' guild, and on that list will not be found the names of very many women whose names I hold ought to be there. Then, a further possi- bility of exclusion is contained in the imposition of the fee. I agree with those members who ask, Why should there be a fee when the whole object is to aid and minimise the sufferings under which the hospital patient or any other patient labours? I have said that the tender care of a woman, her sympathy, her watchful- ness in really dangerous cases of sickness. is frequently more to the patient than the aid of the physician himself. Could the tenderness and sympathy of a woman be better expressed than in the beautiful lines of Sir Walter Scott's " Marmion " ?-- " Ob. woman, in our hour of ease Uncertain. roy, and hard to please. And variable as the shade By the light quivering aspen made : When pain and anguish wring the brow A ministering angel thou." Sir, I do not, like Mr. Silas Wegg, drop into poetry in a mechanical way, but I recognise in those concluding lines the expression of a feel- ing which I. on very many occasions, have seen manifested by women who take an interest in their work as nurses, not for the payment they receive, but from the instinctive nature within the m which prompts them to lend whatever aid they can to a suffering fellow-being in a willing and whole-hearted way. Well, Sir, I ask whether the honourable gentleman has considered the two classes-the claims of the trained, qualified, and certificated nurses who will have all the standing pertaining to the profession-for it will be raised to the dignity of a profession- and the claims of those who, on the other hand, will be equally qualified, but who will perhaps be barred from being called on in cases where their skill would be of the greatest. use to the patient. I have known of guilds that have had conferred upon them powers of exclusion, where there were men excluded equally, and in many cases better qualified, than those who had become members of those guilds. I hardly see how that objection is to be met. I am glad to see there is no disqualifica- tion in the Bill. There is nothing which says that a person shall be barred from acting as a paid nurse notwithstanding that she is not possessed of a certificate from the institution. But I again call attention to the fact that it is a difficulty-a bar-in the case of those quali- fied women who may not be able to pass an examination, whose names will therefore not be on the certificated list, and whose names will therefore not be recommended by members of the medical profession, but who in many ways may be superior to some of those nurses who happen to have the badge and the attire of professional trained nurses. 1 do not wish to say one word in derogation of the pro- fessional nurses employed in our hospitals. While one may say a great deal in commenda- tion of their services to the public of this country, it is not to be forgotten that many of them perform their duties in what one may 