to two months, because it has been found that in a large district it is impossi! le for a Truant Officer, in very many cases, to lay the informa- tion within the period prescribed by the 1894 Act ; and in connection with that a provision is inserted by which the Magistrate, in dealing with the case, may take into consideration the age of the child and the distance the child has to travel to go to school. Then, there is another provision : that penalties which are levied shall not be paid to the School Committee fund, as : of 1894 is, in effect, a dead-letter ; it is of little provided in the original Act, but to the Board fund, where they employ Truant Inspectors. 1 'hands of School Committees or of the officials might say that I have had some years' ex- ! perience as Chairman of the Attendance Com- | in the way expected seven years ago. There mittce of the Wanganui Education Board, and { are, of course, details in the Bill which, if the that experience has taught me the necessity for | Bill reaches the Committee stage, will be dis- these amendments if you want to render a i cussed, and will demand the consideration of the School Attendance Act workable. I trust mem- bers will give me their active support in passing a measure which I am sure will tend to in- crease the attendance at the primary schools. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) .- That there is some necessity for a i School Attendance Bill is evidenced by the fact that the Government have in another place a Bill of a similar nature to this Bill, and dealing with the same subject. That Bill has already passed its second reading, and will in due course reach this House. I rather expected the honourable gentleman, in view of that fact, would have taken into consideration the ad- visability of allowing this Bill to be left over. However, I see no objection to passing the second reading. although some of its pro- visions as they now appear are rather harsh. For instance, to insist on a certain number of attendances and to compel a child to go four miles to school is parsh, inasmuch as, while / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero you may have a goed road, you cannot control It is true that if an action is the weather. brought against the parents this fact may be brought forward as evidence in defence, but the distance is certainly too great. Mr. PIRANI. The Government has fixed three miles. Mr. HALL-JONES. - Yes : and I suppose the honoarable member has gone a little bet- ter, in order to have some distinction between the two Bills. But, in any case. I think three miles is a reasonable distance which one might expect a child to go to school. There are several other matters in the Bill which are, however, Committee objections. The alteration proposed in the management of Native schools is a radi- cal change, inasmuch as it proposes to place the management of Native schools under the control of Native Committees. At present honourable members are aware that these schools are controlled by the department. I am not sure as to the advisability of the course proposed in this Bill, because there might be a difficulty in obtaining the assist- ance and co-operation of the Natives in carry- ing out the work efficiently ; and especially with Native schools is constant care and con stant control required. and to a much greater Mr. Pirani have a Bill in another place which will reach this House shortly, and we may perhaps em- body some of the best provisions of this Bill in it. In the meantime the Bill may be read & : second time. Mr. TANNER (Avon) .-- Sir, I consider that the honourable gentleman in introducing this Bill is doing a public service, because something of this nature is necessary to supplement our i education system. The School Attendance Act It has not strengthened the For no service. who are appointed to enforce school attendance House ; but in the main the Bill, I believe, is good, and goes in the right direction. The ques- tion of distance, which has been mentioned, is one that I know is got over in some thinly populated districts by means of a method of co-operation which prevails amongst the residents, whereby a farmer-the father of children who are attending school - will, fairly early in the morning, put his child- ren into a vehicle, drive round and pick up the children of a number of his neighbours, and deliver them, as it were, at the school in time for attendance. The same thing is by arrange- ment taken up by another neighbour the next day, and by that practice during the week half a dozen people spend a couple of hours of their time in seeing that the whole of the children in It is an a given vicinity attend the school. admirable instance of co-operation. That, of course, would not apply where the road is practically impassable, as has been referred to. But what I rose to call attention to in par- ticular is the manner in which school attend- ance is evaded be the plea of parents when summoned that their children are in attendance at private schools. Sir, there is no more pain- ful business thin to sit as a Justice of the Peace at the Court and have a batch of poor, miserable women brought before ene charged with neglecting to send their children to school. I speak of Christchurch only for the moment, but I dare say the same practice prevails "Ise- where. It is the most frequent custom in the world for them to produce a little slip of paper, signed by some teacher or other at a private school, to the effect that Micky O'Flynn or Johnny Smith is in attendance at that school. On inquiry afterwards it is found that the name was entered on the school-roll perhaps that very morning. Provably that is the only attendance the child ever makes, but the plea is sufficient, and, no matter how ardent a Jus- tice of the Peace may be to see that the Act is carried out, his hands are, in effect, tied behind his back. He can do nothing in the face of the sworn statement that the child is in attendance at another school. There has been no desire on the part of the parents of that child that he should attend any school -- a fact that is 