making it compulsory. Who has been asking that this compulsory system should be intro- duced? There have been many speakers this afternoon, and they have pointed out that in their districts they have never heard a word about a local body asking that any alteration in the law should be made in this direction. It is true that in some districts there have been applications to bring it into force ; but they are working under the present Act, and if there was any reasonable desire to do so they could have brought it in quite readily. It seems to me a great change has come over the Government and their immediate followers. A few years ago they were the very people who talked much about trusting the people, and now they are the very people who wish to take away from the people this privilege, and make the Act compulsory. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- Sir, the Premier in introducing this Bill gave as an argument in support of it that the people of the country were unanimously in favour of rating on the unimproved value ; but, Sir, the discussion on this Bill has shown that whatever may be the case with the people, the representatives of the people are not at all unanimous on the point. In fact, Sir, and I believe that I speak with some knowledge of the subject, I say that a very large majority of the people of the country are satisfied with the present optional or permissive system, which allows a majority of those voting at a poll, to be taken for the purpose, to decide whether any district will rate upon the unim- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 proved values, or by the present system of rating upon the capital value. Of course, like the last speaker, I am quite willing to admit that there are districts in the colony the peculiar circumstances and conditions of which render / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero it desirable that they should rate upon the un- improved values system, and I have no ob- jection to their doing so. But, Sir, when I heard it stated as an argument that because thirty-three districts of the colony have decided upon rating on the unimproved values system, therefore the other districts of the colony must be of the same opinion, I could only think that the argument was utterly fallacious. How many local bodies are there in the colony ? The Year-book of last year tells us that there are ninety-nine boroughs, eighty-five counties, 238 road districts, thirty-eight town districts, or 460 in all, besides a number of drainage dis- tricts and river protection districts and so forth. When such a statement is made in this House that, because thirty-three districts of the colony are in favour of rating on the unimproved value system, the balance of the four hundred and sixty must also be in favour of it, then I cau only say that the statement is as nonsensical at anything I have ever heard. Then, the Premier in his speech went on to tell us that the effect of this Bill becoming law would be to compel property-owners, such as those owning property in Molesworth Street, to erect substantial and expensive buildings on their sections. Well, if that be the effect of the Bill, what is to become of the present occupiers of the second-class buildings in Molesworth Street ? stantial and expensive structures, as the Pre- mier puts it, what are the people who are living in Molesworth Street at the present time to do ? Will it be possible for them to pay in- terest or rent on these expensive buildings ? It will be probably impossible for them to do so, and what are they to do? Of course, I know that the answer will be this: that they must remove to poorer parts of the city where they will not offend the aristocratic residents of Molesworth Street with their cottages or workshops or business premises, as the case may be. Is that what we are coming to? I sincerely hope that it is not, and that that is not what the honourable gentleman intended. Then, we hear a lot about "equality of sacri- fice " in connection with this question, and I cannot understand the people who profess to be in favour of " equality of sacrifice," as it is called, or placing the burden of taxation on the shoul- ders of the people best able to bear it, or of compelling people to contribute to the revenue of the colony in proportion to their ability-I cannot understand men who believe in these principles supporting such a Bill as this. The statistics for last year tell us that the unim- proved value of the land in the colony amounts to £84,401,244, and that the value of improve- ments amounts to £54,190,103, so that the total value of land and improvements amounts to £138,591,347; and now it is proposed to exempt in connection with local taxation improvements to the value of $54,000,000. I cannot under- stand the contention-the object in so doing ; and I say that I have not heard a single good argument in favour of the proposal. We are told, of course, that the passing of the present Bill will discourage land speculation, and encourage the making of improvements ; but will it ? We often hear a lot of people who sympathise with the single-tax movement say, "Tax the land ; increase the taxation on land." But those people evidently forget that land is paying more than its fair share now. Mr. SEDDON .- No. Mr. MASSEY .- The Premier is evidently of that opinion ; but I express my own opinion when I say that land is paying more than its fair share in proportion to accumulated wealth, and the Premier, and those who think with him, forget that the landowner commences by paying land tax, but that is not all- An Hon. MEMBER .-- How many of them ? Mr. MASSEY .- I am not able to tell the honourable gentleman the number, but the Pre- mier knows that there are a great many people in the colony who own land, and who pay the land- tax. All those who own land with an unim- proved value of over $500 pay land-tax, and if of sufficient area or sufficient value they pay the graduated tax. And we have it on very good authority-on the authority of the Pre- mier himself-that he is considering in the near future the question of increasing the graduated tax, and not only increasing the tax, but that he intended to reduce the exemptions. How- ever, I was going to say that landowners have to pay, in addition to the land-tax and the 