sons who hold unimproved land for speculative purposes have had its value greatly increased without them doing anything to create such increased value. Such landowners do nothing to aid production. improvements, or progress, but actually retard the same in the country. A landlord might, indeed, hold land all his lifetime, but he would have received neither income nor produce from it unless a com- munity had existed for the one and tenants for the other. 1 hold that the owners of land- values which are the result of no exertion on the part of the owner, should contribute more than the owners of other forms of wealth which is the result of labour and enterprise. Now, Sir, I remember reading a speech of my honourable friend the member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson) on this subject some time ago, in which he wisely said that an ounce of practice was worth a ton of theory. Now, what do we find has actually taken place where this Act has been brought into operation in other countries? Let us take Queensland, and the following is the recorded opinion of the Town Clerk of Brisbane after eight years' ex- perience of the working of this progressive system of rating in Queensland :- " I am inclined to think that the system of rating on the capital value of land irrespective of improvements does encourage the erection of buildings on vacant land, and it also tends to the erection of a better class of buildings. We have less difficulty in making the assessment, the capital value of the land being more readily ascertained than where improvements have to be taken into account." Then, again, what do we find in other parts of the world ?- and here I may remark that it is very interesting and instructive to note the very great strides this movement has been making all over the English-speaking world. I will ask the indulgence of the House here while I read some valuable quotations dealing with what has been done in other parts of the world in regard to this proposal :- "In British Columbia it is compulsory to rate land-values alone for local purposes. In Queensland, South Australia, and in Manitoba and other Canadian States, it is optional for Municipalities to rate either the property or the unimproved value of the land." In New South Wales I may state that a reso- lution demanding the optional exemption of improvements from rating was carried by a conference of 147 Municipalities as early as 1889. Again in 1898, at a conference of dele- gates representing a majority of the Munici -. palities of Western Australia, the following resolution was carried : -- " That the methods of determining valuations provided in the Local Government Act are not conducive to the advancement and prosperity of a municipality, and this conference recom- mends that the valuations be made on the current value of land, irrespective of any struc- tures thereon." A majority of Scottish boroughs, headed by the City of Glasgow, have petitioned Parliament Mr. Hanan of rating. In 1897, a municipal conference in London, representing 266 towns in the United Kingdom, passed a strong resolution in support of the proposal of rating on ground-values alone. Again in March, 1898, at another conference in London, representing fifty-seven rating autho- rities, the following resolutions were passed : - " (a) For the separate valuation and assess- ment of lands and improvements ; (b) for the as- sessment of the tax on the true value of the land, whether used, or let, or held idle by the owner, and not upon the income which the land may be yielding ; (c) for the collection of the tax from the occupier, with a statutory right of de- duction, as is the case in the income-tax. Schedule A ; and (d) for the assessment of land- values for local as well as for. Imperial pur- poses." The Daily News of the 29th March, 1898, re- ferring to the resolutions, observed that,- " It should by no means escape notice that the movement for the taxation of ground- values has received the powerful support of the Association of Municipal Corporations. At the annual meeting, apparently without opposition, the representatives of 266 towns in the United Kingdom, including all the county boroughs and all the non-county boroughs of over fifteen thousand inhabitants except one, declared that the growing burdens upon ratepayers made it urgent that some means should be provided by which owners of land, whether occupied or vacant, should contribute to local revenue. The Municipal Corporations in the United. Kingdom represented a very strong,"- And here I would call the attention of my honourable friend the member for Riccarton, whom we sometimes regard as, and who calls himself, a Liberal, to this significant part of that newspaper's report, which, continuing, states : - "- and perhaps the best conservative element in the country, and now they are found support- ing a measure which, when put forward by the progressives on the London County Council, was characterized as revolutionary and, at least, im- practicable. Yet the London County Council was only following the example of a great unionist Corporation, Glasgow; and now its policy is indorsed by all the important boroughs in the land. The inference is obvious. The demand that the owners of land shall be taxed for local improvements, from which they largely benefit, is now made by the whole of the large urban communities in Great Britain and Ire- land, and it cannot much longer be resisted. In Great Britain the rating of the unimproved value of land has now become the foremost political question. Men like Lord Rosebery, Lord Carrington, Lord Hobhouse, and Lord Compton are earnestly advocating it, as well as The last elec- most of the great newspapers. \--- tions in the London County Council turned on the question, and resulted in a large majority of its supporters being returned." Mr. MORRISON. - What are you quoting from ? Mr. HANAN .- I am quoting from a South 