years, almost every country in the civilised world has endeavoured to deal by legislation with the question of usury. I would define the difference between usury and interest as fol- lows : Money lent for a fair return I will call interest, and money lent for an unfair return I call usury. In the Old Country hundreds of years ago usury was prohibited many years ; after a maximum rate of interest was fixed by Act of Parliament; then, from various causes, in 1854 the usury laws of the Old Country were practically repealed. That was followed by a similar course taken in France, Denmark, Sweden, Holland, Switzerland, Norway, Saxony, Spain, Belgium, Prussia, and the greater part of Northern Germany ; but, as time went on, the evils were found to be so great that many of these laws were in some form re-enacted. In 1898 a Committee was set up in the Imperial Parliament to inquire as to the best means of dealing with this important question, and in- cluded in their report is the following :- " After carefully considering the evidence which has been given in regard to particular transactions, and the general expressions of opinion of persons so well qualified to form a judgment as Sir Henry Hawkins, Sir James Charles Mathew, Sir George Lewis, the In- spector-General in Bankruptcy, and the County Court Judges, your Committee have unhesitat- ingly come to the conclusion that the system of money-lending by professional money-lenders at high rates of interest is productive of crime, bankruptcy, unfair advantage over other credi- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 tors of the borrower, extortion from the bor- rower's family and friends, and other serious injuries to the community. And, although your Committee are satisfied that the system is sometimes honestly conducted, they are of opinion that only in rare cases is a person benefited by a loan obtained from a profes- sional money-lender, and that the evil atten- dant upon the system far outweighs the good. They therefore consider that there is urgent need for the interposition of the Legislature with a view to removing the evil." Sir, an attempt was made in the following year to introduce a Bill dealing with the ques- tion in the Old Country. It did not pass, but a Bill was passed last year in the Imperial Par- liament almost exactly on the same lines as the Bill now before the House. That there is need for it in New Zealand I think cannot be dis- puted. We have had Usury Bills before the House on previous occasions. We had one in 1896 ; and let me say here that what appears to have been the weak point in most of the Acts dealing with usury was that there was fixed in the Act a maximum rate of interest from 10 per cent. down to 4 per cent. per annum. That there is need for it in New Zealand I think is evident to most honourable members. Those members who look through, for instance, the Mercantile and Bankruptcy Gazette will see in that paper the bills of sale which are registered. In quite a recent number of the Mercantile Giazette I noticed a bill of sale over furniture. The borrower was a woman. The amount bor- rowed was $20, and the interest was 20 per cent. In another case £13 was borrowed on a horse, and the interest was 20 per cent. In another case #18 was borrowed on furniture, and the interest again was 20 per cent. That is the interest that was charged ; but if you come to add on to that the charges made by the per- son from whom the money is borrowed you find that in these registered bills of sale the interest amounts to 30 or 40 per cent. But when you come to unregistered bills of sale, and similar documents, you will find that it demands that some safeguards should be provided for those people who, through necessitous or other causes, seek the assistance of the professional money-lender. Now, I had a case brought under my notice not long since which is, I hope, about as extreme as one could find. There was a loan of £5, and again the bor- rower was a woman-a respectable woman. Evidently she wished some money for a par- ticular purpose, and this was the result : She borrowed $5 at 5s. per week interest. At the end of the first year she was unable to keep up the whole of the payments, and had only paid £8 18s. 6d. in interest on the loan of $5. At the end of the second year she had paid £21 8s., and still owed the $5. Owing to the interest being in arrears the charge was raised to 7s. 6d. per week interest, but the loan ran on for over two years and a half. Her husband shortly after- wards happened to hear of it, and the matter was settled. The final settlement was: Interest paid, £31 18s. 6d. ; still claimed to be due by the money-lender, $7 7s. : total, $39 5s. 6d. Deducting the £5 originally borrowed gives £34 5s. 6d., or interest at the rate of 25 per cent. per annum. That may be an extreme case ; but we have had many cases in this colony of people borrowing money at 40 and 60 per cent. interest. An Hon. MEMBER .- Was that bill of sale registered ? Mr. HALL-JONES .- No ; and it is the un- registered bills of sale, or promissory notes, where the highest interest is charged. The honest man suffers from this, because I have numerous instances of men who have got into financial difficulties in connection with their business. They have gone to a professional money-lender, and given a promissory note or some security, which is not registered unless the lender thinks there is some fear of losing what he has lent, and then he registers it to secure himself, and the honest man who is dealing with the debtor has to suffer. I could give you many instances of bankruptcy proceedings where you find secured creditors and unsecured creditors. The secured creditor is the man who has charged 30, 40, and 50 per cent. in- terest, and the unsecured creditor is the man who has to bear the brunt of the heavy charges made by the money-lender. Now, the Bill before the House is not a Bill fixing any rate of interest. It is a Bill which, in a few words, says that a Court may review any case brought before it, and if the Court is of opinion that the charges are excessive, unfair, or extortionate in any way it can enforce a readjustment of the accounts. In the 2nd clause a money-lender is defined thus :- 