the Natives, in order that the graves of those soldiers who fell in the engagement at that place may be protected ? For several years past the residents in this locality had been anxious that this historic spot should be ac- He held in his quired by the Government. hand a letter which he had received from the Chairman of the School Committee, stating that he had written to the School Commis- sioners in Auckland some time ago asking them to take steps to acquire the pa for an education reserve. They indorsed the opinions expressed by the Chairman, stating that the correspondence would be forwarded to the Go- vernment, with a request that steps might be taken in the matter. Nothing, however, had since .been done. This historic spot was now simply a waste, and overgrown with fern, and he thought it would be to the credit of the colony if the twenty - one acres contained in this pa and its surroundings were acquired from the Natives. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said the Ruapekapeka Pa was situated on a subdivision of the Ruapekapeka Native Block, and was held under Native Land Court title. The legislation of the past few years prevented the Government from negotiating with the owners for the purchase of this piece of ground. Possibly when the Native Council was in full operation it might consider whether this his- torical place should not be reserved and main- tained, so far as it could be, in its present state. Mr. HOUSTON asked, If he handed the letter he had received from the Chairman of the Com- mittee to the Minister, would a reply be sent http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero in writing? Mr. DUNCAN .- Yes. # TAX ON STALLIONS. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked the Minister for Agriculture, Whether he does not consider that the imposition of a tax on stallions would not do more to improve the breed of horses in the colony than the importation of high-class stallions from England ; and whether the Go- vernment will take steps to impose such tax ? He understood this question had appeared on the Order Paper more than once. There was a very strong feeling among the farming com- munity that the imposition of a tax on stallions would tend very largely to improve the breed of horses. The number of poor "scrubbers " in the country at the present time was, it was believed, to a large extent due to the fact that there was a breed of stallions going round the country whose services could be obtained at a very cheap rate, and were in consequence largely used, and such a tax would have the effect of weeding out the poorer class of animals. This had been put to him by the farmers in a very forcible manner, and he trusted the Minister would be able to give him a favourable reply. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister for Agriculture) said a Bill dealing with this matter was in course of Mr. Houston tax should be levied, and that the proceeds of that tax should go to the agricultural associa- tions to be distributed in prizes for the best breeds of horses at the shows. This would be in the direction of improving the breed of horses in the colony. # DAIRY SCHOOL AT LEVIN. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked the Minister for Agriculture, Whether it has been finally decided to establish a dairy school on the Government experimental station at Levin ; and, if so, when it is likely that such dairy school will be in operation ? Mr. DUNCAN (Minister for Agriculture) said it was his intention to have a dairy school on the Levin State Farm ; it was a very suitable place, and with the water-supply that had been brought in should prove a success. The scheme, however, had not yet been definitely decided upon. ## REVALUATION AT HOKIANGA AND KAIHU. Mr. HOUSTON (Bay of Islands) asked the Minister of Lands, If he will cause a revaluation of the high lands between Hokianga and Kaihu ? For some considerable time the settlers had been agitating to have their rents lowered, and he had a letter from a Mr. Hawkings, residing there, who was the last of thirty-five who had taken up land there ; all the others had been obliged to leave through bad burns, bad roads, and high rents. They were satisfied with their sections, but owing to the high nature of the land it was difficult to get a good burn, and that, taken into consideration with bad roads and high rents, made it impossible for them to make a living. Then, in addition to this, their sections were loaded with a charge of 4s. an acre for roading purposes, and very little had been done ; and the settlers had to pay this heavy loading for a period of 999 years. He hoped the Minister would visit the district for himself, and see the state of things there. It was difficult, also, for settlers to get advances from the Advances to Settlers Office. One settler had cleared three hundred acres and put up five or six miles of sheep-fencing, and his improvements ran into €600 or $700; and vet when he applied to the Advances to Settlers Office for an advance of $100 he was told by the Chief Valuer at Auckland that, even if his im- provements amounted to £1,000 he could not These were the kind of get the advances. difficulties the northern settlers met with, and he felt sure the Minister would see that they got redress. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said the answer to the question as supplied to him was as follows : --- " All the Crown lands between Hokianga and Kaihu, as well as in all the other districts, are carefully valued before they are put in the market. The price at which some of these lands are now in the market varies from 5s. to #1 10s. per acre. No Crown lands can be 