In doing so I say that I have no feeling in the matter, or no desire to prevent any member's speech from being printed. It is certainly a great convenience, and the only reason for the position I took up was that I was advised on a. legal authority of high standing that in certain cases the Government Printer was liable to an action for damages. With a resolution of this House approving of the issue of speeches, I am quite prepared, immediately the House passes the resolution, to give instructions to the Government Printer to print them as before. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) .- I shall not detain the House more than a minute. I wish to say that, so far as I can judge, the resolution proposed would have no effect on the law ; no resolution of the House can effect the law : any alteration must be by statute. If the Minister chooses to authorise the printing of speeches after the resolution is passed, the liability still remains with the Government and the depart- ment. That is not desirable. What ought to be done is that a short Act should be intro- duced, absolving the Printing Office from liability in the matter, but leaving the respon- sibility with the author of the speech. Mr. TANNER (Avon). - I entirely dissent from the views of the last speaker. The honour- able gentleman-the Minister for Public Works -who introduced the resolution, said something to the effect that it should be accompanied by a declaration absolving the parties from blame : but I was glad to hear when the motion was read that speeches were to be printed as before, leaving matters exactly as they were up to last year. I believe that during thirty years which have passed no real offence has been created by the publication of these speeches. I am not aware of a single action that has ever been brought either against the Minister in charge of the department or the Government Printer, or against any member of the House, in con- sequence of the printing and circulation of speeches through the medium of the Govern- ment Printing Office, nor do I think it likely that anything of the kind may be anticipated. Therefore I shall support the motion as read from the Chair. But I dissent from the pro- posal to introduce any legislation on the sub- ject which should absolve any one from the blame which might rightly attach to the pub- lication of any such speech. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- Sir, I entirely agree with the Government in the action they propose to take in permitting the reprinting of the speeches of members in con- nection with the proceedings in the House. Honourable members will remember that this privilege was always granted until last year, and that that privilege was suddenly withdrawn when a discussion was taking place in the House relating to a particular institution at Nelson. Now, it is no use to beat about the bush. It suited the Premier on that occasion, for some purpose of his own, to try and prevent the dis- semination of the speeches of members in re- gard to that particular institution. Mr. SEDDON .- I had nothing to do with it. Mr. Hall-Jones Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - The honourable gentleman states he had nothing to do with it. Well, a statement of that kind must be ac- cepted; but, as the honourable gentleman him- self said the other night, we should take it cum grano salis, and with a very large grano indeed. Now, I think that these speeches should be set by the linotypes. What possible ground can there be for the Government of this country, in one of its institutions, employing only the mechanical means that have been employed for the last hundred or hundred and fifty years, while there are machines in existence in every office of the country-that is, of any standing -where this class of work can be done for about one-fourth of the cost that the Government are paying ? Mr. HALL-JONES .- They will be wiped out soon by better machines. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- That is not the excuse the Premier gives. The Premier's excuse is that the Government Printing Office should be treated as an institution for the pur- pose of maintaining in employment men who would be thrown on the labour-market but for that circumstance. What is the fact ? Why, that with the linotype type can be set at 4d. per thousand. The Government are paying at the present time Is. 4d. for exactly the same work. That is the position. Then when a member, representing the general interests of the colony, and desiring to see economy practised, advocates reform and economy in a matter of this kind, the Premier will get up directly and make another characteristic speech denouncing him for wanting to throw thex men out of employment. Sir, I venture to say that it was an unconstitutional act on the part of the Government to withdraw the privilege from members of the House a year ago of having their speeches reprinted, and now they com. down and say they are going to give us that privilege again. If they took it away a year or so back for sound and valid reasons. why are they going to give it back to us now ? And if they can give it back to members now, why did they withdraw that right twelve months ago? Has the law of libel been altered? I know of no alteration. Has there been any alteration in connection with the responsibility of the Government and the responsibility of the Government Printer now as compared with what it was a year ago ? Certainly not. The Government have simply performed the usual "jump Jim Crow" business, taking away this right last year, and, without any change in the conditions, giving it back again. As for the re- marks of the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay), who has dwelt on the aspect of the libel law, they are to be taken as the re- marks of a person who has very little practical knowledge of the subject on which he presumed to lecture the House. He insists on every pos- sible occasion on airing opinions on law which have no force whatever, and, in fact, they are the subject of absolute ridicule in this House. That is the position the honourable gentleman occupies, and therefore any statements he may make have simply to be disregarded, even ou \- 