That is not so. Mr. W. FRASER .- I did not say so. I said, "to decide as to the manner in which the receipts and expenditure were to be allocated." Mr. NAPIER .- That is not so. Section 9 of the Act of last year says,- "In case any difference of opinion arises between the Audit Office and the Treasury as to the vote, appropriation, fund, account, or other authority to which any expenditure ought to be charged, or as to the proper head of revenue, fund, or account to which any receipt should be credited, the question shall be determined by the Treasurer, and his determination shall be laid before Parlia- ment as provided by section fifty-three of the principal Act : " Provided that if in the opinion of the Audit Office the question involves matter of law, then it shall be determined by the Go- vernor, having before him the opinion of the Attorney-General thereon ; and in such case the objection of the Audit Office, the opinion of the Attorney-General, and the determination of the Governor shall be laid before Parliament as provided by section nifty-three of the principal Act." Therefore it will be seen that the honourable member is entirely wrong in suggesting that matters of fact were to be laid before the Go- vernor. It is only where the difference between the Auditor-General and the Government in- volves questions of law that the matter is re- ferred to the Governor, and in such cases the Governor is to have before him the opinion of the Attorney-General, or, if there . be no Attorney-General, the Solicitor-General. The honourable member for Wakatipu practically threw out a challenge to the majority in this House who passed the Public Revenues Act of last session, and he stated that there was not one honourable member who in his heart could look back with satisfaction upon the vote he gave last session in passing that Act- Mr. W. FRASER .- I did not say " one mem- ber "; I said " the great majority." Mr. NAPIER .- Well, Sir, I personally look back with the greatest satisfaction upon the vote I gave in passing that Act. I believe, Sir, that that Act has been greatly abused and extremely misrepresented in the country, and honourable members opposite think that by heaping abuse continually on that statute the \- public generally will forget what the statute really meant, and will consider that something extremely wrong, entirely unconstitutional, and improper was effected by that amendment of the law. Now, what has been the principal change in the law effected by the Public Revenues Acts Amendment Act of last session ? It is practically this: that the people of this colony, through their representatives, shall dis- burse the public revenues of the colony in the manner they think best without the interven- tion of any permanent officer or bureaucrat. Section 3 of the Amendment Act of 1900, which is the head and front of offending, according to with him, says,- "In any case where any payment of an item is provided for in the estimates as passed by the House of Representatives, and is included in the total of a vote in the Appropriation Act, such payment of the said item may be lawfully made, anything in any Act to the contrary not- withstanding, and the said payment shall be deemed to be irrespective of any appropriation or limit contained in any such last-mentioned Act : Provided that in no case shall the amount so paid exceed the total sum of the item voted : "Provided further that this section shall apply only to payments which could not law. fully be made if this section were not in opera- tion." I say, Sir, unhesitatingly, that the preten- sions of the Auditor-General are inconsistent with a free democracy. The representatives of the people are the sovereign power, and if the representatives of the people say that a certain sum of money shall be voted to a particular object, it is to me astounding to suggest that any salaried officer of the State shall interpose and say to Parliament, "You shall not vote this money. You, the custodians of the public purse-you, the power which levies the taxes- you, who voice the opinion of the electors of this colony, shall not decide how the public revenues are to be disbursed-how much is to be ex- pended in one direction and how much in another direction - unless you express your will with the formality of a statute." I say, Sir, that if a sum of money is voted upon the esti- mates, that is law; a vote of this House certainly is and ought to be law; and I am surprised that any honourable gentleman will contend to the contrary-will assert that a vote of the representatives of the people of this colony shall not be the law. Will the honour- able gentlemen opposite go out into the country and proclaim their belief that the representatives of the people ought not to rule this country ? I say, Sir, that the functions of the Audit Office are to see that the expenditure authorised is properly certified, that the expenditure has been made as it has been voted by the House of Representatives ; and it was never intended that this officer, however conscientious and however able he may be, should intervene and say that if there is a statute this House cannot by a vote modify or alter the payments men- tioned in that statute. Now, Sir, a great amount of misrepresentation as to the origin of this Amendment Act has been disseminated throughout the country. It has been said that this Act was passed because of a bribe of £40 that was offered to each member by the Govern- ment. There never was a grosser calumny or a fouler libel published upon this House than that statement. I am not in the confidence of the Government, and I found out perfectly independently -and any honourable member who wishes to investigate and inquire can find the same thing out for himself - that this Act was suggested and devised by departmental officers months before Parliament met. It had nothing whatever to do with the £40 sessional 