Dunedin will be responsible for the damage d .ne. Mr. CARNCROSS. - You cannot make good less of life. Mr. J. ALLEN .- That is true ; but in every ordinary day avocation we run the risk of losing lit ... The risk is, however, very remote. If the opposition were successful, there would be no power for electric works. Surely that would be I say the carrying the argument too far. Borough of Dunedin can meet all the charges that may be made against it for any damage that may be done by the ercetion of this dam. There is the power to strike a rate, and I do not think it will be said for a moment that a city of fifty thousand people would not be able to ineet any damage that might happen owing to the breaking of this dam. Anyway, I submit that the argument is sufficiently strong in favour of the construction of such a dam, even though some amount of damage may possibly take place. But the honourable member has said that another means of supply is open to the Dunedin Corporation - the Wai- pori scheme. Well, it is true a supply might i taken from there. It is not so good a sup- piy as the one from the Taieri River. Reports have been made upon both these supplies, and the recommendations are strongly in favour of the supply from the Taieri. I believe it will be necessary vet, though the Corporation does not we it, but will soon see it, to take both the Taieri and the Waipori supplies. They will re- quire both, not only for the city trams -trams https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 that, no doubt, in the course of a few years will porineate all the suburban districts -- but for electric light and other purposes ; so that both these supplies will in the course of a very short time be necessary. Now, I hope the Taieri and the districts the honourable member spoke for will not be influenced to oppose this scheme from any selfish motive whatever. There is no > 'fish motive on the part of the Borough of Dunedin in starting these works. On the con- trary, they are willing to supply the wants not only of the city, but of the suburbs as well; and I hope the day may come when they may go outside the present suburbs of Dunedin, and if they do, then. no doubt, noth places, the Taieri and the Waipori, will is required. Now, with regard to the other objections raised --- I think they are Committee ones-by the honourable member for Caver- cham. I admit there is a good deal of force in the atomnent be used against clause IT. Clause 17, i. f .re the proviso was put in, provided that no vir of the ratepayers of Dunedin was required ir an extension of these tramways. That. I ogiove, was what the clause at first meant with- mint the proviso ; but, the proviso being put in Units the section to the tramways as now machased that is to say, to the purchase of the Gunlaws. to relaying the lines, and making retrie tramwave of the existing trams. Under en, clause, with the proviso, that can be done without a vote of the ratepaver- ; but, if they am not at all sure whether it is wise to limit the City Corporation with regard to the vote to the extent the proviso has done. I think it would have been wise for a compromise to have been come to between the member in charge of the Bill and the member representing Caversham and some other suburban districts, so that a reason- able extension of the existing tramways might take place without a vote of the ratepavers ; but if they wanted any considerable extension- for instance, another tram-line to Mornington or Roslyn, which may be done some dav -- - then possibly the other honourable member for the City ( Mr. Arnold) would have had something to say about a vote of the ratepayers being re- quired ; but, if only a small extension was re- quested, I think a compromise ought to have been effected. The proviso that has been put in by the Local Bills Committee restricts them to too great an extent in my opinion. As to clause Is, I admit the honourable member has a considerable amount of strong argument with him. That is to say, if the Borough of Dun- edin ereets works in a suburban district for the purposes of the trams, that those works might be liable to rates. That is open to argument. It is a Committee objection, and may be fairly argued when the Bill gets there; but there is no reason why the Bill should be blocked because the clause remains as it is at present. Then, with regard to the more serious objec- tions -- that is, as to clause 19. which permits the Borough of Dunedin, practically speaking. to control the tramways through the suburban districts. Well, Sir, I admit that the mem- bers who are representing the suburban dis- triets are right in doing what is proper to conserve the rights of their constituents. At the same time I hope they will not so limit the power that is being conferred on the Borough of Dunedin as to in any way jeopardize the ex- tension of the tramway system. for the exten- sion to the suburbs is not so much in the interest of the city as it is in the interest of the suburbs themselves. And if the suburban districts seck by any selfish motive to put such restrictions upon the Bill as to prevent this extension, I think the harm will fall more upon the suburbs than upon the city itself. The city can do with these trams if they extend only to the boundaries of the borough itself. That may be sufficient for their purposes, but certainly not for the purposes of the Boroughs of Caver- sham and St. Kilda, or places like these. These are Committee objections to the Bill, and I hope the honourable member, before the Bill goes out of Committee, will be prepared to accept a clause which makes it definite and clear. so far as it can be made clear, that for all time that which has been attempted by the Corporation of Dunedin shall not be possible at all. The Corporation of Dunedin unwisely. and. I think, in abase of the privilege which has been conferred upon them, have been making an attempt to destroy some of our most valuable reserves by carrying these tram- ways through the centre of them. They have 