is this : I do not see why we should not make this the basis of our system of rating; when in every case almost, I think, there have been nearly ten to one cases recorded in favour of this system wherever it has been tried as against those who have been unfavourable to it. And the strongest argument of all is that there ought to be uniformity in respect of our system of taxation. If, therefore, we find the tax on the unimproved value works fairly, it is fair to rate and tax for local purposes on the same basis. I do not know, Sir, that there is any further elabora- tion required, except that under the 2nd section of the Bill. As the law now stands, section 20 of the original Act provides that, although carried by a majority of ratepayers under the existing law that the rating shall be on the unimproved value, that will not apply to water rates, gas rates, electric-light rates, sewage rates, or hospital and charitable aid rates, and the argu- ment, of course, is of great force that if it is right that the general rate should be on the un- improved value, why in respect of these other rates should there be any distinction ? That is the argument, and I have never heard an answer to it vet, except that, as a matter of ex- pediency, and as we were experimenting, this clause 20 was put in the Bill. But surely a drainage rate or a sewage rate is for an im- provement which, if necessary to a town, bene- fits all the property in it, and the property that is benefited should pay evenly and fairly for the improvement. But it does not do so at the pre- sent time. And the same applies where water is https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 brought in. If a water-supply is obtained, the whole of the property of a town, from that one act, is improved in value; but, when it comes to paying rates to meet the interest on the loan / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero for the construction of waterworks, again the improver, again the man of enterprise, is penal- ised, and the man who has a vacant allotment pays a nominal amount. Now that the rate- payers by large numbers have agreed that the rating shall be upon the unimproved value, why should it not apply to rates other than the general rate ? However, I know that I am on dangerous ground here, and so as to let those down lightly who differ from me in this respect I have left this matter for the decision of the local body :- " This section shall not apply to the rates mentioned in section twenty of the principal Act unless the local authority by special order declares that such rates shall be made and levied under this section." It practically, therefore, rests with the local authorities, if the Bill becomes law, as regards these special rates, whether it applies to them or not. At the same time, if when the Bill is in Committee there seems to be a strong desire that it shall be made mandatory right through, I shall not fight very keenly for this provision that I have placed here. I will leave it, of course, to the Committee. In the meantime I do not think it necessary to say anything further. I expect honourable members' minds are pretty well made up on the question, and I Mr. Seddon value must have been demonstrated, and, such being the case, the time has arrived for us to have the law brought into conformity with public opinion. That being so, I move the second reading of the Bill. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay). - The Right Hon. the Premier says our minds are made up about this Bill, or most of them are. Mine, at any rate, is, and it has been made up for several years past. I am thoroughly convinced that the attempt to discover the unimproved value of land is as futile as the pursuit of a Will - o' - the - wisp. I was interested to hear the Right Hon. the Premier, in his argument, quite uncon- sciously to himself, depart from the principles he usually lays down. He usually says it is solely the increase of population that creates the value of property. Mr. SEDDON .- I did not say it was the only one. Captain RUSSELL .- That is the general line of argument of the Premier. To-night what did he say? I think seven-eighths was the proportion that he used. I do not suppose that he would be particular whether he used one-eighth more or less as the proportion of in- creased values of urban properties caused by rates levied upon the properties. However, to- night he admitted the improvements made by roads, by bridges, by gas and water were all paid for by local rates, and to those rates was due the increased value of properties. I was extremely pleased to hear him say that, be- cause, speaking purely as a country man, I have never been able to realise where unearned incre- ment commenced. An Hon. MEMBER .- You have to accept that from the valuer. Captain RUSSELL .- The valuer ordinarily knows less about the unearned increment than the owner of the property. He is generally a man who knows nothing about successful farming or he would not be a valuer. I think it was Disraeli who described a critic as "a man who had failed in literature or art." So I say a land-valuer is usually a man who has failed to work any property successfully, and therefore is appointed to value other men's But the Premier wailed about the work. unbuilt-upon allotments in the towns; and there, again, he departed from his usual stock arguments. I have heard him in this House rail about the necessity of pulling down the cab-shelter sheds in Wellington, because in this the windiest place in the world there was no spaces for the people to breath in -- no lung- room for the city. When he wants to pull down sheds and make vacant places to suit his own prejudices his argument is an entirely different one from the one he uses now. But if we are seeking after hygiene, if we are anxious that the people should be healthy, why not encourage the people to keep vacant spaces in the large cities, rather than by ever-increasing taxation compelling them to build whether they wish to or not. 