the House will move some motion ; but until we hear what his explanation is I do not think the honourable gentleman is right in saying we should take no action. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- The honourable member for Avon may not be right exactly in words, but there is no doubt he is right in effect, because there are no more ridiculous motions in this House than what are called " breaches of privilege." As a matter of fact, the trouble in connection with the publication of these matters arises from the carelessness of the Committees themselves. I do not refer to one Committee especially ; but if a Committee allows its witnesses and the members of the Committee as well to take copies of the evi- dence, and use them practically as they please outside the Committee, it is only natural that an enterprising newspaper man, who sees good matter for his paper, will take advantage of the simplicity of those witnesses, or those members of the Committee, and make use of the informa- tion if it is worth having. The member for Avon was not exactly right perhaps about the punishment which follows the crime -- Mr. TANNER .- I never saw any. Mr. PIRANI .- I am going to give an in- stance of the punishment which fitted the crime. It may be remembered that one gentle- man of the Press was cast in a breach of privi- lege. He was called to the bar of the House, and, as a punishment, the electors sent him to represent them in Parliament. That was a punishment, undoubtedly, because that gentle- man was quite satisfied with one term of Par- liament, and was glad to have his freedom again, because he never again asked the electors to send him back. Now, motions such as these only tend to make more of the newspaper man, to advertise his newspaper, and his own ability and foresight in getting the information. Mr. MORRISON. - Does not the reporter always get a rise in wages ? Mr. PIRANI. - I suppose the honourable gentleman knows, as he comes from the city where this matter was published. In this case, no doubt, the genial reporter will get a rise in wages, because he deserves it if he can get hold of three columns of evidence taken before a Select Committee. I know when I attempt to get a few lines of any Committee's proceedings, not for publication- Mr. FISHER .- We order you out. Mr. PIRANI .- You say you will send for a policeman. But I think, in matters of this kind, the House makes too much fuss ; I think the House should recognise, after what has been done, that the Committee themselves ought to take action to find out how evidence of the sort has leaked out, and take the proper steps to prevent any leakage in the future. Beyond that, I think we should be simply wasting the time of the House and the country by discus- sing a paltry matter like this as a breach of privilege. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- I agree very largely with what has fallen from the honourable member for Avon in connection with this matter. The Standing Orders of VOL. OXVII .- 42. this House, in the clearest manner possible, require that the evidence taken by any Select Committee of the House, and the documents presented to such Committee, should be re- garded as confidential, and ought not to be published by any member of that Committee or any other person. Are we going to say that this rule is to be carried out? If we are to have our Standing Orders ignored by the Press of the colony, then we might find somebody or other breaking them in some other and more important direction, and bring about a scandal. I think the Press of this colony ought to be given to understand that this House in- sists upon its Standing Orders being obeyed. I see no object whatever in simply having our guns charged with blank cartridge. If these Standing Orders are for the guidance of honour- able members, then the Press should be made to understand that such publication will be re- garded as a breach of privilege, and will be fol- lowed with penalties. For my part, as I have stated, I think the member for Avon has put the position clearly and succinctly when he says that the question is : whether we are going to have Standing Orders at all. If the Standing Orders are not to be obeyed by those outside the House, how can we insist on their support within Parliament itself ? Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) .- I am rather surprised at the sentiments which have just been expressed by the member for Riccarton in regard to his brother journalists and their enter- prise ; but as a journalist I am going to give the honourable member a tip. It is a remark- able fact that the members of this House, or the members of the Committees of this House, are not the only people who seem to give away State secrets. I can remember many instances in the Dunedin Evening Star where exclusive information has apparently been given to that most remarkable of all reporters in the colony, the special reporter of the Dunedin Erening Star. Weeks before appointments have been made by the Government, and before they have been announced in the ordinary way, the fact of such appointments has been stated in that paper. An Hon. MEMBER .- That was not a breach of privilege. Mr. HORNSBY .- No, it is smartness on the part of the journalist. I think, as a journalist, I ought to congratulate him from my place in the House upon his sterling ability as a press- man, and I do so. But here we are to-day discussing a question of breach of privilege com- mitted by a newspaper man, when, as a matter of fact, the breach of privilege has apparently been committed by a member of the Committee ; not necessarily, of course, and possibly honour- able members may narrow it down and say it might have been done by some one of the witnesses who had the evidence in his possession. There is where the mistake comes in, and if the reporting on those Committees was conducted as an ordinary newspaper would see to it that its reporting was conducted, then in the most important cases there would be no danger of anything of this kind occurring. Where comes 