harhours. They may be useful to teach the bovs habits of cleanliness, respect for discipline. and deference to superiors, but all that can be brought about by establishments ashore, some of which we have at present, and we can have more, if the necessity arises for them, which I hope will not be the case. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- - I hope that the honourable gentleman who has brought this matter forward will go on pressing it until he succeeds. Sir, it deserves much more encou- ragement than was given to it by the Minister representing the Government in this Council. That honourable gentleman bogged the ques- tion entirely, and the last speaker has evidently not been paying attention to the Bills which we have been passing, and which he has helped to make. He ought to know that, if it were not for the Bills passed by this Council, we would not require a training-ship, for we could then train our own sailors. The honourable gentleman should therefore look into the legis- lation that is being passed, and he will see why boys cannot be taken aboard our ships and steamers. That being so, why should the Goverment refase. to establish a training- ship for our young men ? This being a mari- time country, surely this is the place where we ought to train our own sailors. I am sure there are very many of our boys who would readily take up the profession if they had the opportunity afforded them of doing so. They would not require to run away like Captain Cook and Lord Nelson, as described by the Hon. Mr. Scotland, The Minister of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 Education said that as many boys went to sea from our industrial schools as went from the " Sobraon." I maintain that very few of our industrial school boys go to sea, and I would like to have a return upon the subject. What is wanted for our boys is a training-ship to take them from port to port ; this would give them a knowledge of what the sea is like. Under these circumstances, they would take to the sea kindly, and the sailors turned out from such a ship would be very good indeed. The other day we had here an Argentine ship which was on a cruise round the world for the purpose of training officers. That was an example for our Government. An Hon. MEMBER .- They were being trained for war. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- For war or any- thing else. If they are discharged from the warships they make good sailors. I feel that our boys should be encouraged to go to sea, so that they might become man-o' war's men if they felt that way inclined. Even if parents had to pay a premium to get their boys on to a training-ship it might be a success, if the cri- minal class were put aside altogether. Plenty of the boys committed to our industrial schools have no taint of crime, nor have their parents. A large number of such boys could be selected from our industrial schools. Therefore I feel | young men in the ships, and we ought to get Hon. Mr. Scotland ship at Kohimarama was carried on would say that it could be made a success. Judg- ing by the way the school was managed, I am perfectly satisfied that it was never intended to make a success of it. It is only such people as the Hon. Mr. Jennings and others like him, who take a deep interest in these things, by visiting the ships and en- couraging the people on board, that make a success of them. 1 do not wish to enter any further into this question, but I would urge the Government to look into it in quite a different way from what they have done. I hope they will see the necessity of manning our own ships with our own boys. Moreover, they should not be debarred from entering any of the trades. Our industries are slipping from us one by one for the want of encouraging our boys to enter them. If we are to deal seriously with this matter, technical education will have to be taken in hand in quite a different way from the pre- sont system. With all the workshops in the colony open to train our boys in the trades, there should not be any necessity for getting a hundred railway carriages from America. They should have been made by our own bovs. I again say that all our own sailors should be trained here. What is happening now? Why, we are 1 shutting up our boot and shoe works. Every one knows that one apprentice to three journeymen will never half maintain our industries, let alone increase them. Something must be done to stop our industries declining. I would now like to say, in regard to the Arbitration Court, that they have taken a new departure in con- nection with the boot trade. The flood-gates have been opened, and the country has been inundated with boots from outside factories. They are now taking steps to try and retrieve our lost position, and I hope they will succeed ; but I doubt it. When you once open the flood- gates it is not easy to shut them. Well. Sir, we cannot train our boys for the sea on our vessels, and therefore we claim that the Go- vernment should get a training-ship. and train these boys, so that we shall have sailors belong- ing to New Zealand. There are bors all along the coast of New Zealand who would make splendid sailors if they were only taught on a training-ship that might go from port to port. By that means we would have splendid sailors, and we could have them trained at no great expense. How is it that such a num- ber of tiremen have taken to the sea from New Zealand ? There is no trouble in getting fire- men in New Zealand. Young Now-Zealanders -- the sons of "cockatoos " and others- who have worked for their fathers without any pay for years, offer for this work, and the steamers are being filled with them. Now that the vessels are filled with this class of people, you do not hear of ships being stopped and unable to get to sea because of the men being away drunk. You do not hear much of that now. These are the benefits that have arisen from having our own \-- - 