reason why. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) .- I think, Sir, that the honourable member for Avon has gone a little wide of the mark. I only came in from the library when the debate had made some progress, but from the remarks that have been made since I came into the House there have been no aspersions on the Act itself. As far as the Act is concerned, I was a member of the House when it was passed. I knew what I was doing, and I believed then, as I believe now, that the method proposed was the best way to settle industrial strife. So far as the question of Conciliation Boards is con- cerned, I join issue at once with the honourable member for Avon. I say, if we are going to have industrial disputes, the sooner we get them settled the better in the interests of all parties ; and I infinitely prefer that the disputes should be taken direct to the Arbitration Court. The honourable member for Avon referred to the question of the Conciliation Boards. Well, I will take him back to a case in Canter- bury in a recent dispute. One of the woollen- mills - the Kaiapoi Woollen-mill - was cited before the Board. The Conciliation Board settled the conditions of labour in, I think, thirty eight departments, visited the mill at Kaiapoi, and did it in two days. The Board did not give themselves the time necessary to go into the various questions of the case before them. They are handicapped to this extent : they are not experts, and you cannot get ex- perts in every case. An Hon. MEMBER .- The Board is charged with having wasted time. Mr. G. J. SMITH .- I do not think they take / http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero enough time. They should take time to con- sider matters, with a genuine desire to settle them. I regret that this question has come before the House on this particular motion, but, as I know Mr. Graham, the member for Nelson City, is anxious to have his motion passed, I will say no more at the present time. Mr. ARNOLD (Dunedin City) .- I have only wo or three minutes, but I want to say a good deal in that time. In the first place, I want to say that the member for Palmerston was not correct in stating that the Wellington Con- ciliation Board has not settled any disputes that have been brought before it. If members will look at return No. 7-laid on the table of the Legislative Council -for last year they will find that some cases, at any rate, were settled by the Wellington Board. In addition to those settled, one was partly settled : and one was settled apart from the Board altogether. Mr. PIRANI .- Well, I withdraw the state- ment, and admit that one case was settled. Mr. ARNOLD .- That is not correct either. There was more than one. With regard to these Conciliation Boards, it has been suggested -- and I want to lay emphasis on this one fact -that, while the present Boards are not doing the work that they might be doing, a better system could not be provided by simply pro- viding that a certain number of employers or employés might be elected at the commence- separate disputes occurred the representatives from that trade should deal with it. Let me say this ; that such a plan as that cannot now and never will be acceptable to the Labour party. Simply for this reason : that it has been found over and over again in this colony that the employés cannot meet in conference in the manner suggested with their employers ; and the only manner in which they possibly can have these disputes dealt with fairly is by meeting with those who are not interested in their own callings. Not only do I repeat the statement that was made- The hour of half-past five having arrived, Mr. SPEAKER left the chair. WOODVILLE COUNTY BILL. Mr. SPEAKER resumed the chair at half-past seven o'clock. A message was received from the Legislative Council stating that this Bill had been passed, with an amendment, consisting of a new clause, which was as follows :- "2A. The Woodville, Kumeroa, and Maunga- atua Road Districts are hereby abolished, and shall be deemed to be merged in the Woodville County constituted by this Act, and the pro- visions of section fifty-seven of ' The Counties Act, 1886,' shall apply to these local bodies." Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) moved, That the amendment be agreed to. The alteration in the Bill was the amendment suggested by the honourable member for Palmerston, and that suggestion was now given effect to. In accord- ance with his promise this clause had been in- serted in the Bill in the Legislative Council. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) said he did not understand the position, and therefore would not presume to say it was not a wise amendment ; but he knew there was a strong feeling in some parts of the country in favour of retaining the Road Board system, and this entire abolition of three Road Boards seemed to be a very serious alteration to be made by the Council, and brought down to and adopted by the House, probably before the people interested knew anything about it. He was not personally interested in this matter : it was not his con- stituency ; but the position seemed an awkward one they were getting into. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said this amend- ment had been suggested in the House, and the honourable member in charge of the Bill, to facilitate its passage, had promised to endeavour to get it inserted in the other Chamber. The question had really been dealt with in 1894, when it had been decided that in all Counties Bills, where small counties were concerned. Parliament would insist upon the other local bodies in the district being merged into the county. Otherwise the passing of these Coun- ties Bills would be almost useless. He felt sure the people in the district would be better satisfied with the Bill in its present state, and that it would be better for them than if there were three Road Boards in the county as well as the County Council, all in operation, which would be the case but for this clause. He 