electorates desired this Bill to pass, and if they felt it to be in the best interests of their districts, he would support it. I am utterly opposed to the passage of this Bill, and I claim the member's assistance in voting against the second reading. I cannot understand the position taken up by the honourable member for Waitaki. He denounced the provisions of the Bill from start to finish, but, to my amaze- ment, before he sat down he said he would sup- port the second reading. Sir, I tremble for the passage of the Elective Executive Bill, now in the hands of the member for Waitaki, who appears to have no political backbone. Sir, the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) said there was a person at Eketahuna who owned about one-third of that township, and he de- nounced him for holding so much land. The honourable member must know that the rate- payers at Eketahuna have the remedy in their own hands. If they are not satisfied with the present condition of things, all they have to do is to take a poll of the ratepayers and rate them- selves under the Act of 1896 on the unimproved values. And if the honourable member 4.30. for Wellington City desires to advance his views let him go to Eketahuna and give the people of that place a lecture on their civic duties, and the provisions of the law on rating on unimproved values. Sir, I was disappointed with the speech of the honourable member for Masterton, Mr. Hogg. As a rule his speeches are characterized by common - sense, but his https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 speech delivered to-day is the worst I have ever heard. I cannot understand his position. may again refer to the honourable gentleman a little later on. Sir, I believe that distinguished http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero statesman Sir Robert Stout was the first man in this House to use the phrase " Trust the people," and I have heard that expression time and again echoed by the Premier. I have heard it re-echoed by the members of the Liberal party, and by gentlemen in the Opposi- tion. Yes, trust the people. Now, what does this Bill mean ? It means though we say one thing we mean another. I am prepared to trust the people. I have received my position as a repre- sentative of this House from the people, and, as an exponent of the people's views, I say, " Trust the people." Let the matter be referred to the people. The Act of 1896 is a fair one, and I am prepared to stand by it, as it leaves the matter in the hands of the people who are most con- cerned. The honourable member for the Grey stated there are five hundred local bodies in this colony, and, although the Act has been in operation for five years, it is strange that only thirty-three out of those five hundred local bodies have taken advantage of it and levied local rates on the unimproved value, showing that its provisions are distasteful to the people of the colony generally. We now propose to force a principle upon the people which they have not asked for. I represent three counties -Cheviot, Kaikoura, and Amuri --- eight Road Boards, and one Town Board, not one of which has approached me requesting that an altera- tion be made in the Act of 1806. I cannot this Bill, except because a meeting was held in the Exchange Hall, in this city, some eight or ten days ago, to advocate taxation on the unimproved value of land, when there was an attendance of only some thirty people -- not a large attendance out of a city of forty thousand people. At that meeting certain resolutions were passed and forwarded to the Premier. A coterie of gentlemen who believe in the single-tax waited upon the Premier, with the result that we have this Bill before us this evening. I listened to the speech of the honourable member for Avon. He under- stands the subject. I will go a little further than he went by way of illustration. The Christchurch suburbs extend for about six or seven miles up the Papanui Road, the Lincoln Road, and in the direction of Sumner, New Brighton, and Riccarton. There is a large suburban population. We will assume that an artizan has three acres of land four miles from Christchurch, and that he paid $60 an acre for it. He has a four-roomed cottage on it, and he keeps two cows, a pig or two, and a few fowls. Being intermittently employed outside, he spends his spare time in improving his land. Not far from his cottage is one of those palatial residences that we have heard about, which is occupied by a merchant doing business in Christchurch. The tram or coach takes him there at the expense of a few ponce daily. Under this Bill taxes are to be removed from all improvements in the way of buildings. Wealthy owners -- the owners of buildings cost- I ing thousands of pounds-are to be relieved of taxation, but the owner of that little cottage is to be taxed double. An Hon. MEMBER .- No, no. Mr. MEREDITH .- I say. Yes. The honour- able member for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell) recommends him to subdivide and build houses and therely obtain relief ; but will the honour- able member find him the money? Supposing he could finance the money, could he get tenants for the houses ? We have heard the term " un- improved value," and levying taxes on the un- improved value, but, like the word " Mesopo- tamia,' it sounds well, but, I venture to say, is not understood by half the people. Let me give an illustration of what I mean. Thirty-five years ago in North Canterbury there was a vast raupo swamp, containing flax, niggerheads, and rank vegetation. It remained in that state for years ; nobody had sufficient enterprise to purchase it. It was available to any person for $2 an acre under the land-laws of the Canterbury Provincial Council. At length an enterprising man took it up, and, after spending his capital and labour on it, extending over years, he bad it cut up into forty-, fifty-, and sixty-acre farms, and the market value of those farms to day is about $40 an acre, while the taxable value is about $30 an acre. I would ask the honourable member for Christ- church City (Mr. Ell) if he calls that $30 an acre the unimproved value. Shall we call the unimproved value of that land the £2 which was originally paid to the Provincial Council 