it should be everlastingly brought on the floor of the House I cannot understand. We come now to the fourth question, which has reference to the Bank of New Zealand. There was a sum of £5,000 odd of accrued interest on the prefer- ence shares of the Bank of New Zealand. As members are aware, the colony found the money for those preference shares. The Bank having now taken over the shares, the money, of course, belongs to the colony. The half million of principal was paid in to the Public Trustee. The question then came as to whether the €5,800 should be handed over to the Public Trustee, who would put it in the right-hand pocket, and then issue a cheque and hand it over to the left-hand pocket. That was the contention of the Controller and Auditor- General - namely, that it should be paid over to the Public Trustee. Another question was raised on the point as to whether the Public Trustee should hand it over to the Public Account. It was held by the Law Officers that the Government having issued the de- bentures, the interest on the dividends should go to the Government. If we did not get the dividends and the interest we could not pay the interest on the debentures. The colony would therefore have to find so-much money out of the Consolidated Fund without being repaid. The Auditor-General said that did not matter ; the money must go to the Public Trustee. Very well, the Public Trustee himself says : "Under my trust, and under the law of trust, I am only trustee for " - who ?- " for the Government." Mr. J. ALLEN .- No, for Parliament. Mr. PIRANI .- No, he said, " the Govern- http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero ment." Mr. SEDDON .- As I said before, the member for Bruce has got a very bad memory. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I said he ought to have said " for Parliament." Mr. SEDDON .- You did not say that a minute ago; it was only when the master corrected you that you altered your statement. The money went into the Public Account, and we have paid the interest on the debentures. When the matter came before the Committee, the Controller and Auditor-General was called upon to give evidence, and he simply adhered to what appears in the papers before the House. There is also the opinion of the Solicitor- General. The Solicitor-General is more than ever convinced that he was right. It so happens that we have as Public Trustee a barrister and solicitor, and he stands high in his profession, and he is certainly unbiassed. Now, what does he say ? He says - Mr. J. ALLEN .- Might I ask what the Premier is reading from ? Mr. SEDDON .- I shall please myself what I read from. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I ask, if the honourable member reads from a document, that it be laid on the table. Mr. SEDDON .-- I can take my own notes surely. I say the Public Trustee made this state- ment to the Committee- Mr. Seddon Mr. J. ALLEN .- I ask whether the docu- ment should not be laid on the table ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- If it is evidence taken before the Committee. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes; I am not, however, bound to tell the House what I am reading from. An Hon. MEMBER .- Yes. Mr. SEDDON .- I say, I am not. At any rate, it is for the Speaker to call me in ques- tion, and I am prepared to defer to the de- cision of the Speaker. The witness was before the Committee, and the questions and answers were as follows :- " Right Hon. R. J. Sed.ion.] You are Public Trustee of this colony ? - Yes. " Some time ago you received $500,000 on account of the preference shares of the Bank of New Zealand ? - Yes. "Are you aware that there is some money coming on that account ?- There are dividends on the shares. " Did you receive that money-No. " Are you aware where the $5,657 10s. 6d. of dividends went ?- To the Government. " Had it come to you, what would you have done with it ?-- I would have handed it over to the Government. It belonged to the Govern- ment. "Captain Russell.] What does 'belong to the Government' mean ?- It belongs to the Government ; because if a sum of money is deposited, the person with whom it is deposited holds all future accumulations in trust for the depositor. "Right Hon. R. J. Seddon.] Presuming that this $5,657 10s. 6d. interest had been paid to you, what would you have done with it ?- I would have kept it until the Government de- manded it. All the accumulations on the $500,000 belong to the Government. I am only concerned with the $500,000. "Presuming the money had been handed to you, you would have paid it back to the Treasury ?-- I would have done so. It belongs to the Government, and I informed the Treasury to that effect in March last. "There is interest accumulating on that €500,000 ? - Yes. " What would you do with that interest ?-. Pay it to the Government. It belongs to the Government. If they wish to leave it with me I will take charge of it. "On what authority ?- The Act does not say what is to be done with the accumulations : but the ordinary rule of law is that the accumu- lations belong to the person who has deposited the money. Any work on Equity will show you that there are different sorts of trusts. If. for example, I convey a property to a trustee to meet a future claim, or to do something with that property in, say, twenty or thirty years' time, all the net accumulations on the property in the meantime come back to me. The law is so clear on that point that every lawyer knows it. "Could you quote any authorities on the subject : We want to know the legal position ? -I may refer you to . Lewin, Law of Trusts,' page 155, second edition, where it is laid down, 