there shall be a line of steamers provided to carry the produce of our farmers to South Africa. Well, Sir, all I can say is this : that if the New Zealand Steam Shipping Company, or the Tyser Company, and the Shaw - Savill Company are unable to carry our goods at a profit to South Africa and get return cargoes from there, then no Govern- ment Administration will ever make a line of steamers pay half so well as companies ac- customed to the running of these steamers are likely to do. What possible trade can there be between the Cape and here ? There pro- bably for a time will be some trade between here and the Cape. That, I think, is quite possible ; but the only trade I know of that is likely to come to the colony from the Cape will be inhnitesimal, and is more likely to take the form of ostrich-feathers and diamonds than anything else, and certainly it would not be worth while chartering large steamers to carry what trade might be required from South Africa. I think that all the diamonds likely to be used in New Zealand might be carried in anybody's waistcoat-pocket without any incon- venience to the wearer. It is possible that the providing of cool-storage at the Cape is a question that may be worth consideration ; but there, again, I am very much inclined to think that cool-storage would be better pro- vided by freezing companies than it would be by the Government. But the suggestion that the Right Hon. the Premier should control the frozen-meat trade in England is really too good a joke almost to put in his Financial Statement. He speaks as though New Zealand was the only country engaged in the meat trade. This is a country, no doubt, that has a great future before it; but that our frozen-meat industry could be made under Government management to control the whole of the frozen-meat industry of England, is really, Sir, too good a joke, especially when we know the United States of America is pouring huge quantities of meat into England, chilled, frozen, and alive; when we know that Canada is doing the same, that Argentina is supplying huge quantities too, and that Australia is doing the same, and in all probability will continue to do so in as large, if not larger, quantities. The idea that any Government bureau that we can establish can regulate the frozen-meat trade in England, and regulate compulsorily the trade of the remainder of the world-well, Sir, all I can say is that the Premier is indeed verdant if he believes that. I believe he thinks nothing is beyond his powers; but probably if he enters into the meat trade there, even he, great as he is, will come to unmitigated grief. I have a few words just to say in conclusion. No doubt many honourable members are familiar with the scene in Mozart's celebrated opera, Don Giovanni, where Don Giovanni, or, as he is called in Spanish, Don Juan de Tenorio of Seville, who is depicted as the type of the scep- tical libertine, and who has killed Comman- dant Ulloa and betrayed his daughter, at a banquet insults the memory of the comman- moonlight in the castle garden. The statue descends from its pedestal, enters the banquet- ing-hall, and carries off Don Juan to a pit, whence emerge sulphurous flames. The Right Hon. the Premier reminds me irresistibly of that banquet scene. He is the type of the political sceptic and libertine. He believes in no such thing as honesty of conviction or virtuous con- duct. By his policy he has killed the work of his former commandant, betrayed the child of his later years, and now by a proposition-the most extravagant ever put before Parliament - of a public works expenditure of £1,950,000, he insults the memory of his former " revered leader." I shudder ; I look round ; I fear lest the statue which shimmers in the moonlight in our castle garden should descend from its pedestal, on which is written "He loved the people," and, like the statue in the opera, enter this Chamber and drag off our Don Juan, enveloped in blue flame and mephitic vapour. Mr. SEDDON .- It would take some one to carry me off. Captain RUSSELL .- It is not a question of carrying: Don Juan was compelled to follow. But, Sir, I have no doubt that when the Right Hon. the Premier retires from office his admirers may desire to erect a statue in his honour. Should they do so, upon the base of the pedestal upon which his statue stands should be writ large, in letters of brass, heavily gilded, " He bribed the people." Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) .- Sir, Lord Randolph Churchill once said that every speech Lord Salisbury made lost ten thousand votes to the Conservative party. Captain RUSSELL .- He has a good big following still. Mr. NAPIER .- The speech which we have listened to to-night, I feel sure, has lost to the Opposition more than ten thousand votes in this country. The honourable member for Hawke's Bay made the burden of his speech an accusation that the Premier and the Govern- ment had pursued a policy of bribing the people. That was the burden of the honour- able gentleman's song. Bribery is a crime in which two or more persons participate, if it is done between individuals. There is the briber and the bribee-the person who gives and the person who accepts the bribe-and both persons are guilty of a criminal offence. Now, Sir, the honourable gentleman has accused the people of New Zealand, or, rather, the vast majority of the people, of persistently accepting bribes, and selling their confidence and their support for a monetary consideration. That is practi- cally, without any verbiage, the accusation made against the people of New Zea- land by the honourable gentleman ; because he did not say the bribes had been merely given during the last election, but that the bribes had extended over the period of office of the Right Hon. the Premier. Therefore he accuses the people of New Zealand of time after time accepting bribes knowingly, and, as I have said, of vesting their confidence in a person capable of pursuing a policy of bribery. 