the proposal. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- There is a popula- tion of twelve thousand. Mr. J. ALLEN. - " There is a population of twelve thousand," and only 546 votes were re- corded. Now, that brings me to the matter of plural voting, and in that respect it is curious to examine this return, because, if I read the return correctly, the voting on unimproved value proposal has been carried in some instances by plural voting. Mr. ELL .- There are no plural votes in Sydenham. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Well, that I cannot tell, because, as I say, the number of persons on the roll is not given. But in other districts one can see what has been the result of plural voting. Take, for instance, the Cheviot County : I do not think the honourable gentleman will say there has not been plural voting there. Although only 119 persons voted, there were 206 votes recorded. Is there plural voting there? I should say there was. And you can go through this re- turn, and I can safely say I believe that in many instances rating on the unimproved value has been carried by the plural vote. Why? Be- cause the man who has got the plural vote -- the big man-knows he is to get off easily. Now, I ask those who wish really to consider this question from the point of view of equity, to decide, in the face of this return, whether it is right to make this thing compulsory. That is the question. There are districts where, I believe, rating on the unimproved value is pre- ferable to the present system. With respect https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 to the City of Wellington, what would be the result ? I am afraid the honourable member for Christchurch City, in saying what he has, has forgotten one thing. I think he has forgotten in some of the cases he mentioned that the rating was on the annual value, and not on the capital value. Mr. ELL .- No. Mr. J. ALLEN .- The honourable member says "No." I may say that I very nearly fell into the same mistake, because I tried to com- pare rating under the unimproved value in Wellington with what it would have been on the capital value, and I found it would not work out. Why? Because in Wellington- and, I suppose, in other places -- there is no de- finite proportion between the capital and the annual value. The annual value is supposed to be 5 per cent. on the capital value. But that is not so. It is a curious fact that, with respect to the City of Wellington-that is, a few years ago, at any rate-the annual value in certain instances, instead of being 5 per cent. on the capital value, was only 3 per cent., and in another instance it was 10 per cent. I want to know whether that is a fair system of rating : that one man should be assessed for the annual value at 3 per cent. on the capital value, and that another man should be assessed at 10 per cent. ? It destroys, therefore, all comparison, at any rate, with respect to Wellington, bo- cause there is no settled proportion between the annual and the capital value. Now I come Mr. J. Allen wish to say a few words only. I admit that there is a great deal to be said on both sides. I can understand that where a man has very large improvements upon his ground he would wish to be rated on the unimproved value. That is only natural, because he would have to pay less. Wealthy people in many cases will get off by paying less. But I will say this too : that in a suburban district, where a working- man has got a cottage on a piece of land, the land being of small value, and where the pro- portion of improvements-that is to say, the house-is large compared with the land, in that case the working-man will get off with \-- -- paying less. There is no doubt that the man who will get off with paving less is the man who has improvements which are not up to the general ratio of improvements in the locality. Take, for instance, the City of Wellington. The ratio of the improved to the unimproved in the City of Wellington in 1898 was as 1 to 1:56. Therefore all those properties with a ratio of improved to unimproved as 1 to 1.56 will, under the rating on unimproved value, pay exactly the same as at present-that is, if the property originally was rated on the capital value ; but if the proportion of the unimproved land to the improvements increases beyond 1:56, then the owner will have to pay more, and if the proportion falls below 1.56, then he will have to pay less, and as the proportion falls lower he will have to pay less and less. 1 But it is difficult to form any very definite opinion with respect to any particular building in Wellington. I know some banks that will have to pay less, and I know others that will have to pay more. It depends entirely on the ratio of the unimproved value to the improved value. But one can take two specific instances of land of similar value next door to one another -one with improvements to the extent of, say, three to one, and the other with improvements of, say, one to one. In the first instance given the man will have to pay less taxation under the rating on the unimproved value than he did before, and the man next door to him would have to pay more. An Hon. MEMBER .-- Make him put up a better building. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Why should he? If he has a building sufficient for all his purposes and good enough for the community, why should he have to spend an extra $1,000 to put up an extravagant building? You cannot wish a man to put up a better building than is suitable to his surroundings. Now I will take you to the country. Go to a farming district. A man puts up buildings to suit his requirements as a farmer, but his neighbour puts up an elaborate residence and elaborate stables and other build- ings. The latter owner has a fine carriage and horses, and he uses the roads ten times more than his neighbour ; yet he would only pay the same on the unimproved value. Is that fair ? In that instance it is not fair. I say there is no argument, therefore, to make this Bill com- pulsory. Leave it in the hands of the people to say whether they will have it or not. "Trust 