The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Yes; but very often many people who think they are the best authorities are the most out in their judgment. I know many instances of that within my own experience, when those who thought they knew a great deal on the subject were entirely out in their judgment. And I think, as regards newly irported horses, that very often a wise man will say, "I will see how this horse winters," or " how it comes through the next season." Speaking from my own personal experience, I may say that I might have bought old Traducer, one of the finest horses in New Zealand, for $75, and I might have turned him out with a lot of up-country station mares. Fortunately for the horse's reputation, and for the sake of horse-breeding in the colony, I was not good enough to risk £75 myself. I required a mate, and my mate did not come up to time ; and so the transaction as regards Traducer fell through, and Traducer went into better hands. But I know of other cases. I am astonished at the suggestion of the honourable gentleman, that there should be anything wrong in the Govern- ment importing horses of a high character. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND .- I did not say so. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Well, evi- dently the honourable gentleman has inspected three horses that he does not like. An Hon. MEMBER .- What is their political " colour " ? The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I do not know what their colour is; but the honourable https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 gentleman must admit that it is a very laudable object to import into this colony a new strain of good blood. Will the honourable gentleman admit that ? The Hon. Mr. ORMOND .- It depends upon how they are selected. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I will come to that presently. Will the honourable gentle- man admit that it is a good thing to import into this country a new strain of good blood ? We know that horse-stock is a great factor in our national development. Many of our horses have gone to South Africa for war purposes, and the Government want to be able to supply the market. I should like the honourable gentle- man to admit that, everything being equal, it is a very laudable object for the colony to import special strains of horse - stock from the Old Country, or from wherever we can get a good strain. As he remains silent, I assume that he admits that. The next point is, Did the Go- vernment take proper care in the selection of the animals ? Inasmuch as they employed the best man in their department to make the selec- tion, I maintain that every care was taken. Of course, any man may make a mistake, and I do not mind venturing my opinion against that of other people on certain matters with regard to horse-flesh. But because we may not agree as to the merits of a particular animal I would not say that a good purchase had not been made. All that I would say would be that the animal did not suit me. I do not think the honourable gentleman has proved anything, and the Government sees no reason why this return should not be given. I have no doubt it will satisfy the honourable gentleman that the Government has been attending to a very useful and important part of the agricultural economy of the country. Horse-breeding is a science; but it must be carefully attended to, and it does not do to leave too much to private enterprise. Take Canterbury, for instance, where the honourable gentleman, I understand, saw these horses : they have been imported into a district which is amply supplied with horse- stock ; but, taking the whole colony, I maintain that there are many districts where farmers require encouragement in the selection of their male stock. It is a very big question, and it. has been several times suggested - and I am not at all sure that it would not be a good thing-that the whole question of thoroughbred horses should not be considered from the point of view that prevails in other countries-that there should be premiums on animals that can pass a certain test; and perhaps we should even go further than that, and say that undesirable stallions and bulls should be absolutely prevented from propagating their kind. All these questions are very large, and I do not think it is encouraging to the Government, who have made a start in a new direction for proper reasons, that they should be attacked in this way, as if they had acquired a lot of inferior stallions. Any care that could be taken in connection with this matter has been taken by the Government. We had the oppor- tunity of employing one of the most experienced officers of the department in the purchase of these animals. He was going Home for another purpose, and so his services were made use of to purchase stud stock, and I do not think it is at all fair that his judgment should be challenged, as it apparently has been by the motion of the honourable gentleman. Motion agreed to. LAND FOR SETTLEMENTS ACT. INTERRUPTED DEBATE. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY said, When the question was before the Council the previous day he was interrupted at four o'clock to enable the orders of the day to be proceeded with. He now desired simply to complete what he had commenced to say on that occasion, and would endeavour to be as brief as possible. The return asked for opened up a large ques- tion of the administration of those lands, and several members had spoken in that direction. On the whole, he approved of the Land for Settlements Act, inasmuch as it provided land for the landless, if it could be given to them so as to be profitably worked in farming and grazing operations; and he also approved of providing small sections of land for workmen's homes near the towns where they were em- ployed. As to the question of tenure, it had been asserted that people preferred the freehold to the lease in perpetuity ; but, to his mind, it depended entirely on the rate of interest charged. At the present time people could acquire Crown lands under the Land Act of 1892 much more cheaply by taking it under the terms of the 