worth $200, and is built on land worth $100, in that case the same sum in rates will be paid by the ratepayer under the unimproved value as under the old system-that is to say, a penny rate in the $300 capital value is the same as a threepenny rate on the $100 unimproved value. Now, assume, in the second of our districts, the improved value is €300,000, and the unimproved is the same sum-that is, that the two vaines are equal : in that case it is plain a twopenny rate on the unimproved value will realise the same income as a penny rate on the capital value. So that in the case of this district the man with the two-hundred-pound house on the one hundred pounds' worth of unim- proved land will pay two-thirds the amount he was paying under the old system. Again, take a man with a house worth $500 on land worth $100 : in the first district he would pay one- half what he did under the old system, and in the second district a third. Further, take a man with a house worth $800, built on land worth $800: in the first district he would pay half as much again as he did before ; in the second district he would pay exactly the same amount as he did before. Those three pro- perties afford fair samples of the usual class of holdings. As a final example, take the specu- lator who holds a large area of practically unim- proved land, waiting for the unearned increment. Suppose he holds a hundred acres of valuable land the improvements on which are worth $1,000, and the unimproved value of which is 9100 per acre-that is £10,000 : in the first https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 district he would be paying 130 for every £11 he paid before, and in the second district he would be paying $20 for every #11 he had paid before. These illustrations show at once that we cannot lay down any guiding rule to govern all districts as to what the effect of this Bill will be. We must look at the particular circum- stances of each district in order to discover what the effect will be therein. I said just now that if any honourable member had reason to vote against this Bill on the ground that it will affect his district prejudiciallv, that member is myself ; and I will give my chief reasons for say- ing so. In the Hutt portion of my electorate there is a large quantity of vacant land held for speculative purposes. It is very unfortunate that it should be so, and that it is so furnishes the principal reason why the Hutt district has been kept back. As to this land. the Bill would be all right if it levied the unim- proved-value tax, or the portion of it in excess of the old rates, on the owner of the property ; but unfortunately a large portion of this land is leased, and the tenants have to pay the rates. If this Bill passes, therefore, the lease- holders will have to pay increased rates to the extent of two or three times their pre- sent rates. That, of course, would be an in- justice to the leaseholders. But there is a still more awkward case in my district. The local bodies through whose districts the Manawatu Railway Company passes receive from that company a large sum-I believe, something Mr. Field pav a small fraction-say, about a sixth, or less -- of what it is paving at present in rates. That will be very unjust to the local bodies and other ratepavers, particularly as there are cases where loans have been raised for public works largely on the strength of rates the Manawatu Rail- way Company is paving ; and the result must be that the other se tlers will have to make up the amount by having their rates increased. There is another awkward feature from the Government point of view, and that is that the moment this Bill passes. the property of the Manawatu Railway Com- pany will be worth something like €1,500 a year more than it is at the present time ; and if the Government is going to buy it by private contract the company may ask -and why should they not ask ?- for an increase of price based on an annuity of #1,500 a year. From the Government point of view, it is a matter for their consideration whether, if they intend to buy this line by private contract, it will pay them to pass this Bill into law as it at present stands. With regard to the argument of the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, we younger members always listen to the honour- able gentleman with a large amount of interest and respect ; but it does seem to me that on this question the contention of the honourable gentleman as to the difficulty of fixing the un- improved value being an obstacle to this Bill coming into law was no argument at all. I am fully aware that in many instances it is very difficult indeed to fix on the unimproved value of land ; but that is no argument against the Bill, and if a competent valuer goes about his work properly most of the difficulties in the way of ascertaining the unimproved value will soon disappear. The honourable gentleman cited the case of a man who felled his bush, spent money in burning, grassing, and fencing the section, and after all the improvements were completed the land was worth less than it cost him to improve. That is a case I can well understand, and that result might easily happen even if the man might not have been extravagant in his expenditure. It is beyond doubt the case that the unimproved value of some of our back-woods country is a minus quantity-that is to say, that a man deserves to be paid for taking it up and improving it. and that for a period of years in some cases a man ought to be exempt from rates altogether on this class of property ; but, of course. as it becomes more accessible by the construction of roads and bridges, the increase of population, and other causes, the unimproved value will grow into something. But at the present time one can readily understand that there are cases where the unimproved value of the land is really a minus quantity. Then, the honour- able gentleman cited a case where the lands had been drained, where the drainage had be- Well, I come an exhausted improvement. think that a competent valuer ought not to have any difficulty at all in ascertaining the unimproved value under such circumstances. 