session and referred to the Public Accounts Committee; but that Committee, owing to want of time, was not able to deal exhaust- ively with the matter, with the result that they submitted only an interim report to the House. An exhaustive inquiry had, however, since been made, and the whole of the informa- tion obtained was now before the Government, the Parliament, and the country, and those in- terested desired to know what was the inten- tion of the Government in reference to it. He did not know whether the Government intended to refer the report of the Royal Com- mission to the Public Accounts Committee to deal with and report upon before the whole question was dealt with by the House, but he thought the Government should make some statement. In the interests of the colony and of all concerned, this important question should be settled definitely one way or another. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said all petitions not dealt with last session had to be dealt with by the Committee this session. Hon. MEMBERS .- Not all. Mr. SEDDON said that if the motion last vear only referred to the Native Affairs Com- mittee, he would like to have the advice of the Committee upon this matter, and he would therefore move later on that the petitions be referred to the Public Accounts Committee. Mr. GRAHAM said the Premier had been good enough to say that this matter was now referred to the Public Accounts Committee, but that the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 honourable member did not appear to know it. He did not know whether that was intended as a reflection on him (Mr. Graham) as a member of the Public Accounts Committee. The matter had been referred to that Committee quite re- cently, and since notice of his question had been given. He might also explain that the Public Accounts Committee was convened to meet at the same hour on the same day as the Local Bills Committee, and he had explained to the Premier that it would be impossible for him to attend both Committees on that day, and he could not neglect the Local Bills Committee. He trusted, therefore, that the Premier did not mean to cast a reflection on him in what he had stated. Mr. SEDDON said he would be very sorry to reflect on any member of the House, more par- ticularly on the member for Nelson City. Mr. GRAHAM. -- Why more particularly the member for Nelson City ? Mr. SEDDON .- Because you are so circum- spect. Mr. GRAHAM. - That is a compliment from the Premier. Mr. SEDDON said he knew the honourable member did not get his notice, and subsequently arrangements were made for the notices to be given. He was under the impression that all petitions not dealt with last session were still before the Committees. This petition was not reported on last session by the Public Accounts Committee, and it would, of course, come before the Committee this year. Mr. Graham Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) asked the Minister of Defence, When may the Kaikoura Mounted Rifles expect to be supplied with overcoats by the Defence Department ? Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said that tenders had been called for overcoats, and when tenders were accepted and the coats came to hand they would be distributed as quickly as possible. PUBLIC SERVANTS AND LOCAL BODIES. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) asked the Premier, Whether it is a fact that members of 1 the public service have been informed that they are not to be allowed for the future to hold seats on public bodies ; and, if so, under what regu- lation or Act has this been done ? This ques- tion pretty well explained itself. There was only one thing he would like to draw the Premier's attention to, and that was that, even if there had been a regulation under which these new regulations were issued instructing public ser- vants not to hold seats on public bodies, that regulation had been practically a dead-letter for many years past. He would like to know what had caused this new departure by the Govern- ment. There was another feature, and that was this : that the regulation only applied to Civil servants. Men employed on the railways were not classed as Civil servants, and yet at the same time these men were now being stopped from going on public bodies. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said that regulations for the Civil Service, gazetted in 1873, page 47, provided : " No officer shall accept or continue to hold the office of Mayor, President, Chairman, or member of the Council or Board of any pro- vince, county, city, town, borough, shire, or road district." Of course, this was one of those matters to which there were two sides. Still, occasions might arise where the duties of offi- cers on local bodies might clash with those of the Government departments in which they were engaged, and thus the officers might be placed in a false position. At all events, it was an old regulation, and the Government had been simply calling attention to it. He might say that it had not been strictly observed. However, there were several cases which had come under the notice of the Government. He did not think they should make the officers resign the positions to which they had been elected, but the Government did not think they should again take the positions so long as these regulations existed. Mr. HUTCHESON .- Does it apply to the Civil Service, or to the whole of the employés of the Government ? Mr. SEDDON thought the regulations could only apply to the Civil Service, because the re- gulations were under the Civil Service Act : so, of course, strictly it should only apply to those in the Civil Service. Mr. LAURENSON said the circular had been issued to men in the Railway Department, and that was his reason for asking the question. 