"(2.) Such answer, denial, or explanation shall be published in a part of such newspaper as prominent and in type as conspicuous as that in which the statement complained of appeared. "(3.) If the proprietor of such newspaper re- fuses or neglects to publish any such answer, denial, or explanation within the time and in the manner herein specified, he shall be liable to a penalty of not less than ten pounds and not more than fifty pounds." Clause 4 of the Bill relates to reports of pro- ceedings in camera-and we had some criticism of a very opposite kind upon this very point during the discussion on the Divorce Bill last evening. The clause is as follows :- "4. (1.) Whenever in the public interests any proceedings in any Court are ordered by the Court to be heard in camera, it shall not be lawful for the proprietor of any newspaper to publish any report or comment on such pro- ceedings other than the fact or to the effect that such proceedings were so heard in camera." Subsection (2) says,- " The proprietor of any newspaper contra- vening the provisions of this section shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding fifty pounds." Then there is another clause, clause 5, which is the last clause of the Bill. It relates to the disclosing of the name of the writer of any defamatory letter. Clause 5 says,- " In any action against the proprietor of a newspaper in respect of the publication of a https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 libel contained in or purporting to be contained in a letter from a correspondent to such news- paper, the defendant, or each of the defendants, if there be more than one, shall. on application to the Court in that behalf, disclose on affidavit the true name and address of such correspon- dent, whereupon such defendant shall be freed from all liability in respect of such libel other than the liability to pay such costs of action as may be awarded against him by the Court." I would like to ask in the most dispassionate way whether any member of the House sees anything to object to in that clause ? In fact, my remarks applies to the whole Bill. I ask if any honourable member sees anything in the whole Bill to object to? I have read the whole of the Bill to the House. It is contained in clauses 3, 4, and 5. Sir, the chief merit of the Bill is this : it puts an end to all actions for libel. If the proprietor or editor of a news- paper refuses to publish an explanation of any defamatory or injurious statement made in the columns of his paper, then he is liable to the penalty which is prescribed in this Bill. The case is heard before a Magistrate ; there is no writ issued ; there are lawyers emploved ; there is no waiting for three months for the sitting of the Supreme Court ; no jurors are summoned ; there is no commotion of any kind ; no anxiety of mind on the part of the suitor or suitors. There is the simple hearing before the Magis- trate, and the defendant is fined or he is not fined, and there is an end of the matter. If this Bill was passed with these three simple clauses there would be no such thing in this country as an action for libel. A case could be | I am as certain of a seat in this House as any brought in the simplest possible form before any Magistrate in the country. The case is heard as an ordinary case is heard in the Stipendiary Magistrate's Court, and there is an end of the business. There are no large lawyer's fees to pay ; there is no long string of witnesses ; the plaintiff, or the defendant, is not subject to three months' anxiety of mind in waiting for the sitting of the Court ; there is no raking up of evidence in all parts of the country ; there is no diving into the history of this or that witness. The whole thing is determined in one sitting, and no more is heard of the action, and so the newspapers would be free from the dread of blackmail being levied on them. The plaintiff against a newspaper would have a speedy remedy at small cost. I do not know that any person, however litigious, how- ever his desire to dabble in law, could desire anything more than the simple provisions con- tained in this Bill. Sir, I deplore that public men should be attacked in this way. I deplore that the Parliament of the country should be attacked in this way ; but I say there is a simple remedy. But where an individual member of the House is powerless to move, the Govern- ment is not powerless. It is open to them, if they think fit, to pass an Act to put an end to this species of attack on members of Parlia- ment, or on the Parliament as a whole. There was a summary means adopted in past years in this House which made the gentlemen in the Press gallery extremely careful of their pro- fessional conduct. I remember three instances when I was engaged in that gallery in which the Speaker, in the exercise of his unquestioned authority, gave an order, on separate occasions, that three reporters, who had written scurrilous reports, should not be allowed within the pre- cinets of the Parliamentary Buildings I need not give their names. I worked with them all. The penalty meted out to them was well de- served. It was a penalty that ought to have been meted out to every man who so misuses his position in that gallery as to give way to his feelings of pique, his feelings of resentment, envy, and hatred, toward men who occupy posi- tions in this House. A reporter has no right to slander members in the public journals of the country. Of course, our characters amongst our constituents are proof against such mis- representations. For instance, the member for Ashburton was slandered, as he told us last session, by some villainous fellow connected with some journal in his district. But there is the simple answer that the honourable mem- ber is known to his constituents. What need he care what the newspapers say of him so long as his constituents, knowing his strength and his weaknesses, his virtues and his faults, are content Parliament after Parliament to return him to this House ? And so in the case of these two journals in Wellington -- which are considered by some to be all - powerful - what does it matter what they say of me? I am returned to this House election after election. time after time. Anything said by these papers has not the least effect upon me. 