ground than the Bill covers. What the honour- able member was referring more particularly to in the course of his speech was not those portions which deal with juvenile depravity so much as that portion which deals with that of an older age, and I was sorry he should have cast any aspersion, directly or indirectly, on any ladies in Wellington, and should have refused to give their names. Mr. FISHER .- You can give them. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Shall I give them ? I will give the names, but I will not say what their evidence was about. I will give the names so that the House may know whether the names are worthy of respect or not. Mr. FISHER .- You should read what they signed. I ask you to read the repulsive circular they signed. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I will show it to any mem- ber of the House who wants to see it, but I will not read what they did sign on this particular occasion. The names are Annie Habens, Ellen S. Greenwood, Stella M. Izard, M. Ashcroft, S. T. Stock, T. V. Morrah, M. Clere, M. Hall, and F. E FitzGerald -- members of the committee. I think the names are sufficient to justify any member of the House in believing that they would not have been placed on any document that was not worthy of our respect. Now, with regard to the evidence of Mr. In- spector Pender, the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) quoted a por- tion of Mr. Inspector Pender's evidence which partly bore upon the question. Certainly it did https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 not bear upon the question dealt with in the Bill at all, but dealt with another question alto- gether. So far as the Bill is concerned, what did Mr. Inspector Pender say ? He says he has discovered during this year eleven girls of ages varying from twelve to sixteen years who were prostitutes in Wellington. I will not go on to read further what he says in respect to that, but he also says, "In my opinion a good deal of the trouble is caused by bad homes, the children being huddled together, and bad pre- mises-no place to play." Now, with respect to there being no place to play, the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), who has just left the Chamber, if he really were desirious of improving the moral condition of Wellington, would take note of these words of Mr. Inspector Pender, that the Wellington people have no place to play in, and he would not be so strong an opponent of every effort that has been made by the authorities of the City of Wellington to provide more places for the people to play in. I hope he will take note of these words, and, when provision is at- tempted to be made by the authorities of Wel- lington to provide places for play, that, instead of being an opponent of those measures, he will be found supporting them. Then, Inspector Pender says, " I have been an Inspector four years and eight months in Wellington. I think the evil is greater now than when I came here." One could go through the whole of this evi- dence, and find many and many an instance of similar facts being placed before us to those I and I do not want to particularise any more than I have done, especially as the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) has left the Cham- ber. Some remarks have been made-I think by the honourable member for Wellington Suburbs-as to the position that women might take up under this Bill. I am not very much in favour of policemen in petticoats, and if there were any way of getting rid of the difficulty without employing policemen in petticoats I should be only too glad to see it done. But I cannot help acknowledging this fact : that women have been working in this city here and elsewhere with success. I think the Salva- tion Army have been doing this work, or the Salvation Army women have been doing it, and I know that the Salvation Army authorities- and the evidence is here also in this report- say that the women are best able to cope with this difficulty ; and if one has the evidence of those who have had experience such as Salva- tion Army officers have had, and they say that women are more capable of acting as Protection Officers, as well as in rescue homes, I think provision should be made in the Bill to employ women for such work. Although there are difficultics in respect to women doing the work -- and I can understand it would be a very serious thing for a woman in the street to have to take a boy of fourteen under her charge, and take him to his home or to a rescue home -- still. I believe there are occasions where women can do better work even than men can, and, if that is so, I cannot see why provision cannot be made in the Bill so that women may be ap- pointed as well as men where necessity is shown for it. Sir, the honourable member for Wel- lington City (Mr. Fisher) was quoting cases which were brought before the Court, and, I suppose, in taking his quotation from Hansard he had forgotten to look up the report itself, and therefore fell into an error. The cases that were brought hefore the Court in Wellington were not six, but nine. Mr. WILFORD .- Nine cases, but about eighteen charges. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I do not know how many charges there were, but nine cases were re- corded in the evidence given there. There are nine different individuals here recorded. Mr. WILFORD .- There were eight or nine witnesses -young girls - in nearly every case. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Very likely, and that makes it still worse : but, at any rate, the honourable member for Wellington City-I do not know whether intentionally ; probably not - was making the cases even lighter than they were. Then, coming to the question of the rescue of young persons, the Minister is proposing to remedy this evil in the Bill now before us. Sir, I shall support the second reading of the Bill ; not that I believe the Bill is going to do any very great good, but it may do good. I hope it will : but I am quite certain of this: that the evil exists. It may not be growing. I will not say it is. I will say this : that our evidence of the evil is growing, probably because the public conscience has been awakened to the 