or the taxable value placed on it after a con- siderable expenditure of capital and labour ? It is all moonshine to say that this tax on the unimproved value is not a tax upon labour and capital, and enterprise, and industry of every description. One man labours for years on his farm ; he puts his capital into it. Another puts his capital into a palatial residence, or a factory, and under this Bill is relieved from taxa- tion. On the other hand, it is proposed to tax the man who puts his capital into land. Such men are most certainly the backbone of the country. Sir, I look upon this question of taxing the unimproved value as a myth, and as only advo- cated by visionary politicians. The honourable member for Marsden asked me how I arrive at the unimproved value ? I go back to the original value at which the person bought the land in a state of nature fresh from the hands of the Creator. Now, Sir, what has lately been in operation to bring about the enhanced value of the unimproved value of land ? The valua- tion of land now rests with the Tax Valuation Department in Wellington ; the local bodies have no voice whatever in valuing for local taxation ; and I know, Sir, as a matter of fact that during the past three or four years the screw has been turned again and again to increase the taxable value in the country dis- tricts. I certainly hope the common-sense of the House will show itself by rejecting this Bill. There is not the slightest necessity for the Bill. The local bodies of the colony never asked for it ; and why this Bill should be forced on the people at the point of the bayonet I am at a https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 loss to understand. Representing ten thousand people in the Ashley electorate I object to the Bill, and I shall vote against the second reading. Let us trust the people, and leave the matter in their hands. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) .- Sir, I rise to make a personal explanation. The honourable gentleman who has just sat down has done me some injustice, and two or three words will clear it up. The honourable gentleman said that, in speaking to this Bill, I had condemned it lock, stock, and barrel, and had then said that I was going to vote for the second reading. The honourable gentleman did not listen care- fully, or he would not have misunderstood me. What I said was this : I disapproved entirely of the proposal to force the system of rating on the unimproved value upon every part of the colony alike; that I preferred retaining the option the people now have, but that I did agree that "The Rating on Unimproved Value Act, 1896," needed amendment, and in this particular way --- namely, that if the system of rating on the unimproved values was adopted in any place, it should apply to all classes of rates. I said I was going to vote for the second reading in order to get that provision in the Bill, instead of the provision which now appears in section 2, making it optional as regards cer- tain kinds of rates. Mr. LANG (Waikato) .-- I have always sup- ported the system of rating on the unimproved value, and I have stated my reason for doing so, Mr. Meredith platform. I have supported the system because it has been permissive. But I have always said that I would not support it if it was made com- pulsory. I believe in cases like this, as in all other cases where it is possible to do so, in leaving the people to decide what form of rating they will adopt. Now, I am surprised that the Government should seek to take away We have this power from the ratepayers. heard a good deal during this debate about " hide-bound Tories," and " Liberals"; and I would ask this House who are the true Liberals ? Are not the " hide-bound Tories" those who seek to take away from the people the power of deciding which form of rating they will adopt ? I am ready to admit that, under certain circum- stances, rating on the unimproved value would be very satisfactory and desirable, and more particularly in newly-settled country districts, where the whole of the country taken up has been alike in quality, probably in moderately small areas, and where the greater portion of the improvements have been made by the hard work of the owners or their families. In such cases I think it is desirable this form of rating on the unimproved value should exist, because under the present system a man is taxed for every improvement put upon his place. But I would also point out that under the present Act, where the people residing in such districts have expressed their wish to bring the Act into force, there is not the slightest difficulty when the people desire it to have a poll carried to bring in the rating on the unimproved values. On the other hand, I think, so far as cities are concerned, it is very doubtful if this system of rating would be satisfactory. I do not think any one will say that it is desirable in a city to have every vacant allotment occupied by a high building. Even supposing the passing of this Act compelled every one who owned an unoccupied section to put a high building upon it, where would you get the people to occupy them ? It would simply mean putting them up and not having sufficient people to occupy all the buildings erected. Now, if the Premier introduced an amendment in the Bill to make it in any way easier for the ratepayers to carry the poll, I should be very glad to support him in that direction ; but I cannot see my way to support him in making the system compulsory throughout the whole colony. It has already been pointed out by many speakers that very few local bodies in the colony have adopted this system of rating on the unimproved values, or even attempted to adopt it. I believe that only forty local authorities out of between 400 and 500 have ever attempted to bring it into force, and of these thirty-three have carried the poll, and it has been lost in the case of seven. Some say it is working successfully in the districts where it has been adopted, and therefore that this is an argument in favour of making it compulsory. But, I would like to point out, this argument is entirely in the opposite direction. If it has worked well where it has been introduced. there should be no difficulty in having it 