" We respectfully beg that you will air fol- lowing grievance before the House, re the way back-block settlers are treated from the Ad- vances to Settlers Office. I will only give you my case: I have 400 acres leasehold, of which 200 is felled and in grass, 45- or 50-chain wire fence, house and storeroom, yards, orchard, and garden. I got an advance of $75 three years ago, and I applied for $100 last January, and I have just got $75 - all I could get, 'or was offered,' after waiting six months. Now, don't you think I ought to get what I applied for, when you see what improvements I have got ? I will give you an example how it is valued : 45 chains of fencing, $45 ; house and store, insured for $50: 200 acres felled and grassed, including yards, orchard, gardens, and other improvements, should only be worth $205 : total, $300. Now, do you think this is fair valuation ? Ought I not to get what I applied for ? Mine is not the only case. Every one else in this block is the same. There is from 25 to 50 per cent. less offered, whether for a big or small amount. The valuer for this dis- triet, in my opinion, don't know the difference on 2 or 20 acres. He generally asks his way about. Now, I will show how the charges are made for executing the mortgage : For the first $75, #1 14s. 6d. ; valuation, 10s. 6d. = £2 5s. : and for the last $75-Execution of mort- gage, $2 9s. 6d. ; valuation, 10s. 6d. ; exchange of cheque, 2s. = $3 2s. Now, why should the last one cost 17s. more than the first one, when the mortgage is the same ? I should fancy it should be cheaper ; 17s. isn't much to some people, but it is a lot to a struggler up here. Now, I won't trespass upon your valuable time. If I had written to the department they would not take any notice of this, but I am sure you will let those who in power is hear of this." I have very little more to say upon the Advances to Settlers Act, except that I do not think it is working satisfactorily. I certainly object to the two-million loan which is asked for. I would not oppose a million loan, because the Act is on the statute-book, and it would cause a great deal of additional trouble to the settlers in the back blocks if they could not However, I shall obtain further advances. oppose a two-million loan. Mr. LANG (Waikato) .- I wish to explain my position in reference to this Bill. I think, with the last speaker, that the amount asked for is far too large. Judging from the speeches made by many members of this House, the Govern- ment have enough in hand to last considerably over one year ; but, so far as I am concerned, I am quite willing to support sufficient money being raised to carry them over one year, at any rate. I do not wish to cripple the Go- vernment or the department in any way, but I desire to point out that the money is far more urgently needed in other directions than in advances to settlers. I am speaking now purely from a settler's point of view. I maintain that if the two millions were expended in the opening-up of roads in the country, to give access to land that is being opened up by the Crown, it would be of far greater benefit te the VOL. CXVII .- 15. settlers than if expended under the Advances to Settlers Act. I have known of cases in which people have obtained loans under the Advances to Settlers Act who have been sorry afterwards, for they found that they could make better terms privately. They have been under the impression-and that is one thing I have been ready to admit until I found it to be to the contrary -- that they would be able to get the loan cheaper, as far as legal and other expenses are concerned, from the Go- vernment than from private lenders, but they have found that the expenses were quite as high, if not higher than if it had been obtained in the ordinary way. My only reason for rising is to express my views on this Bill, because I do not believe in supporting the second reading of a Bill simply in the hope that it may be altered in Committee. I believe we should vote for the Bill as we find it, while, when it goes into Committee, I hope the amount will be cut down in the way I have indicated. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I would like to say a word or two before the Minister replies. Personally, I have always supported the system of advances to settlers by a Government depart- ment, but I do think the Government are asking too much in asking us to support the borrowing of two millions at the present time. I do not think for a moment that the Government intend to borrow the money in the immediate future, because there can be no doubt that, at the rate the department is going at the present time, instead of the amount of advances increasing every year, there will be a less amount asked for. But it is the fact that, in asking for two millions in addition to other loans the Govern- ment will be asking for this session, we have heard from the Premier that he is contemplating another million loan for public works, and before the session goes over I suppose there will be something like four millions authorised to be borrowed. And, in addition to that, I believe the Government have authority from last year to borrow another two millions ; so that it really means that we shall be authorising this year the raising of loans for New Zealand to the amount of six millions. This means that if we attempt to float a loan on the London market-and I am not at all sure that we shall be able to do this-the people whom we ask to lend us the money will un- doubtedly be informed of the position New Zealand is in, and that we have to borrow something like six millions during this year in order to carry on our ordinary services. Under those circumstances, I am sorry the Government have not thought discretion the better part of valour in regard to these loans, and only asked for one million instead of for two. Several speakers have also alluded to the danger to property-owners in the colony of asking the Government for an advance under the Advances to Settlers Act, on the ground that their valuations for ordinary tax purposes are frequently raised in consequence of their very often unsuccessful applications. This was met by the Premier referring to the Act, which did not permit it ; but I was glad to see 