read between the lines, and I do not believe that the evidence, so far as it has come before us, is satisfactory on that point. I do not believe for one minute, if you look at other parts of the evidence, but that what is necessary, both in the interests of employers as well as employed, is that they should be compelled to do their work very much more than they do in office-hours. We have got evidence which tells us that in certain offices, if the clerk and the manager are on good terms, and the clerk wants to get out to a football match, or a cricket match, or a tennis game, or something of that sort, he can always get off on the understanding that he comes back at night and does his work. I say that is not good for anybody. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- There is no harm in that. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I say there is a great deal of harm in it. That is how half the irregularities in business occur - when a single man gets back to office alone at night. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- Not at all. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Yes, excuse me; I am only stating what I think. I say that, in my opinion, office-work ought to be done in office-hours, and especially clerks should not be allowed to come back to the office in the evening unless it is absolutely necessary. Therefore I say that, in the interests of all concerned, this sort of free-and-easy business which certain of the evidence indicates points to this fact : that if overtime is required to be paid for it will make both sides very much more businesslike-it will make clerks very particular in claiming payment, and it will also make the employers more chary in getting clerks back in the evening. Of course, the evidence has to be read in many ways. In none of the banks does it appear that over- time is now practised to any serious extent. All classes of employers that gave evidence were almost unanimous in saying, " We do not sin at all in this respect " ; and therefore, if they are as innocent as they claim, this Bill, which refers to these establishments, will not pinch them very hard. There was a certain amount of sentiment brought into the question. They affirmed-and, of course, the Council knows this by the number of petitions laid before it on the subject - that the existing relations are cordial and harmonious in many of the different insti- tutions, mercantile and otherwise. Well, that is as it should be; and I have no doubt that they are. I do not wish for one minute to suggest but what all decent employers are on very good terms with their staff. They try to get the best men they can about them, and when they have got good men they treat them well. I think both sides are to be congratu- lated upon being on such good terms one with the other. But when the clerks tell a Select Committee of this Council, "If you make them pay us overtime you are going to destroy all these harmonious relations which have been built up with years of good under- standing," I, for one, am not such an absolute idiot as to believe any word of that, because a Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker able a business commodity to be questioned, even if the price to be paid for it is a little overtime. Businesses are built up, as all of us know, on a proper understanding between the chief and his staff, and, if the staff is a good staff, he will not mind paying a few shillings a week for overtime ; and certainly he will not wreck the good relations he has built up with very much care between himself and his staff. Therefore I think we may throw to the winds absolutely the absurd contention that one and all of the different institutions that came before us tried to establish-namely, that if this Bill is carried it will absolutely destroy all the har- monious relations existing between these insti- tutions and their employés. My honourable friend on the left has suggested that it is going to reduce salaries. I have been told that in some banks it would be very hard to reduce salaries; they are low enough at the present time. But even then we could not get any bank clerk to tell us whether that was the case or not. The nearest they got to it was that they said a few years ago they were terribly hard-worked; but they would not admit that they were hard-worked now or did too much evening work. Therefore I must ask the Coun- cil to take it absolutely on the ground of com- mon-sense. A certain amount of this evidence must be taken with a great deal of salt ; and from their own knowledge of the circumstances members must judge as to whether it is right or not to pay for overtime. I believe, myself, it is the right thing to do. I believe it will be good for the employer, as I said before, and it will also be good for the employed ; but cer- tainly it must be good for certain offices where, apparently, the work is so light that a clerk can be let out in the afternoon to play a game or take a little diversion, and come back, if he chooses, at night. That cannot be good fer any one ; it is demoralising morally, and I be- lieve also it is demoralising from a commercial point of view. It does not help the offices, and therefore I feel quite certain it will be in the interests of all concerned if such a practice is checked by a Bill of this nature. The Com- mittee, I think, have dealt with the Bill in a very consistent and tolerably fair way. I must say I was out-voted on one question which I do think I ought to have been successful in maintaining. Certainly it was against logic and cool reason that warehouses should be ex- cluded from this Bill. I see no reason why overtime in warehouses should not be paid for, if it is paid in other establishments. It may be quite true that, like Casar's wife, they should be above suspicion ; but also from another play I remember a quotation, " Methinks the lady protests too much." I am sure the latter quo- tation, more than the former, applies to ware- houses, as well as to banks and other institutions of that kind. I shall ask the Council, therefore. to affirm the principle that warehouses, like every other institution, should " toe the mark "" and pay for their overtime if they require it. Of course, they said they did not require it ; they did not overwork their people ; they let 