honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar), the revenue for the local body must be raised. The two together are paying $25, and the local body will require that that amount should be raised from those allotments by in- creasing the taxation on the unimproved value. At the present time they pay 2d. in the pound ; but if this Bill should become law each of those allotments will have to pay £12 10s., or 3d. in the pound. The unim- proved allotment will pay $4 3s. 4d. more than it does at the present time, and that with the building will pay $4 3s. 4d. less. But this is the position : One piece of ground has a building upon it, and for that building the owner is getting #165 per annum rent. The other allotment, yielding no revenue, belongs to a comparatively poor man, who is trying to save all the money he can in order that he may at some future time put up premises for business purposes upon the land, by which to obtain a livelihood ; but he has not the means to put up the building, and he does not yet care to undertake the responsibility of mortgaging the land in order to erect a build- ing. Sir, is it not unjust and inequitable that the man who is deriving a large income from his property should pay less than the poor man ? Why should the man of straitened means pay this extra taxation for holding that land ? I think anybody will recognise that the system in his case is inequitable, and altogether wanting in that equality of sacrifice of which so much is said about raising revenue https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 from those best able to bear it. It has been assumed by several members that all vacant allotments are held by rich persons for specula- tive purposes. That is absolutely incorrect in most cases. In this respect this system will abound in anomalies, and will not work well ; and the Bill, instead of bearing harder, as it is in- tended to do, upon land held for speculative pur- poses, will touch such cases but lightly. Iknow instances of right-down hardship which it will inflict on those that are not well able to bear it. Not only is it assumed that all vacant allot- ments are held for speculative purposes, but its supporters go further, and assume that all vacant allotments are being increased by what is called the " unearned increment," whereas we know that the unimproved value has in abounding instances suffered decrement. am surprised to hear honourable members, almost with one voice, assuming that land speculations have been in all cases profitable, whereas it is only a small minority that have been fortunate in dealing with land for such purposes. If a young man came to me and said, " I have got £500 or $600 ; what shall I do in order to use it most profitably and with the best prospects of success ? " I would say to him, "If you have got business knowledge and capacity I would recommend you to go in for trade, but do not speculate in land." The few instances in which high prices have been se- cured for land must not be accepted as the general rule, because it is not the rule, but the Mr. Monk plodder, but is poor material for the speculator. There is another assumption of those who support this Bill -namely, that anybody who owns a vacant allotment can at once sell it, under the pressure of taxation, and make a profit by doing so. I admit that that may be the case in some instances, but it is not by any means a rule. There is another as- sumption by those who are in favour of this Bill : that it is immoral to own a vacant allot- ment. If that is so, what about our future, if all our cities and lands are to have a congested occupation by legislative pressure, rather than wait for the operation of natural laws? I will give another instance which has come under my own personal knowledge in connection with the place where I live, which is pretty well im- proved, and is nearly as profitable, perhaps, as it can be made. If this Bill passes, I, with a few others, will pay less than I do now ; but those of my neighbours who have not made the same amount of improvements will have to pay more. They will then have to pay as high a sum per acre as I shall have to pay, though they have not yet brought their land into the same state of improvement. It must strike honourable members that this is inequitable. My land is in a position which enables me to pay higher rates without hardship, but the Bill will act inequitably with respect to my neigh- bours. Where is there, in this case, the equality of sacrifice which the Liberal party talk so much about ? An Hon. MEMBER .- What about the property- tax ? Mr. MONK .- I did not support the property- tax. Read my speech made about 1888-and there are some here who remember that speech -when I spoke strongly against it. And I will refer honourable members to Professor Schlige- man, one of the foremost authorities on taxa- tion. He denounces the property-tax because of its inequitable operations and the difficulty of properly administering it. The result of this Bill will be to allow men with large reve- nues derived from costly buildings to escape. The member for Masterton spoke a little while ago about the lives of the small farmers, and how this Bill will relieve them. The honourable member knows nothing about the exigences of a farmer's life; how a man may toil for fifteen or twenty years for comparatively little I income, and it is while thus toiling that he feels taxation. When he gets into a compara- tively good position he does not then feel the rates which the local bodies levy upon him. It is during the first five or six years of his work on the land that the rates and other charges press most most beavily upon him. I shall vote against the Bill. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .- Sir, the honour- able member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) stated just now that he intended to vote against the second reading of this Bill for the reasons which he advanced -- reasons which must commend themselves to the judgment of mem- bers of this House. The honourable member 