it has declared that a breach of privilege has been committed. What is the next step to take? Let us look at the Standing Orders of the House, as interpreted by the ruling of the Speaker, and see if the Hon. the Colonial Secretary is not in order in intro- ducing this motion. Looking in page 157 of the Rulings, we find No. 13 :- "The House first decides whether a breach of privilege has taken place, then hears explanation of the person accused, then decides whether it will proceed further or not." Our next business after declaring that a breach of privilege is committed is to make provision for hearing the person accused, and the best way in which the House can hear the explana- tion of the person accused is to ask that person to appear and give evidence before a Committee, which will report to the House. Hon. MEMBERS. - NO. Mr. McNAB .- Sir, I am not responsible for the ability of the honourable member for Riccarton to follow logical argument, but it is not necessary at all that the accused person should be brought to the bar of the House and there give his explanation. The person accused can equally well give an explanation before a Committee of the House ; and it is the duty of that Committee, having heard the explanation of the person accused, to bring down its report to the House, and then is the time for the House to decide what the next step to be taken is: whether the House ought to punish the person who is accused ; and if it is to punish him what the nature of that punishment will be, or whether the circumstances surrounding the breach of privilege are such as not to http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero warrant further action. This Committee which is being set up by the resolution before the House will bring down a recommendation to this effect, and then the House will proceed, or decide that no further action shall be taken. Regarding the general question of whether we ought to open our Committees to the reporters of the different papers, I am one of those who hold that our Committees ought to be as open as, at any rate, the Courts of the land. If we open our highest Courts of the land to the newspaper reporters, then what have we got in this House and in the hearings before the Committees that we should debar the reporters from appearing ? It need not follow that because in this House the proceedings of the House are privileged- and then, again, they are only privileged to the official publication of the House - therefore the privilege will attach to the reports that re- porters may send to their papers of the pro- ceedings of the Committees ; and, if no privileges attach to the report, who, then, will be injured by any publication ? That is my opinion, and that is the direction in which I will vote if the question is brought up for an amendment of our Standing Orders; but at the present time there is no proposal before the House to deal with our Standing Orders. We have decided the question that a breach of privilege has occurred, and I believe we ought not to stop at punishment will be inflicted in the event of the Dunedin Star not being able to give a satis- factory explanation-which I hardly see can be done-of what appears in its columns. But I believe, myself, that the method which the honourable member who is leading the House at the present time has suggested is the best course we can follow, and that we should require the publisher of the Dunedin Star to appear before a Select Committee, and let that Com- mittee report to this House, and then the House can decide what punishment it will mete out. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- Sir, an attempt has been made to show that the breach of privilege case which occurred in 1874 has no bearing on the case before the House. Sir, I am willing to admit that on one point the two cases are not exactly parallel-that is, that in the case now before the House the House has decided that a breach of privilege has been committed ; whereas in the case in 1874 the matter was referred to the Speaker of the Legislative Council, who ruled that, in his opinion, "a gross breach of privilege had been committed," and he recommended that a Committee should be set up to inquire and report, and a Committee was set up accord- ingly. There are a number of members who have expressed the opinion that it is not competent for the House to set up such a Committee, because the House had already affirmed the fact that a breach of privilege had been committed. But according to a ruling of Mr. Speaker's, quoted by the honour- able member for Mataura, the first motion should be, "That a breach of privilege had been committed," and if that is affirmed a further That is exactly resolution must be moved. what is now being done. Some members who have spoken seem to think there is only one issue involved. Sir. there is more than one issue involved. The member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay) expressed the opinion that only one person was responsible, and that that person was the publisher of the journal. Sir, is not the party who supplied the information equally responsible ? I submit he is ; and we want to know who supplied the information, and with that object it is proposed to set up a Committee, and I consider the order of reference covers everything that is required. I will read the finding of the Committee in the case that has been quoted. "The Committee find that Mr. - , a wit- ness before the last-named Committee, gave the information to Mr. - , a member of the House of Representatives, who telegraphed the article to the Southern Cross newspaper at Auckland on Sunday last, the 2nd instant, and that the said article was reproduced as a Press telegram in the Wellington Tribu e newspaper of the 4th instant. Your Committee are of opinion that a breach of privilege, for which Mr. - and Mr. - are primarily responsible, has been committed by the publication of this telegram." That is to say, the Committee inquired into the breach of privilege and discovered who the 