be profitably raised there, because the climate and soil suited them ; whereas they could not be so successfully kept in Taranaki. In regard to the statements made by his honourable friend, Mr. Ormond, in regard to small sheep-runs in which a portion of run referred to by him was cut, it appeared to him that, at the present price of wool, land carrying only one sheep and a half to the acre, and with a rent of from 6s. to 8s. per acre, it would be impossible for the tenant to make a living on sheep-farming. But if dairy- ing was possible on such land it was possible to succeed. The hour of four o'clock having arrived, the Council proceeded to the Orders of the day. SHOPS AND OFFICES BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 3 .- " Hours of employment." The Hon. Mr. BOLT moved to insert, after " may," in subsection (2) the following words, "on the written application of the occupier, and." The Council divided. AYES, 11. Smith, A. L. Arkwright Kelly, T. Barnicoat Kelly, W. Swanson Walker, W. C. Bolt Reeves Harris Rigg NOES, 16. Feldwick Shrimski McLean Taiaroa Gourley Montgomery Tomoana Jenkinson Ormond Jennings Pinkerton Twomey Scotland Williams. Jones Louisson http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero Majority against, 5. Amendment negatived. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK moved to add the following new subsection :- " It shall be a valid defence in any proceedings under this section that any work undertaken without leave of an Inspector was a work of emergency." The Council divided on the question, "That the subsection be added to the clause." AYES, 12. Shrimski Barnicoat McLean Feldwick Ormond Taiaroa Gourley Twomey Pinkerton Kelly, W. Reeves Williams. NOES, 14. Smith, A. L. Jones Arkwright Bolt Kelly, T. Swanson Harris Tomoana Louisson Jenkinson Rigg Walker, W. C. Scotland Jennings Majority against, 2. Amendment negatived. Progress reported. The Council adjourned at ten minutes to five o'clock p.m. Hon. Mr. T. Kelly Tuesday, 20th August, 1901. First Reading-Charles Kerse and Others-Merri- vale Estate - Fiji-Military Pensions Board - M. D. Dineen-Masterton Cadet Corps and Kiffe Club-Rifle Team for Bisley Meeting-Encourag- ing Population - Returned Troopers -Govern- ment Works in Hawke's Bay - Ammunition for .303 Rifles - Woodville Refreshment-rooms Scandal-Auckland Drillshed-Mr. Cross's Pro- perty - Rifles for Volunteer Officers - Am- munition for Volunteers-"Sweating "-Waitaki Mounted Rifles - Flour-millers' Association - Conciliation Boards-Military Pensions Exten- sion Act-Dunedin Public Art-gallery-Austral- asian Squadron-Imperial or Colonial Naval Reserve - Rifle - ranges - Defence - Returned Troopers-Stoke Orphanage-Returns re Large Estates-Societies for the Prevention of Cruelty to Women and Children-" Municipal Corpora- tions Act, 1900 "-Returned Troopers' Pay-Go- vernment Life Insurance-Criminal Assaults Women and Children - Colonial - made on Saddlery for New Zealand Troops-State Gold- mining and Issue of Sovereigns-Ralph Porter- Invercargill Railway-station-Hospital Nurses Registration Bill-Land for Settlements Bill- Government Advances to Settlers Extension Bill. The DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past ten o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Rotorua Town Council Validation and Exten- sion Bill. CHARLES KERSE AND OTHERS. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) brought up the report of the Waste Lands Committee on the above petition, asking that the Moa Flat Estate should be acquired by the Government for the purposes of close settlement. They re- ported that the land was not suitable for the purpose, and recommended that the estate be not acquired. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) said that unfortunately he was not present at the Waste Lands Committee when the evidence of Mr. McKerrow was taken on this petition : he had not then returned from the South when the report was submitted. The report was probably quite correct to a point, when it stated that all the estate was not fit for close settlement ; but that the estate was fit for settlement he asserted was beyond a doubt. There was a portion of it unfit for close settlement, and he was quite sure, from what he knew in connection with numbers of farmers in the surrounding districts who had grown-up families, that they wished the estate would be taken up and divided into small grazing-runs and small farms. He was cer- tain if that were done they would be taken up. In connection with this estate, he felt certain that in its present condition it was a bar to progress in that important district. The Government had the power to acquire it, and they could acquire it at a price he was quite certain that would enable them to settle it under proper conditions. If one saw, as numbers had seen, the class of country that was opened up for small grazing-runs in the 