before the House, and in doing so I shall not attempt to follow the remarks made by the member for Manawatu. It appeared to me that the honourable gentleman does not un- derstand the principle underlying any proper system of taxation. Now, Sir, I am one of those who have always doubted the wisdom of rating on the unimproved value, and I shall proceed to state how I think the operation of this principle will work in the district I have the honour to represent. I think that can be taken as a fair sample of the condition of things throughout the colony. Without further hesitation I may say that I regard the system of rating on the unimproved value as the exemption of the wealthy man to the detriment of the poor. The district I have the honour to represent contains a large number of dwellings belonging to wealthy men. It is probably, for its size, one of the wealthiest portions of New Zealand. It is the wealthiest suburb of the City of Christchurch. It contains numerous large grain-stores; it contains the finest racecourse in the colony, and one of the largest freezing-works. Now, Sir, under the rating on the unimproved value all the wealthy class represented by these large dwellings, racecourse properties, freezing-works, and so on, will be exempted from part of their present taxation, and I put it to honourable members in this way: If you are going to exempt all these valuable properties from taxation on their improvements, where is the money to come from in order to make up the total https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 amount of taxation that is required for local purposes? That, as it appears to me, is a position from which there is absolutely no escape. Now, the Premier spoke of vacant lots. Well, that is always a captivating cry. But I would ask the honourable gentleman is there not some point at which you must stop building? That point is when you have sup- plied the demand. It is all very well in a city like Wellington, where the land is circum- scribed and where the buildings can hardly be put up fast enough, to force the pace in build- ing ; but take a city like Christchurch and its suburbs. If you are going to compel by taxa- tion, such as you propose here, the erection of properties beyond the point where those properties can be profitably occupied you are simply going to empty one lot of buildings by compelling the erection of another and su- perior lot. Sir, I can take my memory back to the time when as a boy I lived in the Town of Invercargill. That town was overbuilt, and I can remember in 1863 to 1865 the owners were asking people to come and live in their houses for the pur- pose of protecting them from being destroyed by persons of a depredatory tendency. And exactly the same position will take place in any town, city, or borough when once you, by any process whatever, force the erection of buildings past the point where the law of supply and demand operates. I have seen other cases illustrating that. Even in the Town of Palmerston North I can quote a case fourteen or fifteen years ago being enormously depreciated in value by the fact that other buildings have been erected by capitalists de- siring to utilise vacant lots and get interest upon their capital. Having erected new and improved tenements, they have emptied the older class of buildings and depreciated their value. Exactly the same thing will take place in any town or city where you have pushed the construction of buildings by fictitious or ab- normal means beyond the law of supply and demand. That, I believe, will be one of the effects. Now let me refer to the idea that all land is of equal value, and that therefore rating on land-value alone is equitable. I say that it is not, and the man who gets four or five uses of his land ought to pay more in taxa- tion than the man who is only using his land once. Take the City of Christchurch : In Cathedral Square you have some sections of land which carry buildings three or four stories high, like the A.M.P. Company's buildings. They have the use of that land three and four times through the letting of the cellar and flat upon flat, and all the offices are occupied. Do you mean to tell me the people who own that class of building in Christchurch do not get more value from their land than the people whose buildings beside them are of only a single story, and which they are able to let for offices at only from £1 to #1 10s. a week ? These two classes of people, those with buildings of three and four stories on their land and those with only a single-story building-do they get the same use out of their properties? Why, Sir, the thing will not hold water for a moment. The man who builds a Chicago "sky-scraper" fourteen or fifteen stories high is, under this Bill, entitled only to pay rates on the same plot of land as the man alongside him who puts up a single-story building. And if the latter is entitled to pay as much in rates as the former, where are you going to get the taxes with which to carry on your local govern- ment ? I ask honourable members, What is the underlying principle upon which our local- government taxation depends ? Is it that we try to fasten taxation on the individual ? If so, why not abolish taxation upon property altogether, and have a poll-tax? If you are going to tax property according to the protection and assistance that property gets in the way of protection, and all that a good system of local government does for property, then on what logical ground can you say that the land only is to be taxed, and that the properties that are built on it are to be exempted ? For my part, I cannot see any reason in that argument. Now, Sir, 1 hold- and in this respect I know I differ from a number of Liberals in this House -- I hold that when you take away the taxation of the "fat man," you are going to place that taxation upon the poorer classes. Take, for example, the dis- trict of Sydenham, in which I live, near to Christchurch. Why, Sir, for a number of years past the great gasworks which supply the whole of the City of Christchurch-the proprietors of 