Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said there was no necessity for any instructions being given. As he had told the House, he intended to intro- duce a Bill repealing the provision in the Defence Act which gave the Minister of De- fence power to admit free uniforms and mili- tary equipments. ## STATE GOLD-MINING AND ISSUE OF SOVEREIGNS. Mr. FIELD (Otaki), for Mr. Witheford (Auckland City), asked the Colonial Treasurer, Whether the Government will consider the ad- visability and practicability of the State mining its own gold, and issuing its own sovereigns ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said this was going in quite the opposite direction from what the late worthy Mr. Macandrew advocated. He ad- vocated a bale of paper and the printing press. If he were to answer this in the affirmative it would be said he was giving way to his own weakness. But he did think something might be done in the way of paper, and keeping gold against it ; and if they adopted that view they would have to buy the gold, and he thought they could buy gold much cheaper than they could mine it. # RALPH PORTER. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether his attention has been called to the very severe penalty and unnecessary costs imposed in a case of cattle- trespass on a railway reserve at Glenavy, brought against one Ralph Porter, on the 1st August, in the Stipendiary Magistrate's Court, Waimate, the defendant having been fined £2-namely, £1 per head-and saddled with £2 17s. costs, including fee of counsel (£2 2s.), said counsel having been brought from Timaru to prosecute, although the de- fendant had previously notified his intention to plead guilty ; and, if so, will he take steps to secure that such counsel's fee shall be re- funded to Mr. Porter? He asked this ques- tion in consequence of a communication he had received from one Ralph Porter, under date 1st August, to the following effect :- "I beg to bring under your notice a gross in- justice that has been done to me to-day. The facts are that two cows, my property, strayed across the railway-line on the 8th June last, and grazed for twenty minutes on the reserve be- yond the line, for which I was summoned to appear at Waimate to-day before Major Keddell, charged with allowing cattle to trespass, and fined, including costs, $4 17s. Now, here is where the injustice of the case comes in. After receiving the summons, I saw the railway ganger, Mr. Seaman, and explained to him as he had seen the cows trespass, that I would plead guilty of the offence to save any friction and expense. But, to-day, Mr. White appeared for the department and pressed for a heavy penalty, altough I explained to His Worship on the bench that this being my first offence, and the railway being unfenced, a small fine ought to meet my case. But, no; I was to be treated VOL. CXVII .- 32. as one that had committed the offence twenty times, and fined £1 for each head and saddled with #2 17s. of expenses. Now, I consider that I ought not to have been called upon to pay Mr. White, as the police could have prosecuted as well, if not better. The railway is left un- fenced, no security whatever ; even if you were in attendance on any stock it would be impos- sible to keep them from getting on the line. I would deem it a great favour if you will kindly look at my complaint as a public one, and lay the matter before the Hon. the Minister for Railways. I do not think I am wrong in saying that he will at once see that I have been severely dealt with, and order the £2 2s. to be refunded." This man considered he had been very severely dealt with, and so did he (Major Steward); and, although the grievance might appear a somewhat small one, it seemed to him very hard that any settler should be put to the unnecessary expense referred to. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) was advised that the Railway Department had pre- viously warned Mr. Porter against permitting his cattle to trespass on the railway, and he was written to in May last in respect to the trespass on the line at Glenavy of five cows belonging to him, and was then informed that he would be prosecuted if a repetition of the offence occurred. Two of his cattle trespassed on the line again on the 8th June last, and proceedings were accord- ingly instituted against Mr. Porter. The de- partment had no definite knowledge of his intention to plead guilty. Mr. Porter, it now appeared, had informed the ganger at Glenavy a few days before the case was heard that " he supposed he would plead guilty"; but, as the department had no positive knowledge of his intention to so plead, it was compelled to take steps to secure a conviction. Cattle trespass on railways was a source of great danger to the travelling public, and in the interests of public safety prosecutions were undertaken in all cases where convictions could be secured. Major STEWARD said, That was quite true, and for years past the department had been urged to fence that particular place, which was very dangerous, and he had twice brought the matter up in the House, both last session and this session. INVERCARGILL RAILWAY-STATION. Mr. HANAN (Invercargill) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will favourably consider the proposal to provide access to the Invercargill Railway - station from Spey Street, so as to enable residents in the north part of the town, Avenal, and North Invercargill to more readily obtain entrance to the railway-station. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the report he had was this : "It is considered that the residents of the northern part of Inver- cargill have already a very convenient approach to the railway-station along Leven and Dee Streets, and the department is strongly opposed to the granting of any additional access." 