people for the work there is for them to do in the colony. It is only by so doing that we shall uphold our colony and its interests, and stand well before the world. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- Sir, the honourable gentleman who has just sat down has given us one of his old-fashioned homilies on industrial matters and the responsibilities which rest upon us in regard to labour and capital. Sir, I was very glad to hear the honourable gentleman say that we should do our utmost to conciliate as between employers and employés, because the honourable gentleman in expressing such a sentiment gives his sanction to the legislation which has been passed by the Legislature of this country. The tendency of that legislation, as has been generally admitted, not only in the colony but by outsiders, has been to create har- mony between masters and men. The honour- able gentleman referred -though it was some- what outside the subject- - to the fact that a farm-labourer had slashed his leg while cutting a hedge, and was going to bring an action against i is employer under the Workers' Com- pensation for Accidents Act. One cannot tell what view the Judge before whom this action may be brought may take of the matter, but I know it was never intended that agricultural labourers should be included in the Act. That was pointed out at the time the measure was passed, as will be found in the speeches that were given, and, more than that, the Premier has also stated that the intention was that farm https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 labourers should be exempted. An Hon. MEMBER .- He said he would have them all in this year. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- Well, I do not know what the intentions of the right honourable gentleman are, but I know what he said when the Act was passed. Then, the honourable member also spoke to-day about the restrictions in regard to apprentices, and I consider that what he said in that respect was quite reason- able. If we had the wages and the hours of labour fixed there is no necessity at all to restrict the number of apprentices. But the honourable gentleman then spoke of the effect the measure is likely to have on employers in the colony, or the influence that any inju- dicious legislation in regard to industrial pur- suits may have on the employers of the colony. He went on to say that a large order had been sent out of the colony for boots. Now, what I want to point out is this : that the honourable gentleman, and those who think with him on this matter, have successfully time after time prevented a measure from passing this Legis- lature in order to stipulate that boys should be apprenticed. And what is the effect of the non-apprenticeship of boys ? It is this, Sir: that we cannot compete with America and other countries in the making of boots. There is hardly a bootmaker in this town who is capable of making a sewn boot that would do him credit and the wearer justice. At all events, if there be any such, one has great difficulty in finding them. Now, Sir, in regard to the measure which is before us: When I heard make his last speech in regard to it I felt that he had made the best of a bad business. No doubt, Sir, his position is an exceedingly difficult one, and I question whether there is another gentleman in this Council, or in Parliament, who could have so wisely, judi- ciously, and delicately placed the matter before the Council. But, Sir, my course in regard to this Bill seems to me to be plain. If we had not taken evidence in regard to the measure I should have thought I understood all about the evil with which it deals. I should have thought I knew what the clerks in the banks and offices in this colony desired to have. But we have taken the evidence, and we have taken it as a guide to our action, and I say that we must act in accordance with what it appears to indicate. I say " appears to indicate " advisedly, because I feel that the petitions that have been sent to us may not be worth as much as we could de- sire. It might be, and it has often happened under similar circumstances, that an employé, when he is desired to sign his name, is met with the demand, which may be mandatory, " Sign your name there, please!" Now, is it likely that an employe-having no trade, perhaps, but simply able to do clerical work -would by refusing to sign his name at the request of his employer court dismissal, and thus be in want of sustenance for himself and perhaps for his family? Sir, every clerk who refused to sign his name would be saying in effect, "I am overworked and underpaid," because it is just exactly overwork and underpay that this Bill proposes to deal with. Sir, the evidence was a pleasant surprise to me. I did not think it possible that there could have been so much unanimity amongst any particular class in the colony ; and I hope that they have been acting entirely upon their own initiative and their own convictions, and have not been driven to take this view of the question by an implied necessity in order to retain their positions. To assert that they were in dread that if they did not sign the petitions and act in accordance with the views of their employers they would suffer, might be doing an injustice to all con- cerned. I am only showing that where you have such a system of obtaining the wishes of servants there is a danger that they may be acting through fear under terrorism. There is one thing that the action of the clerks has proved to my mind, and that is that they have a sturdy devotion to duty, and that they con- sider it unmanly to complain. That is the view I took when I saw the action they were adopting with regard to this measure. Sir, I have said that the evidence was a pleasant surprise, for it demonstrated that the employés not only in the banks but also in the warehouses were a happy family- the lion and the lamb were, as it were, lying down together. I hope the lamb was not in- side the lion, as that too often happens. I want here to emphasize the fact that, in re- gard to all such legislation as this, similar ob- jections have been raised from the very begin- ning. All the legislation we have had for 