said the expense, I look upon it that that i- almost beside the question, because I fool quite certain that, if the country were satisfied that a training-ship should be established, neither the country nor the Government would grudge the expense. What is more, it would be only the initial expense, because once the ship was established it could be managed just as economically as an institution on land. So I do not attempt to answer that part of the qration at all. But I wish to be certain, in the first place, that there exist good reasons why we cannot train these boys -as most of the i go to farming pursuits -and that we can- not train them better and make better men of them here on shore than if we tried to put them on the sea. I think we ought to. There is another point, suggested both by the Ho. Mr. Jennings and the Hon. Colonel Pitt, and that was as to the possibility of the training on these ships being an entrance to the Royal navy. That is absolutely impossible. They will not take into the royal navy a boy who has been committed by a Magistrate, nor www. from a school where committed boys are aanmitted. Therefore I do not think it is possible to consider that view of the matter at all. However, I must leave the decision as to this motion to the Council. It is an important subject, and it is one that the Government feel to be important. I have stated my views, but I shall listen with respect to the views of hon urable members, because my only desire is to ver these schools made a permanent good to the community and to the boys who are com- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 mitted to their care. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND. -- I have been very much impressed by what I have heard fran the honourable gentleman who has just sat down. From my point of view as well as from his there really is little or no difference between a training-ship moored in a harbour and the establishment on shore of a reformatory for young criminals. Something like the scheme sketched by the Hon. Mr. Jennings, I remem- her, was tried many years ago at Kohimarama, in the neighbourhood of Auckland, and, if I am not much mistaken, the scheme came to grief. I think there were many cases of young people abounding from the ship because the discipline on ward was rather too severe. However, the Hon. Mr. Jennings. I have no doubt, knows more about that training-ship than I do. It was given up a great many years ago. As far as a ship moored in the harbour is con- comed. I venture to say that it is no nursery for seamen. Putting a number of bois on board, and teaching them to go up and down the ropes like so many monkeys or acrobats, is not training them to become hardy seamen. Look at the lives of some of the greatest of England's seamen, who dis- tingnished themselves at a time when it was not the custom to look to the Government to initiate everything. Men were then left more to their own initiative. Take the life, for in- stance, of Captain James Cook-a man whose He ran away from his home or his employer I forget which. Of course, I do not approve of boys running away, as a rule, from homes. He then got on board a collier on the coast of Eng- land, and there he led a rough life for some years, antil he became a thorough, hardy British seaman. Or take the case of Horatio Nelson, a man born in a different class of life to Captain James Cook. Where was the beginning of his training laid ? In the same manner as the beginning of James Cook's life. He went on board a vessel on the coast of England : he actually entered the merchant service before his father, or his uncle, obtained for him a commission in the British navy. That was the way to train sailors ; and 1 only wish that there was more self-reliance amongst us nowadays, and that we did not so continually look to the Goverment to spend large sums of money to begin experiments of different kinds. I do not see that there is any obstacle in the way of a boy who wishes to go to sea in New Zealand. Look at our ports, and the number of coasting vessels you see about, and the vessels trading to the Islands : what is to prevent a boy getting a berth on one of these vessels ? I am sure many captains would be glad to take a respectable boy on board. An Hon. MEMBER .-- They cannot take more than they have. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND .-- I do not believe that there would be any obstacle in the way. If a boy were determined to get on board a vessel he could get on board, even as a stowaway -- that is, if he were determined to be a sailor. As to establishing a training-school for the British navy. I think there is too much of this talk in New Zealand just now. People are going Im. perialistic mad almost. Look at the number of young men who have returned from the war in South Africa, and who are thrown back on our hands in New Zealand. Will a majority of those young men go back to their old pursuits and settle down to steady industry ? I venture to say that a great many of them- and I say it with sorrow- are, by too much coddling and flattery, spoilt for life : too many of them will want to be officers and gentlemen, and to be maintained at the Government expense, or to have Government billets found for them. If they cannot got such billets what is to become of them ? I think it is a very serious outlook. I say, if we are to train young men to the sea, let it be for the mercantile marine of New Zealand. I only hope that if we do esta- blish a training-ship here it will not form the nucleus of a New Zealand navy. We really do not want it. But, as we are sometimes told that money is no object for us, who can foretell what extravagance we may not enter upon ? We have got the nucleus of a standing army already. The arguments for this training- ship seem very specious. Some honourable gentlemen can say a good deal in favour of the proposal, no doubt ; but, so far as arresting young people on the road to serious crime goes. I think the words of the honourable the Minister of 