balanced to some extent by the prices ranging for other of our staple products. With a surplus of over half a million last year, and the continued favourable revenue coming in this year, there seemed every prospect that the desire of Ministers to grant concession of taxation, and reduced rates on products carried on our railways, would be consum- mated ; but, in the face of the necessarily in- creased expenditure this year, the more prudent course is to defer any further reduction in re- venue to a more favourable opportunity, and the national expenditure should be cut down to the lowest limit consistent with efficiency after providing for the necessary requirements. The eager and pressing desire for the rapid construction of public works and conveniences has forced borrowing up to a limit beyond which it would not be safe to go. There need be no curtailment of expenditure in respect to obtaining lands for settlement or for roading back blocks and Crown land, which so materi- ally assists in furthering the settlement of the people on the land, or in respect to advancing moneys to settlers, or in pushing on the North Island Main Trunk and other important rail- ways, and in otherwise developing, within reasonable limits, the resources of our colony, for this means increasing the output of pro- ducts and exports, and tends to promote an increased population, which the colony badly needs. In respect to the expenditure on several classes of public works, district railways, and especially buildings and works which are more a matter of convenience than of necessity, pru- dence demands that there should be a reduction in the expenditure thereon, especially seeing that our population is so slowly increasing, for it should be borne in mind that the increased ratio of population is much below that of the in- creased ordinary expenditure. For every million borrowed and expended on non-revenue-pro- ducing works and objects, an annual charge of about 10d. a head is entailed upon every Euro- pean man, woman, and child in the colony. Coming to the demands upon the consolidated revenue, the several services of the colony have necessarily increased, and the strictest economy is necessary ; for if ever the time arrives when increased taxation is required to meet the ordi- nary expenditure, so surely will reductions in salaries eventuate. To avoid the contingency, and the injustice which arose in the past, it is well for those having responsibility to do their utmost to keep down expenditure. In the Budget last year I stated that here- after the aid to Public Works Fund from the surplus in the Consolidated Fund would have to be partially, if not wholly, abandoned. The Public Works requirements of this year are, however, so large that I am compelled to use $500,000 of the surplus, and that amount will be transferred accordingly. I regret again to have to state that, from various causes well known to members, the money market in London continues to be un- favourable to floating loans, and we have had recourse to raising $500,000 locally on short- Mr. Seddon dated debentures bearing 4 per cent. interest. Full particulars of the floating of this local loan will be given. Recently a paragraph appeared in the Press something to this effect : "The needs of the Treasury were so urgent that £100,000 was borrowed from a leading life assurance society at 4 per cent., with a condition that the in- terest would be paid at head office in Sydney." The facts are that the prospectus of the $500,000 local loan, raised in April last, provided for interest being made payable in New Zealand, Australia, and London. Some time after this loan had been closed the society in question asked the Government if it would accept au investment of $100,000; and, seeing that at the time we were selling debentures openly over the counter on terms as to interest similar to those above referred to, we naturally obliged the society and accepted their money. Other institutions and private individuals have also been glad to avail themselves of this further opportunity to invest their money in short- currency security carrying a fair rate of in- terest. The war in South Africa still continues, and the large Imperial loans and other demands upon the London money-market leads me to the conclusion that it will be some little time ere any loan could with advantage be floated in the Mother-country. It becomes necessary, therefore, that a large proportion of the amount required and authorised should be raised locally : and, this being the case, there should be a care- ful public works expenditure until a favourable opportunity for raising the money in London arrives. In accordance with the provisions of the Public Revenues Act, statements have already been published in the New Zealand Gazette showing the receipts and expenditure in the Consolidated Revenue and Public Works and other Accounts. As upon former occasions, tables will be attached to my Budget giving a variety of information concerning the transac- tions of the last financial year. Having given a general summary of the situation, which, viewed in the light of the elasticity of our re- sources, is, if anything, on the side of caution, I will now proceed to give the details of the receipts and expenditure of last year. FINANCES OF 1900-1901. # Revenue. The actual revenue for the past financial year reached $5,852,705, to which has to be added $52,800 derived from the proceeds of sale of debentures for sinking fund accretions, and a small sum of $1,411 recovered in connection with expenditure of the previous year. These amounts reach the large total of $5,906,916, or not very short of six millions of money, and represent the largest volume of receipts into the colonial Exchequer since its foundation. Compared with the revenue proper of the pre- vious year (1899-1900), which amounted to $5,580,385, there is an excess of £272,320, of which $73,295 was derived from Customs, $43,036 from Stamps, $45,936 from the Land- 