has not been asked for, why do you want to put it on the statute-book ? Why facilitate the ap- plication ? I do not think that special argument would apply ; but, at all events, all I can say is this : Where you want to alter the law you should show that there are suffering women who want relief as provided by this amendment. Proof of the necessity of the Bill should be given by the honourable member introducing the Bill. In such cases we might apply the old Grecian principle : that a man bringing in a measure should give good reasons for it ; and such person used to come in with a halter round his neck, and if he proved the necessity for the measure the halter was removed. We come now to the proposed amendment, and the honourable member admits that it is tender ground when he proposes an amendment in re- spect to the husband being confined in a lunatic asylum. Honourable members debating that provision are somewhat restricted owing to the presence of ladies in the gallery, but with- out at all departing from the canons of good taste, I will say this : that the precaution which the honourable member proposes - namely, a statement by the Superintendent of the Asylum as to whether or not at the end of five years the husband or the wife, as the case might be, may be restored to sound reason - I say that would be a very dangerous position to allow in our legislation. That has always been combatted and prevented. We allow nothing less than two medical men, outside altogether of the officer who has control of the asylum ; https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 and it only shows the weakness of the honourable member's case when he is pre- paired to do this on the word of the Super- intendent If the Superintendent says : "I think there will be a chance of the patient being restored to reason," then, and in that case there is not to be a divorce. I think when the honourable member comes to consider it, he will agree that, at all events, that part of the Bill ought to be eliminated. It is quite clear to me that the honourable member does not intend to fight that at all. I say this, in con- clusion : we have had no good and sufficient grounds given for making the amendment now proposed, and until good and sufficient ground is shown, if we err at all it should be on the side of caution, and I believe the maintenance of our marriage law as intact as we possibly can is the wisest course to follow. Mr. HUTCHESON. You are getting con- servative. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, Sir, I have always been conservative when it comes to conserving the social and moral well-being of the people of our country. I should, Sir, prefer to be in that position, rather than in the position of one who would treat lightly the marriage state, or who would allow on the flimsiest pre- text separation or divorce as between man and wife. I speak now as a man well on in years, and know many cases where, if this law had obtained, there would have been separations for all time, but owing to the then existing state of honourable member in this amendment. Even admitting that there are a few cases of wil- ful desertion, where there is no hope, I believe it is better that those few people should suffer than that you should extend your laws in the direction now proposed. That I think is sound logic. You must consider the greater number, and not make the conditions so easy that after a separation of three years a divorce can be obtained. Take the case of men who follow a seafaring life, or of those who have gone to the front, or of some of those who have left our own colony without any intention what- ever of deserting-because I have known of one or two cases where the co-respondent came and proved that there was no wilful attempt to desert ; the time is so short that many a divorce might take place which might be afterwards re- gretted. I say it is not at all in the interests of the country to have too many divorce proceed- ings. It is not well for any country to treat lightly its marriage laws, and I say our pre- sent sound social structure should be main- tained until good and sufficient reasons are shown for an alteration. I do not think the honourable member attempted to show that there were good and sufficient reasons for the proposed extension, and, such being the case, 1 shall vote against the second reading of the Bill. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- I object to clauses 2 and 3 of the Bill. I think they go in the direction of widening the doors of the Divorce Court far too much ; but I do think that something is necessary in the direc- tion of clause 4. It appears to me that we ought to pass the second reading of the Bill, in order to endeavour to do some measure of justice to those persons who are unhappily married to confirmed lunatics. The Right Hon. the Premier asked for a case. I have no doubt he himself has met in the course of his ex- perience many such cases. I myself met one some few years ago in the City of Wellington, where there was a highly respectable woman, who was keeping a lodging-house, living and maintaining herself in the utmost respecta- bility. She was the wife of a man who for eighteen years had been confined in a lunatic asylum. That woman, I believe, had had more than one offer of marriage, which would have placed her beyond the neces- sity of earning her own livelihood, but on account of our law making no pro- vision for such cases she has to go through life without assistance from a husband. I have heard of cases of a similar kind in other parts of the colony, and I think the Premier might so modify his objection as to allow the Bill to go to its second reading, and then have a clause drafted, with proper safe- guards, to allow of divorce proceedings being instituted in cases of lengthened and confirmed lunacy. I do not say I would limit the time to five years as proposed, I would be prepared to grant a longer period; but we ought not to say that those who, by the dispensation of provi- 