to A and his heirs to pay testator's debts, and there is a surplus, this surplus results to testa- tor's heirs.' Again, in ' Story, Equity Juris- prudence,' second edition, pages 824, 825, the words are, ' Another form in which a resulting trust may appear is where certain trusts . are fully executed and yet leave an unexhausted residuum. In all such cases there will arise a resulting trust to the party creating the trust.' In the same book, at page 828, the following appears : 'The same principle applies to cases where the whole of the estate is conveyed or devised, but for particular objects and purposes, or on particular trusts. In all such cases, if those objects or purposes or trusts, by accident or otherwise, fail and do not take effect, or, if they are all accomplished and do not exhaust the whole property, then a resulting trust will arise for the benefit of the grantor or devisor or his heirs. In Cook v. Smith, 45 C. D., page 38, it is laid down : 'When a deed assigns the pro- perty of the debtor to trustees to pay debts, and does not expressly provide for the payment of the surplus to the debtor, there is a resulting . trust of such surplus to the debtor.' In fact, any work on Equity will give you any number of such cases. The principle is that, where there is a surplus beyond the amount required, that surplus reverts to the person who has paid in the money. " Have you read the papers in reference to this matter ?- Yes, I have read parliamentary paper B .- 19. " You will have noticed that in one opinion given by the Solicitor-General he reads in cer- tain words which are not in the Act. He reads them in so as to make clear the intention of the Legislature. Is there any authority for that ? -Yes, there is authority for it. I should not think it necessary to read in the words, the principle is so well known; but in ' Broom's Legal Maxims,' sixth edition, page 498, you will find this passage, 'He who too minutely regards the form of expression takes but a superficial and therefore probably an erroneous view of the meaning of an instrument.' In construing a deed, every part of it must be made if possible to take effect, and every word must be made to operate in some shape or other. 'The construction likewise must be such as will preserve rather than destroy.' (Lord Brougham, Langston r. Langston, 23 W. and Fin.) . The Judges ought to be curious and supple to invent reasons and means to make Acts effectual according to the just intent of the parties.' (Crossing r. Seudamore, Moseley r. Metieux, 10 M. and W., page 533.) ' They will not therefore cavil about the propriety of the words, when the intent of the parties appears, but will rather apply the words to fulfil the intent than destroy the intent by reason of the insufficiency of the words.' (1 Plow., 159, 160, 162) ' When a Court of law can clearly collect from the language within the four corners of a deed the real intention of the parties they are bound to give effect to it by supplying anything necessarily to be inferred from the terms used.' (Gwin c. North Canal in construing a statute that the intention of the law-giver and the meaning of the law are to be ascertained by viewing the whole and every If it can be prevented, part of the Act. no clause, sentence, or word shall be super- fluous, void, or insignificant, and it is a sound, general principle in the exposition of statutes that less regard is to be paid to the words used than to the policy which dictated the Act ; as if land be vested in the King and his heirs by Act of Parliament, saving the right of A, and A has at that time a lease of it for three years, in this case A shall hold it for his term of three years, and afterwards it shall go to the King.' ' It is by no means an inconvenient mode of construing statutes to presume that the Legis- lature was aware of the state of the law at the time they passed it.' (Jones v. Brown, 2 Exch., 332.) That is the general principle in the legislation with regard to trusts. " Then, the clause in the Bank of New Zea- land and Banking Act, which says that the $500,000 may be paid to you, being silent in respect to the disposition of the interest upon the debentures, you consider that it would have been superfluous to have inserted a provision in that regard, as the ordinary rule of law would apply ? - If I saw an apparent omission I would understand that the Legislature saw there was no necessity for the words. In some cases the Legislature has put in such a provision, as, for instance, in ' The Foreign Insurance Companies Act. 1894.' That Act allows the foreign companies to deposit securi- ties or cash with the Public Trustee. He holds them in trust to meet possible claims, and the Act expressly states that any earnings on the cash deposited go back to the depositor, but if the Act had not said so, I should certainly, on the general principle of law, have paid the earnings to the depositors." "All that you have to keep by law is the £500,000 ?- That is all. I should certainly pay the interest back to the Treasury. It would only be entered in the books of the Public Trust Office for the purpose of record, so as to keep the books clear. " Have you received any interest since then ? -Yes. " What interest ? - Interest on the sum for the half-year. It was on the 2nd July it was paid into the Treasury. " If there is any further interest accumula- ting what will you do with it ? - Pay it into the Treasury, unless the Treasury wishes me to take charge of the accumulations. " You do not expect any difficulty in regard to the interest accumulating ?- No. I expect the Treasury will ask for it and get it. " In the meantime the Treasury will have to find the interest ?- Yes ; 33 per cent. on the debentures. " Have you received any intimation from the Controller and Auditor-General not to pay this money to the Treasury ? - None officially. There is nothing on the file to show it. I have heard that he objects to its being paid, but his objec- tion has not come to me yet. 