Wednesday, 7th August, 1901. Death of the Dowager Empress of Germany-Death of Sir John Mckenzie. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. DEATH OF THE DOWAGER EMPRESS OF GERMANY. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- On this extraordinary occasion I wish to claim the indulgence of the Council while I move a motion expressive of our deep regret at the deaths of distinguished personages. We have had two in one day, and the motion I now beg to move is as follows : That the following Address of condolence be presented to His Most Gracious Majesty the King on the death of Her Imperial Majesty the Dowager Empress Frede- rick of Germany :- "We, your Majesty's most dutiful and loyal subjects, the Legislative Council of New Zealand, in Parliament assembled, humbly submit to your Majesty the expression of our sincere condolence for the loss which your Majesty has sustained by the death of Her Imperial Majesty the Empress Frederick of Germany. "We humbly beg to assure your Majesty that our feelings of devoted loyalty to your Majesty's throne, and of affectionate attach- ment to your Majesty's person, lead us to feel deep interest in all that concerns your Majesty's domestic relations, and to pray earnestly for the happiness of your Majesty and your Majesty's family." Sir, I do not think it requires many words from me to emphasize the feelings of the Coun- cil in this matter. The late Empress Dowager of Germany and Princess Royal of Great Britain was born within the recollection of many of us, and was the first-born child of Her late Most Gracious Majesty Queen Victoria. Her life was followed with interest by all Her late Majesty's subjects. Her great accomplishments and her many charms which endeared her to the Eng- lish nation were expected to have good results in her future married life. We all know that it was a happy married life, and it was one of the regrets of us all when her late distinguished husband passed away after a comparatively short reign. She has had to endure the solitude of many years of widowhood, and now that she has gone to her rest, I feel quite sure that we, like all the King's subjects, deeply regret her demise. I beg, Sir, to move the resolution. The Hon. Captain BAILLIE .- I rise, Sir, to second the resolution which my honourable friend has proposed, and in doing so I cannot add very much to what my honourable friend has said. We all know that the illustrious lady who has just departed this life was the first- born of our late illustrious Queen, who has only recently closed her long and glorious reign. This lady was, I believe, most highly educated, VOL. CXVII .- 19. in all the great political questions of the day, and had considerable influence with him in the various questions of continental European polity. I am sure, Sir, that all the honourable members present deeply sympathize with our illustrious King in the bereavement which has just hap- pened to England and the other European Powers. Motion agreed to. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, I desire to move, That an address be presented to His Excellency the Governor, forwarding the above address, and praying him to transmit the same to His Majesty's Principal Secretary of State for the Colonies, to be laid at the foot of the throne. Motion agreed to. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, I desire also to move, That a respectjul address be pre- sented to His Excellency the Governor, requesting His Excellency to convey to His Majesty s Prin cipal Secretary of State for the Colonies, for presentation to the German Government, the expression of the deep sympathy of the Legisla- tive Council with the Emperor and the Royal Family of Germany, and the German people, on the occasion of the death of the Dowager Empress Frederick of Germany. I think, Sir, that the sentiments that have already been ex- pressed as regards the address to the King may be applied very forcibly to this motion. The Royal Families of England and Germany have been closely allied for many generations- per- haps none more closely than the present genera- tion-and I believe that, with a thorough understanding of each other's good qualities, and a reasonable amount of consideration for the national defects of each country, it is only due to ourselves on an occasion of this kind to endeavour to show that we feel for any sorrows, national or Imperial, that may happen to the country. Sir, I beg to move, That this resolu- tion be agreed to. Motion agreed to. DEATH OF SIR JOHN MCKENZIE. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, I beg also to move a resolution with reference to the lamented death of our late friend Sir John Mckenzie. His memory has not only got claims on us as an old public servant and an old Minister, but his memory can also appeal to us and to our sympathies as he had been appointed to our body, and only illness prevented him from taking his seat. I am certain that when he was appointed to this Chamber every one hoped-certainly his late colleagues did -- that Providence would give him many years of use- fulness as a member of this Chamber. But the inevitable had to be faced. The decree had gone out, his days have been numbered, and we have now to mourn our loss. It is difficult for any one who has in the past had much private intercourse with a gentleman of so much capacity and with such sociable characteristics- it is difficult for an old friend-to say very much upon an occasion of this kind. I believe there are none of us in this Chamber who have not. 