of this Bill by arguing that by raising the sum of #1,000,000 the demands of our settlers for money will be met for some time to come. I can scarcely follow the honourable gentleman's argument. There is no doubt the Advances to Settlers Department cannot be in a healthy state unless it has money at the back of it. If the people know there are no funds available they will not apply for loans required, and con- sequently the office suffers. Some members have said there is a falling-off in the number of applications for loans from the department. Well, Sir, that may be so or it may not, but if such is the case I do not think it is in conse- quence of a high rate of interest charged by the office. I have been told by those who borrow from the Advances to Settlers Department that they feel in a greaterstate of security than they do under the system of borrowing from private individuals with whom they have to renew their mortgages every three or five years. Under the terms of the Advances to Settlers Department they get their money and may retain it for thirty-six years, and the interest together with a 1-per-cent. sinking fund will repay the prin- cipal at the end of that time. Then, the mem- ber for Ashley advocated that the Government should lower the rate of interest, while in the same breath he said there was a tightness of money in the Home market. He is actually asking the Government to do impossibilities. You might as well try to make the round peg fit the square hole as try to do such a thing as he suggests. However, what I chiefly want to draw the attention of the honourable gentleman in charge of the Bill to is that, according to a table in the annual report (B .- 13) which has been handed to members this year, it appears that, while the sum of $2,721,695 has been au- thorised for advances on freehold securities, leaseholders have had only $439,785 authorised to them. I am given to understand, Sir, that, although leaseholders offer more than the se- curity the Act demands, they are often refused advances, although the district valuer may have recommended the loan. I do not see why they should not be given due consideration, at any rate to the extent to which they are able to give security. The Bill was really introduced with the object of relieving the small farmer, and I trust, Sir, that the Government will keep that object steadily in view, and give these people justice. I do not say they have not had justice. I am only showing, by a comparison of figures, the amounts authorised for loans to the two classes, and stating what has been told me about the matter. If any injustice is being done to them I hope the Minister will look into it and see that as long as a leaseholder offers fair security his needs will be attended to. Members on the Opposition benches speak as if they were in favour of assisting the farmers in every possible way, yet at the same time they are talking against this Bill. Sir, we know from the tone of their speeches they are opposed to the measure, just as they opposed the first Bill of the kind that was introduced. Sir, I cannot understand what objection they can Mr. Flatman success, and that it has done good, and that those whose requirements are satisfied under the Act are the ones who are paying the interest on the money raised under the Act. Then, some members say that the Government should not have the authority to raise two millions when one million would meet all requirements for some time to come. That is simply a Com- mittee objection, and the sum can be reduced when the Bill reaches that stage if the House sees fit to do so. When the first Bill was passed three millions were authorised, the whole of which the Government might have raised in far less time than they did; and if that loan has been treated in an honest, straightforward, and statesmanlike way, I would ask the House why the Government should not be trusted again to raise a further loan ? I do not think that even our friends on the Opposition side can say there was anything corrupt, dishonest, or unstates- manlike in dealing with the three-million loan ; and, consequently, I conclude that there is no reason now why we should not trust the Go- vernment to raise a further loan, which the department state is required, and which is shown to honourable members by figures that have been laid before us, that the money will be required in the near future; and, that being so, I trust the Bill will meet with hearty support. I think that, when the question is put, even those members who have spoken against the measure will not vote against it; in fact, I doubt if there will be a division called for on the second reading. I myself have 5.0. every confidence that the money will be treated with all due care, and therefore I shall have much pleasure in supporting the second reading of the Bill. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City). -. Sir, the redeeming feature of the Bill is that its ob- ject is to encourage an important industry of the colony ; though I should have been more pleased, or shall be more pleased, when a motion comes before this House to reduce the public debt of the colony by two millions, rather than to in- crease it. But under the circumstances of the case there is a difference. What I would like is that, instead of going to the English money- market, the Government should endeavour to raise the whole of the money in the colony and keep the interest in the country, even if we have to pay a little more for it. Regarding the question of gold reserves, I do not think it would be any use for the colony, in view of the experi- ences of America and other parts of the world, to endeavour to underestimate the value of these reserves. Now, I do not think, in regard to our goldfields and other great resources of the colony, that we are making the best of them at the present time. Many miners are leaving the Auckland goldfields at the present time on account of English capital being withdrawn. I do not think the Government ought to allow a single miner to leave our shores if that man can be retained by giving him work to help to develop our resources, and par- ticularly the gold-mining industry. It may seem to be an extreme way of dealing with 