artisan who chances to have a site on the Quay on which he has a four-roomed cottage on an equal road-frontage? In theory that may be all right, but in practice it would be monstrous; at least, I think so. Take another illustration of, say, a large linen-draper's establishment, from which carriages and cabs are perpetually pass- ing to and fro. It is surely only right that that person should- Mr. SEDDON .- Vehicles are nearly all re- quired to be licensed. Captain RUSSELL .- That has nothing to do with this argument. Surely it is right that a man who is doing an enormous business, turning over, as I believe is done in some cases, over a hundred thousand a year, should be in a different category so far as taxation, both local and general, is concerned from the man who lives in a small house. It seems to me that this principle of rating on unimproved value is one of those principles which people talk about, though they cannot really grasp it ; and, in fact, from what I gather, the Premier himself scarcely has a belief in his own Bill. At the present time, as the law stands, the Act can be brought into operation by a ballot of the ratepayers in any district. Now, the right honourable gentle- man proposes by this Bill to make the Act turn a somersault, and, instead of persons who wish to bring the Act into operation having to get up a petition to do so, he says, in fact, that there shall be compulsory valuation on unimproved values unless a petition is got up in the opposite direction. Mr. SEDDON .- I was only pointing out to the honourable member for Franklin a way out of the difficulty. Captain RUSSELL .- Quite so ; but I think I have estimated the position of the Right Hon. the Premier quite correctly. Any body of ratepayers who wish to petition themselves out of the Bill shall be allowed to do so. am sure the Premier cannot deny that that is practically what he said. And I think we are invited simply to reverse the position. The Bill is absolutely compulsory ; but the Right Hon. the Premier told us he was prepared to put in an amendment to make it voluntary. Well, the difficulty is, when there are two Bills both introduced by the Government, for one to know what either means, and one is rather at a loss. But under the Bill I have before me, with the name of the Right Hon. R. J. Seddon at the head of it, in clause 3 there are some of the most extraordinary pieces of doctrine I can con- ceive. It says,- "' The Rating Act, 1894,' and the principal Act, and all other Acts in conflict with this Act, are hereby repealed to the extent of such con- flict, but not further or otherwise." Well, Sir, one hears that many Bills are drafted for the express purpose of giving em- ployment to the lawyers, and this must be one of them. But whether this Act will come into conflict with some other Act, or what that other Act is, or whether there is a single local government Act which might not come into conflict with this Bill it is impossible to say. I would urge upon the Right Hon. the Premier modify, and clause by clause have it placed before the House, so that the House will be able to understand what the repeals or modifi- cations are. I have no doubt in my own mind that the system of rating on unimproved value must prove a failure. At any rate, I am pre- pared to vote against this Bill, and to divide the House against it. Mr. STEVENS (Manawatu) .- Sir, I am very much surprised at some of the statements made by the honourable member for Hawke's Bay. No doubt the honourable member has had a very wide experience in country settlement, and a considerable experience also with respect to the various kinds of rating in this colony. But, Sir, when the honourable gentleman stands up in his place in this House and says that some- thing occurred in a particular locality which he could not understand one can easily understand that the honourable gentleman was somewhat fogged in respect to the whole question upon which he has been speaking. Now, I will help the honourable gentleman out of the difficulty as to what occurred in the locality of Marton, to which he referred, and when he has heard my explanation he may be satisfied that upon other points in connection with this matter he may have been as much mistaken as he has been in connection with the various kinds of rating in the locality of Marton. There is an estate there, and when the valua- tion was made for the purpose of rating on unimproved value, when the Land-tax Act first came into force-I am not speaking of the Act introduced by Sir George Grey, but the existing Act . this is what did occur : In the locality of Marton, to which the honourable gentleman referred, there was an estate the unimproved value of which was fixed at 7s. 6d. per acre ; but, on the opposite side of the road, the land being practically equal, there was a thrifty I farmer who had erected his farm-steading and good outhouses and fences, and had his farm well laid down in grass ; and his unimproved value was $7 per acre. That was Heaton Park in one case, and Mr. Hempseed's property in the other. I know what I am talking about. and that is exactly what did occur. Now we come to something that occurred more recently. The unimproved value of another portion of the Heaton Park, nearer Bull's, was $6 per acre, and a small property on the other side of the road, belonging to Mr. Stevenson, of Bull's, was. valued at #14. He pays taxes on £14 per acre to the local bodies, and the Heaton Park pays taxes on £6 per acre. An Hon. MEMBER. - The same class of land ? Mr. STEVENS .- Exactly the same class of land in the latter case. I wish to be perfectly fair and not mislead the House or the honour- able gentleman, and I will say there is a great deal of the Heaton Park land that is not worth €7, or anything like it, because a great deal is light land lying at the back. But it is absurd to say that the value of that estate, taking it all over-sandhills included-is not worth at least £3 an acre. This I am prepared to say : that if it were put in the market to-morrow, 