board that ship than is provided in the reforma- tories on shore ; and I also agree that instead of boys being discontented, as they are in some cases on board ship, they will consider that they have a future before them, and endeavour to do their duty in a straightforward and honourable way. Debate interrupted. LAND FOR SETTLEMENTS BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .-- Sir, this Bill deals with a question that is, to some extent, a matter of urgency. The sooner mat- ters of this kind are dealt with the better, because the Bill is, to a certain extent, the result of experience. It has been found that certain parts of the machinery relating to the acquiremeut of land for settlement requires amending. I believe that a Bill of this nature always goes to the Waste Lands Committee for report, and, therefore, perhaps the Council will not be disposed at the present stage to debate the second reading. If the Council will allow it to go to the Committee I will refrain from going into the details of the measure at the present stage. I beg to move, That the Bill be rt ni the second time, and be referred to the Waste Lun is Committee. Bill read the second time. # REFERENDUM BILL. ADJOURNED DEBATE. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- When I moved https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 the adjournment of the debate yesterday I did so in the hope that my honourable friend Mr. Jones would be here to-day to discuss the ques- tion. but I regret to say he is still unable, through illness, to be present. I know that he had made preparations to discuss it at some length, and I was also living in some hope that he would have given us some good reasons for voting for the Bill. I must confess that after reading the Bill very carefully, and after listen- ing to the debate yesterday, I am bound to admit that there is very little in the Bill itself to cause a person to say that it is required at all : quite the opposite. There are one or two clauses which were touched on by the Hon. Mr. T. Kelly and other honourable mem- bers, providing that certain questions may be submitted to the people ; but we have that now, because it was suggested recently that a certain question-namely, that of federation -- should be submitted to the people, so that even these clauses seem to be unnecessary. Therefore, I cannot conceive why this Bill should be brought forward at all. It appears o me to be thoroughly unworkable, and if it is read a second time it will, in my opinion, have to be entirely altered in Committee. As to the referendum as contained herein, even if a measure is passed twice by one House, how could an intelligent answer be got from the country as to why every word of it should be- ! direct vote of the people upon ? None at all, Sir. before this Council, and the House has probably had to amend Bills coming from this Chamber before they could be put on the statute-book. If one or two Bills that I am thinking of had been referred to the ballot, it is difficult to say how they would have been treated. I do not see any provision whereby any neces- sary amendment in such a Bill could be made after it has been referred to the people ; and to say that a Bill, after passing the House a second time, should go to the country, and, if a majority is found to be in favour of it, that it should absolutely become law without Parliament having power to amend it, is, in my opinion, a wrong proceeding, and I do not think that any honourable member in his sober senses I was hoping that my would agree to it. honourable friend Mr. Jones would give us some reasons why we should vote for the measure. We have had none yet, and, unless honourable members who follow me give good reasons why this so-called Referendum Bill should be supported, I must vote for the amend- ment of the Hon. Mr. Arkwright. The Hon. Mr. KERR .- Sir, I rise with some dittidence to speak to the question before the House. It has taken me some time to come to consider whether or not it has been sent to this House with sincerity. I am rather inclined to the opinion that it has been sent here for the purpose of employing our time, and also, pro- bably, to give us a little amusement. It cer. tainly appears to me to be somewhat farcical. I think that we have already referendums suffi- cient for the requirements of the country. The referendum of the general elections is, in my opinion, sufficient for all purposes. We know very well that when candidates do not keep their promises to their constituents they seldom come back again. That was demonstrated last. general election, when a large number of those who held positions in the House were retired to make way for those who were more in accord with the views of the people, and who were prepared to advance the liberal measures for the prosperity and good of the country. That is a referendum we have an opportunity of exercising every three years, and, unless the term of Parliament is extended, I say that each general election is often enough to take a re- ferendum on general questions. It is a well- known fact that this is the first time a so-called reform of this kind has been submitted to the Council, and I would ask where is the necessity for it ? This Council has never refused to sane- tion any measures that have been truly and earnestly advocated by the people. Measures have been sent back once or twice until they were more conversant with them, and more in touch with the subject they had to legislate upon ; but there is no Bill that the country made a determined effort to pass which did not eventually pass. What have we done in the way of legislation during the past few years ? Are there any Bills that we should have got a 