and which the whole country resents, are not intentionally, but are, in effect, bringing these settlers into conflict with labour. I believe that labour has as much right to be represented in this House as capital, but I believe, Sir, that by bringing in Bills such as we have had lately the inevitable result will be to bring country members into conflict with the city representa- tives in this House representing labour, and the result will be detrimental to labour itself. In departing from this subject I would like to have seen the honourable member for Waite- mata and the honourable member for Franklin in their places. I would like to point out and emphasize what the honourable member for Napier said the other night. I must not refer to a previous debate, but I understood that on a certain occasion the honourable member for Napier severely castigated the honourable member for Waitemata for the slur and for the scurrilous innuendoes, not supported by facts, that he threw across the floor of a certain place I must not mention. The honourable member talked about bribery. The first time, Sir, that I stood for any electorate in New Zealand I stood against a supporter of the Atkinson Go- vernment. It was realised all along the line that I was going to win. In fact I had the election won four days before the day of the poll, but on the day of the poll I did not win, and that was the most important time. Would the honourable member for Mataura like me to tell him the facts? I will do so. Sir, it was https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 understood in the Franklin South electorate that I had the election won ; and I had won it if it had not been for bribery and corruption. The people in Waiuku had been agitating for a http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero railway from Pukekohe to their settlement. A survey of the line had been made, and the people on the eve of the election were promised that the line should be made without delay ; and they said, " We cannot support Lawry, because END OF ONE HUNDRED-AND-SEVENTEENTH VOLUME. By Authority : JOHN MACKAY, Government Printer, Wellington. vernment that will make this line for us." An Hon. MEMBER .- Shameful. Mr. LAWRY .- Yes, it was shameful. And up to the present time there is nothing to repre- sent the railway excepting the holes perforated by the flag-poles. Yet the member for Waite- mata says that I and other honourable mem- bers sold ourselves to support a certain measure on the strength of receiving #40. Sir, I would like to take this occasion to corroborate what has already been said on the floor of the House, that during last session I attended every caucus of our party, and I have no hesitation in saying -and my statement will be better received than the honourable gentleman's affidavit -- that the question of giving members $40 to support a certain measure never cropped up at any caucus meeting. The member for Mataura - whose word would be taken against that of the mem- ber for Waitemata or against that of any other member of the House -- says, "Hear, hear." The honourable gentleman, in that "Hear, hear," expresses the very highest principles of immutable truth. Sir, look at the Opposition benches now. It was said by an old fox- hunting clergyman, in the West of England on one occasion, when some of his parish- ioners found fault with him because on the Sunday morning he was preaching he sent his horse away to be fresh for him for a fox- hunt on the following day-he said to them, " Listen to what I preach: I want you to follow the light, not the lantern." Where are the political lanterns to-night ? where is the light? If there is any light at the present time it is burning with a ghastly, cadaverous hue. There is no source of replenishment, and very speedily it will burn out through sheer lack of combustibles. Debate adjourned. . The House adjourned at five minutes to twelve o'clock p.m. 