meet." Then, Sir, coming on the top of a statement like this, we had the statement made throughout the colony, and not denied, first of all, that the Government had borrowed £100,000 from the A.M.P. Society at 4 per cent., with interest payable out of the colony, in order that the society might save paying in- come-tax. Shortly afterwards we had the fur- ther statement that the Government had bor- rowed from another insurance company trading in New Zealand the sum of £25,000 ; and these statements were so much in conflict with the al- legations of the Treasurer that at the close of the year he had a credit balance of £532,000, that people were alarmed at the idea that, within the course of three months, the Government, with such a vast surplus, was compelled to go, hat in hand, down Lambton Quay for the purpose of borrowing money in order to pay salaries in New Zealand. Sir, that was the position, and the responsibility for what the Premier com- plains of in the criticism of the newspapers as to the acute financial difficulty in this colony a few weeks ago, rests with the Premier, and not with these people he chooses to describe as "penny-a-liners." Now, Sir, in the course of the speech made by the member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier), who was put up by the Go- vernment to reply to Captain Russell, he used this term : "If the Conservative party came back to power." Sir, the Conservative party is never coming back to power ; that party, as a party, has disappeared for ever from the politics of New Zealand. At the election of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 1890, and at the election of 1893, and the election of 1896, and the election of 1899, the country has declared against the old Conservative party as it existed. That is the position, Sir, without any doubt ; and, therefore, to raise this bogey of setting up the old Conservative party, as it existed in days past, as the alternative which the country has to fear-setting up the idea that if there is a change of Government that change will necessitate the abolition of the Advances to Settlers Department, of the land- for - settlements-policy, and other progressive planks that this country has adopted during the last ten years-is absurd. Whatever changes there may be-and, of course, changes there will be in connection with the politics of this country in time to come-these changes will be in the direction of a policy that shall combine progress with prudence and honesty of ad- ministration, and which will bring the country back to what I regard as the policy of the greatest statesman New Zealand has yet pro- duced-I mean the Hon. John Ballance -whose policy in 1891 was that of self-reliance, and independence of the London money-market. Now, Sir, let me refer very briefly to what was the actual position of the colony, as at the 31st of March last, as compared with the position the previous year. During the year ended the 31st March, the revenue of this colony increased by £272,000, but the expendi- ture increased by £340,000 ; and, if to that in- crease of $340,000 we add an increase of the Mir. G. W. Russell any member of the Government to controvert and prove to be wrong : that, compared with the previous year, the colony during the year ended 31st March, 1901, went to the bad to the extent of £141,000. I say that is the position as com- pared with the previous year. And, Sir, if we turn to the accounts for the quarter just ex- pired, the quarter ended the 30th June, we get still further light as to the actual financial posi- tion of the colony. Let me point out that the Gazette issued last Tuesday shows that at the beginning of the quarter there was £523,000 cash in the Public Account. At the end of the quarter there was a debit balance of $97,000, and the Treasurer starts the second quarter of the financial year £280,000 poorer on the Consolidated Account than he began the September quarter of last year with. And if we turn to the liabilities, we have a very strong side-light thrown on the Government finance. Honourable members will understand that the liabilities on the Consolidated Account represent the known and unpaid accounts as at the 31st March. In other words, they are the bills which the Government have in hand on that date and have not paid. In 1892, under the treasurership of the Hon. Mr. Ballance, the lia- bilities of the Consolidated Account amounted to £101,000. Last year they were $203,000, an increase of over $73,000 as compared with the previous year. In other words, on the 31st March, 1901, the Government had over $70,000 more unpaid accounts in hand than they had on the 31st March, 1900. Let me show honour- able members the departments in which the chief increases were. In the Colonial Secre- tary's department the liabilities were £6,000 more than in the previous year ; in the Post- master-General's department the liabilities were £7,000 more; in the departments of Minister for Railways the liabilities the were £16,000 more; the Defence Department's liabilities were $35,000 more; and the lia- bilities of the departments of the Minister of Lands were £5,000 more. These amounts show a total on the increase of the liabilities of £69,000, other departments making up the other £4,000 of the increase of liabilities. But, Sir, when we turn to the Public Works Fund, the liabilities in comparison with the previous year become absolutely colossal. These figures are not, perhaps, actual payments due, but they are commitments - that is, accounts owing, and engagements so far entered into that the colony will be compelled to pay the money sooner or later. What was the position in 1892, when Mr. Ballance was Treasurer ? The liabilities of the Public Works Fund on the 31st March, 1892, were #313,000. Last year they were £1,292,000. The increase during the year was made up in this way : The increase of liabilities as compared with the previous year was, on railways, $489.000 ; on roads, $131,000; on telegraph extension, £6,000; on buildings, £29,000 : on lighthouses, £7,000; and on contingent defence, £140,000: making a total increase, as compared with the 