to this Chamber, but this article from the Manauatu Standard boldly slanders both Chambers-"although the most flagrant in- stances were exhibited in the Lower Chamber. Drunkenness was always in evidence, and was not looked upon as any offence by the majority of members, while in one case at least it was openly encouraged by the Premier." Now, that is slander of a personal charac- ter. The allegation affects only the conduct of individual members of the House. But what pain it must give to members of this honour- able Assembly, Sir, over which you have pre- sided for such a great number of years with such honour to yourself and to the Parliament, to have statements such as these sown broad- cast throughout this country, and carried on the wings of the wind to countries far and near. It is deplorable that such a stigma should be applied to members of this House without refutation, and adequate punishment being applied. But the article goes further, and becomes more serious still. It proceeds, -- "This was bad enough, in all conscience, but what we regard as a good deal worse was the open manner in which persuasion was used and bribes offered to facilitate the passage of objectionable legislation." This, I hold, is a wilful and deliberate libel upon the Parliament as a whole, and the Parlia- ment, as a Parliament, will not be true to itself if it does not deal with the author of this article in some manner befitting the seriousness of the offence. Then, the article goes on to say, - " The bribe we refer to was the voting of £40 each extra for members as sessional expenses, conditional upon the extra salaries to the Go- vernor and the Ministers being voted, and the Public Revenues Bill, which is a menace to representative government, being placed upon the statute-book. The persuasion was utilised to get members out of the way who were against Government subsidies to private indus- trial schools, so that the final vote would be in favour of the Government. This was particu- larly marked in the Lower House, but much more so in the Legislative Council, where members, some of whom are usually opposed to the Government, actually remained outside of the Chamber, so that their votes should not be cast in the direction they had been given twice previously during the week. We have only touched on the fringe of the degradation of our parliamentary institutions, but that small peep at political methods is surely enough to make honourable men recoil from the spectacle with disgust." Will any member of this House tell me-will any member of this House tell you, Sir-will any member of this House tell the people of this country -- that he approves of such slanderous statements being circulated throughout the country, Sir, with the palpable object of sully- ing the good name and fair fame of this Parlia- ment ? It is greatly to be regretted that the Go- vernment do not themselves move in the matter, for the honour of the House is in their keeping ; and it is demanded that members of this House I should in some manner be protected from such infamous slanders. There were Parliaments in 8.30. past days which dealt with this scurril- ous literature and with the blackguards who wrote it in the way in which I hold this Parliament should deal with it now. I will give the House an illustration of what a former Parliament did in the case of a member who had cast disgraceful aspersions on the character of his brother members, and on the character of the House as a whole. On the 26th Septem- ber, 1876, an article similar in character to that which appeared in the Manawatu Standard, and written on these very same identical subjects, was printed in the Timaru Herald. Mr. Lar- nach brought the matter before the House on the 29th September as a question of privilege. This is the extract from Hansard, Vol. 22 :- "The CLERK then read the following extracts from the Timaru Herald :- "' When the present session of Parliament opened, we congratulated the colony on the high character of the new House, as exemplified by the ability and independence of the members. At the same time, we deprecated too great con- fidence in the permanency of that satisfactory state of things, pointing out that every evil in- fluence would be brought to bear in order to render the House, if not corrupt, at least cor- ruptible. The results have justified our caution only too completely ; for we find that, after a sitting of three months, a large proportion of the members are not to be relied on to act with rectitude in any matter involving their personal interests. We fear that we should not be over- stating the fact were we to state that at this moment a majority of the House might easily be purchased. The paltry conduct of members in voting themselves free passes on the railways, and compelling the Government to increase the honorarium. cannot but have shaken the public confidence in their integrity, and seriously dam- aged the reputation of the Legislature. Men who could not agree on any one of the large political questions which are now convulsing the colony, who never once made a real attempt, by mutual concessions, to further the public busi- ness, yet banded themselves together with the greatest cordiality in order to satisfy their selfish greed."". Again,- "' It appears that, long before even a rumour got abroad of any intention to demand an in- crease of the honorarium, a ring had been formed among the meanest and most con- temptible members, who, working steadily and secretly in all directions, making all sort of promises, and offering all sorts of threats, con- trived, before the "plant " was " blown on," as professional thieves would say, to secure the support of a very formidable section of the House. They then appealed to some of the leaders, and gave it out that they had a ma- jority, which, of course, made the matter a party question ; and finally they got a wealthy and independent member, who could not be sus- pected of any personal interest in the matter, to bring down a resolution to the House con- taining their unworthy proposal."" 