Mr. WILFORD .- I said I hoped I was. Mr. BARCLAY .-- Well, I believe the general opinion is that you are. But, as the honour- able member for Wellington City said, the honourable gentleman may not occupy a seat on the Harbour Board for ever ; there may be various reasons why he should have to resign, and a more unsatisfactory member may be appointed. At all events, in the meantime he is nominated by the Government -- that is his position at present. I think it is right and proper that these men -- a very considerable number of them, running into hundreds, I believe -employed by the Board, who have to submit to everything that is told them, if the Chamber of Commerce and other bodies inter- ested in the harbour are represented on the Board, should have a representative also. I should like, also, to say a word as to the reasons why I think it inadvisable to alter the date of the closing of the Board's financial year. It has been already pointed out by the Premier that it would be a serious disarrangement of things that the years of the Harbour Boards should not be the same, so that their statis- tics would not be comparable. It is very objectionable that one Board should have its accounts closing at one date and every other Board at another date. It may be that this is the best date on which to close the accounts, but, if so, let it embrace all other Harbour Boards. The reasons given for the clause say the present date is at the height of the wool season, and this renders it difficult to prepare complete accounts ; and you would naturally expect, if the accounts closed at the date which the Board proposes, there would be a considerable difference in the figures between those closing as they do now on the 31st De- cember and those closing on the 30th Septem- ber. The Board itself furnishes the answer. In its report for last year they give two tables : they give the wool and skins exports for ten years-from 1890 to 1900-on the 31st December basis, and also a table on the 30th September basis, and when you come to compare the two there is only, comparatively speaking, a few bales difference. Take the figures for 1900, for instance, on the 31st December basis: the number of bales was 120,708; for the year closing on the 30th September the number was 125,346-practically a difference of less than 5,000 bales. Take the 1899 period : the num- ber was 107,438 on the 31st December basis, and on the 30th September basis, 108,988-a difference of only about 1,500 bales. In 1896, on the December basis, the number was 99,569, and on the September basis it was 96,223-only about 3,000 difference. It seems to me for such a small difference as this it is hardly worth while making the accounts different from all the rest of the colony. The question, "That the Bill be now read a third time," was negatived. On the question, "That the Bill be recom- mitted for the purpose of considering clause 5," Mr. Barclay that clause be recommitted clause 4 will also have to be considered, clause 4 reading as fol- lows : " The Board shall, on and after the tenth day of February, one thousand nine hundred and two, consist of eleven members." Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- I should like to know whether the honourable member for the Suburbs consents to the recommittal to increase the number of the Board. I understood him to be in charge of the Bill. Mr. WILFORD .- The honourable member for Bruce is pleased to be facetious. I am still prepared to stand by the Bill in its entirety. Mr. SEDDON .- My vote will be for recom- mitting clause 7. Mr. WILFORD .- I am prepared to agree if the House consents to the excising of clause 7; but in regard to clause 5, I cannot agree. The House divided on the question, "That clause 7 be recommitted." AYES, 27. Napier Allen, E. G. Guinness Palmer Barclay Hall Seddon Bennet Hall-Jones Buddo Houston Stevens Ward Carroll McGowan Witheford. Mclachlan Duncan Meredith Tellers. Fisher Millar Flatman Carncross Fraser. A. L. D. Mills Mackenzie, T. Gilfedder NOES, 32. Russell, G. W. Allen, J. Hogg Smith, G. J. Arnold Hutcheson Bollard Steward Lang Tanner Collins Lawry Lethbridge Thompson, R. Colvin Thomson, J. W. Ell Massey McNab Wilford Graham Hanan Monk Willis. Hardy Morrison Tellers. Haselden O'Meara Atkinson Pirani. Rhodes Herries Majority against, 5. Amendment, to recommit clause 7, negatived. The House divided on the question, 5.0. " That clause 5 be recommitted." AYES, 19. Atkinson Hall-Jones Steward Thompson, R. Barclay Hardy Willis. Bennet Hogg Mackenzie, T. Duncan ElI Tellers. Mclachlan Gilfedder Meredith Fisher Pirani. Hall Pahner NOES, 39. Allen, E. G. Colvin Herries Al en, J. Flatman Houston Arnold Fraser, A. L. D. Hutcheson Lang Bollard Graham Buddo Guinness Lawry Carncross Lethbridge Hanan Haselden Collins Massey 