morrow-Wednesday-as a mark of respect to | by that officer to the Hon. the Speaker. It is the late Hon. James Kerr, M.L.C. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce). - I have only a few words to say in seconding the motion. Time every now and again leaves its mark on this Legislature as it leaves its mark everywhere. We have not known the Hon. Mr. Kerr in this Lower House so well as we have known some other members of the Upper Chamber ; but at least those who have seen him about the pre- mises must have been impressed with his quiet demeanour and with his venerable appearance, and I think the Legislature has lost a man of mark in losing the Hon. James Kerr. I am quite certain members of this House desire to express to all his friends their deep sympathy with them in their loss. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- Sir, I first knew the Hon. Mr. Kerr when I was a youth in Melbourne, in the year 1857. He and my father were two of a co-partnery who owned the Melbourne Age before the advent of the Syme family as proprietors. Ebenezer Syme was their editor. In those years, as in later years, Mr. Kerr was always known to be an upright, honest, sterling man, who commanded the respect of every person with whom he was associated. I speak of that long connection with the fullest knowledge of what, in essence, the character of the man was. He was respected and esteemed by a very large circle of friends in the printing trade in Melbourne, and he carried with him that respect and esteem throughout his career in the printing trade of the Colony of New Zealand. The honourable gentleman, the Minister for Railways, has paid a very worthy tribute to the memory of Mr. Kerr. It is a tribute well deserved, and one that Mrs. Kerr and her family, whom I know so well, will be glad to hear has been spoken in this Parliament to the honour of one who rose from what is customarily called "the ranks," and became a legislator in this the land of his adoption. In this case it may be said most truly that we can speak nothing but good of the dead. Motion agreed to. The House adjourned at ten minutes to eleven o'clock a.m. # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Wednesday, 28th August, 1901. First Reading-4-per-cent. Debenture Loan-Breach of Privilege-Financial Statement. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Stud Bill. 4-PER-CENT. DEBENTURE LOAN. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - I have to lay on the table a communication from the Controller and Auditor-General. It has been transmitted Sir J. G. Ward usual, I believe, to have these communications read. The communication was read by the CLERK, as follows :- " Audit Office, 27th August, 1901. "THE Controller and Auditor-General has the honour respectfully to submit to the House of Representatives, in accordance with the pro- visions of section 9 of ' The Public Revenues Acts Amendment Act, 1900,' a copy of the correspondence in a case under that section of a difference of opinion between the Audit Office and the Treasury on the question whether the 4-per cent. debentures for $500,000, raised in the colony under ' The Aid to Public Works and Land Settlement Act, 1900,' have not been sold at a price which will yield to the pur- chasers on their purchase-money a higher rate of interest by the year than the maximum statutory rate of 4 per cent. per annum. " A copy is submitted also of correspondence relative to an Audit Office objection to the form of the debentures, in declaring their security by an expression not textually in accord with the "J. K. WARBURTON, Act. "Controller and Auditor-General. "The Hon. the Speaker of the House of Representatives." Sir J. G. WARD. - Sir, I think that the House might reasonably allow this document to stand over until the Colonial Treasurer is in his place. It is a matter affecting the ad- ministration of his department, and it would be a very unfair thing to do anything precipi- tately in his absence, or to render it impossible for him to make any statement he may desire <!-- PageHeader="\-" --> to make, or to take from him the opportunity of moving any motion he may consider ex- pedient, seeing he has a full knowledge of the \- whole of the facts. Under the circumstances, I will ask the House to allow the document to stand over, and to suspend any motion re- garding it until the Colonial Treasurer returns. Mr. J. ALLEN -- I presume the paper will lie on the table in the meantime ? Sir J. G. WARD .- Sir, to put the matter in order, I will move, That consideration of the paper be postponed for a week. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- Sir, I trust the result of the motion will be that the matter will be placed on the Order Paper. We do not want the paper to be lost. If the effect of the motion moved by the Minister for Railways is that it will appear on the Order Paper, I dare say some consideration can be given to it ; but I do not think that will be the effect, and I am afraid we shall never hear of the report again. I think the best course will be for the Minister to move formally, That the paper lie on the table, and be printed, and that some Goveru- ment supporter should then move the adjourn- ment of the debate. The question would then find its place on the Order Paper, and would come up in due course. I ask your ruling. Sir. as to whether the effect of the motion at pre- sent before us is to place the matter on the Order Paper. 