On the motion of Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing for the year ending 31st March, 1901,-(1) The amount of cocoanut oil-cake im- ported into New Zealand ; (2) the amount of imported oil-cake carried on the railways, and the rate charged : (3) the rate of duty charged on imported cake ; and (4) the amount of oil- cake manufactured in New Zealand, sold in New Zealand, carried on the railways, and the rate charged. # FOREST-TREE PLANTING. On the motion of Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing, -- (1) The total area planted with forest-trees up to the 31st March, 1901, under the provisions of " The New Zealand State Forests Act, 1885," or any other Act ; (2) the total cost of such planting ; (3) the area, if any, which has been destroyed by fire or otherwise ; (4) the present estimated value of such plantations ; and (5) the amount proposed to be expended on forest tree planting during the present year. # FREEHOLD ESTATES. On the motion of Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing the acreage of all freehold estates in the colony at 31st March, 1900, together with the number of owners and the capital value, in the same form as the Return No. 27 .- H, laid on the table of the House this session. # NATIVE LAND TITLES. On the motion of Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) it was ordered, That there be laid, before this House a return showing the area of Native land in the colony the titles of which have not yet been ascertained by the Native Land Court or the Crewera Commission. # LEASE IN PERPETUITY. On the motion of Mr. HUTCHESON (Wel- lington City), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return giving the total amount of revenue collected by way of land- tax from the holders of leases in perpetuity. # COOK ISLAND LAWS. On the motion of Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a copy of all laws in the hands of the Government in force in the Cook Island Group other than statutes of New Zea- land or Great Britain. CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATIONS. On the motion of Mr. GUINNESS (Grey), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return giving the compulsory and the optional subjects for teachers' D and E and Senior and Junior Civil Service Examinations, together with the name and occupation of the examiner in each of the said subjects, from the sive. # STANDARD IV. EXAMINATION. On the motion of Mr. GUINNESS (Grey), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing the number of pupils in each education district who have within the last ten years, ending the 31st December, 1900, reached the age of thirteen years without pass- ing Standard IV. # DEATH OF THE DOWAGER EMPRESS OF GERMANY. Mr. SPEAKER read the following message from His Excellency the Governor :- " To the Honourable the Speaker and Members of the House of Representatives,- " I have received the resolutions passed by the House of Representatives, the one to the King's Most Excellent Majesty, the second requesting me to convey through His Majesty's Principal Secretary of State for the Colonies, to the Emperor and Royal Family of Germany, the expression of the deep sympathy of the House of Representatives on the occasion of the death of Her Imperial Majesty the Dowager Empress. " I have forwarded them both by telegraph for submission. " RANFURLY. " Government House, Wellington, 8th August, 1901." On the motion of Mr. SEDDON (Premier), it was ordered, That the message be entered on the Journals of the House. Mr. SPEAKER read the following further message from His Excellency the Governor :- "Napier, 12th August, 1901. "To the Honourable the Speaker and Members of the House of Representatives,- "The Governor has received through the Secretary of State for the Colonies the com- mand of His Majesty the King to convey his grateful thanks to the House of Representa- tives for their address and condolence on the death of Her Imperial Majesty the Empress Frederick. "RANFURLY." On motion of Mr. SEDDON (Premier), it was ordered, That the message be entered on the Journals of the House. FIJI. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I desire to lay on the table a copy of a letter from the Rev. W. Slade, with further reference to the situation in Fiji, and I move, That it be laid on the table and printed. Motion agreed to. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- 3.0. Sir, in connection with this letter from the Rev. Mr. Slade, which contains a further reference to the position in Fiji, may I ask the Premier whether the letter of Mr. Chamberlain, in which he refers to Sir George O'Brien's action in Fiji, and to the newspaper comments upon those acts, has been laid on the table ? 