matter. The matter should not be left in the state it was at present. The Premier knew perfectly well that the work done by the old Board was for the benefit of the town, and high praise had been given them for it by the Premier himself, and by every Governor and Minister who had visited Cambridge. It was impossible for those improvements, that had made Cambridge one of the prettiest towns in the colony, to go on if the two Boards were divided as they were at present. He thought the people should be informed whether Mr. Northcroft's report would be acted on, whether further inquiries would be made, or whether matters were to be left in the present unsatis- factory state. It was important to the Domain Board to know, as the spring was the proper time for planting, and the majority of their operations were carried on at that time of the year. He trusted the Premier would put an end to this uncertainty by a definite announce- ment. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said there had been repeated and continual squabbhng over this matter, and the Government had cut the gordian knot and changed the administra- tion. The Board resigned, and they did the next best thing, they thought, for the adminis. tration of the domain. There had been jealousy between the Cambridge East and West Boards, and there appeared to be no doubt, from what he could gather, that the Cambridge West people had good cause of complaint. In asking the Stipendiary Magistrate to report, it was his intention that he should take evidence on both sides ; but that gentleman only went and saw the Chairman and one or two members of one body. According to his source of information and the short time he had for investigation his report was quite justified, but he did not think his report had given satisfaction. The Govern- ment had decided to do nothing-to let things simmer and cool down, hoping that time and reflection would bring about a better state of things. When the proper time came the Go- Vernment would deal with the matter, and in the meantime further inquiries would be made. Mr. HERRIES asked if he understood the Premier to say that inquiry would be made. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes. GOVERNMENT AND OCEAN ACCIDENT INSURANCE PREMIUMS. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) asked the Govern- ment, If they will make inquiries into the difference of premium charges between the Government Accident Insurance Company and the Ocean Accident Insurance Company ? Mr. SEDDON said inquiries would be made. CROWN TENANTS' RENT REBATE. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) asked the Premier, When the return asked for on Order Paper No. 1, Notice of Motion No. 5, will be laid on the table ? The return was as follows :- "That there be laid before this House a re- turn showing,-(1) The amount of rebate granted to Crown tenants under 'The Crown Tenants' tenants in each land district to which rebate has been granted, giving the annual rent, and the amount of rebate allowed to each ; and (3) the total amount of rebate in each land dis- trict." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said instructions had been issued for the preparation of the return. The department had to communicate with all the Land Boards, and as soon as the information was to hand the return would be laid on the table. COOK ISLANDS NATIVE LAND COURT. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked the Premier, When he intends to set up a Native Land Court in the Cook Islands Group, as mentioned in his memorandum inclosed in despatch No. 87 from His Excellency the Governor to Her Majesty's Principal Secre- tary of State for the Colonies ? He would read an extract from the memorandum in question : - "It is well known to His Excellency the Governor and to the Secretary of State for the Colonies that it has ever been the desire of the Government of New Zealand to improve the condition of the Polynesian and Papuan races inhabiting the islands in the Pacific ; and by a reference to the Premier's memorandum No. 91, setting forth the conditions on which the boundaries of our colony were to be extended so as to include the Cook and other islands, it will be found, -- (1) That the ownership of the lands in Cook Islands Group be admitted ; (2) that a Court on the same lines as the Native Land Court established in New Zealand, or a Commission, should define the ownership of the particular areas, and to decide as to its sub- division and partition." He wished to know if it was the intention of the Government to set up a Native Land Court as promised. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the Government would, when the proper time came and the question was raised as between the parties more directly affected, and when they were asked to deal with this matter, comply with this request. As the honourable member knew, they only obtained possession on the 11th June, and there must be some little interregnum before they could possibly deal wholly and fully with the new possessions. In the meantime it was wise not to make too many changes, but to go along slowly and steadily. # HOTEL LICENSES. Mr. LAWRY (Parnell) asked the Premier, If he will, in any Bill introduced this session to amend the Licensing Acts, introduce a pro- vision to the effect that eleven p.m. shall be the hour of closing for licensed houses in all cities and boroughs ? At the present time the affairs in Auckland were extremely disgraceful. In their stupidity, the Committee elected by the people declared for ten o'clock closing, whereas in the district represented by the honourable member for Eden, including the Borough of Devonport, they have eleven o'clock closing, 