year ending the 31st March, 1901, I find a great deal of valuable information. I notice that the total amount advanced from the inception of the scheme up to the 31st March last was $2,626,785. Out of that, $495,684 has been refunded, and there remains outstanding on mortgage securities £2,131,100. The Govern- ment have power to raise for advances to settlers the sum of $3,000,000. This £3,000,000 has been operated upon so far to the extent of 92,000,000, and there are temporary advances of $380,000, so that the total amounts raised up to date are less than the amounts authorised under existing legislation by, according to the figures of the Hon. the Premier, which figures were corroborated by the honourable mem- ber for Riccarton, the sum of $760,000. In addition to $760,000, which is still to be operated on, the member for Riccarton antici- pates that there will be from refunds available during the present year #175,000 at least, making a total of $935,000; and providing out of that for temporary advances and short-dated bills to the extent of £140,000, there is still available for the Government to operate on an amount of $795,000. That is a large sum of money. An Hon. MEMBER .-- It is not there. Mr. MEREDITH .- The honourable gentle- man says " The money is not there ; " but the Premier says it is there. Now, under the exist- ing authority the Government has power to operate to the extent of $795,000. The amount advanced last year was £539,220. This was in excess of the previous year by £90,000, which was in excess of the previous year by £257,678. What do these figures show? They disclose this fact: that there is an casing-off in the http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero applications for advances. The advances last year show that the amount advanced, though in excess of the sum advanced the previous year, was nothing like the excess of advances that the year 1900 was over the preceding year. Taking into consideration that the Go- vernment still have $795,000 to operate upon, there is no necessity whatever to bring in this loan of $2,000,000 this session. The honour- able gentleman who introduced this Bill has not made out a good case in favour of the Bill, inasmuch as there was advanced in the year ending the 31st March, 1901, a little over half a million of money ; and surely if there is $795,000 still to operate upon there is suffi- cient there to provide advances for the next eighteen months, so that if we authorise a million of money under this Bill instead of two millions that would enable the Government to carry on the advances to settlers for the next three years or longer. At any rate, it is per- fectly safe for two years. An Hon MEMBER .- There is no money for it. Mr. MEREDITH .-- Yes ; you could continue to lend money as you have lent it for two or three years under the Advances to Settlers Act. I cannot for the life of me see any justification for introducing this Bill. The Advances to Settlers Department is in a flourishing con- dition. It has been remarkably well managed, no losses have been sustained, and it has been of wonderful assistance to the farming industry and the settlers of the colony generally. I cannot see any necessity for introducing this Bill during the present session of Parliament. The money-market at the present time is in a depressed condition, and we do not know what is to eventuate. I think we ought to hesitate before we commit the colony to further loans and thus jeopardize our credit at the present time. As I have already said, I cannot see any justiti- cation whatever. I know that the Government Advances to Settlers Department has been the means of lowering the rate of interest in this colony. There can be no denying that fact ; but at the present time, while the Government Advances to Settlers Department are clearing at the rate of 44 per cent., there are private individuals who are now negotiating mortgages at 41 and 4% per cent .; and before I left Christ- church I was told by a legal gentleman, with whom I was conversing on the question of the money-market, that there is a gentleman in Christchurch who has a large sum of money to his credit in the banks in that city who is pre- pared to advance moneys on good securities at 41 per cent. I believe if the Government could lower the rate of interest to something like 4} or 4 per cent. there would be a larger de- mand for mor cy from the Advances to Settlers Department. I am of the opinion that, con- sidering the condition of the money-market at the present time in New Zealand-we know that colonists have been realising on their estates and that money is accumulating in the banks of the colony-there will be no rush on this. department for loans during the next few years. Then, again, it has been pointed out that. instead of going to the money-market and raising the proposed loan of two millions sterling, why should we not avail ourselves of the accumulations to credit in the Insurance Department and in the Savings-bank Depart- ment. That would be a proper course to take. However, I shall be prepared to vote for reduc- ing this amount from two millions to one million. I consider one million abundance to enable the Government to operate on. If there was any real necessity for more, it should have been pointed out by the honourable member who is in charge of the Bill, or by the Premier, who spoke in support of the measure ; but so far no valid reasons have been brought forward by the Government to show that it is necessary in the interests of the Advances to Settlers Department to raise the sum of two millions. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine). - Sir, the honour- able member for Ashley thinks it would be an easy matter to utilise the Government Savings- bank money for the purpose of making advances under the Government Advances to Settlers Act, but I think if the honourable gentleman considers the position for a moment he will see that, as some of it may have to be tied up for thirty-six years, it would be a dangerous pre- cedent to interfere with money which has to be kept practically in a liquid condition. Sir, I thought the honourable gentleman was more of a farmers' friend than he has proved himself to be by his speech to-day. I find that he pro- fesses to wish the farmers success, and at the 