State were to retain them it would then become possessed of the enhanced value, and the en- hanced value would go into the pockets of the people; but while they are being sold for cash the enhanced value goes into the pockets of the speculators who purchase them. In the neighbourhood of Napier the Minister authorised land to be put up to public auction, and the upset price was £160 per acre. At Mangaweka, on the Main Trunk line of rail- way and the main road through the North Island towards Auckland, he has authorised the putting-up of land there, and the upset price is fixed at £140 per acre. Now, we know how values have grown in the immediate neighbour- hood of the main trunk lines of railway and along our main roads. Now, instead of the State parting with these lands, they above all others should be retained by the State, and the enhanced value come into the pockets of the community ; but the State is parting with the lands for cash. But the Minister has not fol- lowed out that policy, and I venture to say that in that particular again he is departing from the principles laid down by the late Mr. Ballance. And it was the intention of the late Mr. Ballance to stay the sale of Crown lands for cash, and he emphasized that fact over and over again, and that is why his name has been so much revered and so highly spoken of by the Liberals throughout New Zealand. Then, with regard to the Public Works Fund, we have had transfers from the surplus revenue of two millions and a quarter of money. We https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 have had extracted from the pockets of the community through the Customs revenue, by taxing their food, by taxing necessary articles of clothing, by taxing necessary furnishings in the home-we have collected from that source far more revenue than we need have collected, and we have had so much out of that surplus that we have had two millions and a quarter of money to aid the Public Works Fund. That policy I have never approved of. I have always considered it to be absolutely wrong and unjust to the working-classes of this colony that they should be taxed, first on their food, and articles of clothing, and absolute necessaries in the shape of furnishings to their homes, and that that should be used towards the cost of con- structing the roads, bridges, and railways, which have, no doubt, considerably enhanced the land-values of the colony. I say that the interest upon these moneys which have been expended in constructing our railways and roads is, undoubtedly, a proper and just charge on the land-values of the colony. And in this connection we have been promised for a good many years past the application of the better- ment principle, in order that the State shall recoup itself to a certain extent for the expendi- ture on public works by the enhanced value of the lands which are benefited by the construc- tion of those works, and that that enhanced value should to a certain extent go into the pockets of the community. New South Wales . has had this principle in operation for some years, and we ought to have put it into opera- Mr. Ell says. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is too late now. Mr. ELL .- No, it is not too late. Land- values are still on the increase, and they are rising, and at an enormous rate. A remark made by the Hon. the Premier not very long ago was to the effect that, according to the latest returns, they had gone up another six millions. During the last few years land-values have gone up 20 per cent., and yet we get no more land-tax than we did when the land-tar was first put into operation. With regard to the complaint of the honourable member for Bruce that the vote for old-age pensions had in- creased so enormously, I do not regard that as matter for complaint at all. The country has benefited by it. The money that has been paid out to these old people has not only made their lives more pleasurable to them, but the country has benefited, because a great portion of it has come back to the pockets of the community by being spent amongst them. I do not think we are justified in saying that the system has broken down, or that it has failed to do good, because a few have made an ill use of what has been to the great majority a great source of comfort. We have been told on various occasions, and particularly by the Premier when he spoke at Amberley in the early part of 1900, that the Government had taken the duty off cotton goods, and to that extens had benefited the poor man. They have done nothing of the sort, because they are collecting more money out of the poor man now than at the time the tariff was altered. In 1896 the value of cotton piece-goods coming in free of duty-the commonest kind of cotton goods in use by the poor people-into the country amounted to £210,000, and in 1900 it still amounted to £210,000. The lesson is this : that they have come into the country in in- creased quantity, but, instead of coming in duty- free, they have come in charged with 10 or 20 per cent. duty. The effect of the alteration of the tariff has been that, instead of the people paying less on cotton goods, they are paying considerably more. If any honourable member will take the trouble to go into any of the ware- houses he will see there bales and bales of stuff that used to come in free now paying 10 or 20 per cent. duty. A great deal still requires to be done with regard to Customs taxa- tion, and I am entirely in accord with the honourable member for Riccarton that we are taking too much from this source. There is still 30 per cent. on sugar, 25 per cent. on raisins, 25 per cent. on sultanas, 60 per cent. on currants, 50 per cent. on figs, 100 per cent. on dates, 50 per cent. on preserved ginger, and from 10 to 20 per cent. a valorem on cotton piece - goods. Then, ceun- terpanes, which are a necessary furnishing for every decent working-man's home, are 20 per cent. ad valorem ; handkerchiefs 20 per cent .: oilcloths, which are the covering of a poor man's floor, for only rich men can go in for carpets. are charged 20 per cent. ; cutlery is charged 20 per cent., and numerous other items I can 