like to ask where the two eminent gentlemen who edit the two newspapers in Wellington got their newspaper education ? I have the history of both, but I need not weary the House by a re- cital of that history. One to-day is a democrat -a Radical of Radicals -- but he is one of those democrats, singular to say, who once was in an adjoining colony a Conservative of Con- servatives ; but, having failed as a Queensland land-grabber, he is now a New Zealand demo- crat. Indeed, a strange conversion. In regard to the member for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins), I fear the honourable gentleman fel! into an error which is common in the case of many persons who discuss this question of the libel law. The honourable gentleman says, and truly says, that that man need not fear the criticism of any newspaper who can live with- out dread of the libel la v. But, then, he as- sumes that newspaper criticism applies only to public men. There is the error. It is not so much the public man who is injuriously affected by the newspaper criticism. A public man can defend himself on the public platform. He can defend himself in ordinary conversation with his constituents in the highways and by- ways-morning, noon, and night. It is the private person who is most injuriously affected by unjust newspaper criticism. It is the pri- vate person, who is given no opportunity to answer any slanderous misrepresentations which may appear in a newspaper, who suffers most. He is wholly at the mercy of the newspaper writer who guides the destinies of these penny rags. I have known great pain and misery inflicted through the insertion of anonymous and malignant statements. The person ma- ligned sends an explanatory letter to the newspaper, and he most probably gets an answer in the form of notice to correspondents in this form : "A. B., your letter is declined." What possible reparation is there for that person ? The editor is master of the situation ; and even if he deigns to publish your explana- tory letter he most likely appends to it some impertinent foot-note, as if he had the right to give you impertinence in addition to his slander. Sir, it is high time these gentlemen were put in their proper place. I wish the Legislature would relegate to me the duty of dealing with these gentlemen. The remedy, I assure the House, would be very effective. Then, the honourable member for Christ- church City refers to the amount of the penalty mentioned in the proviso to section 3, and says with a flourish, as if ridiculing the whole clause, " What is the use of it ? There is no means of enforcing the penalty prescribed in the clause." Does the honourable gentleman know so little of the law of the land in which he lives? Is there no such thing as a Justices of the Peace Act ? Of course there is, and there is means of enforcing the penalty. There is no diffi- culty in the matter whatever. I was a little astonished at the honourable gentleman, who is usually so accurate-and because he is so accurate and so studious -- I was rather sur- prised that he fell into that error. I now, Sir, leave the Bill in the hands of the House. I Mr. Fisher need not say I hope the House will carry the second reading. The proposals contained in the Bill are simple in the extreme. They do away, as I said in moving the second reading, with all possibility for the necessity for instituting a libel action. It would ease the minds of all persons who may otherwise be troubled with libel suits. They will have this simple 9.30. process of going to the Stipendiary Magistrate's Court and settling their difficulty in a summary way, instead of waiting, as they have to do under the existing law, for perhaps three months for the sitting of the Supreme Court, employing lawyers with large fees, calling hordes of witnesses and jurymen, all of which will be done away with if this Bill is passed. The House divided. AYES, 21. O'Meara Barclay Lawry Duncan McGowan Parata ElI Mckenzie, R. Seddon Flatman Millar Wilford. Fraser, A. L. D. Mills Tellers. Hall Morrison Fisher Houston Napier Guinness. Laurenson NOES, 26. Arnold Russell, W. R. Hogg Atkinson Hornsby Stevens Bollard Hutcheson Steward Buddo Tanner Lang Carncross Massey Thompson, R. Meredith Collins Thomson, J. W. Hanan Monk Tellers. Hardy Palmer Mackenzie, T. Haselden Rhodes Willis. PAIRS. For. Against. McNab. Smith, G. J. Majority against, 5. Second reading negatived. EIGHT HOURS BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 3 .- " All persons engaged in domestic service, or as servants in hotels, boardinghouses, or in any similar form of service or occupation, shall be exempted from the provisions of the preceding sections, but such persons shall be, under the provisions of this Act, entitled to a holiday from twelve noon on one week-day in each week, and from two post meridian on each alternate Sunday. No such persons shall be required to work longer than twelve hours in any one day, and shall be entitled to reasonable rests for meals, being not less than one half-hour for breakfast and tea, and one whole hour for dinner." Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) moved to insert, after the words " all persons engaged in," the following words: "employment on any farm, run, or sheep-station." Mr. PALMER (Ohinemuri) moved, That pro- gress be reported. 