tions given in the House that it might be pos- sible to borrow for less than 4 per cent. The Hon. Mr. Larnach held that view very strongly. and when we went on the market it was found that the money was obtainable at a lower rate than 4 per cent. Sir, the whole basis of the thing was calculated upon the clause as laid down in this Act, and that clause authorised the Government to borrow money at 4 per cent. That we obtained the money cheaper was a fortunate circumstance. There were gentle- men on the other side who ridiculed the whole thing. It was utterly impossible, they said, to get it even at 4 per cent. ; and so their con- fusion was very great when the news was cabled out that the money had been obtained at 3 per cent. I think that is a fair reply to the honourable gentleman's argument that the whole basis of this Bill was framed upon a 3 - per - cent. scheme. Sir, I reiterate once more that I will support this Bill. It contains a principle that I regard with the greatest satisfaction. I look upon it as one of the best measures ever passed. In my know- ledge it has done an enormous amount of good to the agricultural community. Its scope has been further extended, and other people are now able to obtain money at a lower rate of interest. It has proved a considerable check on money- lenders, who, were it not for its existence, would never have advanced money at the rates at which people now obtain them. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- May I make a per- sonal explanation ? The honourable gentleman said I misrepresented the facts. I said the scheme was based on the money being secured at 3 per cent. My authority was the whole of the debate in 1894, and especially the speech of http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero the Minister-the Hon. Mr. Ward-who intro- duced the Bill. There can be no doubt he based the whole of his argument for the success of the scheme on the colony securing money at 3 per cent. It is true under the Act the amount the debentures should yield in interest to the pur- chaser is not to exceed 4 per cent. We place that in every Act; but that is not the amount we are supposed to borrow at. The honourable gentleman knows the Premier, in a Bill the other day, suggested 4} per cent. as the limit which purchasers should receive as interest, but the money would undoubtedly be secured at 34 or 4 per cent. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City). 7.30. -I wish to make a personal explana- tion. In suggesting that miners should be em- ploved rather than allow them to leave the goldfields I was misunderstood by the honour- able member for Christchurch City (Mr. Smith). I did not propose to put men on unprofitable mines, but that pavable lines of reef now par- tially developed should be selected by the Geological Department. I said it would be better to put our miners to work on these reefs and develop the hidden treasures of the coun try than let the men leave the country, and I instanced the case of the Waihi Mine, where a young man went practically to work and by tests and assays found out the best method Hr. Carneross discovery upwards of two millions of gold has been extracted from that reef within the last ten or twelve years. This was an immense thing for the country. It was with a desire that the Geological Department should be put to the greatest use, and so help us to reap the greatest benefit from the miners and able- bodied men on the goldfields, that I suggested they should be put to work in the payable, not the unpayable, mines. The honourable member for Christchurch City Mr. Smith) quoted a district where gold to the value of $3 15s. cost £5 to obtain, but the result was different in Auckland, and, I believe, the West Coast, where figures in the past show that for every #1 spent more than a pounds' worth of gold has been obtained. When we consider that every sovereign taken out of the ground and put in circulation is created wealth, and there is no interest to pay on it, and that every sovereign passing from hand to hand leaves a little profit to each and is a blessing to every tradesman, we shall see that the more we take out of the ground the better ; and we do not need to go to England at all for gold, because there is more in this country than in the Old Country. Mr. HASELDEN (Patea) .- I should like to say a few words on this question of borrowing two millions of money to help the advances to settlers. I cannot see that two millions are required, when we have the word of the Premier that the average grant is only half a million. It seems it is to be used to fill up gaps, and not all applied to advances to settlers. A great deal has been said about the reduction in the price of money, but if we look at the thing fairly we shall find that the price of money had fallen before the three-million loan was autho- rised. When Sir Joseph -- then Mr. - Ward went to England, even with his great financial abilities and his persuasive tongue, he could not have persuaded the English money-lender to lend money at 3 per cent. if he could get 4 per cent. elsewhere. The fact was the price of money had fallen at the time not only in England, but all over the world. I believe the A.M.P. were then lending at 43 per cent. I do not consider this Advances to Settlers Act has been so unmixed a blessing as some people suppose. There has been considerable expense in obtaining the money, and I have a letter from a back block settler, who complains of the way in which he has been treated in the matter of a loan he applied for ; and I know of another instance where an expenditure of #11 was in- curred in valuation-fees before the applicant received a letter saying that the money could not be lent on the class of security he was offering. This man, of course, was not of the right "colour "; but his neighbour, living a few miles from him, who held his land exactly on the same tenure, applied for and got a loan for the amount he asked. I have no doubt there are two sides to every question, and there may be another aspect of this question ; but, so far as I know, the fact is as I have stated. I have received the following letter from a settler in the back blocks :- 