never considered it, take no interest in it, and care very little whether it is passed or not. I admit that there is a demand for the Bill, and a great deal has been spoken about it, and a great deal has been written about it, by a small but active section of the community who have probably Utopian ideas on the subject. We all know that there is in every country a certain section of people who have what we might term ideal ideas on legislation, and who think that if certain measures are enacted they will confer happiness and prosperity on their fellow-beings for evermore. But, Sir, I think that a great many measures proposed by this section of the community will be found. if carried, to be unworkable and unpractical. admit that the motives of that section of the community are of the very highest and purest description, but I think most of their ideas are theoretical, and that their ideas in practice will be found to be unworkable ; so that I think I may fairly say that the Bill is not demanded by any large number of electors in this country. And. when I say that it is unnecessary, I fail to find where the necessity has arisen for this Bill. The first part of the Bill deals with rejected Bills, and I would like to point out to honourable members that that part of the Bill is intended to prevent a measure being rejected three times, because honourable members will see that the Bill does not come into operation until after a Bill has been rejected twice. Consequently, it is only to prevent a Bill being rejected three times. Now, there are some honourable members pre- sont who have a much larger experience than I have of political matters, but I certainly cannot remember any occasion on which a Bill has been rejected three times by this Council ; and this measure proposes to prevent a Bill being rejected three times -- it is really providing a cure for some complaint which has never ex- isted. At any rate, that is my experience. The Hon. Mr. MeLean the other day, in speak- ing of this Bill, instanced the woman's suffrage Bill. Well, Sir, that is a case in point. I believe there was a very large demand for that Bill. or apparently there was a very large num- ber of people who wanted that Bill passed. It was passed by one branch of the Legislature, and when it came before this Council it was rejected. I think, Sir, if my memory serves me correctly, that in the interim there was a general election, and then also apparently there was a very great demand for the Bill. I believe a great many petitions were pre- sented to both Houses in favour of the Bill. Some of them were very long petitions, measuring miles, and requiring some very stalwart men to carry them into this House or the other Chamber. Well, Sir, what was the result ? On Parliament reassembling the Bill was passed again, and this Council, seeing, probably, that it was the general wish, or the wish of a very large proportion of the electors, that this Bill should be passed, bowed to public opinion as they understood it and passed the Bill. An Hon. MEMBER .- By one vote. Hon. Mr. Louisson friend says " By one vote." Probably it was ; but had it been rejected by one vote and brought up again at a later period it would probably have been passed by ten votes, which would have been better still, because it would have shown that the Council was educating itself on public matters. I think we can say that in New Zealand the people have the very greatest facilities for expressing their opinions on pub- lic matters ; and where do they express them more forcibly than they do in New Zealand ? And I think that their opinions are very much attended to by both branches of the Legislature. I do not think that this Council is likely at any time to place itself directly in I opposition to a public opinion very strongly expressed. I think the good - sense of this Council will always go in the direction of waiving their own opinions in favour of a very strongly expressed public opinion, providing there is nothing very exceptional in the matter at issue. So that, Sir, I really do not see that there is any necessity for the Bill. If at some time in the history of New Zealand some occa- sion had arisen where the Council or other branch of the Legislature had stood in oppo- sition the one to the other and had rejected a Bill several times, and a deadlock of some description had occurred, then, I say, it would have been very necessary to pass a Bill of this sort to prevent the recurrence of such a dead- lock ; but I think it is very well known that such a thing has never occurred, and therefore, seeing our present free institutions and the facilities we have for expressing public opinion, I do not think that any such thing is ever likely to arise, and, if the Bill is not necessary, I really think it would be bad policy to place it on the statute-book. I think we have a great many laws on our statute-book. Some of them are very good and excellent laws, but I do not think there is any great reason why we should place on that book any unnecessary laws. There is another danger I perceive in this Bill, and that is that a great number of people who would not be interested in any par- ticular question which was put to the referen- dum would not vote, and therefore there would probably be a very small vote, and a very small minority of the people might be the means of enacting something very much to the detriment of the large body of the community. Sir, there is no safeguard against that in the Bill, and I think if the Bill gets into Committee there should be some safeguard enacted in this direc- tion : that no decision arrived at under a re- ferendum should be valid unless a certain number of the electors of the colony record their votes. I think that it should be a very large proportion. I think that no question decided in that way should be valid unless a very large number of the electors vote on the subject. An Hon. MEMBER .- How many ? The Hon. Mr. LOUISSON .- Two-thirds, or something like that. There is another danger which, I think, might arise if there was a Referendum Act, and it is this: that the pre- 