Mr. FISHER ( Wellington City) said,-I beg to move, as an amendment, That, in the opinion of this House, the order given by the Minister in charge of the Government Printing Office, directing the Government Printer not to issue reports of members' speeches from Hansard, is an infringement of the rights and privileges of members of this House. The discussion of this amerdment need not take long, and need not impede the passing of the Imprest Supply Bill. It would not have been necessary to in- tercept Supply had the honourable gentleman gone on with the notices of motion from day to day in accordance with the Standing Orders. The question involved in the amend- 4.0. ment is of great importance to every member of this House, and I may say, without exaggeration, that it is of especial importance to me. The newspapers in this city behave very unfairly to certain members of the House in regard to the reports of public meetings and their comments upon public men. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - Sir, I am sorry to interrupt the honourable member, but I am of opinion that this same question is upon the Order Paper. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .-- The honourable member cannot move the same motion on going into Supply that is on the Order Paper for a par- ticular dav. Mr. FISHER .- Well, it so happens that it is on the Order Paper for Tuesday next, but it has been on the Order Paper for a month past. What would the Premier recommend me to do ? Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister in Charge of the Printing Office). - The honourable gentle- man asks what he should be advised to do. Well, I have not the slightest desire to interfere with the privileges and rights of honourable members, but it seems to me the proper course would be to bring this matter up at the Re- porting Debates Committee, take the advice of the Committee on the question, and let the Committee bring down its recommendation to the House. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I should like to point out to the Minister that already this session the Government Printing Office has printed one member's speech, which has been circulated. Mr. HALL-JONES .- I am not aware of it. Mr. PIRANI .- I happen to be a printer, and, although there is an imprint not of the Govern- ment l'rinting Office but of some other printing- office, the type is the type of the Government Printing Office, and a comparison of the type with the Hansard report will show that it is exactly the same type as is used in Hansard. Mr. FISHER .- If I saw it I could tell in a minute. Mr. PIRANI .- Well, it is so; I have not been twenty-seven years in printing - offices without knowing that. It is an extraordinary thing that several members who wished to have their speeches on the Stoke School question printed last year were the first to be blocked by the Government Printing Office from having them printed. Now, there may be something in the argument that the Government Printer is not going to circulate libels, but if he is going to judge whether members' speeches are libellous or not, then let him judge, but not bar every member's speech because some are libellous. An Hon. MEMBER .- Who is to be the judge ? Mr. PIRANI .- I say the Government Printer ought to be the judge. An ordinary printer has to take the responsibility, and why should not the Government Printer do so? But it is ridi- culous to say that members' speeches are libel- lous as a rule. Nothing of the sort is the case; the libels are exceptional. We know, as a matter of fact, the excuse is that there was a threat of libel against a member of the House if his speech was published ; but it was only a threat. Surely, every time the Government Printer is threatened. that is not going to in- terfere with the whole course of work. That is ridiculous. Mr. HALL - JONES. -- What speech was circulated ? Mr. PIRANI .- I was nearly " had " verter- day, and I am not going to be caught again. I will tell the honourable member privately. if he wants to know. It has been urged as a reason why this should not be done that members can get their speeches printed privately and circu- lated. But the Minister must recognise that, by getting the speeches printed by the Govern- ment Printer as extracts from Hansard, there is a guarantee that they are extraets, and that nothing has been interpolated ; but. if you should get any particular speech printed pri- vately, it does not follow that it is an exact copy of the speech at all. Mr. FISHER .- I hope it is understood that I am in possession of the Chair. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - That is \~. Mr. HALL-JONES .- Would the honourable member allow me to say to the honourable member for Palmerston that I think there <!-- PageHeader="\-" --> must be some mistake in what he says ? If it is correct that a speech has been printed in the Government Printing Offee since the in tric- tions were given, then the officer who has dep that will not long remain connected with the Government Printing Ofhere. I shall be glad to have from the honourable member some fur- ther information on the matter. I quite re- cognise his position in not giving the name to the House, but having made that statement. which will be published in Hausand. I think he should go further and give me any informa- tion which will assist me in investigating the matter. I should like to say that I have no feeling on this subject of reprints of members' speeches, but that I recognise that a certain amount of responsibility is cast upon me. If the honourable member does not see his way to bring up the matter before the Reporting Debates Committee, then, if the House approve». <!-- PageHeader="\-" --> let Mr. Speaker say whether or not any par- ticular speeches are or are not to be printed-I will be satisfied ; but if there is to be an officer to act as censor it should not be the Govern- ment Printer : the Speaker is the guardian of the privileges of Parliament. Or let the Re- porting Debates Committee come to some re- commendation and I am prepared to accept it. \--- \- 