increased revenue is to come from in respect to this further expenditure of £10,000, and until that is clearly shown I say the honourable gentleman has not done his duty. But I venture to think that the honourable member in charge of the Bill will give such an explana- tion to the House as will show that, although the Chairman of the Local Bills Committee has not done his duty faithfully in the Committee, he, at any rate, knows the responsibilities and resources of that district, and will show clearly to the House that it is a right and proper thing that the Bill should pass. Now, there are a few more points that I want to make about this Bill, and they will be chiefly of a financial nature. I regret to think that we have not a statement in this House showing the actual position of the different Harbour Boards of the colony. What occurs here is that year after year each Harbour Board, as the Act requires, places upon the table of the House a statement of its finances, but after they have been laid upon the table of the House no record is kept of them. I have been hunting through the Library to see whether I could obtain these reports, and ascertain what has gone on in connection with the various expen- diture on our harbours, but not one single copy of the reports that from time to time have been laid upon the table of this House is now avail- able. What becomes of them is past my com- prehension. An Hon. MEMBER .- They are in the cellar. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- I believe they are. / https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 I went to one of the librarians and told him, and he said another had gone home and had taken the key; and the same thing occurred a few nights ago when I wanted to refer to some http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero agricultural matters. These things ought to be open to members in order that they can go fully into the consideration of the harbour- works and other matters, and give such votes as will be safe and also as will conserve the best interests of the colony. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton). - After the very entertaining address which has been delivered by the versatile member for Waihemo, I fear the few remarks I have to place before the House will fall flat and trite. However, there are one or two points in connection with this Harbour Bill upon which I desire to bang a few remarks. The point that always sur- prises me in connection with Harbour Bills being laid before the House is the rapidity-I might say, the amazing rapidity-with which they have been accepted by the House and passed through. I think the honourable gentle- man was correct in the statement he made that sooner or later all these Harbour Boards' lia- bilities, and especially those of the smaller Har- bour Boards, would fall on the colonial tax- payer, and it is from that standpoint I wish to say a few words. First, as to the rate of interest, which is unlimited in the Bill. I remember very well that last year I appeared before the Mr. T. Mackenzie I remember that then the Local Bills Com- mittee insisted on a clause being inserted that the lender should not be paid more than 4 per cent. for the loan; and I cannot understand why the Local Bills Committee has allowed this Bill to come down permitting the Patea Har- bour Board to pay unlimited interest. I cer- tainly think that when the Bill is in Committee it will be the duty of the House to insert a clause which will bind down the Patea Harbour Board, the same as the Local Bills Committee has bound down other bodies during the last few years, to pay a rate of interest not exceed- ing 4 per cent. in connection with the loan. The large question which is involved in con- nection with these smaller local harbours is the relation that they stand in to our State system of railways. Now, the member for Wanganui spoke almost in terms of ridicule of the idea of the Wellington Harbour being a port for Wanganui and the West Coast harbours and districts. Why, Sir, what other place is there in the colony from which the produce of the fariners of Wanganui and Patea can be better sent to its destination in the markets of the world than the Harbour of Wellington ? The particular point I wish to make is this : All the money that is being spent in connection with these small coastal harbours is not being spent in opposition to the large harbours of the colony, but is rather being spent in opposition to the railways of the colony, for the simple reason that if we had a proper system of rail- way freights, then the whole of the produce that has to go to the London markets in the way of frozen mutton and in the way of butter, instead of being sent in these small vessels from the small bar-harbours, would go along our rail- ways to the ports whence they would be for- warded to the Mother-country, or wherever the markets may be. An Hon. MEMBER .- The direct liners come to Wanganui. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- What is the use of saying that? Do not I remember in the old days, at Wanganui, when they started their harbour-works at Wanganui, they actually began to train the steamers to jump hurdles. They found that the steamers had to go over sand-banks, and mud-banks, and protective works, and they had to train the steamers as steeple-chasers. The vessels that go as direct liners to Wanganui are only intermit- tent, not regular, and freezing-works must get rid of their produce rapidly ; and therefore I repeat that, so far as the harbours of the colorty are concerned, we have to recognise that the two harbours for the North Island are Wellington and Auckland, and that the two harbours for the South Island are Lyttelton and Port Chalmers. Our railway interests must therefore be worked so as to handle the produce from the distant districts, and carry it to the natural ports of debarkation. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about Timaru ? 