these fish for sale, but these fish are stinking"? Every person he met would believe that he was telling the truth, and that the fish were abso- lutely stinking. Does the honourable gentle- man want to destroy the credit of this country ? If he does, and if this country and the financial institutions of the world believed what the honourable gentleman stated, the effect must be to destroy our national credit. But, for- tunately for the country, fortunately for our credit, and unfortunately for the honourable gentleman's reputation, there is not a man in the House or the country, old or new, that will attach the slightest importance to the honour- able gentleman's utterances. It makes one sick when we realise that an honourable member who has been 'returned here by one vote should stand up and criticize a Govern- ment under whose influence, and under whose influence alone, he could have entered this Chamber. I think it is rather unfortunate, Sir, that I never make any preparation before I speak. If I had prepared a speech I would or could have applied the political lash to the honourable gentleman I have referred to. Sir. we have had before this House during the present session a number of petitions relative to the question of licensing the sale of alcoholic liquor in the King-country. I should like to place this matter fairly before the House and the country. It has been stated very frequently that at the time when the first sod of the rail- way was turned there was a stipulation made between the Natives and the then Premier, Sir Robert Stout, that alcoholic liquor was to be prohibited, and should not be introduced into the King-country. I was present on that occa- sion, and I declare that no such stipulation was ever made publicly. I represented at that time one of the leading journals of the colony. It was my duty to faithfully report everything that transpired at that time. I say that Sir Robert Stout, the present Chief Justice. in making a statement of that nature has misled the public; because, if the arrangement was made, it was a private matter between himself and the leading chiefs of the King-country, or I was misled. I have the honour and the privi- lege of being well acquainted with the whole of the Native chiefs of the King-country, and I know very well that just after the first sod of that railway was turned a petition was sent throughout the King-country, and it was signed by nearly all the leading chiefs, asking the Go- vernment to take steps by enact ment to prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor in the King-country. But what do the Prohibitionists forget ? They forget that there was a much more important matter attached to that petition : it was, that there should be no sale of land in the King- country. That was the principal request in that petition. The Prohibitionists have railed against the Government because they have not brought in section 33 of the Alcoholic Liquors Sale Control Act in that district, forgetting that that section could not possibly apply to the King-country. That section can only apply to a district where there are a lot of political teemed friend the honourable member for the Clutha, where a vote has been taken. I think any district that would by a majority of votes carry prohibition ought to be disfranchised. Of course, that is merely a personal opinion. The Prohibitionists have declaimed against the Government, because, as they allege, they have not enforced the Act which was obtained surreptitiously; but, I ask, has any Prohibitionist ever stood by the principle con- tained in that petition-namely, the non-selling of land in that district? I would like to point out that last year a Committee sat for seven or eight days, and took evidence on the question as to whether the prayer of the peti- tion for the sale of liquor in the King-country should be given effect to. I would like to point out to the member for Mataura, who is one of the most fair-minded men in this House, who was once a Prohibitionist, but who has seen the error of his ways, and who now believes in the liberty of the subject-I would ask him what did the petitioners ask for? Did they not ask that the people of the King-country should have the same power and privilege as the people possess in the District of Clutha? What do we find ? We find that one of the strongest Prohibitionists in Auckland, Mr. T. B. Hill, declared (as re- ported in a Taranaki paper) at a picnic at Raglan that he regretted exceedingly the action he had taken in going round and ob- taining signatures to stop the legitimate sale of alcoholic liquor in the King-country. And what do we find further in con- 11.30. nection with this matter ? I am very sorry that the Chairman of the A to L Public Petitions Committee is not in his place, for after these petitions were referred to our Com- mittee on my own suggestion, the Chairman of the Public Petitions Committee moved a resolu- tion that we should invite the Rev. Mr. Isitt to give evidence before that Committee, and that he should have the power to summon any wit- ness that he required. The Rev. Mr. Isitt forgot to mention before that Committee the admirable and eloquent speech made in the House upon the question by one man who knows more about it than Mr. Isitt will ever know, if he lives to be as old as Methuselah. 1 refer to the honourable member for Napier (Mr. A. L. D. Fraser). We gave the Rev. Mr. He brought Isitt not latitude, but license. down his witness from the Waikato-the one I refer to is Mr. W. J. Ellis, a Justice of the Peace in the King-country. Mr. Ellis gave his evidence, and then at the end of his evidence Mr. Isitt followed, and, speaking on the ques- tion, said that he had information that there was, in consequence of the sale of alcoholic liquor in the King-country. sly-grog selling, and there were few virtuous women in the whole country. He had forgotten that Mr. Ellis had married a half-caste lady, born in the King-country, and who was an honour to her sex; and I shall never forget, so long as I live, the denunciation poured on Mr. Isitt's head by the very witness he had brought down to support his own case. Then, Sir, the Rev. 