in the City of Wellington is one of the largest | and be replaced with buildings suitable to the landowners, and the owner of property in Molesworth Street. One of these gentlemen during the plague scare owned a building which was occupied by Chinamen, and was declared . to be insanitary, and was ordered to be pulled down. He is not alone in that respect ; and here in the City of Wellington we have an ob- Annual Value. Wellington. 20 Cottage Home in Cardall Street, Newtown 241 13 4 . New Bank of New Zealand 2,000 .. Sir Walter Buller's residence 210 Eight shops, Willis Street, in one 905 112 block (belonging to one owner) 240 Shop in Willis St. (Hume & Son) Duke of Edinburgh Hotel 500 The following are cases in the Waimate and Linwood districts :- under Un-' improved under Rates Letting Value. Rates Waimate. 8. d. d. s. House, with 2} acres 1 0 1 5 1 House, with } acre 14 0 0 0 5 20 acres, unimproved 2 15 0 15 5 .. Vacant section, & acre 0 10 0 3 3 https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 .. Linwood. Vacant section, } acre 1 10 5 4 7 acre, with house 3 10 2 10 9 & acre, with house 0 19 8 1 16 4 2 acres worth £1,400, with 4 16 8 0 house worth £560 7 19 Time will not permit me to give more cases than those I have already given, because, before concluding, I desire to deal with the statement made by the honourable member for Marsden. Before I do that, however, I will go to the country districts. A man with a hundred acres of land has improvements amounting to $300. He takes the land at $5 an acre. With $300 for improvements, he pays local rates upon £8 an acre ; while his neighbour, although the land has the same unimproved value of $5 an acre, has improvements amounting to only $100, and he pays upon £6, as against the other's £8. Mr. SPEAKER .- Time is up. Mr. SEDDON .- I hope, Sir, the Bill will be read a second time. The House divided. AYES, 27. Allen, E. G. Hornsby Seddon Carroll Stevens Houston Laurenson Duncan Steward Ell Lawry Tanner Field McGowan Ward Fisher McGuire Willis. Flatman Mills Tellers. O'Meara Guinness Fowlds Hall-Jones Parata Symes. Hogg Mr. Seddon requirements of the city; but you will never have that done as long as you allow them to remain under existing conditions. Now, we have heard a good deal about the " fat man," and I will give you some figures I have had taken out, and they are not cases just simply pre- pared for the occasion. They are as follows :- Unimproved Present New Section Area. System. Value. System. £ 8. d. 8. d. £ 2 9 7 9 6 32' 9" x 103' 9" 115 1 102' 3' x 80" 288 1 8 22,462 47' 6" x 110' 10" i 5 0 73 82' x 217' 16 1,600 20 10 152 9 7 11,889 5 3 . . 53'6 x O', 68' x 101 6,315 29 15 0 80 19 10 60 35' 75" x 74' 134 13 4 8 4 10,500 NOES, 23. Russell, W. R. Atkinson Herries Bennet Smith, G. J. Lang Value. Bollard Lethbridge Thompson, R. Collins Thomson, J. W. Massey Fraser, A. L. D. McNab Witheford. Graham Millar Tellers. Hardy Monk Hutcheson 3 Rhodes Haselden Pirani. 5 PAIRS. 3 For. Against. 9 Fraser, W. Barclay Kaihau. Colvin. 6 Majority for, 4. Mr. McGUIRE .- I wish to explain that I was paired with the honourable member for Taranaki, and I voted as he would have voted if he had been here. Bill read a second time. Mr. SEDDON .- I wish to announce that it. is my intention to have a return placed on the table of the House showing, in detail, in every city and borough and county in the colony. what the result would be if they were rated on the unimproved value; and when we have that return members will see what they are doing. The House adjourned at half-past ten o'clock p.m. LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Wednesday, 14th August, 1901. Third Reading-Education Reserves-Invercargill Reserve Leasing Bill-Laud for Settlements Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half past two o'clock. PRAYERS. THIRD READING. Woodville County Bill. EDUCATION RESERVES. On the motion of the Hon. Mr. T. KELLY, it was resolved, That this Council approves of 