what intelligent elector in the country would take any notice of the speech of the member for Bruce. I remember well when we brought down the first proposal in this House to bor- row money to advance to settlers, the honour- able member for Bruce said the country would be involved in debt, and that the settlers would never be able to pay the interest. Sir, he de- nounced the scheme from the base to the apex : but what has been the result ? The result has been a triumph of a policy that is worthy of any Government on the face of God's earth. Then, Sir, we remember that when we were fighting for the abolition of that iniquitous tax - the most iniquitous ever exacted on the face of the earth -the property-tax, the member for Bruce, who is the acting De Wet of the Parliament, leading a disbanded party in a guerrilla political warfare, stood up on the floor of the House and said-or his party said so, which amounts to the same thing-that interest on money would rise, that none but the highest class of securities would be accepted, that agricultural industries would languish, and, in effect. that the country would rush headlong to financial destruction. Who will trust the utterance or the opinions of an as- pirant to Ministerial honours whose predictions have been so completely falsified by practical results ? Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- To what party did you belong then ? Mr. LAWRY .- I belonged to the party of progress and the party of liberty, as I do now, and I am now going to make my last protest against such interjections and insinuations as https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 the honourable member for Riccarton is in the habit of making. I hope that he will have sufli- cient intelligence to understand the courtesies associated with this House as they obtained when I first entered it, and the position honour- able members occupied in this House. When I was first returned I was opposed by the whole force and strength of the Atkinson Govern- ment, and the whole force and strength of the Bank of New Zealand ; and if the honourable member knows anything at all about the matter he would know that what I am now stating is an absolute fact. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- You were returned as a Conservative. Mr. LAWRY. - Well, Sir, I do not see much use of presence of mind when the honourable member for Riccarton can make a statement like that, which is not based on the highest principles of truth. When I was first returned I was opposed by the whole strength of the Atkinson party of Auckland, as exemplified by the fact that Mr. W. F. Buckland was my opponent, and he was one of the strongest sup- perters the Atkinson Government ever had. My policy was that I would support that party which was prepared to bring down a measure abolishing the property-tax, and substituting in its place a tax on land and income. When I came here, what did I find ? I appealed to the greatest statesman that New Zealand has ever seen. Sir George Grey. He said to me, " Lawry, we have an element on the Opposition Mr. Lawry have on the Opposition side three or four squatters, and if the Opposition were to bring in a measure to abolish the property-tax and substitute in lieu thereof a tax ou land and income, we would have those squatters against us, and we would not be able to carry our measures "; and he added, " The best thing we can do in the meantime is to support the Administration formed by Major Atkinson." I am not quoting the honourable member for Riccarton, but I am quoting the words of a statesman. Sir, if the late Mr. Ballance had taken my advice upon that occasion he would have turned the Atkinson Government out of power; and, instead of being in office in 1891, he would have been ir office in 1887. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - The Stout- Vog .: 1 Government were in office then. Mr. LAWRY. - In 1887 the Stout-Vogel Government were defeated at the polls, and the Atkinson Government came into power, and because I could not get what I wanted from the Opposition, except on the lines indicated. I had no alternative but to support the adminis- tration of the Atkinson Government ; but from the very start I told Sir Harry Atkinson that if ever a motion was brought down with the purpose of abolishing the property-tax I would leave the party which I had conditionally joined, and I would support any Administra- tion that would do what I believed to be in the best interests of the country. At that time Mr. Ballance could not do what he desired. for the reasons that I have already given. Now, Sir, dealing with the honourable member for Riccarton in the way I have referred to. the honourable gentleman is using a stedet- hammer to kill a mosquito. The honourable gentleman has fluency of speech ; he has the ability to clothe very small thoughts m suitable words. What effect have they upon the country ? We know what the honouraide gentleman has done in the past. We know that when he was in Parliament on a previous occasion the honourable gentleman made a political track such as an unskilful ploughman would make upon a piece of fallow with his plough, or an amateur on a bicycle. He wab- bled from one side to the other, and the result was, when the election came the honouraide gentleman was relegated to private life, a po-i- tion, judging by his speech to-day. to which the honourable gentleman should be r. le- gated at the next general election, and meri- toriously remain there as long as he lives. Take the speech of the honourable member for Bruce to-night ; take the speech of the honourable member for Riccarton. If New Zealand, or if the Old Country, attached any importance to the speeches made by those two honouratie gentlemen, what would the effect be? The effect would be to drag upon New Zealand a calamity which every loval subject would feel it his duty to do his very best to avert. What would be the effect if a fisherman, who went down to the wharf for the purpose of mak- ing his living, caught a bundle of fish, and 