PAIRS. For. Against. Hall Colvin Witheford Fowlds O'Meara Gilfedder Field Herries Ward Massey Smith, E. M. McGuire Fraser, W. McLachlan. <!-- FigureContent="Majority against, 9." --> Motion for second reading negatived. Bill ordered to be read a second time this day six months. LIBEL BILL (No. 1). Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- In moving the second reading of this Bill I did intend, in my introductory remarks, to call attention to the extraordinary state of the law of libel as disclosed in the decision of the Court of Appeal in the Mabin case. I am glad to see that the Government has undertaken to make good the defect of the law in respect to the protection of the citizens of this country from injury result- ing from libellous statements made by private persons or by newspapers. Formerly the news- papers of the country were held in check not so much by the fear of civil proceedings, but by the dread of their editors or proprietors being prosecuted criminally for offences of this kind. The right to prosecute criminally is to be restored, and the action of the Govern- ment in that regard will be applauded by all respectable people in this country. Sir, I come now to deal with the Bill which I have introduced for the purpose of amend ng the law of libel in the direction of affording greater protection to the citizens of New Zea- land. Under the existing law ample protection is afforded to the proprietors of newspapers, but sufficient protection is not afforded to the citizens of the State. And yet attempts are made year after year to strengthen the power of the Press by giving increased facilities for attacking reputable citizens and securing to them an immunity from all punishment. In politics the policy of the journals of this country is shaped by the monetary power and the social influence of the persons who support them. In other respects they are, as the late Judge Richmond once described them-refer- ring more particularly to the Wellington news- papers-merely advertising sheets. I remem- ber him saying on one occasion, from the Supreme Court bench, that if one wished to see how his character was pourtrayed by the Wellington newspapers he had only to look into the concave side of a tablespoon. If this be the opinion of an eminent jurist, such as the late Judge Richmond unquestionably was, may not the lesser lights be entitled to enter- tain similar opinions. One would not so much object to what the Press did or said if our jour- nalism was of such a high standard as that of England or Australia. In those countries editorial comment is argumentative and re- spectful. But we have no such standard of journalism in Zew Zealand ; at least, I qualify that by saying that we have no such standard in the City of Wellington. Now, this Bill is extremely simple in its provisions, and that man will be hard to please who finds fault with what it contains. The honourable member for the Taieri, who introduces annually the Bill presented to Parliament in the interests of the newspaper Press of the colony, says the exist- ing law in New Zealand is thirteen years behind the libel law of England. The answer to this is simple. In the first place, the libel law of England is a law which is not satisfactory to the people of England. It was passed in the English House of Commons in 1888- thirteen years ago, under great pressure brought to bear from journalistic and other sources. It really was a London Metropolitan Libel Bill. In the annals of the House of Commons such pressure was never known to be exercised in regard to any measure ever passed by that il- lustrious body. But soon after the Bill became law the English people discovered what a terrible power had been placed in the hands of the Press. So strong was the revulsion of feel- ing on the part of the people that year after year efforts have been made, in every session of the House of Commons since the year 1890, to secure the repeal of that Act. The first Bill to repeal the Act was moved by Sir A. Borthwick, an eminent member of the House of Commons. The next attempt, in the succeeding year, was made by Sir Albert Rollitt, solicitor to the Provincial Newspaper Association, which represents upwards of six hundred of the provincial journals of Great Britain. And repeal Bills have been introduced in every succeeding year, as the English Hansard, which is to be found in our own library, shows. And if the repeal of the English libel law is moved for by such eminent men as Sir A. Borthwick and Sir A. Rollitt, is it reasonable that attempts should be made to introduce into this country a law the abrogation of which is so strongly desired by the great mass of the English people ? I think that very conclusively disposes of the argument that we are thirteen years behind the libel law of England. Now, Sir, the Bill introduced last year, by the mem- ber for the Taieri, was defeated on division by twenty-three votes to twenty. There was a full and exhaustive discussion on the Bill, as there had been the previous year, and that division conveys the deliberate opinion of the House in regard to Mr. Carncross's Bill. In introducing the Bill last year Mr. Carncross said :- "It may not be generally known to some members that a newspaper proprietor may in all good faith send his reporter to report the proceedings of the Supreme Court or Magis- trate's Court, and the reporter in all good faith takes down of what is uttered there an accu- rate and fair account of the proceedings of the Court, and yet the newspaper proprietor is liable to an action for libel, although his report is fair and accurate. I say this is an injustico under which the Press of New Zealand should not be allowed to labour." There is something to be said in favour of the contention that a newspaper proprietor should 