paying in cash or in fully paid up shares, if they exercise that option and pay in fully paid up shares, then those fully paid up shares should be considered promoters' shares, and the limitations on promoters' shares under the Act of last year ought to apply to them. Then, provision ought to be made to meet this case : In the amended Mining Companies Act of 1894, it is provided that every company registered under that Act, and every company registered under any other Act that is engaged in mining, has to file an account in the Gazette every year up to the 31st December, giving a number of particulars, and amongst the particulars that this company has to file are what are supposed to be full particulars about its debts. The 4th Schedule of the Act specifies that it has to show all the debts due to the company ; debts which are considered good due to the company ; and, thirdly, any contingent liabilities of the company to anybody else. And, strange to say, the Schedule does not provide that the debts of the company due to any outsider have to be specified at all. The result is that the company may be indebted to outsiders to the extent of $9,000 or .₺10,000, and that fact is not disclosed. If the company, however, has only got a con- tingent liability of $1, that fact has got to be shown in its statement of accounts. The fol lowing is the extract from the Schedule to which I refer : " Debts : Showing the amount of debts directly due to the company ; the amount of debts considered good ; the amount of the contingent liabilities of the company (if any)." Now, it is scarcely conceivable that any of the companies have any contingent liabilities at all. They may have a great number of liabilities, but not contingent liabilities, and the important information that the public want is what is the indebtedness of the company on the 31st December; and there ought to be introduced into this Bill an addition to the Schedule of the Mining Com- panies Act of 1894, specifying that every com- pany has, in addition to the other information, to specify the debts of the company due to any person. Just looking over the Bill, these are some of the points that struck me that legis- lation is necessary for ; and I think the honour- able gentleman in charge of the Bill will do well to keep clear of a general Companies Bill in legislation which the experience of the last twelve months of gold-dredging in Otago has shown to be necessary for the gold-dredging companies of the colony, and to put on the statute-book of the colony this Bill, derived from the English Act, with the modifications that the New Zealand experience has shown to be necessary. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- Sir, before the Minister replies. there are just two points I want to make. One is in reference to the balance-sheets of companies. I do not think there is anything worse in connection with the Companies Act than the so-called balance- sheets issued to shareholders. I defy anybody not a director of the company to obtain a proper statement of the accounts of any limited liability company from the balance-sheet as. published. Only the other day I was going into the balance-sheet of a company with a turnover of nearly $100,000 a year, and in the balance-sheet the highest account showed a turnover of $28,000. As a matter of fact, it did not give the gross expenditure or receipts in the balance-sheet, and it was impossible to judge from the balance-sheet without an inspection of the books what business the company was doing. The greatest safeguard against swindling in a company is a full statement of the receipts and expenditure of that company. No audit in the world is equal to a full statement of accounts. Take, for instance, our colony : If the Govern- ment had to put in the particulars of every single voucher in the returns to be laid before this House, showing what the money was paid for, and what the articles were required for, there would be such a sensation throughout the colony that we would very soon see a very great reduction in our annual expenditure. It is to a very great extent the same in connection with companies. I think, if companies were forced by legislation to publish the whole of their receipts and expenditure it would be very much better for the companies, and there would be fewer bogus companies that we hear so much about. Of course, it is urged that it would be a wrong thing to compel a company to expose all its business to the public. But my experience is this: that, unless a com- pany has got something to conceal, no harm ever occurred to a public concern by the fact of its published accounts being made full and complete. In regard to the question of audit, the member for the Grey touched on a point that I wish the Minister to deal with. The member for the Grey told us that there have been no such unfair transactions on the West Coast as had occurred in Dunedin in connection with dredging companies. We know of one case which came before the Supreme Court. It was a case of "salting" on the West Coast, where a term of imprisonment was meted out in connec- tion with the swindling of a company on the West Coast. There have been no such cases in Dunedin. An Hon. MEMBER .- That does not come under the Companies Act. Mr. PIRANI. - I do not know what it comes under, but it ought to come under some Act. It shows there have been concerns on the West Coast whose affairs were not carried on in accordance with honest dealing. So far as dredging companies there are concerned, I do not think the member for the Grey could tell us of any that has been able to pay a dividend. Mr. GUINNESS. - Yes, several. Mr. PIRANI .- Well, they have not come to my ears. I know very many companies that have not. An Hon. MEMBER .- Have you been in any of them ? Mr. PIRANI .- Unfortunately, I have been in one, and that is about enough for me; but friends of mine have had some remarkable ex- periences with regard to dredging companies on the West Coast, so that I do not think that 