people ; and that have in many ways placed us in a position far before that of the other colo- nies. That being so, why do we want the referendum ? Is it for the purpose of undoing the good we have done ? Surely not. We have passed the cheap money law, which has been a godsend to a great number of people in the colony; and not only has money been distri- buted to those who applied to the Government for it. but the price of money generally has been brought down, so that any man who wants an advance can now get it on reasonable terms. We have also passed the Factories Act, which is one of those Acts that stand out pro- minently for the good of the workmen. Owing to the labour laws that have been passed, work- men are now sure of a living wage ; their hours are regulated, and much has been done to ele- vate them to a higher level. This Council has advanced with the people in promoting laws for the general good. If more referendums are wanted, then it is within the power of the people of the colony to have a referendum. There is the right of petitioning Parliament, and we know that petitions had a great effect some years ago when the question of granting the suffrage to women was under consideration. I believe that it was owing to the number of petitions in favour of that measure that a num- ber of honourable members in this Council saw there was a general desire on the part of the women of the colony to have the franchise, and they accordingly voted for the measure in the end. In passing. I should say that I did not vote for that measure; and I may add that I believe, if a referendum had been used then, the question would have been negatived. Fur- ther, we have Royal Commissions to see what is the will of the people, and they go round the country taking evidence. We have labour unions and other different associations band- ing themselves together, and, when any ques- tion affecting their interests is before the country, they make their voice heard, and take care that every consideration is given to it. Therefore, unless there is some ulterior motive for the promotion of this Bill, I cannot see that it is required at all. There is an old saving, "Trust the people." Why, Sir, the people have trusted Parliament-they have sent men here to do their duty, and if they do not. do so they will not be sent back again. But are they doing their duty? It seems as if they cannot trust themselves, for, according to this Bill, they require to be instructed. They wish to go to the people and say, " We are in a dilemma ; we wish your advice on this question. We are unable ourselves, from all the evidence we can obtain, to come to a conclusion." What will the constituencies say ? They will say. .. We selected you as men of ability, as men of knowledge, and we sent you to do your duty for three years ; do your duty and come back to us, and we will tell you whether you have gained our confidence or not ?" That is a referen- dum that should be sufficient for any one. Hon. Mir. Kerr majority of the voters should be. We will say there are 100,000 voters in New Zealand, and if a question were put before them -- probably a question involving many technicalities-one- half of the population would not vote, nor do I think would one-twentieth of the population ; but still we must go to an expense of $30.000 or $40,000 to obtain from merely a section of the voters an expression of their opinion. The thing is preposterous, for the expense involved would be as great as for a general election of members of Parliament. Can this colony afford to throw away money like this ? Take, for in- stance, the question of " Whether brother Bill should marry deceased brother Harry's widow." Would not that be a nice question for the colony to get a vote on by referendum ? Not one in a thousand people would ever trouble themselves to vote on the question, notwithstanding the fact that it had been before this Council on two or three occasions. Members, however, saw that there was no great harm in it, and it was passed ultimately. Then, take such a question as the Divorce Bill- a Bill that I was strenuously opposed to. I ask, Are you to put such questions as these before the voters of the country, at an expense of $30.000 or €40,000 ? The thing is monstrous, and we should not be doing our duty if we permitted a Bill to pass that would permit this to be done. I hope such a law will never appear on our statute-book. Now, in thinking over this matter it struck me that it is proposed to make drastic changes and alterations in the Constitution, because, as sure as this Bill is passed, I am certain it is only " the thin end of the wedge " for something else. It provides-that is, if people care to have it so -that "the tail should wag the head." If drastic measures are wanted. why not abolish the Upper Chamber altogether, and have thirty men chosen from the different constituencies to represent them in the Lower House ? Then et those representatives elect an Executive and submit every paltry little question that comes before them to the people, and let the people instruct them. Why, Sir, if we pass a Bill like this, we are not representatives of the people at all ; we are simply automatically worked by some of the people ; for I am confident that not one out of twenty of the people would go to the poll on many questions : but if they did. and if there were two or three questions on the ballot-papers, there would be as many informal as valid votes. At the present time, when the ballot-papers are so simple that there can scarcely be any doubt as to the intention of the ballot, there are a number of informal votes on every occasion. For these, and for many other reasons. I strongly oppose the Bill. Now, Iam not generally given to opposing Bills that emanate from the other House I am generally inclined to support them ; and. of those Bills which I have supported, I can shake hands with myself and say that every one of them has been of benefit and of use to the colony. I have striven strenuously to advance 