places in Wellington. Captain RUSSELL. - I have heard that there is a garden somewhere between Golder's Hill and Molesworth Street, and that there the Premier wants to make a solitude surrounding his own house ; but he will find by doing so he is not creating peace. But, Sir, if in the city it is difficult to conceive what the unimproved value of a section really is, it is still more so to describe how hardly it bears upon the back- block settler and upon the country residents. Parliament has not yet begun to hear about the grievances of the country settlers, but it will hear a good deal about them as time goes on. Of all unequal systems of taxation that upon so-called unimproved value is the most nefarious, for, while it practically taxes every improvement put into a farm, it exempts the buildings erected by the denizens of the towns and those of the rich residents in the suburbs of the cities. Though for local taxation this may not be important, for any general scheme of taxation it is most iniquitous. The Pre- mier told us in his speech to-night of the hardships of the man who makes a start in the back blocks and has his property taxed. But, Sir, I thoroughly understand he does not realise the position of that pioneer settler. He is one of those honourable members, of whom there are a great many in this House, who know nothing of the difficulties of the pioneer settler. Let us take the case of a struggling settler un- der the proposal to tax his unimproved value. From the very moment when the man takes up a piece of ground-which has hitherto been almost untrodden on by the foot of man, where there are no roads and no signs of civilisation and no advantages, where everything he buys is carried in under extreme difficulty, and where there is no local store at which he can obtain the few necessaries he must have to keep body and soul together - he is to have imposed on him taxation on the full selling-value of his farm. That is to say, he is to be taxed on its unimproved value. Alas, poor man ! his property is all unimproved. He buys it as Nature made it. And then, for- sooth, we are not to tax a man who has accumu- lated wealth ; it is called "taxing his thrift" ; but we are to tax to the uttermost this man who takes up a waste of country. There may be resident only a few miles from him a man of wealth, who has inherited, possibly, from some one an estate in good working condition, and out of which he can derive an immediate income. But the man who is in affluence is to be taxed practically at the same rate as the wretched man who has not had an axe swung on his property, who has no sheds, no fences, no drains, no house, no barns. He is to be taxed exactly to the same extent as the man who has a farm in a paying condition. I may be told that to tax a farm in a paying condition is a tax on thrift. I do not care whether we tax thrift or not. It is a catchy phrase, but there is nothing in this world that is taxable but thrift, unless a poll-tax. Until a man has by thrift accumulated something there is nothing farm or establish a business, and therefore you Unfortunately, Sir, I have not tax his thrift. brought with me an interesting correspondence that took place not long ago about the taxation of some properties on the West Coast. I think it was in the vicinity of Marton. It has been im- possible there to arrive at anything like an equal system of taxation. It is held by all of us who live in the country that we are indifferent as to a value being struck on our property so long as there is some reasonable basis on which the valuation is fixed and the taxation is imposed ; but under our present system of taxation, which, I contend, will be made more cumber- some and less intelligible under the proposi- tions now before us, there is no understandable basis of taxation whatsoever. There is no en- deavour to establish definitely the value of the best property in the district and also the value of the worst property in the district, so that between the two extremes a fair relative value of all the others may be arrived at, so that people will know they are to be rated according to the relative value of their property to that of the whole district. The consequence is that all through the country-at any rate, in the part where I live-there is the very gravest dissatis- faction with the valuations, which often bear absolutely no relation one to another. The valuations which are imposed have no relation one to the other, and so the people are dissatis- fied. I may be asked, What has that to do with rating on unimproved values? Because if it is impossible at the present time to ascertain a true basis for taxation, the only true basis of which, according to my views, should be that of the selling-value of the property, for it seems to me there is no other true value on which you can ascertain the sum on which a property can be taxed than what is the actual selling- value in the market -- if that value is fixed all through a district, I cannot see that there would be any injustice in the amount of a tax if all the properties in that district were taxed proportionately to their value to sell. But so long as a system is employed, such as we are suffering under at the present moment, of imposing taxation in a purely empirical manner, I maintain there will be the greatest dissatis- faction ; and it must be so, because there is no true and natural basis upon which that taxa- tion is being imposed. Now, I commenced by saying there is a vast difference between the imposition of taxation upon the unimproved values in the country and in the towns, and that that form of taxation would be a material hardship to the persons owning property in the country. I recognise that for the purposes of local taxation my argument is of little appli- cation, so long as in the particular local govern- ing district there is equality of valuation. But when it is applied relatively to the country and to the town for the purposes of general taxa- tion, then the hardship commences. Why, Sir, it is believed-at any rate, I believe it most thoroughly- that instructions are given-per- haps "instructions " is too strong a word, but, at any rate, there is an intimation given-to 