them as to the amount of money it was pro- posed to spend on that occasion. With the House the whole responsibility should rest, and he would therefore ask the Premier if he would give them an opportunity of discussing the whole matter at any carly date. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he was rather pleased that the honourable member had put the question on the Order Paper, because he had noticed that under the heading of " Special Correspondent " some of the newspapers had gauged the situation exactly, and knew the intentions of the Government. They knew the views of the members upon the question, and everything had been fixed up. He might in- form them that the Government had no inten- tion of holding two sessions next year. It would be, if tried. a splendid opportunity for . holding the session at the end of the financial year, and finishing up the business about the beginning of May. Honourable members would then have from that time to October to prepare for the general elections, which would give them a splendid opportunity of educating their constituents. Mr. MONK .-- Why not have an early session every year ? Mr. SEDDON .- They would now be able to see how it would work. It had often been urged that the session should be held im- mediately after the close of the financial year. He hoped there would not be a repetition of what took place in connection with the former representation of the colony in the Old Country. He might not get an invitation to be present https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 at the coronation, and he might not be Premier then ; but, in any case, he would never again allow any one to be placed in a position similar to that in which he himself was placed in going to the Jubilee Celebration in 1897. He was not at all anxious to represent the colony ; he would personally prefer to remain at home and look after things. An Hon. MEMBER .- Is that sarcasm ? Mr. SEDDON. -- The honourable member would see by-and-by if it was sarcasm or not. Parliament ought to know the Government's intentions, and what the expenses were likely to be in connection with the representation. The necessary amount could then be voted before the session ended. The whole matter would be placed before the House for its con- sideration. It was just as well for honourable members to now know that he had no intention of having two sessions, and that he had no in- tention of being placed in the same position as he was the last time. "THE IMPRISONMENT FOR DEBT LIMITATION ACT, 1900." Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Premier, Whether he will this session introduce a Bill to amend " The Imprisonment for Debt Limitation Act, 1900 ?" The Act of last session had altogether failed of its purpose and design. It had proved to be a perfect hotch potch, and therefore was totally useless. The proviso to section 3 said this : - Mr. Millar shall be made where the judgment creditor is a person, firm, or company whose business is that of collecting or recovering debts, unless the Court is satisfied that the judgment debt was incurred to the judgment creditor directly, and was not acquired by assignment from the original creditor." But what was the use of the Act? The Commercial Agency, which was the particular agency or association aimed at by the Act, pro- ceeded on its course as gaily as ever, notwith- standing the existence of the Act. There was the usual Thursday parade in Court of poor persons who could not pay their debts. The Commercial Agency flaunted itself in the Courts of the city week after week, and, indeed, the Act might as well never have been passed. The clear intention of the proviso to section 3 was that a company whose business was that of col- lecting debts should have no power to appear as plaintiff to a suit, and section 6 of the Act said,- "The assignee of a debt shall not be entitled to maintain in any Court any action for the recovery of such debt unless he names the assignor in the plaint-note and summons." The assignor was named in the plaint-note and summons, as provided by the Act, but the whole object of the section was defeated by the newspapers, which left out the name of the assignor. and published only the name of the Commercial Agency Company as plaintiff. The form this section of the Act should have taken was this : Say he (Mr. Fisher) were manager of the company, the form should be "G. Fisher and the Commercial Agency versus R. J. Seddon." That transposes the names. Then the name of the assignor, as the original creditor, would have to appear first, and would consequently. have to appear in the newspapers. At present this section 6 was a dead-letter, as was the whole Act, by reason of the way the Act had been drawn and bungled, though he would not sav purposely bungled. This paper, issued by the Commercial Agency, which he held in his hand expressed the opinion of the Commercial Agency Company in regard to the Act. It was printed on pale-yellow paper with great red faring letters, which was sufficient to intimidate any timorous woman or timid man. This paper stated, with several very much displayed head- ings, that the company were - "Trade assignees, trade debt collectors. trade inquiry agents; agents in every town throughout the colony. " An alphabetical register of defaulters is kept for the use of subscribers. "The services of the company's solicitor in suing for debts are not charged for, and he will advise on all legal matters without any fees to subscribers. " Don't nurse your doubtful debts until thev are irrecoverable. Avail yourself of the com- pany's expert knowledge. "Send your accounts in for collection and get a cheque promptly. "HENRY WRIGHT, Manager." 