highly improper thing that the "Tutanekai " should be utilised for the purpose of conveying a contingent to Australia without the authority of Parliament having been got for that ser- vice. It will probably be remembered that the honourable member for Riccarton drew atten- tion to the fact that, while the House last year adjourned on a Saturday, on the Monday fol- lowing the adjournment the Premier tele- graphed to the other colonies, stating that he was going to send a contingent over. He had no authority of Parliament for that ; and how he managed to evade the law was by charging the vote to " Marine : Miscellaneous Services." If the Premier had charged this to the "Un- authorised " Account it would have had to come before Parliament, and probably a dis- cussion would have arisen over it. This the Premier did not wish, and it was there. fore much easier for the Premier, if he could, to charge it under the heading of " Miscel- laneous "; it was easier for him to get the money, bury the vote, and the matter would not have come up again. That is another reason why I urge that it would be better than all systems of audit to have a system of giving publicity to every detail of the expenditure of the Government. But the Premier does not like publicity ; he seems to think there is some danger to himself -though I do not know why -- in giving the details of expenditure to the House, and therefore he gets into all this sort of trouble under the Public Revenues Act rather than lay the items on the table in "un- authorised expenditure." It is to be hoped that, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 after a discussion and publicity of this sort, the Premier will see his way to effect his object, if he wishes to make such expenditure, by paying http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero the amount out of " Unauthorised "-because he had a surplus of £43,000 of " Unauthorised " last year which he could have utilised-and allow the details to come before Parliament in the ordinary course, permitting the democracy- as the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) says, constitutional government- to rule, and allow the representatives of the people to see how the services of the State are carried out. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) .- I wish to make a personal explanation. The honourable member for Palmerston, in exercising his won- derful facility for personal abuse, made this statement. He said that in the exercise of my profession I was accustomed to invent many precedents in the Supreme Court. The state- ment, of course, is absolutely baseless. I was never guilty of such a discreditable action, nor if I had been, or if any counsel were guilty of the dishonourable conduct of quoting a fic- titious case, the honourable member must know that the Judges of the land are sufficiently con- Versant with the case-law of the Empire to at once refuse to listen to a case where no authentic report was produced, and to visit with the severest censure any barrister guilty of such conduct. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I also wish to put myself right. The honourable gentleman has repeated a statement which I know very well Mr. Pirani he will withdraw when I point out the facts to him. The section I referred to of the Act of 1878 was the law until repealed by the Act of 1891. Mr. PIRANI .- Oh, no; it was re-enacted in 1891. Mr. SEDDON .- If the honourable member will look at the repeal of the Acts of 1878 he will find in the schedule the Public Revenues Act of 1878. I have had the law searched from then to 1892, and I find that for years the same law existed as we passed in the Act of last session. That is the answer to the honour- able gentleman, and from 1892 up to the present day there was an interregnum of two years. Mr. PIRANI .-- You have found that out. Mr. SEDDON .- My statement stands good ; that that has been the law for over twenty years. What I rose particularly for was to refer to a pure fiction, a pure invention of the imagina- tion, to the effect that I had told the member for Wallace that the clause in the Public Revenues Act to which exception had been taken was inserted for the purpose of meeting the case of the increased vote to members. I say, Sir, that I never said anything of the kind to that honourable member. I repeat, that before the House met at all we were advised that an alteration of the law was necessary in the interests of administration, a proof of which I have now in my department. The statement which the honourable member has made was. I understand, made before, and, as the honourable member for Wallace is now present, I would ask him to either confirm or deny my statement. Mr. GILFEDDER (Wallace) .- Seeing that my name has been drawn into this debate, I would like, as a personal explanation, to say a few words. I desire to inform the House that the Premier did not speak to me in reference to the Public Revenues Bill, either before or at any time during its passage through the House. The member for Palmerston made the same allegation in Committee last session as I under- stand he made this afternoon during my ab- sence; and I then denied it. I can inform honourable members that the Government in- troduced that Bill without consulting me in any way in reference to it. Perhaps the honourable member for Palmerston thinks they should have done so. And I would further add that no member of the Ministry made any re- mark to me in reference to the Public Revenues Bill, or to any particular clause in it. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- Sir, I desire to make a personal explanation, as the member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) has misquoted me. What I did say was that he had quoted precedents in this case that had no existence- probably as he had done in the Supreme Court. As for the honourable member for Wallace, Mr. Gilfedder, I am sorry he has so short a memory. He told me last session that that clause of the Public Revenues Act was introduced to enable members to get an increase of salary ; and I replied to him at the time, "Why do you not ask the Premier to say so in the House ?" Mr. GILFEDDER .- Absolutely incorrect. 