has been sprung on me in the motion for the adjournment of the debate, because I have not been informed by members on either side of the House that in moving the second reading I said anything about moving the Bill mo forma. Hon. MI MBERS .- Oh, yes. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- You promised it. Mr. SEDDON .- I did nothing of the kind. I could not accept the motion for the adjourn- ment of the debate. I may say at once that if the House thinks it can better conduct the Government business, and say how and when Bills are to be brought in, they had better fix upon another man to be at the helm. Captain RUSSELL .- Sir, I think that is going beyond the question. Mr. SPEAKER .- I understand the honour- able gentleman is making a proposal to meet the objection. Mr. SEDDON .- Sir, the honourable member ought to withdraw his motion for adjourn- ment, and I would then consider the position ; or the House could negative the motion to adjourn the debate, and I then will find a way out of the ditheulty. I wish to avoid friction I want to keep them together with members. to get the Bill through; but the motion to adjourn the debate would not help in that direction. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) .-- Might I be allowed, with the indulgence of the House -the same indulgence that was allowed to the Premier to say, in reference to the suggestion of the Premier and in reference to the sugges- tions of the honourable member for Mataura and the honourable member for Motueka, that I have great pleasure in withdrawing my motion if the House consents? When moving the amendment I had no idea of obstructing the Bill or the general business. Therefore if the House will give me leave to withdraw the amendment for the adjournment of the debate, in order that the suggestion of the member for Motueka may be agreed to, and that the Bill may be read a second time pro forma, I shall have very great pleasure in withdrawing my amendment. Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton). - When the Premier introduced this Bill on the 2nd July he gave the House the assurance that the Government intended to take the same course in respect to it that they did in regard to the Municipal Corporations Bill of last year. The course then adopted was that the second read- ing was taken pro forma. Now, nobody knows better than the member for the Grey that there can be no discussion of a second-reading nature, unless the second reading is taken pro forma, when the Bill comes back from the Counties Committee. But what I desire to point out to the Premier is that earlier in the session he . gave an assurance that not only the County Councils should be able to discuss this matter, but that a Conference, which should consist of representatives of Road Boards and other local bodies interested, as well as of County Councils, should have an opportunity of going into its Mr. Seddon Now, no such Conference has been held. What did happen was this : A Conference of members of County Councils sat in Wellington to consider the Bik, and at least one of the Canterbury members-namely, the member for Ellesmere - who went as a delegate of a Road Board, was refused permission to take any part in its pro- ceedings, and was told that he could only remain there by courtesy. Now, what becomes of those Road Boards in the County of Selwyn, for instance, where the Counties Act is not in operation at all? There the system of local government is carried out by Road Boards. Then, at an earlier part of the session the question was raised by the member for Geral- dine as to whether Town Boards interested in the Bill were to be allowed to take part in the proposed Conference, and the Premier said he hoped that the Conference would include dele- gates not only from Road Boards, but from Town Boards, whose interests should also be represented in connection with this matter. Under these circumstances, I certainly think that the Bill is being pushed on too hastily, and that the general body of people, who are in- terested more in the form of Road Board govern- ment than of county government, have not had any voice in the conference on the Bill. I do not hesitate to say that I prefer the Road Board system of local government to the county sys- tem. In my opinion, the counties do not pro- vide a really efficient form of local government, and the attempt that has been made year after year in this House to set up some kind of bastard form of county system, which is neither " fish, flesh, fowl, nor good red-herring," seems to me to be one of those things which emanate from the Premier's brain, because on the West Coast they hardly know what a Road Board is. There they have the county system, and that is why the enthusiasm of the member for the Grey is so strong on that point. Mr. GUINNESS .- Why, the Premier entered politics through a Road Board. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - But he would not- have been where he is to-day if he had stayed on a Road Board. It was through the county system the Premier was raised to the Premier- ship of the colony. Mr. SEDDON .- I was in the Provincial Council. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - Yes ; I think the member for the Grey can remember some of the i incidents that happened when the Premier was a member of the Provincial Council. If the honourable member will take his memory back to those days, I think he will remember that the Premier was as smart then in managing the Provincial Council as he is now in managing this House. Mr. GUINNESS .-- Hear, hear. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - I am glad to hear that the honourable gentleman agrees with that, and I think that some of the incidents that hap- pened in those days show that the Premier was quite as astute long before he attained to tho Premiership as he is now. There is no doubt that the powers conferred by this Bill are very 