any other visit. And, Sir, I take it that the Mines Report, and all these other reports, should have been in the hands of the Printer and printed before Parliament met at all, and we might have had them on the first day of ses- sion. Now, coming back to B .- 1, the Public Accounts of the colony, we have heard before that the reason why the Public Accounts of the colony are not laid on the table was because the Government had to await certain communica- tions from the Agent-General in respect to the finances from London. Now, these communi- cations, I think, on previous occasions never took Admitting that more than six or eight weeks. they require these six or eight weeks in which to complete the information they require from London, there is no reason why B .- 1, the Public Accounts of the colony, should not have been printed by the end of June : and I undertake to say that, if the Premier will form a Commission of inquiry-he is so fond of Commissions-to go down to the public offices and to see how long the B .- 1 Public Accounts of the colony in manuscript have been ready for the Printer, we will then see -- Mr. SEDDON .- Will you go on the Commis- sion ? Mr. J. ALLEN .- Yes ; I will go on the Com- mission if you will appoint me. Mr. SEDDON .- You are asking for a billet. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I do not want any pay for it, or even $40. Sir, I take it that if we could have a Commission of inquiry into the position of the B .- 1 paper we should find it had been ready for the Printer for some time, and that we might have had it for some time. I do not know whether it is done deliberately until the http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero financial debate is over, but it looks very like it. These were the four papers that have been referred to. There is one other which I think ought to have been laid on the table, and I refer to the Post and Telegraph Report. It was laid on the table last year on the 17th August. I suppose the same excuse will be made that the officials of the Post and Tele- graph Department were engaged in connec- tion with the visit of the Duke of York. It seems to me that the visit of the Duke of York is accountable for every ill that has happened to the colony this year ; and, if this is to be so, on any future occasion I trust we shall make some special preparations for the visit of any other Duke and Duchess, so that the proper business of Parliament may not be unnecessarily delayed. I see no reason why the report of the Post and Telegraph Department should not have been laid on the table on the first day of the session. All the details required are in the hands of the officials, and might have been in the hands of the Printer before Parliament met. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- Sir, I am pleased to hear the remarks of honourable members protesting against the action of the Premier in forcing on the financial debate without these very important documents, es- pecially the Railways Statement, the Lands Statement, and Mines Statement. Now, Sir, VOL. CXVII .- 39. Minister for Railways just now stated that the Statement could not be prepared because the head officers of that department were engaged in connection with matters arising out of the visit of their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess of York. Sir, how much of the com- pilation of that statement-for, after all, it is only a compilation -- depends upon the personal services and labour of the head officers of the department ? Why, Sir, the only part that is written by the General Manager may almost invariably be stated to occupy not more than two folio pages of the report. It is the duty of the subordinate officers, of course, to pre- pare the returns, and it is these returns which members of this House ask for, in order that they may be able to estimate fairly the position of the railways. I agree with what is stated by the member for Bruce. I have been looking through the figures relat- ing to the railways in the Financial Statement. But the Railways Department audits its own accounts. It has supreme control of its own finance, and positively the only place where honourable members can obtain any informa- tion in connection with the railways expendi- ture is found in the half-page of the estimates at the end of the Working Railways Account. We are asked to accept blindly the whole of the railway figures without having any document whatever placed in our hands by which to test the accuracy of the Railway Department's figures. Now, Sir, there is another very im- portant point. Some weeks ago the Minister for Railways, in answer to a question by myself, stated that he intended to include in the Rail- ways Statement this year a return showing the amount that was provided by the different Go- vernment departments towards the Railways revenue. The honourable gentleman gave that assurance ; and I venture to say, Sir, that the revenue that has been received by the Railways Department from the other departments of the public service will constitute a very valuable side-light upon the increase in the revenue that the Railways Department claims to have obtained this year. And how can honourable members accurately gauge whether the railways are earning the sum claimed without having the complete figures? And there is another thing, and it is this: The Railways Department last year received a vote of some $600,000 for additions to open lines. How can we, without the Railways Statement, ascertain how much of that money is being spent in actual additions to open lines, and how much may have been -- I do not say is - charged to working-expenses for renewal and improve- ment of the rolling-stock of the railways ? I therefore say it is unfair to the House to ask us to go on with the financial debate without these returns being placed before honourable members. Now, with regard to B .- 1 : The other day, speaking in the House, the Right Hon. the Premier said that B .- 1 could not be provided- Mr. SEDDON .- I object to anything that has taken place in the House being brought up 