ferondum upon the parliamentary stage. The Hon. Mr. ARKWRIGHT. - After the very able and exhaustive speech we have heard from the Hon. Mr. Louisson, I feel I cannot add much to the arguments brought against the Bill. But I think I ought not to give a stent vote, because I find myself in the same position as that honourable gentleman. I gene- rally approve of the measures brought in by the Goverment, and vote for them with pleasure. On this occasion I feel it my duty to vote against the second reading of the Bill. Whatever may be said for or against it, there is no doubt it introduces a most important constitutional change, and I never heard of a Bill which introduced a change of this kind being brought in in what I may call so perfunctory a manner. Before I can be induced to vote for a measure of this kind I must hear some much better arguments than I have heard either in this Council or by the right honourable gentle- man in another place. Anybody who did not know the state of affairs in New Zealand would unagine there was a constant state of friction between the two Houses, and that this Bill was a remedy that must be brought in to put an end to it. The honourable gentleman who introduced the Bill has not attempted to show that there is anything of the kind-in fact, he knows there is not ; there never has been, and it is not at all likely, under present circum- stances, to arise in future. I can imagine a state of things in which there might be con- sderable friction between the two Houses. If we had a Council elected by the people, as some of my honourable friends wish, I believe very serious difficulties would arise- - difficulties that could only be decided by some measure of this kind. But so long as the Council is consti- theed as at prosent there is no danger of any- thing of the sort. We know we cannot reject a measure on which the other House insists --- that is. we may show our disapproval of it by rejecting it once or twice ; but if they insist on the measure, especially if a general election intervenes and they still insist upon it, we know it is our duty to give way. The Council has always done so, and. I believe, always will have sufficient sonse to give way. Then, what is the necessity for such a Bill? Ir one speaks to honourable members or any one else who advocate the Bill, all they can say is. " Oh, you must trust the people." Well, of course, we do to a certain extent ; we trust th. m. as we must. to send proper representatives to Parliament. To that extent we trust them, and I suppose the proper thing to say is that the people fulfil the trust admirably. I sup- Jose we may take it that the honourable gentle- mon they send to represent them in another ! lace are the best they can find, and we may .- swine they never by any chance send a foolish person, or a windbag, or a drunkard, or anybody they ought not to send. But when it comes to trusting the people to exercise a vote on a Bill tiev have had very little opportunity of seeing, and still less of understanding . a Bill of many clauses perhaps, which may bear upon many VOL. CXVII .- 2. first sight-I do not think that is the sort of trust we can put in them. For instance, there is a Bill on the Order Paper called the Mortgages Bill. Suppose the Council thinks fit to reject it, what sort of vote would the people give on it if submitted to a referendum? Of course, I say nothing of the Bill; I know nothing about it. I believe it has the almost unanimous disapproval of the legal profession, and I suppose that is to a certain extent in its favour ; but I ask any man to say what sort of judgment would the people pass on it who have had no opportunity of seeing it, except, perhaps, stuck up in a post-office. I think this Bill ought not to be allowed to go into Committee, and I move. That it be read the second time this dan sir months. The Hon. Mr. REEVES. -- It is not my in- tention to vote for the amendment. I think we ought to have the Bill more fully discussed. So far as I am myself concerned, I must con- fess I am not inclined to vote for it at present, but I think the Council should have a little more time to consider the matter. The Bill is a very old friend. I have known it come up at different times for the last twenty odd years in another place, when I had the honour of being a member, under different foster-fathers. ] re- gret very much the Right Hon. the Premier has seen fit to put his name at the head of it, because I quite agree with most honourable gentlemen who have spoken that it is not re- quired. I was very pleased at the very lucid way in which the Hon. Mr. Louisson spoke about the Bill. He is a gentleman who has travelled a great deal and knows what he is talking about. Now. we have in New Zealand the freest Con- stitution in the world -- nothing could be freer : no referendum we could have enacted could give us greater freedom than we have at present. After looking in a cursory manner through this Bill, I can see well enough that if it were tried in law the cost to the colony would be some- thing enormous. It would be "a referendum here " and "a referendum there" ; every little place that liked to send in a requisition to have a referendum could have it, and as a general election costs a lot of money, the taking of a referendum would cost infinitely more. Therefore, on that ground alone, I think we should pause before passing this Bill. But. Sir, I do not think we require it. We are a people with government by the people and of the people : the other House is elected by the people, they go before the people every three years, and that is the best referendum you can possibly have. Another objection I have is that I think an important measure like this should not be brought ap just now. The time to bring up a measure like this is at a general election on the hustings, and I am quite con- tident in my own mind that the good-sens? of the people throughout New Zealand would scout the idea of a referendum. Switzerland has been instanced as a country where the principle of the referendum is in force, and also South Australia ; but both of these countries are very slow places. Switzerland particularly 