He must take into consideration the fact that that land was reduced from a swamp to a pasture, and he must allow something as im- provements for the drainage. And so on with respect to plantations of willows for river-pro- tection, and so forth. It seems to me that if the Government had incorporated in this Bill some directions to valuers as guiding lines for ascertaining the unimproved value it would have been a good thing to do; and if the services of the Valuer-General had been brought into requisition I am sure he could have drafted some guiding lines which would have simpli- fied and rendered uniform throughout the colony the work of the valuers in regard to ascertaining the unimproved value, and satisfy practically all needs. The honourable mem- ber for Hawke's Bay cannot credit that the present system works unfairly in the country districts. Now, I have a case in my own dis- trict, which is very like the following: In a remote part of the district, while the land is all in bush, a loan is raised in order to make a road or bridge. There are two principal owners who are being benefited by this work, and, as usual, a rate is imposed in order to provide the interest and sinking fund on this loan. The value placed upon the two properties is 10s. an acre-that is to say, the two landowners will begin by paying an equal amount by way of rates annually towards the sinking fund and interest on the loan. Later on, however, one man begins to improve his place, while the other does nothing in this direction at all. The result is that in a few years the one pro- perty is highly improved, and the other is in its original bush state. The former is valued at £6 an acre, and the latter still at 10s. ; so that, far from the one paying exactly the same amount per annum as the other, as at the outset, we find that the man who bas im- proved his property has to pay twelve times as much as his neighbour. But, for every €1 the one pays, the other only pays 1s. 8d. I would ask the honourable member for Hawke's Bay if that is a fair state of things. I do not wish to take up the time of the House in dis- cussing this question any longer, but before concluding I would like to mention the case of Brisbane. In reference to that, I can bear out the statement of the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds) that in the City of Brisbane a very noticeable feature is the absence of slums. At the time I was there, some six months ago, I did not know that the system of rating on unimproved value had been adopted. If one of the effects of the system is to abolish slums, I say let us have it, and the sooner the better. I should say, Sir, speaking generally, it is the small man who will be benefited by the passing of this measure, and it is the small man who in every case asks for it. In the speeches of honourable members it has been said over and over again that the increase would afford encouragement to men to build a better class of houses. The honourable member for Hawke's Bay compared the case of two bush settlers-the one who improved his place by building a good dwellinghouse, stables, sheds, VOL. CXVII -22. et cetera; and the other, his next-door neigh- bour, who simply carved his way into the bush, and was content to live in a hut. I say, Sir, if that man could not build anything better for his wife and family than a hut, then he was taking up something that was too big for him to handle. It was beyond his means, and that sort of settlement ought not to be encouraged. No better encouragement could be given to our colonists to improve their homes and their buildings generally than the passing of this measure into law, but with the provision that. the ratepayers of any district could at any time, by taking a poll, revert to the old system if they found it suited them better. Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera) .- I would like to say a few words before the question is put to the vote. I do not care for the Bill, because it is too drastic. It is also compulsory, and I do not like compulsion. I may here say, Sir, that I do not object to rating on unimproved value, which I believe is bound to come. We want first, however, uniformity in our system. Before we force this measure upon the people we should trust the people ; and before passing a Bill of this kind the Valuation Department requires to be reorganized. No department has, I think, caused so much dissatisfaction and irritation as that department. The valua- tions have not been on a fair basis ; they are not even, there are inequalities in every direc- tion ; and there is nothing more annoying than that feeling which arises from a sense of injustice, and to pass a Bill like this before we have mastered the first principles would, I think, be very hurtful, more especially as its provisions are compulsory. We have the Act of 1896, under which any local body can adopt rating on the unimproved value. Surely, Sir, that should be sufficient. Why force the people by a drastic measure like this, and at the same time pretend that we trust them? If we pass this Bill we will clearly demonstrate that we trust the people only when it suits us to do so. I am satisfied that this Bill is not required ; and if the compulsory clause is to be excised, as I understood the Premier to say it would be, then what object was there in introducing the Bill at all ? because we have sufficient legislation already on the statute-book in the Act of 1896. If the compulsory clause is to be retained, I can understand why the Bill has been intro- duced ; but I am strongly opposed to compul. sion, especially when there is no necessity for it. I believe that the great majority of the people are anxious to see valuations put on & fair and equitable basis. In the district I have the honour to represent the values are far too Because industries have high. And why ? sprung up, and the district is populated by a class of industrious settlers-men holding small areas of highly improved land. We are heavily rated because of the energy and perseverance of our settlers, who work early and late in order to bring their land into a high state of cultiva- tion. The improvements on the land, it is alleged by the settlers, are not sufficiently taken into account. In fact, the Land-tax Depart- ment, following the Land Assessment Act, takes - 