That the following address of condolence be presented to His Most Gracious Majesty the King on the death of Her Imperial Majesty the Dowager Empress Frederick of Germany :- " We, your Majesty's most dutiful and loyal subjects, the House of Representatives of New Zealand, in Parliament assembled, humbly sub- mit to your Majesty the expression of our sincere condolence for the loss which your Majesty has sustained by the death of Her Imperial Majesty the Dowager Empress Frederick of Germany. "We humbly beg to assure your Majesty that our feelings of devoted loyalty to your Majesty's throne, and of affectionate attach- ment to your Majesty's person, lead us to feel deep interest in all that concerns your Majesty's domestic relations, and to pray earnestly for the happiness of your Majesty and your Majesty's family." Sir, ere the wounds are closed, caused by the death of a beloved mother, our good and gracious Queen Victoria, of blessed memory, this further bereavement has overtaken our Gracious Sovereign and the Royal Family. It is sad in the extreme, and our Sovereign must have keenly felt not being able to be with his dear sister in her last moments. It will to some extent, I feel sure, comfort and console him to know that those, though far distant in this colony, through their representatives, take the occasion of conveying to His Majesty our sin- cere and heartfelt sympathy and condolence. I feel sure, Sir, that one and all present feel deeply https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 the loss that the German nation has sustained, and also the loss our nation has sustained by the death of the Dowager Empress Frederick of Germany, and better known by us as the Princess Royal. I move, Sir, the resolution. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) .- I rise to second the resolution moved by the Right Hon. the Premier. When I cast my mind back for many years, I can remember the Princess Royal of England, before she became the wife of Prince Frederick William of Prussia, joining in good work, and by her artistic skill adding con- siderably to the patriotic fund for the benefit of the English soldiers, or, rather, for the widows and children of those who died in the Crimean war. Sir, if one considers the memory of Her late Imperial Majesty the Empress of Germany, one cannot but realise how, though she left Eng- land a young girl, scarcely a woman, she con- tinued always devoted to her native country, and how great her influence has been in foster. ing, I may say perpetuating, the feeling of good- will between the Imperial family of Germany and that of England. Although she became by marriage and by life-long residence rather, per- haps, a German than an Englishwoman, yet in her heart she never forgot the land of her birth. Of the people of contemporaneous history it is more than possible that her influence for good has tended most to perpetuate the friendship between the great branches of the Saxon races- the German and the English people - which is so conducive to the peace of the world. Though, of course, not one of the most remarkable examples in history, she has been known for Mr. Seddon sound judgment more than, perhaps, we can realise, for at times of strained relations between Germany and England her influence has always been in favour of the country-not in favour of, but favourable towards the country in which she was born ; and, though it is said in these days that the alliances of Royal families do not affect the destinies and policies of nations, yet it is incredible that they do not in some degree tend to harmony amongst the rulers of empires ; and I, at any rate, cannot but feel that in the death of Her Imperial Highness the Dowager Empress of Germany England has lost a power which has always been friendly and for peace in the world. Motion agreed to. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I now move, That an address be presented to His Excellency the Governor, forwarding the above address, and praying him to transmit the same to His Majesty's Principal Secretary of State for the Colonies to be laid at the foot of the Throne. Motion agreed to. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, I now desire to move the following : " That a respectful address be presented to His Excellency the Governor, requesting His Excellency to convey to His Majesty's Principal Secretary of State for the Colonies, for presentation to the German Go- vernment, the expression of the deep sympathy of the House of Representatives with the Emperor and Royal Family of Germany, and the German people, on the occasion of the death of Her Imperial Majesty the Dowager Empress Fre- derick of Germany." To-day, Sir, two great nations are mourning the loss of one who in life has done great ser- vice to both. There can be no doubt whatever that during her life, if we are to credit what has been written, to some extent Her Imperial Highness suffered because of the work which she did in assisting to promote the good-will of both nations, and in seeing that the interests of our nation did not suffer. I feel sure to-day that both nations tender to the German Em- peror on the loss of a beloved mother their sincere sympathy ; and towards our Sovereign on the loss of a dear sister there is only one feeling, and that is heartfelt sympathy and condolence. The work done in life will not end now. I feel sure that this sad occurrence will bring both nations closely together. It is in the interests of the - orld, it is for the promotion of peace, that Germany and Great Britain should be on the most friendly terms. And we in this colony sympathize with those German colonists who are with us, and of whose great help and assistance we can speak. Wecan also speak of how on each and every occasion they have sympathized with us when loss has overtaken us. To them to-day we heartily re- ciprocate-nay, we are bound together, for we are both mourners ; and I repeat this will help, in my opinion, to bring us closer together. In moving this resolution, and asking members to support it, I can only say that we deeply de- plore the sad ending of the Dowager Empress Frederick of Germany. We cannot forget the courage, the fortitude, the devotion of the wife 