weted if we trust the Corporation of the City of Dunedin. Why, Sir, this policy of silence to-night ? Where is our junior member for the City of Dunedin ? And where is the medium member for that city ? We have not had one honourable member except the gentleman who moved this measure rising to say one single word in support of it. Mr. ARNOLD .-- We are waiting for you. Mr. T. MACKENZIE. -- The honourable gentioman is not waiting for me. The honour- able gentleman is in hopes that if some of the claus of this Bill are allowed to go without much comment and discovery, the Bill will be taken to its second reading; but we are not opposed to the Bill in its entirety, though we are strongly opposed to some of its clauses. The honourable member in charge of the Bill said there was no allusion to the taking of the lin through the Gardens. Why, Sir, although that point is not mentioned in the Bill, it seeks to grant to the Corporation the power of sending the tramway almost anywhere. Mr. ARNOLD. - Which clause ? Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Beginning with the preamble, which savs .--- " Whereas the said tramways were, by several deeds and assurances made and dated the twenty-first day of March, one thousand nine hundred and one. transferred, conveved, and assured to the said Corporation, and are now, together with the several Orders in Council, concessions, and contracts relating to the said several tramways, and all the rights which belonged to the said company in virtue of ·ach several Orders in Council, concessions, and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 contracts, absolutely vested in the said Corpo ration : And whereas the said Corporation, by Thomas Bolster Fairburn, its Town Clerk, some time since applied for, and on the sixth day of March. one thousand nine hundred and one, obtained. in the name of the said Thomas Bolster Fairbairn, the several mining privi- leges the licenses whereof are set forth in the First Schedule hereto, such mining privileges being granted in pursuance of and subject to the provisions of .The Mining Act. 1898."" Then. Sir, here is the power with the horoughs,- ". 4. In lieu of the interpretation of the ex- pression 'the suburban districts' in the said Act. the said expression shall be deemed to include, and as from the passing of the said Act to have included, the boroughs contiguous to the City of Dunedin, the boroughs in section five of the said Act mentioned, and the terri- tory of counties contiguous to Dunedin or to such boroughs." Now. Sir, just before leaving that section it leads up to section 5, which leads up to the taking of the line of tramways through the Town Belt. Sir, I doubt if even now-the doubt wa- raised by the honourable member for Bruce -- they have the right to take these through the Botanical Gardens, because I believe there is existing somewhere powers that vested a por- tion of that Town Belt either to the old Accli- flora and fauna. And let me say, in this con- nection, regarding these Gardens, that they have been for all time a preserve for some of the rarest flora and fauna in this country, and they are wisely managed by one of the most com- petent curators in the Southern Hemisphere: I refer to Mr. MeBean. They are essentially botanical gardens. There you will see some of the choicest and finest collection of our rarest plants. Botanists have penetrated our forests and scaled the alpine and sub-alpine regions. and have taken the finest specimens of our fora and entrusted them to the care of the Curator. There you may see Arundo, Celmisia, Senccio, Fagus, and Ranuncula. Then Panax, Pitto- sporum, Veronica, Coprosma, Metrosideros, and Podocarpus are largely represented: as well as Wahlenbergia, Cordyline, and Phormium. So that here we have now the botany of the country well and finely represented. Then, there are those beautiful ponds that have now become the sanctuaries for our wild fowl. It will hardly be credited that to those small ponds flocks of wild ducks come almost nightly. I have counted as many as fifty grey duck in one flock. I have seen the mountain blue duck, and occasionally the black, grey, and brown teal. and occasional specimens of the paradise ducks. The weka thrives there : the kiwi, the kakapo, and the pukeko are there also. I say that when you find grounds that are conserved for those purposes, when you find native birds coming there of their own accord- - and I have not mentioned anything like the birds you will find there -- you will find the kaka, the tui, the beautiful green tui (the native name of which is the mokomoko), the paroquet, the robin, and the warbler. Mr. BARCLAY .- The " green tui"? Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Yes, the green tui ; it is known by that name by many settlers. The honourable gentleman has no idea of what a lovely bird is like. He has no eye for nature or the beautiful-constitutional law absorbs his whole attention ; but had he love for them, in the early morning his soul might often be clevated by the sweet and lovely melody of one I consider, Sir, of our choicest songsters. where you have reserves of that sort, where you have the flora and fauna well represented and preserved, you should do the best you can to still further conserve those reserves, and not interfere with them in any way. These grounds, as has been pointed out by the honourable member for Bruce, are the recreation-grounds for the people of Dunedin. Every Sunday hundreds, and sometimes thousands, of people congregate there, and during the week visitors from the country and abroad resort to those gardens, where they are highly delighted. There is no part of New Zealand which could be made more beautiful than this particular spot. Nature has done much for it ; and, as has been said by the honourable member for Wallace, in Taranaki they have those beautiful gardens. In Christchurch there are also beau- tiful gardens which attract visitors from all 