further, he would just remind the Premier that it was a hardship also upon the settler and farmer who had to borrow money, because, naturally, the lender tried to recover as much as possible of this burden out of the borrower. He thought the Premier would admit that the average rate at which money was lent at the present time on good security was 44 per cent .; and 43 per cent. on a loan of $4,000 would bring in an income of £180, and upon that the lender had to pay to the Government 916 13s. 4d. in the shape of mortgage-tax. It was a very great hardship, and it was a hardship which he thought the Premier would admit was in- equitable. He hoped the Premier would see his way immediately to apply relief in accordance with the promise he made last session. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, Members, of course, would well understand that "he who lives upon money-lending toils not, neither does he spin, but generally waxes rich." That was generally admitted. Of course, it was the duty of the State to see that taxation was equitable, and that it was paid by those best able to pay. That was the fundamental prin- ciple upon which they went. There had been lately, in consequence of the fall in the rate of interest that had taken place, a demand by those who lent money for a decrease in the tax. Mr. MONK .- Why do you lend money on land, and charge more than private indivi- duals who pay the mortgage-tax ? Mr. SEDDON said, Because the Government have no income-tax to pay, and gave the people who borrowed money from them the benefit of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 that. He did say in the Financial Statement last session that they would this year bring down a proposal to reduce the mortgage-tax. It meant a loss of $25,000 a year. Since that http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero he found that his expenditure had gone up so much that he should have to reconsider whether he should bring down that proposal or not. If he did bring it down he should have to raise the money elsewhere, and that only meant another turn in the screw in regard to the graduated land-tax. At all events, this matter had been engaging the attention of the Govern- ment, and they wanted to do what was right. WELLINGTON-MANAWATU RAILWAY. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked the Government, Whether the offer made last year by the Wel- lington-Manawatu Railway Company for the sale of their line to the colony has been de- finitely refused, and whether there are any negotiations now in progress between the com- pany and the Government ? It was needless for him to say that this question was very im. portant, particularly to his own district and to the West Coast generally. He did not wish to take up the time of the House with any remarks, beyond simply saying that he was of opinion that it would be far better for the colony if this line was bought under "The Railways Construction and Land Act, 1881," and under the contract with the company, than under a contract such as was suggested last year. At the same time the Government should have the Mr. Monk last year ; but it seemed to him, after consider- ing the matter, that it was better to buy the line under the original Act. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the honour- able member would, no doubt, have seen a reference in the public prints to the fact that the Government had declined to purchase on the terms submitted by the company. The Government had had a calculation made contrasting the proposed terms of purchase with the amount that it would probably cost the colony to purchase on the terms of the original contract, and had come to the conclusion that it would be advantageous for them rather to take it under the old contract as compared with the offer made : the only differ- ence in respect to which it would be an advan- tage being that if they bought the company out, land and everything, the company would disappear, and the Government fall into its place. He still thought that, at a reduced rate of interest, it would be better to take under a new contract. There was uncertainty in respect to assessing. Assessment had to be fixed by arbitration under the old contract, and his experience had always been that in arbitra- tion the (Government had always to go to the wall. He was very doubtful of relying upon arbitration where the terms of the contract were so ambiguous. An Hon. MEMBER .- It was all right in the Midland Company. Mr. SEDDON said that had been all right. and for that he was very thankful ; at the same time he might say, in answer to the question, that he thought some adjustment of differences 1 might take place under the new proposals. The fact was they were asking too much in asking 5 per cent. or 6 per cent. as the rate of interest from the commencement - knowing, as he did, that shares had been bought considerably below par. What they offered to sell at was : about $1 15s. A large number of these shares have been bought below par, and the pur- chasers thought to make money out of the colony ; but they would not make a rise out \-- of him if he could help it. It was necessary, as far as possible, to protect the interests of the colony. When the proper time came a report would be made, but in the meantime they were not prepared to pay anything like what the company asked. MICHAEL O'CONNOR. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Government, Whether they will favourably consider the claim of Michael O'Connor to the New Zealand Cross, in accordance with the favourable recommendation of the Waste Lands Committee, 1895, and also the favourable re- commendation of the Public Petitions MI to % Committee of last session ? He believed he was correct in saving that no Government had ever seriously considered the claim of Michael O'Con- nor to the New Zealand Cross. He would not like to say that the claim had not been fairly considered because Michael O'Connor was not fortunate enough to have the support of wealthy 