Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Premier, Whether the Government will recoup the Brothers the cost of the several trials in connection with the Stoke Orphanage-which were in the nature of State trials-the juries having returned a verdict of "Not guilty " in every case? It would be remembered that, consequent upon certain alarming reports in regard to the management of the Stoke Indus- trial School, the City of Nelson was thrown into a state of ferment, and an investigation was made by a Royal Commission, which resulted in extraordinary and sensational statements being made throughout the colony and in the House in regard to the acts of cruelty which had been perpetrated within the walls of the institution. These sensational statements re- sulted in the use of inflammatory language in the House, and ultimately steps were taken which led to the prosecution of the Brothers who were teachers in the school. These trials extended over twenty one days -from the 21st November to the 12th December. There were twelve charges in all : six were tried and six were abandoned. Of the six cases tried, ver- dicts of acquittal were recorded in every case. He would epitomize the cases and their re- sults. On the 21st November, 1900, at the Supreme Court, Wellington, before his Honour Mr. Justice Edwards, James Solan (Brother Kilian) was charged with committing a common assault, which Mr. Bell, the Crown Prosecutor, described as consisting of " unkind treatment." The case lasted the whole of that day, and was unfinished. On the 22nd November, after a second day's hearing, the jury retired at twenty- five minutes to six o'clock, and after a quarter of an hour's absence returned into Court with a verdict of "Not guilty." The case occupied two days, and the jury settled the matter in a quarter of an hour. On the 23rd November, be- fore Mr. Justice Edwards, James Solan (Brother Kilian) was charged with common assault. The jury retired at half-past five o'clock, and in less than ten minutes returned into Court with a verdict of "Not guilty." On the 29th November, before Mr. Justice Edwards, the Crown Prosecutor entered a nolle prosequi in all the other charges against James Solan (Brother Kilian). On the same day - 29th November- before Mr. Justice Edwards, Edward Forrier (Brother Wybertus) was charged with having committed an indecent assault on William Hardwick. The Judge said, " Personally, he would not punish a cat on the boy's evidence," whereupon the Crown Prosecutor, Mr. Bell, consented to accept a verdict of " Not guilty." On the 30th November, before Mr. Justice Edwards, Edward Forrier (Brother Wybertus) was charged with having committed an in- decent assault on Thomas Francis Owens. The jury, after twenty minutes' retirement, returned a verdict of " Not guilty." On the 1st Decem- ber, before Mr. Justice Edwards, Edward Forrier (Brother Wybertus) was charged with having committed a common assault on William Ross. Mr. Justice Edwards said, " It is quite impossible these things could have taken place retiring from the box, returned a verdict of " Not guilty." Then the Judge was changed. On the 3rd December, before the Chief Justice, Sir Robert Stout, Edward Forrier (Brother Wybertus) was charged with having committed an indecent assault on William Joseph Guckert. Mr. Skerrett. who appeared in all the cases for the accused, mentioned that "these cases were looked at by many persons from a sectarian point of view. During the empan- nelling of the jury counsel for the Crown, as well as counsel for the defence, had, in making challenges, proceeded on the assumption that the cases were being viewed in that way. The jury probably did not include any one who agreed with the religion of the accused, and probably included some men who were opposed to it." The jury disagreed, after being locked up for one hour and five minutes. On the 10th December, at the second trial, the pre- siding Judge, Sir Robert Stout, in summing up, made the following extraordinary state- ment : "If in cases of this kind the evi- dence of the accused was to be believed, then the crime in question might as well be taken out of the statute-book." The jury returned at half-past eight p.m., after nearly a three- hours retirement, with a verdict of "Not guilty." The New Zealand Times' report of the case states that "the verdict was received with a round of applause." That was the end of the trials. On the 11th December Mr. Bell announced, as appeared from a report in the New Zealand Times of the 12th December, that "the Crown had decided not to proceed with the remaining charges against Edward Forrier (Brother Wybertus), which comprised three for common and two for indecent assaults alleged to have been committed on boys at the Stoke Industrial School. This decision brings the Stoke cases to an end. In all the cases tried the juries brought in verdicts of . Not guilty.' Two of the cases against Brother Wybertus which came to a hearing broke down. Both Brother Wybertus and James Solan (Brother Kilian) are now, therefore, acquitted of the indictments found by the grand jury, the charges against the latter having been disposed of in his favour the other week." Thus it would be seen the trials covered a period of twenty-one days. It was known also that the Crown had adopted the extraordinary course of excluding from the juries, by way of challenge, every person thought to be a Roman Catholic, and so, as it afterwards appeared, there was no Roman Catholic on any of the juries. Mr. SEDDON thought the honourable gentle- man was trespassing on debatable matter, and accusing the Government of doing that which they did not do or authorise. Mr. FISHER said he was only remarking on what the Crown Prosecutor actually did in Court. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said be understood the honourable gentleman was only stating facts. Mr. FISHER said he was only stating facts. 