mining privilege granted now, and all that I draw the attention of the House, before I go is asked in the Bill is the right to transmit i proviso I got inserted into the Bill of last the power to the city. I think there is no berssity to refer the Bill to the Goldfields and Mines Committee, as it does not affect the gold- hell- or the Mining Art. Mr. MORRISON (Caversham) .- Sir, I regret that 't has fallen to my lot to have to make vie remarks of an antagonistic nature against the measure now before us. I would have pre- ferred that some other gentleman had to take in the attitude I am required to take up to- tiet, seeing that I am a strong believer in the macipali-ation of our tramways in Dun- rain. and supported the honourable gentleman strongly last year in connection with the Bill he then introduced on behalf of the City of Das din. To give honourable members an opportunity of knowing the exact position I occupy, I will claim the indulgence of this House to read a portion of the remarks I made last war when supporting the honourable gentle- m.m. I make this extract from Hansard :- " While he was pleased that the City Cor- poration of Dunedin were purchasing the rights hed by the original promoters, he wanted to maintain the same privileges under this new mercure as the borough which he represented had under the present agreement. He had chatted the matter over with the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar), who Wa- perfectly agreeable to put in any clauses winien might preserve the rights of those boroughs. He had a new clause drafted, which he would take the opportunity of moving when the Bill went into Committee. This new clause https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 was in the direction of reserving the rights of prl- who resided in the adjacent boroughs. He should be very pleased to assist the honour- ali member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) in facilitating the passage of this measure through the House, provided always that the rights of the [wotl: he represented were carefully guarded." That is the attitude I took up last year. In the measure which is now before the House let us examine for a moment whether the City Council of Dunedin are prepared to stand in the position of the original promoters of the Danedin City tramways. Are they going to preserve the rights of the suburban boroughs ? I -av No; and I say this Bill is a very carefully drafted Bill, which is going to do the suburban districts in and about Dunedin a great injustice if we pass it as printed. Now let us examine this clause 19, which says, - "Section ten of the Second Schedule to . The Tramways Act, 1594.' shall in all re- Iwrts apply to the local authorities of the arghs in the suburban district as if two- : ind. of the length of the tramway proposed i be laid were in the City of Dunedin." Why. Sir. it is an entire revolution of the whois principle laid down in the Second Schule of " The Tramways Act. 1894," and it is trying to get behind the arrange- vett that was entered into last year, not only with the Caversham Borough, but other brorghs in and about Dunedin that are on to describe this Second Schedule, to a wear to retain the privileges that the suburban boroughs held from the original promoters. It is the last subelause of clause 11 of " The Dunedin City and Suburban Tramways Act, 1900 ": " Provided also that, except to the extent to which the rights and powers of the boroughs of the suburban districts are by this Act expressly modified, the same shall remain unaffected." The whole position of that was. this : that any existing agreement or any exist- ing arrangement prior to the passing of this Act as between the original owners of the Dunedin City tramways and any suburban district was to remain intact. Now the City of Dunedin comes down with this amending Bill, and the honour- able gentleman who introduced it described it as a machinery Act ; but it is going to upset all agreements which have been entered into with any of the suburban districts, and it is going to make the City of Dunedin sole arbiter as to where they are to run their tramways, and as to what they are to do. But let me fall back on clause 10 of the Second Schedule of the 1894 Act. or what is known as the Government statute dealing with the tramways. The Bill now before the House says section 19 of the Second Schedule of " The Tramways Act, 1994." shall in all respects apply to the local authori- ties, and so forth. Now, what does this Second Schedule of the 1894 statute say? No. 1 sub- elause of clause 10 says :- "Subject to these regulations the Governor may, on a joint application, or on two or more separate applications, settle and make an order empowering two or more local authorities re- spectively jointly to construct the whole or separately to construct parts. and jointly or separately to own the whole or parts thereof ; and all the provisions of these regulations which relate to the construction of tramways shall ex- tend and apply to the construction of the whole and the separate parts of such tramways as last aforesaid ; and the form of the authorising order may be adapted to the circumstances of the case." The honourable gentleman kindly glossed over that ; he knew he was on thin ice and he did not want to enlighten the House too much. But let us examine subclause (2) of the same sec- tion 10 of the Second Schedule. It says,- " When it is proposed to lay down a tramway in two or more districts, or to extend into another district any existing tramway, and any local authority having jurisdiction in any of such districts does not consent thereto, or will not apply or join in applying for an authorising order, the Governor, on the application of the local authority proposing that the work shall be done, may nevertheless make such order if he is satisfied, after inquiry, that two-thirds of the length of such tramway is proposed to be laid in the district of the local authority so proposing as aforesaid, and the form of the authorising order may be adapted to the circumstances of the case." 