According to the preamble of the Wellington Harbour Board Bill, the Bill was promoted for dock and harbour purposes. In another place it is changed entirely. In one respect it is still being maintained and kept for harbour purposes. It is simply used as a means of taking certain lands for street- widening purposes, for closing streets, and ac- quiring private lands to sell or lease the same. If the Wellington Borough Council had come with a Bill for that purpose-and it was the proper body to do it-I do not think it would have been objected to for a moment. It would appear as if clause 11 had got into the Bill in another place. Mr. PIRANI .- Only subclauses (1), (2), and (3). Mr. SEDDON .- Section 11 does it. The subsections referred to are subsections to sec- tion 11 :- " The Board may, in addition to the powers to take land vested in it by the Act, purchase or take under the provisions of ' The Public Works Act, 1894,' any land, together with the buildings thereon, excepting land vested in Her Majesty the Queen, that it may require to pro- vide approaches to any of the land described in the said agreement, and for the purpose of the diversions of the streets and railways hereby authorised, and for any works the Board is authorised to execute under this Act, and may purchase or take in addition to the land actually required all or any of the land described in Schedule B hereto, as the Board may think https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 fit." Schedule B gives the land taken. First of all it has the railway between it and the dock-site, which is really between it and the land they are reclaiming, and the main street is between this land and the railway. The dock-site is to seaward. and further along Clyde Quay, so that the land in Schedule B had nothing whatever to do with the dock, nor the approaches to the dock. Schedule B is as follows-and you will find it stuck in at the end of the Bill :- "All that land in the City of Wellington shown on a plan deposited at the office of the Marine Department, Wellington, and marked ' M.D. 2193' : Bounded towards the north by Victoria Street, towards the west by Tory Street ; towards the south by Courtenay Place, and towards the east by Cambridge Terrace ; including therein the streets known as Grainger Street and Allen Street, as hatched in green lines thereon, but excluding thereout the lands contained in the Eighth Schedule." So that the blame seems to be not so much with the Harbour Board ; but its Bill was evidently used, not to provide land for harbour purposes, but to remove an eyesore from Wel- lington, and, if so, everything I said was right. We ought, therefore, to be careful. I say, Sir, that the man who uses his neighbour to per- petrate a wrong is as bad as the man who is the instrument and wrong-doer. Mr. PIRANI .- Parliament. Mr. SEDDON .- Parliament is not perfect, and is subject to err like the rest. All I can to be removed for sanitary reasons, then the matter should have come before the House in the form of a Bill for that purpose. I object to using the machinery of a Harbour Board to take land for other than Harbour Board pur- poses, and to convert it into an endowment- for that is really what it means-and it had no connection with the dock works at all. Mr. PIRANI .- It never produced what they paid for it. Mr. SEDDON .- That is all the worse for the Harbour Board. Mr. PIRANI .- It was the Legislature that made them do it. Mr. SEDDON .- Any one reading the con- templated Bill can come to no other conclusion than that the land was intended for dock or harbour purposes absolutely. That is how it was introduced and passed by the House. Not. withstanding that, it comes back with another section, or several subsections in it ; and if, as is stated, the Harbour Board will lose money by the transaction, then all I can say is that the action is all the more reprehensible-it is not straightforward. As regards the complaints in respect to the land, we know no one gets what he asks for when he goes before the Compensation Court. And we know that there are also 4.0. some very glaring cases, where people put in claims for very large amounts over and above any reasonable valuation. I do not, of course, know the merits of this case beyond this : that the Committees of this House have upon various occasions recommended that repa- ration be made to the original landowners. Mr. HUTCHESON .- They have never let the other side know what they were doing ; it has been low-down work. Mr. SEDDON .- Very well ; if that is so, the House is still open. But you should not, except in well-authenticated and grave cases, give a right of appeal, because, if you do, you will have no end whatever to the compensation claims. An Hon. MEMBER .- We will come back on the Government. Mr. SEDDON .- I do not know that you can come back on the Government ; but if there has been a miscarriage of justice, if there has been any wrong done, and a case can be made out for Parliament to deal with, I say Parlia- ment has a right to deal with it, whether it is the Government or the individual that is in fault. I repeat that, after looking up the debates, after looking up the records of Par- liament, I find that under this Bill the purpose was entirely changed. I say that if a Bill was brought in for the construc- tion of a road by a County Council or a Borough Council, and that under that there was a block of land that some one wanted to have taken for any other purpose than a road, or some ordinary purpose under the Public Works Act, and to have special powers given to take that land from individuals, and it was permitted, that would be a very dangerous pre- cedent ; and, this being a dangerous precedent, it is my duty to point that fact out to the 