it is not faced, and nothing is done now, it would be better to have the Press present on Com- mittees. And then, of course, if the 4.0. Evening Star would only keep a copy of the type set up, it would save the Govern- ment Printing Office so-much money for print- ing the evidence of this Committee. It seems to me that this question has to be looked at ; and that if we do nothing, the rest of the evidence will be published in the same way. The Hon. the Minister of Justice may laugh, but it is a serious thing; and if things go on as they are going on now, then the House will not have the first information, as it ought to have, with regard to evidence, but the public, through the Press, will know more than members of this House. That seems to be the point, and in declaring the publication a breach of privilege this House should take steps in order that this may not occur again. I trust honourable members will proceed further in the matter. We ought, I think, to find out who the culprit was who disposed of this typewritten copy. Now, Sir, the Acting. Premier, in moving the motion, quoted a case, and that case was the case of yourself, when there was a breach of privilege owing to some of the evidence given before the Public Accounts Committee having been divulged, and you, Sir, from your place in the House, got up and openly said that you had divulged it, and you apolo- gized. I think, Sir, the members of the Gold- fields Committee ought to do the same, and take your manly stand, and wo, at all events, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 would be exonerated from any insinuation that we had divulged any evidence. I admit, Sir, that the affairs of the Committee are per- haps not conducted strictly in accordance with secrecy, because I think almost any one could have got hold of the evidence. It was knock- ing about the table of the Committee-room for the whole morning ; but I do not think any member of the Committee divulged that evi- dence. I do not know how it got out, but there is no doubt that from a similar source the correspondent of the Evening Star who got the former evidence will be able to get the other evidence, and if that is done we shall simply see the whole of the evidence printed in the Evening Star and in ocher papers, because if nothing is going to be done I do not see why any other paper should not get it. What is the use of having Standing Orders if nothing is going to be done. I shall consider myself to be at liberty to give what I like, and, if that is the wish of the House, the sooner members understand it the better. I think something ought to be done, and that this matter ought to be pursued further as a matter of principle although I do not think that much barm has been done. Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) .- It appears to me that until some radical change takes place the raising of questions of breaches of privilege are simply a waste of the time of the House. There is no good result arises from them. We have had many breaches of privilege discussed, Mr. Herries not have risen except for a remark made by the Hon. the Minister of Justice, who suggests that the blame rests with members of the House, and that until members of this House who are not members of Committees are prevented from attending meetings of a Committee of which they are not members this sort of thing will go on. Now, that is a reflection on the honesty and integrity of members of the House. The right of being present at the proceedings of any Committee is a privilege that ought not to be taken away from members. Every member should always have the right, as he has now- and, I hope, always will have-of attending any Committee he pleases to listen to the proceed- ings ; and the rules and standings of the House are as binding upon members of the House not members of any particular Committee as they are upon members of that Committee. Does the Minister really mean what he said- that it should be otherwise? I hope he does not. Why, Sir, it would be a Star Chamber proceeding. The reason we are here is for the purpose of understanding and doing the busi- ness of the country, and one means of ascer- taining it is for members of the House, if they choose, to attend the meetings of Committees to obtain information. The rule as to keeping sacred all that transpires at Committee meet- ings is as binding on all members of the House as on the members of each Committee. In this case we have two columns and a half. Mr. FISHER .- Three columns. Mr. GRAHAM .- The honourable member says there are three columns. Well, it would be impossible for that amount of evidence to be accurately reported by any one member of the House or any one member of the Committee. I understand that in this case the full and com- plete evidence that has leaked out has been printed for the information of the Committee. Mr. PALMER .- I did not say the evidence had been printed. I said it had been sent to the printers, and we had the evidence back - the original evidence, not the printed evidence. Mr. GRAHAM .- I do not wish to split straws. The evidence went to the Printing Office and came back ; it came back and passed through the hands of the Clerk ; it reached the hands of some one who gave it to the newspaper. and the newspaper reporter naturally took hold of it and gave it to the public. I know that when evidence is sent to the Printing Office it comes back in a printed form, and it is not always to members of Committees. Copies get about somehow to persons who are not members of the Committee. That is where the difficulty is. I hope the Minister of Justice did not really mean that, until members of the House were pre- vented from attending meetings of Committees of which they were not members these things would take place. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) .- Sir, I wish to say that the member for Nelson City has too closely applied my remarks with refer- ence to those members who are not members of Committees. My remark was made generally 