for the purposes of a recreation - ground, and I shall want a good deal more information on this point than the Bill affords before I can vote for it. I fully admit that, before effect can be given to the provisions of the Bill, an expression of opinion must be obtained from the people themselves, but that does not absolve us from a careful discharge of our duty ; and since there is divided opinion amongst those who should be possessed of the facts of the case, further time should be given for consideration of the matter. I do not wish now to discuss the Bill, but to simply give reasons why the debate should be adjourned. The honourable member for Wellington Suburbs maintained that the Council should not have the control of the expenditure of a large sum of money, because they had already shown themselves in- capable of looking after the proper interests of the city. I would like honourable members to pay particular attention to the condition of the Wellington streets, over which they have to travel every day, and, if they do so, they will come to the conclusion that they are a dis- grace to the Empire City of New Zealand. Mr. HUTCHESON .- Poor old Wellington ! Mr. COLLINS .- It is all very well for the honourable member to say " Poor old Welling- ton," but I can say that I know of no town in New Zealand which can compare with it in the matter of its disreputable streets. This must reflect upon the City Council, and gives strength to the argument of the honourable gentleman who represents the Suburbs. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1. 32106019788246 Mr. SPEAKER .- You are getting away from the question of adjournment. Mr. COLLINS .- I think this matter should be borne in mind during the week, which, if this / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero motion to adjourn the debate be carried, will intervene, so that members themselves will recog- nise the strength of the argument with regard to the incapacity of the City Council. I should like to support the honourable member's Bill, but, since the local authorities are divided, we should have more time to consider it. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) .- I have not heard any cogent reason why this debate should be adjourned, and I would point out that the Order Paper gives each member notice of the business that is to be brought on; and if an honourable member does not make himself ac- quainted with the Bills that are to come up for discussion, then it is clearly his own fault. I submit that this Bill, coming to us as it does with the imprimatur of the local governing body, and having passed through the Local Bills Committee, which has devoted careful attention to it, we ought to hesitate before we refuse to pass the second reading, which merely affirms the principle of the mea- sure. If there are objections to details, of course, they can be attended to in Commit- tee ; but it seems to me that, unless we are to deprive the citizens of Wellington of local self-government, we ought to pass this Bill. That the Wellington City Council has not provided good streets has nothing whatever to confidence of the citizens-which under our law we must assume it possesses-comes for- ward and asks us to pass a Bill. What to do ? To enable it to submit a proposal for the bet- terment of the city to the electors. The Bill is not to enable the Council to purchase property or to pay money away, but to enable it to ask the individual citizens, "Aye" or "Nay," " Is it desirable to purchase this property for a recrea- tion-ground for the people?" It is merely to enable the Council to submit this question to the referendum, and holding as I do that the people are the final arbiters, and this being a permissive measure to submit the question to the citizens, I would ask honourable members to agree to the second reading to-day, and as to the Committee stage, that can be fixed for some future time. Mr. HALL- JONES (Minister for Public Works) .- Sir, I must confess the amendment moved has put me in a somewhat difficult posi- tion. As the member in charge of the Bill knows, I have looked upon this Bill with a good deal of suspicion, but if the position is made clear then I wish the Bill to proceed. With regard to the acquisition of a recreation-ground for the City of Wellington, I am entirely at one with any man in Wellington in desiring to see re- creation-grounds; but it is the terms under which the proposed recreation-ground is to be acquired that I am not at all clear about. I am not a lawyer, and, unfortunately, I was engaged in the House for a great portion of the time while the Local Bills Committee were discussing this question ; and after they had got through the Bill-I was only there while some of the latter clauses were being discussed -I learned that there was something beyond the Bill, and that was the contract between certain persons and the Corporation. Indeed, I was informed that the contract would be laid upon the table of this House. May I ask if that has been done ? Mr. SPEAKER .- There has been no contract laid on the table. Mr. HALL-JONES .- Well, if that has not been done, I think it ought to have been. I think the contract should be printed in its en- tirety, and that every member of the House should have a copy of it. I repeat that I am as anxious as any one to see any number of recrea- tion-grounds provided for Wellington ; but from what I read of the Bill yesterday in the Local Bills Committee-room it struck me that tho Corporation could acquire the estate without going to the ratepayers. An Hon. MEMBER .- Oh, no. Mr. HALL-JONES .-- Well, it struck me that they could acquire that property without going to the ratepayers, because, if what I hear of the contract is correct, they have to pay no money down, they have to raise no loan for some years ; and hence the provision of section 4 would not come into operation. Mr. SPEAKER .- You cannot discuss the Bill. 