June, one thousand nine hundred and two. "(2.) Every person who, on the passing of this Act, has had four consecutive years' train- ing as a nurse in a hospital, and passes an examination in theoretical and practical nurs- ing by examiners appointed by the Governor under this Act, is entitled to registration on payment of a fee of one pound towards the cost of examination. "(3.) From and after the first day of January, one thousand nine hundred and two, every person who has attained the age of twenty- three years, and is certified as having had three years' training as a nurse in a hospital, to- gether with systematic instruction in theo- retical and practical nursing from the medical officer and the matron of that hospital (the matron herself being a certificated nurse), and who passes an examination from time to time held by examiners appointed under this Act, is entitled to registration on payment of a fee of one pound. "(4.) Every person is entitled to registration, on payment of a fee of one pound, who holds a certificate from the medical officer or autho- rities of any hospital out of New Zealand recognised by the Minister under any regula- tions under this Act, if equivalent in training and examination to what is required from New Zealand nurses under this Act.' Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) moved the following amendment : Omit "first day of January, one thousand nine hundred and two," and substitute "on the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 passing of this Act holds a certificate of train- ing from the Auckland, Wellington, Christ- church, or Dunedin Hospital, and every person who then." Amendment to omit the words agreed to. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) moved to re- port progress. Mr. HALL-JONES, by leave, moved to in- sert, in place of his former amendment, " on the coming into operation of this Act." Motion to report progress withdrawn. Amendment agreed to. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) moved to insert, after "proves," "to the satisfaction of the Registrar." Amendment agreed to. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) moved to in- sert, after " received," the words " in a public or private hospital." The Committee divided. AYES, 9. Atkinson Mckenzie, R. Tellers. I'raser, A. L. D. O'Meara Fisher Hall Parata. Hornsby. Lawry NOES, 42. Allen, E. G. Carroll Graham Allen, J. Collins Hall-Jones Arnold Duncan Hanan Barclay ElI Hardy Bennet Flatman Haselden Bollard Fowlds Herries Baddo Gilfedder Hutcheson Lethbridge Morrison Thomson, J. W. Pirani Massey Willis Rhodes Witheford. McGowan McGuire Russell, W. R. Tellers. Smith, G. J. McNab Carncross Meredith Palmer. Tanner Millar Majority against, 33. Amendment negatived. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) moved to omit the words, "the matron herself being a certificated nurse." The Committee divided on the question, "That the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the question.' AYES, 32. Gilfedder Mills Allen, E. G. Arnold Graham Morrison Bollard Hall-Jones Parata Haselden Buddo Rhodes Russell, W. R. Carncross Hutcheson Laurenson Carroll Tanner Thomson, J. W. Duncan Massey Ell McGowan Witheford. Flatman McGuire Tellers. Allen, J. McNab Fowlds Fraser, A. L. D. Millar Meredith. NOES, 17. Barclay Lang Pirani Fisher Thompson, R. Lawry Hall Lethbridge Willis. Hanan Monk Tellers. Hardy O'Meara Hornsby Herries Palmer . Mckenzie, R. Majority for, 15. Amendment negatived. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) moved, That progress be reported. Motion negatived. Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) moved to add the following proviso to subsection (1) :- " Provided that nurses who are absent from the colony in the Imperial service shall be allowed to apply under this subsection at any time within three years of the coming into operation of this Act." Proviso added. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) moved, in the first line of subsection (2), to strike out the word "four," with a view to substituting "three " in lieu thereof. Amendment agreed to. Mr. HALL-JONES moved, in subsection (3), to omit the words " first day of January, one thousand nine hundred and two," with a view to substituting the following : " coming into operation of this Act." Amendment agreed to. Mr. HALL-JONES moved, in subsection (3), the excision of the words "the matron her- self being a certificated nurse." Words struck out, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 5 .- " A certificate given after the pass- ing of this Act by the medical officer of any 