workers in the towns and the farmers in the ; this House, say - neither have I seen them country, and the object underlying it is put forward as the benefit of the workers. How can it prove beneficial to the farmers? My answer is No. I say the welfare of the farmer is inseparably bound up with the welfare and well-being of the worker in the towns. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is the other way about. Mr. SEDDON. - I say that you cannot separate the interests of the two, and the best market for the farmer and the nearest for his produce is within New Zealand itself. If he supplies the towns of New Zealand with his produce he has no middleman to pay ; he has no shipping freights to pay; and therefore I again say that his home market, which is his nearest, is his best. And the more you enlarge that market, and the more you improve the condi- tion of the consumers of the colony, the more you will benefit the colony and its producers, and those who strive to do that are public bene- factors, and are engaged in a patriotic work. But as to those who, on the other hand, try to create strife and to foster ill-feeling as between town and country, they are traitors to the country they live in, and wrong-doers. An Hon. MEMBER .- Have you not done it ? Mr. SEDDON .- No, Sir, I have never ap- proved of it. I hold broad views upon every question, and I am not one of those narrow- minded individuals who to suit their own pur- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 poses abandon the principles that they hold, because they think it might benefit them politically. I say that the man who takes a broad view of this question, and works out the problem accordingly, is the man in whom in course of time all parties will have confidence, and not those who are endeavouring for the time being-as I know they are -to set the country districts 'and producers against the towns. I must say that, as far as the towns are concerned, and the representatives of the towns. they are not doing that. It is coming from the one side ; and why? I will prove to you very easily what is underlying the whole matter. The present Liberal party has now an al- most universal town and country support. There was a time when the party received the larger portion of its support from the towns, and when it was closely identified with labour and labour questions. But of late years the country districts have sent supporters to the Liberal party in this House, and the result has been to the profit of the country districts, and of the farmers and the producers of the country; and I have no hesitation in saying that at the present time, with a view, possibly, to altering this condition, our friends opposite are doing all they can to show that the farmers are not receiving justice, and are trying to make out that those in the towns are endea- vouring to obtain for themselves that which they would deny to their fellow-men in the country. My answer to that is that there is no foundation for it. I have never heard a working-man in any town in this colony, or any body of workmen, or their representatives in do-anything which would militate against the prosperity and well-being of the country. Now, here is another question : People are being told time after time that the Workers' Compensation for Accidents Act was intended to apply to the farmers, and that it was to be used for the purpose of crushing the farmers -- that if an accident happens to a farmer's em- ployé such accident means the ruin of the un- fortunate farmer. Now, I say again that those people who are making such statements are doing wrong, and that that law does not apply to the farmers. I say that when this matter was before the House we were all under the im- pression that it did not apply to the farming community. How, then, can it now be said that there was any attempt made by Parlia- ment, or by any party, to use this legislation- initiated by the people in the towns-for the de- triment of the people in the country? If that is the assumption upon which this legislation was passed, I go further, and say that there is no Act that is perfect when passed. But we have our Courts of law; and I say that it will be quite time enough when any Court of law decides that the intention of Parliament has not been given effect to in the legislation it passed - that this Workers' Compensation for Accidents Act does apply to the farmers and those engaged upon the farms-to alter the law. I say that as soon as we get an interpretation from the Court to that effect it will be our duty to alter the law and make it consistent with what we intended. An Hon. MEMBER .- Will you do it ? Mr. SEDDON .- I will, certainly. As soon as there is sufficient evidence to the effect that the Act has an application we never intended, it will be my duty to give effect to the intention of the Legislature. But in the meantime we must stand by the law. Then, again, I will give another answer : It was stated on the floor of this House, by gentlemen who were them- selves engaged in agricultural or pastoral pur- suits, that they were insuring their employés under the Employers' Liability Act before the Workers' Compensation for Accidents Act was passed at all. I say that such was the case. The late member for Wairarapa was one of the members who stated this, and I know that there were hundreds of employers who did the same. They actually claimed that they were safer, under the Workers' 5.0. Compensation for Accidents Act that we passed, than they were under the in- definite legislation of the Employers' Liability Acts -that there was an indefinite obli- gation without any limit whatever, and gene- rally with litigation that was almost ruinous. I therefore say that they forget now that the very ones who are arguing against the appli- cation of the Workers' Compensation for Accidents Act to the country districts are those who were asking for an amendment of the law to remove the disabilities under which they laboured under the Employers' Liability Act. I say, let there be a test case, and let the Court give its decision before they say that this 