able gentleman says, his Bill is not aimed against the country districts then it follows that it must be aimed at the cities. An Hon. MEMBER. - It is not against either. Mr. FISHER. - It is not against either ! Then, why this Bill? I rather imagine, and I hope the honourable gentleman will believe that I say it without the least offence, that the honourable gentleman has not studied the sub- ject very deeply. Far be it from me to say one word which would wound the honourable gentleman's feelings. I give him credit for a sincere desire to bring about an improvement of the law; but I do not see that by passing this Bill the law would be improved in the least degree. And as a logical sequence I oppose the Bill. But I hope the honourable gentleman will not interpret that expression of opinion as an act of hostility. I simply say that his proposed amendment of the Act is quite unnecessary. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- I am rather afraid that the remark that was made by the member for Wellington Ci y (Mr Fisher) just now, that the member for Christchurch City has not sufficiently studied the question that is before the House has something of truth in it. The proposal of the honourable gentle- man is that section 2 of " The Representation Act Amendment Act, 1889," is hereby amended by adding to subsection (2) thereof the follow- ing proviso : "Provided that such addition shall not be made in any portion of any of the electo- rates named in the schedule hereto." Now, what is the subsection of the Representation Act which it is proposed to amend. Subsection (2) says, - " In computing for the purposes of this Act the population of the colony, there shall be added twenty-eight per centum to the popula- tion not contained in any city, borough, or town district which contains a population of over two thousand." There is no reference in the subsection which the honourable gentleman is going to amend to the electorates at all. The position, of course, is that under the Act of 1899 the Commissioners are required to ascertain the total population of the colony. Then, to that portion of the popu- lation of the colony which is outside any city, borough, or town district containing a popula- tion of over two thousand, they add 28 per cent. That gives the gross total - with the 28 per cent. added to the rural population-of the entire colony for representation purposes. It is that gross population that is obtained by adding on the 28 per cent. to the rural population which they have to divide by the number of seats in order to get the quota. It therefore appears quite evident, from the section of the Bill which the honourable gentleman proposes to amend, that it has no reference whatever to the electo- rute, and, therefore, to tack on a proviso to the Act of 1889 is quite unnecessary and useless, and indicates that the honourable gentleman has not sufficiently studied the subject. Now, what is the position, so far as the Commis- Mr. Fisher the colony by adding 28 per cent. to the rural population of the whole of New Zealand, as I have stated. They have, first of all, then, to i select the city electorates. It is laid down that . there shall be three members, and that the city electorates shall be three times the quota. It is only when you come to the latter part of subsection (5) of clause 2 of the Act of 1889 that you begin to find out how the duties and re- sponsibilities of the Commissioners regarding country electorates are limited. But the chief point is that they are, in seeking to make elec- torates that have community of interest, and so on, allowed a working margin of 750. But it is laid down that the Commissioners may not apply that rule of the allowance of 750 in the i case of city electorates, and there are other provisions further down the clause that apply to : what I may call country districts alone so far as the allowance of 750 is concerned. But the honourable member, in bringing in this Bill, proposes to apply it only to certain suburban constituencies. Now, under our law there is no such thing as the selection of certain con- stituencies. The honourable member in this Bill mentions, for instance, Caversham. Why there might be no such electorate as Caversham after the next sitting of the Boundary Commis- sioners. It might be called the electorate of Mornington, Roslyn, or some other name. Mr. ELL .- Look at subsection (5) of clause 2 of the Act of 1889. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- That clause men- tions the four city electorates, it is true, but the honourable member is making a mere play upon words to say that a special constituency should be selected. It is quite impossible that there shall be constituencies in this colony that should not take their names from the four great centres of population : but it is altogether out of the question when you go away from the four large centres and seek to include the sur- rounding districts. Take the Avon Electoral District, one of those mentioned in the schedule. Why, the changes in connection with the elec- torate at the last fixing of the electoral boundaries were enormous. Then. take the alterations made in connection with the Ric- carton electorate. Why, the honourable mem- ber knows as well as I do that prior to the election before last the Riccarton Electoral District included the whole of the Belfast dis- trict, and went out as far as Chaney's corner ; and that now, instead of going out in that direction it has been pushed by the Boundaries Commission to West Melton, a distance of six- teen or eighteen miles from the City of . hrist- church. I sav, if you are going in a Bill to select the names of certain constituencies, and to say that in those particular constituen- cies certain things should be applied. you must bind down the Boundary Commissioners. Make it a condition of their appointment, in fact -that they shall always continue in existence constitu- encies of those names, whether thev happen to be necessary or desirable or not ; and vou might have this position, that the law would not apply 