in the case of Eketahuna. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch 3.30. City) .- Sir, I think the speech we have just listened to affords a very excellent argument in favour of retaining our present legislation. The honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) has pointed out in the case of Eke- tahuna, and two or three other places in the North Island, the desirability of having rating there on the unimproved value. Well, Sir, the process is very simple. All they have to do is to comply with the requirements of the Act of 1896, take a poll of the ratepayers in the dis- triet, and have their rating done on the un- improved value, and if they can convince the required number of ratepayers in the locality that it will be to their interests no doubt they I listened with great will carry the poll. attention to the speech of the honourable mem- ber for Bruce, who put the case very clearly indeed. Any member of the House who takes an interest in the rating question, and goes through the cities, will find that in many streets on one side there will be large and im- posing business premises, while on the other side of the street will be found premises that are not worth, possibly, one-tenth of the value ; and yet under the provisions of this Bill the rating on each side of the street will be practically the same. Now, with such inequali- ties it will be manifestly unfair for this House to pass a Bill which will declare that rating on the unimproved value shall be the law of the land and applicable to every borough, every county, and every road district. Why, take https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 Christchurch : my colleague Mr. Ell has in- stanced that. I know street after street in Christchurch where, on one side of the street, there are buildings worth thousands of pounds, while on the other side of the street you could buy up the premises wholesale for about a tenth of what the premises opposite would fetch. An Hon. MEMBER. - This Bill would cure that. Mr. G. J. SMITH .- You mean that there would be more buildings put up on the other side of the street, I suppose. But the buildings are not wanted. I am speaking now of what I know. and I say in Christchurch at the present time the premises there are quite large enough for the business that is being done. If you attempt by passing legislation of this sort to force a man to spend money in putting up buildings that are really not wanted, you will depreciate the value of those buildings already erected, and bring about a state of depression that, in Christchurch at any rate, we do not want. Listening to the speech of the honourable member for Avon just now, I thought he also put the case very clearly. All round about the City of Christ- church we have sections of an area of about five acres that have practically no improvements upon them at all worth considering, and yet the owners of these sections under this Bill will have to bear the taxation that is put on the land generally in that locality. Take Woolston, Mr. Fisher member for Lyttelton: I say in that district there are several factories which under this Bill will largely escape taxation, and extra taxation will be thrown upon the small settlers in the locality to make up the deficiency caused by the exemption of improvements. I am as- tonished that the Government should have introduced such a Bill. We have passed a Referendum Bill, and have been talking " refer- endum " in this House for some years past. and yet this Bill is practically to prevent the referring of this question to the ratepayers of the districts interested. My friend the honour- able member for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell) supports the referendum, and vet he votes for a Bill like this, which takes away from the ratepayers the right to say how they shall tax themselves. It is absolutely illogical. and I am astonished that he should take up the attitude he does. Then, we have heard a good deal about the speculators from the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), who asserts that the land speculators are the men who have made all the money. Well, there have been some men who have made money out of land speculation, but I say that for every one or two who have made money there have been ten who have lost it. Mr. LAURENSON .- Nonsense. Mr. G. J. SMITH. - I am astonished at the honourable member for Lyttelton-that he should say " Nonsense." I always looked upon the honourable member as a cool, hard- headed Scotchman, who knew what he was talking about. Let the honourable member go to Canterbury, and if he cares to make inquiry he will find that what I am stating is correct. I am not confining my remarks to the specu- lator who goes in for big blocks of land ; be- cause I venture to say that we in New Zealand have all been touched with the land-speculation fever, and I suppose we have all had a little experience, and the majority of us have lost by the speculation we have indulged in. I say to try and get at one or two speculators, and thereby injure the great bulk of the popu- lation, would be as manifestly unfair as it is possible for legislation to be. I hope. when this Bill comes to be voted upon. this House will decide that the present permissive system is the best, is fair and just, and will insist on its being retained on the statute book. With regard to the remarks of the honourabie member for Waitaki, he said he would vote for the second reading although he did not approve of it, and that when the Bill got into Com- mittee he would endeavour to make it more stringent than it is at present. It seems to me that the honourable gentleman requires some ingenuity to make his two positions agree. When I read this Bill, Sir, I came to the con- clusion it had been introduced at the request of some society-that a little pressure had been brought to bear upon the Government, and that the Premier had agreed to introduce the Bill. But, having introduced it, he considers he has fulfilled his promise, and he now hopes the House will kill it. I intend to do in this 