the Auditor for calling attention to the fact that in the Marine vote there is an item for the expenses of the Volunteers to Sydney ; and we also find by looking at the correspondence that there is a doubt in the Marine Department as to whether they could apply for it at all, because, first of all, they applied for it as " Legislative visitors and representatives "-that is the term used-and then, when the Auditor raises objec- tion, they say, "Oh, no; we made a mistake ; it was for the carrying of Volunteers " ; and if that was the case why was not the vote charged to the Defence Department? I quite agree with the member for Bruce that the amount ought to be charged and recoverable from that department -- it ought to be recoverable from them now. The Premier said only $500 was put on the estimates for these expenses. Well, why were not all the expenses occurring put to the same vote? We should see that this sum is put on the present estimates, as that would be the honest and straightforward way of bringing the sum down. Instead of blaming the Auditor for doing the public duty he is put there to do in calling the attention of the House to what he considers wrong, he should be praised ; and this House ought to consider it wrong to manipulate the votes of one department for the benefit of another. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton). - This discussion has ranged so widely that one would almost be justified in regarding it as part of the discussion on the Financial Statement. I was very much surprised, with other honourable https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 members, to hear the remarks made by the member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier). That honourable gentleman, at any rate in the part of the country where his home is, has always / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero taken an active part in Liberal matters, and is regarded as a Liberal leader in the Auckland district. It comes, therefore, with a great deal of surprise to hear an honourable member who professes to be a Liberal denouncing as he did this afternoon the actions of the Auditor- General, who holds a statutory position, and has been especially placed in that position for the purpose of acting as the watch-dog of the finances of the colony. Sir, what are the questions that have arisen in connection with this matter? In the first place, the Auditor- General objects to the money for the " Tutane- kai's" Sydney trip being charged against the Marine vote, and it is clear, after reading the remarks of the Auditor-General, that he re- cognises that in spending money on this parti- cular purpose from the Marine vote the Govern- ment were contravening the will of Parliament. The member for Palmerston mentioned this afternoon that the sum of $500 was voted for the representation of this colony at the Federal festivities, and, Sir, I went to my home under the impression that that was the amount that was to be spent. It was with amazement that I found, before I had been home forty-eight hours, that, notwithstanding the fact that the (Government had asked for a vote of only £500 for that purpose, the Premier was actually in cablegraphic communication with the authori- Mr. Herries very large contingent of Volunteers going over for the purpose of taking part in these festivi- ties. Why did not the Premier deal honestly with the House, and tell us when he was asking for that vote that this was only to cover a vote for one or two Ministerial representatives and delegates, and that his real idea was to incur an expenditure amounting to £8,000 or £10,000 in connection with the matter ? Well, the honourable gentleman laughs. Mr. SEDDON .- I am laughing at 9.0. you saying it went to £10,000. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I think when the time comes you will be able to show how much it is. If you take the amount down in connec- tion with the unauthorised expenditure ; if you take the amount down in connection with the Defence votes, and other votes, and add this to them, you will find it not very far short of £8,000 or £10,000 for the two contingents-the one to Sydney and the other to Melbourne. Sir, I say that the House understood, and the country understood, that the amount of expenses that were to be incurred in connection with the representation of this colony at the Federal celebration was the sum of £500; and it is clear that the Auditor-General desired, when he en- deavoured to stick up this money, to emphasize to the country, as the watch-dog of the finances, that the Government had gone beyond the con- stitutional practice in having taken a vote for only £500, and spending a much larger sum without any authority whatever. I say, in the ordinary course, Governments have to be in- trusted with very large responsibilities so far as matters of finance are concerned ; and I am always prepared to give to the Treasurer, whatever party may be in power, authority to deal with emergencies as they arise, especially when Parliament cannot be con- sulted. But where the circumstances are such as they were last October when that vote of $500 was taken, when the sense of Parliament could be taken on it, then I say it is unfair, it is unconstitutional and improper on the part of the Government to then go and incur a very large expenditure without any authority from Parlia- ment. Now, with regard to the second case in connection with the Bank of New Zealand pre- ferred shares, I am quite prepared to admit that ultimately the colony was bound to recoup itself I that $5,567 in connection with the interest. am quite prepared to admit that ultimately that money must have come into the consolidated revenue to help to pay interest on the money ; but, Sir, the question that was raised by the Auditor-General was as to the legality, and I believe he puts the matter very clearly in Memorandum No. 14, of 1st August, when he says,- " It is generally better to comply with the re- quirements of the law, even in cases where com- pliance may be the mere formality that the Trea- sury seems still to be regarding the payment to the Public Trustee of the money in question." That is the whole point. The Auditor is there for the purpose of seeing that the law is carried out; and surely the Premier is not going 