number of warehouses, all within a short dis- tance of each other in Wellington, lighted from basement to ceiling in the evening. I am in- formed that this goes on nearly all the year round. Well, then, there is just as much reason why the hours of labour should be cur- tailed in wholesale warehouses as they should be curtailed in the shops. Now, I want to draw attention to a somewhat important point, and that is this: that the opposition to this measure is the result of organization on the part of the employers; and i venture to say that you will see the same oppo- sition from the same people against other labour measures that will come before Parlia- ment during this session. 1 regard it as an attack upon the Labour policy of the Govern- ment, and I feel sure that if they do happen to succeed-which they will not-the attack will then be directed to another part of the policy of the Government, with a view to ultimately overturning the Liberal and Labour party. This organization has been brought about to some extent by the operations of another Act which we passed, for the employers are better organized now than they have ever been in New Zealand. The same thing may be said of the workers. But the knowledge of their new-born power and strength is not compensated for by the experience which would enable them to use it wisely. At the present time they are like a boy who has got a loaded pistol in his hand for the first time, and he wants to go out and shoot something. Well, it may be, perhaps, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 an old weapon, and when, through want of experience, he fires it off it bursts. And so I think, in regard to this organization of em- plovers that has taken place, and the way it is being used, the employers are making a very great mistake. It would be better for them to meet the organizations of employés in a more conciliatory spirit, and endeavour to bring about a mutual understanding in regard to matters affecting them. I have found in my experience, and have always said so, that where you get good organizations of employers and good organizations of workers you will have fewer labour disputes and less difficulty in adjusting any difference of opinion that may arise. But here is what I cannot allow to pass without expressing my feeling in regard to it: that a certain section of the Press is doing its best to stir up the employers throughout the country, and it is endeavouring to find arguments for them against labour legislation of any descrip- tion. I do not say that is so of the Press generally, but it is true of a section that we have in this colony-a section of the Press that will grovel to any " fat man " who is in a position to give it advertisements, and therefore they place before the welfare of the people the profits which they expect to receive. And so we are told there has been too much labour legislation in the past. Now, I would ask honourable gentlemen to consider what new labour legislation has been passed since 1894. There has been the Workers' Compensa- tion for Accidents Act. The other Acts have already in existence ; and vet we are told that there is far too much labour legislation, and that it is being ridden to death. Well, I say, without hesitation, there is no proof that such is the case, and that the labour legislation of recent years has been more a matter of soleing and heeling, and patching up and making per- fect. And what has been the result of all this labour legislation ? Can any one point to an employer who has been injured by the opera- tion of the Shops and Shop-assistants Act? Sir, it has been to the benefit of the em- ployer, who enjoys his half holiday as much as his employés do. His business is com- pressed within narrower limits, and there is greater economy ; and I have no hesitation in saving that if the six-o'clock hour of closing is adopted it will help him to regulate his busi- ness better, and will also be to his advantage, and that before many years are over he will recognise the benefit, as he has done in the case of the weekly half-holiday. And, then, with re- gard to the revulsion of feeling we are warned against : We know that in all parties and all organizations there are certain weak-kneed people. In fact, some people have such a natural weakness in their knees that they can- not walk without wobbling, and so we must expect that those who are weak in resolution or wanting in moral courage will fall away from the ranks of any organization where opposition is met with. Well, I say let it be so. It is not the tree that possesses the greatest number of limbs that bears the greatest quantity of fruit, and the pruning-knife is beneficially applied to any fruit-tree in a judicious way; so that I consider that the cutting of a certain number down will tend to make the remainder more vigorous and more determined. It has been so in all reform movements, and I believe it will be so Therefore I would say to those in the future. responsible for the introduction of the labour policy be not discouraged by an agitation got up in the way I have stated, and backed up by a section of the Press. Let it come, and we will meet it when it comes with a reasonable and philosophie mind and with determination. We have to consider that in legislating on the lines we have been doing for some time past that we are legislating not for to-day, nor for to-morrow, nor for the day after, but for the future; and if that legislation is, as I believe it to be, in the direction of uplifting the people of the country and making them more prosperous and more happy, then we should continue in that light. Then, not only shall we make this a happy and prosperous country, but we shall set an example which older countries will follow to their very great advantage. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- Next to the man who thoroughly agrees with me I admire the whole-hearted unrelenting thorough man. Of course, the man who agrees with me is always, in my estimation, wiser than any one else, but the next man is the thorough man, and in the Hon. Mr. Rigg I have found him. It was refreshing, after the speeches delivered by other honour- able gentlemen who have an equal claim to re- 