member says that, he does not understand the English language when he accuses us of being bribed by the Premier. Mr. MONK .- I used the word " incentive." Mr. A. L. D. FRASER. - The honourable gentleman accused members of having been bribed, and I say there was nothing of the kind. If there was any incentive about that £40, then the honourable member himself took the £40. If it was dishonest of the Premier to give it to us, it was more dishonest still for the honour- able member for Waitemata to receive what he looks upon as stolen money. Mr. MONK. - I have denied that it was stolen ; but it was improperly obtained. I would scorn to use it for my own use or in any form in which it might be deemed a political bribe. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- It is no use the honourable member interrupting me ; because he has brought a hornet's nest about his ears, and will have to suffer the inevitable result. What did he do himself with that £40? He says he offered it to the local bodies of his district. He is accusing us of being bribed, and what did he try to do? He tried to bribe his constituents with this money. Evidently the honourable gentleman is looking forward to another election. I say this : that as far as I know there was no bribery ; there was no bribery by the Premier or by any other member of the Ministry, either in caucus or out of it. Mr. MONK .- I object to that term being used. I never used it. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- I hope I shall have your support, Sir, that the honourable gentle- man did use that language. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable gentleman denies that he used the language. His denial must be accepted. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- I accept it, Sir, recognising that the honourable member's memory is very short. I do not wish to pro- long this debate, but I am perfectly certain every honourable member in this House will appreciate what I am now doing, for we are accused here of giving our support to the Pre- mier and his policy not because we believe in the principles of that policy, but because we can be bought-bribed by filthy lucre. We are plainly accused of acting dishonestly, and, as those charges are "as false as dicers' oaths," I say I would not remain in this House if I could not hurl the charge back. I have been before my constituents since the vote was passed, and have given them my reasons for supporting it; and I admit right here that perhaps it would have been better if it had been brought down by statute ; but, as it was brought down, I say it was voted honestly, without intimidation, without influence being brought to bear on us by any individual member of the Ministry. It is not within my power to say what took place in caucus, but if the Hon. the Premier and my fellow - members permit me to do it, I am perfectly satisfied I could demonstrate that what took place there had nothing whatever to do with Parliament it was little enough to give us for the actual services the members of this House render the colony. And who is at this moment the £40 assisting ? There are honourable members in this House who voted against it, yet carefully take it and put it in their pockets. Were they consistent ? No ; they were as inconsistent as the honourable member who has just spoken. We voted for it and we took the money : but practically we did not get a sixpence of it. Whoever has a copper of their honorarium to themselves? Not one sixpence of the hono- rarium goes into the pockets of honourable members. It is all distributed in their elec- torates and throughout the colony generally. Is it suggested for one moment that we are here as professional politicians to make money out of the colony? Take Captain Russell. I take him as an example because he is one that is not prone to flattery ; he voted against that £40. An Hon. MEMBER .- No, he did not. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- Well, whether he did or did not, he took that £40, and was con- sistent and honest over it. But the honourable member who contends that the money was cursed, that he did not want it, and then endea- voured to bribe his constituents with it-that honourable member is not one of those whom I appreciate, or one that I will accept as an authority on the ethics of morality. He took it with both hands, and then tried to make political capital out of it against the Govern- ment. He says that he wanted to save the country £40 expenditure, that it was dishonest to vote it, doubly dishonest to take it ; yet he accepted it, and offered it to a local body in the hope of obtaining another $40 subsidy. This is the unalloyed purity as produced in Waitemata. But enough of this nauseating subject, though, in conclusion, I perhaps should express some regret for having imported a certain amount of feeling into this matter ; but I felt that there was a reflection on me individually as a member of this House, and that must be my apology, if an apology is necessary. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) .- I would just like to mention that whatever the honourable mem- ber may say about the matter, he has been making assertions which are not worth con- tradicting, because it is characteristic of some to make assertions they cannot back up ; but I will assert that on those who know most about me all that he has said will have very little im- pression. And as to bribing a future election. I hurl that back on him, not in the coarse terms he used, but I will say emphatically that it is incorrect. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) .- When this country quits thinking with its belly and resumes the use of its brain we will not want any special pleading or sophistry to let it know that we have got a long way off the track of constitutional government. The Premier said this afternoon, by way of interjection, that no one dared to repeal this Public Revenues Act of 1 1900. I say I would not give my support to any Government that approved of that Act on 