these endowments, and leave them entirely un- disturbed and undestroved. Now we come to clause 19- that clause which the honourable gentleman introducing the Bill stated had a verv innocent bearing, and was merely a con- solidation, I think, of section 10 of the other Act. This clause takes powers from the subur- ban boroughs that I, at any rate, as a member of the Borough of Roslyn, will certainly oppose in every direction. These are not the powers contained in the Tramways Act to which the honourable gentleman alluded ; they are more extensive powers, and they will have the right, if this is done, practically to cut our streets to pieces in any direction they think right. Why should this be the case? I sav, they are de- parting from the agreement made with the suburban boroughs in every respect. They hive got proposals before this House which. if carried, will altogether rob the suburban residents of privileges that were specified when certain statutes passed this House ; and there- fore I say it is not likely that we should allow such a measure to go through this House without raising our voice against it. That would be false to the interests we are sup- posed to conserve in this Assembly. I con- gratulate the member for Caversham on having the courage and self- denial to stand up for the rights of the suburbs which he so ably repre- sents in this House : and I hope we shall strike out those clauses which so perniciously threaten the interests of the suburbs of Dunedin. Then, regarding the remarks which emanated from the momber for the Taieri, I cannot fall in with what he said. I do not think that. be- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 cause there may be some risk, the waters which rise in the Silverpeaks should not be nulised for the City of Dunedin. I think the honour- able member took up what might almost be called a dog-in-the-manger position in con- nection with this matter, because Silver- stream is not utilised to any extent. Mr. CARNCROSS. - A great many miles away from Silverstream. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- You are proposing to use some of the water coming down from Silverpeaks, at any rate. In any case, we must have power raised somewhere; and I am quite sure if an accident occurs the City of Dunedin will have means to meet the contingency. The City of Dunedin is not like some tramway com- panies about Dunedin. I hope there will be a reserve fund set aside to meet cases of accident. In the case of some of the tramways, the un- fortunate people who were injured. I may say that I know of five or six people who were in- jured-some for life, and they have no redress, because one particular company simply says. " If you take action against us we will go into liquidation." Now. in the establishment of tramway companies Parliament should require that there shall be a sum set aside to provide for accidents. Debate interrupted. Mr. PIRANI. - May I move the adjournment of the second reading of this Bill until next Mr. T. Mackenzie rupted in the middle of his speech. The House adjourned at half-past ten o'clock p.m. ## LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Wednesday, 31st July, 1901. First Readings-Third Reading-Government Insur- ance Office-H K. Taiaroa s Petition -Traning- ship for New Zealand Boys-Land for Serie- ments Bill-Referendum Bill-Statutes Revision Committee. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READINGS. Woodville County Bill, Invercargill Reserve Leasing Bill, Ashburton County Council Em- powering Bill. THIRD READING. Cyanide Process Extension Bill. GOVERNMENT INSURANCE OFFICE. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI asked the Minis- ter of Education,-(1.) Whether it is a fact that the officers of the Life Department of the Government Insurance Office are carrying on the accident insurance business ? (2.) If so, what amount has been paid or allowed to the Life Department by the Accident Department for the expenses of offices, et cetera ? (3. Whether the Government intend to give any explanation of the meagre profits allowed to the policy-holders of the Government Life De- partment compared with the profits allowed in other insurance companies ? He had put this question at the desire of a great many policy- holders of the Government Life Insurance De- partment, who were dissatisfied with the work- ing of that institution. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said. in reply to the first part of the question, that it was a fact that the Life Department of the Government Insurance were carrying on to a certain extent the accident insurance business, As to the second part of the question, he might explain that the two businesses were kept quite distinct, and if there was any loss on the first year or subsequent years of the Acci- dent Insurance Department the Consolidated Fund was made liable, and not the Life Insurance Department. As regards the share of the expenses, office services, officers, et cetera. those amounts would be adjusted each year as the expenses accrued. As to the third part of the question, there was a great deal in it that was contentious, and he was not prepared to admit that the profits were meagre as far as the Government Life Insurance was con- cerned. There was no doubt that the pre- miums paid in the Government Life Insurance 