present obtaining, it is too soon to ask for further alterations. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) .- Sir, this Bill is certainly an improvement upon the Bill which the member for the Wellington Suburbs introduced last session. In one respect, however, it is certainly rather worse than the previous Bill, in that there is no clause as to reserving the operation of the Act-if it becomes an Act -- for the signification of His Majesty's pleasure. Now, that is an oversight which we can rectify if the Bill gets into Committee. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is provided for other- wise . Mr. ATKINSON .- It is commonly provided in the Bill. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is never provided for. Mr. ATKINSON. - I beg the honourable gentleman's pardon ; if he will look at the last Divorce Act, which we are now amending, he ; some amendment in the direction proposed will find that it is so provided. Section 2 of " The Divorce Act. 1898," says,- " This Act shall come into operation on a day to be fixed by the Governor by Proclama- ; the contrary, it is no argument to say there tion in the Gazette ; such day to be not less than one month from the day upon which notice of Her Majesty's approval of the same I great hardship. If we can remove or alleviate shall be published in the said Gazette." There is another peculiarity in the drafting of the Divorce Bill of last session which is re peated here, and that is that the last clause, which in this case is the important one, is put somewhat tentatively in the form of a resolu- tion. Instead of saying " The following subsec- tion is added to section 3 of the principal Act," clause 4 says " That the following subsection be added to section 3 of the principal Act." That, of course, is the tentative language of a ; resolution, and not the enacting declaration of a statute. However, with regard to the sub- ject-matter of the Bill, I think it is a very great improvement on the measure of last session. am unable to agree with the proposal of clause 2. that the period of desertion which shall entitle | the petititioner to obtain a divorce shall be . attitude with regard to that clause. I should diminished from five to three years. I agree with the arguments of all preceding speakers, with the exception of the honourable member : be a proper safegard ; but I think the evil, for Wellington Suburbs, in preferring the pre- ; though it may be limited to a small number sent term to three years. As to the proposal of clause 3, which will reduce the period of imprison- ' ment for which the respondent shall have been sentenced to entitle the petitioner to a divorce, ; I see, as the honourable member for Waitaki observed, that there is a good deal to be said from the point of view of the honourable mem- : gate that evil. I shall vote for the second read- ber for Wellington Suburbs ; and his arguments gain a good deal of force from the contention that the period should be made the same throughout. I ain inclined to think-I may be said to be , sitting on a rail at present that if five years is a reasonable period to fix for desertion, five years is a reasonable period to fix here. But. of course, the most important part of the third clause is that which limits the nature of the : House, to see what can be made of it in Com- crime for which a divorce may be obtained. It ' mittee. But nothing the Right Hon. the Pre- Wellington Suburbs that this is not the only class of offence for which the term of im- prisonment for seven or five years should entitle the petitioner to obtain a divorce. At the same time I do not feel justified, accord- ing to my present lights, in voting that a sentence of imprisonment for any crime at all for, say, five years should entitle the peti- tioner to obtain a divorce. I should like further time to consider and hear more dis- cussion on clause 3 before having to vote upon it. However, it is certain that clause 4 is the most important clause in the Bill. I approve of the arguments of the Right Hon. the Pre- mier, from a general standpoint, with regard to the inadvisability of tampering lightly with our divorce law ; but I do not see that any of the general considerations he urged fairly met the very strong ground of public policy, on which by clause 4 is based. We. do not desire that the progeny of lunatics shall be increased by the compulsion of law in this colony. On i is a small number of cases. There may be a small number of cases, and yet it may be a the hardship, without admitting at the same time a greater evil, it is our duty to do so. Now, what greater evil are we to admit if, with proper safeguards, we enact that lunacy for five years shall be a ground for divorce ? I fail to see that we shall be admitting any evil at all, providing, of course, that the safeguards are proper. The Right Hon. the Premier gave us a reason for supposing that the safeguard the member for Wellington Suburbs was willing to have added was insufficient. Perhaps the honourable member may not be willing to con- cede so much, but, at any rate, it shows he is prepared to have the clause thoroughly threshed out, and to have inserted in it whatever safe- guard appears. on consideration, to be a just and proper one. I understood that to be his not like to say off-hand, any more than would any other member of the House, what would of cases, is so serious that some remedy should be provided for it, and for that reason- though if I had to decide on clause 4 to-night by my single vote I should vote against it-but, on the ground that there is a great evil, and that this clause if properly amended may miti- The member for Wellington ing of the Bill. Suburbs has referred to the fact that he moved the second reading of this Bill po forma last year, with the view of having it referred to the Statutes Revision Committee; and I hope that after the debate this evening the Bill will be referred to that Committee, to be thoroughly overhauled, and then brought back to the 