vision is almost essential to a clear appreciation of an end to be attained. There was in his temperament that mixture of practical and poetic strains so constantly to be found in the mountaineer, and I can conceive that the guiding principles of Sir John Mckenzie's land legislation may have been based on Robert Burns's celebrated dirge, " Man was made to mourn." One can figure himself as the young man apostrophized by the hoary octogenarian wanderer ;- See yonder poor, o'erlaboured wight, So abject, mean, and vile, Who begs a brother of the earth To give him leave to toil; And see his lordly fellow-worm The poor petition spurD, Unmindful, though a weeping wife And helpless offspring mourn. One could understand Sir John McKenzie determining to devote his mature life to re- medying the wrongs that he witnessed in his youth. And how pathetic and pitiful his end. Though mourned by his fellow-colonists and decorated by his Sovereign, he could not be saved from years of almost unceasing anguish. With patience and submission that impatient and unsubmissive man bore all his sufferings- an object-lesson to men of smaller souls. And as his earlier life may have been stimulated by the earlier lines of Robert Burns's poem, so his last hours may have been solaced by its last verse : O, Death, the poor man's dearest friend- The kindest and the best ! Welcome the hour my aged limbs Are laid with thee at rest. The great, the wealthy, fear thy blow, From pomp and pleasure torn ; But, oh ! a blest relief to those That weary laden mourn ! I second the motion. Major STEWARD (Waitaki). - Sir, having been for nearly thirty years the intimate friend and for nearly a quarter of a century the poli- tical comrade of the late Sir John McKenzie, I desire to add a few words of tribute to his memory. Those who knew him best loved him most, and the better he was known the more highly he was esteemed. Rugged and firm as the hills under whose shadow his childhood was passed, his faults-and they were few -- were those of an essentially strong man ; and the en- vironment of his youth not only helped to mould his character, but was destined to have an in- fluence for good on these far-away islands which became his manhood's home ; for the brave, strong man that came to us in the early sixties brought with him a knowledge of the evils of a . pitiless landlordism, and a determination that no such evils as afflicted the crofters of his be- loved Highlands should curse, if he could help it, the land of his adoption. And to him in due course came the opportunity to pass and adminis- ter liberal land-laws, to help his fellow-men to establish themselves on the soil in comfort and happiness, and well and nobly he fulfilled the task-nay, not a task, for to him it was always a labour of love. Of him, as of Sir Christopher Wren, it may be written " Si monu- mentum requiris, circumspice !"; though in his case the testimony to his successful work is not bounded by the walls of any one building, but is borne by thousands upon thousands of fertile acres and hundreds upon hundreds of happy homes. We can ill spare him, and we shall feel his loss for many and many a year. But, though he be dead he yet speaketh ; he speaks by a patriotic devotion which we may all well imitate, for while he "rests from his labours his works do follow him." We mourn his loss, we sorrow for his loved ones, but we sorrow not for him, for "after life's fitful fever he sleeps well." He has exchanged its storm and strife for the peace of God, which passeth all understanding. It is well with him; and it remains only for the country he served so well to do honour to his memory. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) .- Sir, it is now over twenty years since I had the fortune to make Sir John McKenzie's first acquaint- ance, and very soon after that we were con- nected in politics, being elected at the same election-1881-he for Moeraki and I for Wai- taki. In those days there were very few who represented the farmers in this House, and I think previous to our advent they were fewer still. In 1882, when Mr. Rolleston passed his Land Bill, had it not been for the assist- ance of Sir John Mckenzie and myself his own supporters at that time would not have carried the Bill, and the division-list will show that. So that no matter from what side im- provement in land-settlement came-whether in opposition or whether he was on the side that brought it forward-he supported measures that were for the good of the people of this colony. I suppose I was more intimately con- nected with Sir John Mckenzie than many even of his colleagues, after he joined the Ministry ; he often consulted me about matters, and there were very few questions he brought up in the House on which he did not obtain my opinion to see if it coincided with his own. I may say that had he been a less strong man, had he been a waverer or a man easily turned aside from his object at the time when he started the land legislation of the Government of which he was a member, there would have been very little progress made, and none of the great reforms we have now would have been brought about. It was his indomitable will and the courage of his convictions that impressed the House, and many a time he got votes through this from some who had doubts in the matter ; the earnestness and conviction he showed convinced them that, at any rate, he was determined to do what was right, and they gave him the benefit of the doubt, even when they had great doubts of the wisdom of the measures he brought up. So that a less strong man would have made very little progress. And as has been truly stated by the Premier and the leader of the Opposition, and by my friend Major Steward, he always and at every time had the welfare of the masses of the people at heart. Coming as he did, as has been stated previously, from the Highlands of Scotland, and seeing the devastation that was made 