the Main Trunk Railway, two complaints had been made during the last month, and in the case of one gang of men their measurements were found to be rather fully correct, and the men earned 7s. 8d. a day. The other complaint was made by a gang of men who were incom- petent, and who perhaps had actually worked harder than the other gang. What he meant was that they were not accustomed to the class of work to be done. The honourable member would know what he meant. An incompetent man might work hard and yet earn less money than another man who was more competent than he was, simply because he was accustomed to that kind of work, and therefore could get through more work. There was, apparently, a feeling in the mind of the honourable member for Rangitikei that these men were in some way defrauded of their earnings ; but he might say that of all the cases which he had investigated during the past four or five years he had never known one brought against the Engineer that had been proved ; and, if the honourable member for Rangitikei was prepared to take to an outside tribunal the question of whether or not these men had been defrauded of one single penny of their earnings, he would be quite willing on his part to agree to that course. So far as he knew, no injustice had occurred in connection with works of that kind ; but the lazy man, or the indifferent man, did not carn as much as he wished to. or thought he ought to earn. Hence the complaints of the rate of pay. When, however, that was the case https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 it was a serious matter for a member of Parlia- ment. knowing the position he held, to make such statements in the Parliament of the colony concerning an officer in the public service, who, he was sure, had no wish to defraud, and cer- tainly no intention of defrauding, the men of a halfpenny. Mr. LETHBRIDGE, as a matter of personal explanation, said that he made no charge against the Engineer in charge of the works. He had stated that these complaints came fre- quently to him, and he only asked an explana- tion from the Minister in charge as to why the complaints were made. Mr. HALL - JONES said the honourable member must not forget that a member of Parliament, when he made a statement there, made it with all the authority of a member of that House, and members who had heard what the honouralle gentleman had stated could judge whether or not he had made a charge against the Engineer. WELLINGTON CUSTOMHOUSE. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Government, Whether they will this session place a sum on the estimates for the erection of a Customhouse on the site specially re- claimed for that purpose in the City of Wel- lington ? It was essential, in order to remove the inconvenience resulting from the congestion in the Post-Office building, that the erection of with the reclamation which was being carried on by the Wellington Harbour Board, the Govern- ment, of course, paving the cost of the re- clamation of the site concerned. The Secre- tary of the Harbour Board thought that the reclamation would be sufficiently far advanced for the purpose of erecting the Customhouse by the end of August or the middle of Sep- tember, and that would enable the Government to proceed with the erection of the building so soon as they were ready with the necessary funds for the purpose. It would enlighten and satisfy the mercantile and shipping community of Wellington if the Minister would say that before the end of the session the Government would place a sum on the estimates to begin the erection of the new building. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) said, Yes ; he realised that this was an urgent work, and that the accommodation was much required for the Customs and other departments, and the Postal authorities re- quired all the accommodation in the Post- Office building for their own purposes ; and he hoped that when the estimates were brought down a sum sufficient to meet requirements in this respect to the end of the financial year would be voted. When the building was erected they might then hope it would be sufficient to meet not only the requirements of the Customs Department, but of the Inspector of Machinery branch, the Weather Reporting Office, and an office for the Superintendent of Mercan- tile Marine for shipping matters. These should all be provided for in the new building. # RIVER-BEDS. Major STEWARD ( Waitaki) asked the Minis- ter of Lands, Whether his attention has been called to the necessity for preserving to the public the right of road over and along river- beds; and whether he will take measures to effect this, either by vesting river-beds in the local governing bodies as reserves for public use, or in some other way preventing the public being deprived of their privileges? The origin of the question was this: Complaints had reached him from his district that a gentleman wishing to travel in the usual course along a certain river-bed, along which there had been a right of road for very many years, found himself stopped by a settler, who claimed to have the sole right to the use of that river-bed. It appeared that a lease of the grazing-rights had been granted by the Land Board, but that it was quite understood by the Board in granting the lease that all the privileges of the publie were to be preserved. Well, the lessce had evidently found he was in the wrong, be- cause the Land Board, he understood, had called in the lease with a view to making it quite clear that the rights of the public were to be protected. Now, no doubt this particular grievance had been, or would be, remedied, but the circumstances raised the general question as to whether there ought not to be some pro- 