not be punished for publishing an accurate and fair account of the proceedings of the Court ; but suppose in place of an accurate and fair account of the proceedings of the Court, a newspaper publishes a garbled and distorted account of the proceedings of any Court, what is to happen then ? Suppose a newspaper pub- lishes a mangled report of the proceedings in some case which would be highly injurious to a private person, and, in the case of a public man, would wholly damm his future career. What is to be the remedy in such a case? This Bill provides a speedy and simple remedy. Now, here is a case in which I myself was concerned. It was heard in the Magistrate's Court at Wel- lington, and in a telegraphed account of the caso which appeared in the Christchurch Press next day is contained the statement, given as part of the evidence, that I had given my mem- ber's railway-pass to a woman of immoral character. An Hon. MEMBER .- What ? . Mr. FISHER ..- The Christchurch Press of the 27th February, in a telegraphed report of a case in which I was concerned in the Stipendiary Magistrate's Court in Wellington, contains a statement, purporting to be part of the evi- dence given in the case, that I had given my member's railway-pass to a woman of immoral character. The local papers, in their report of the case, contained no such statement, and one may be assured that it would have appeared there if such a statement had been made. I also asked the Magistrate and the Court officials if they remembered such a statement having been made, but none of them remem- bered any such statement having been made. Now, I stand on the floor of this House and ask this question : If a member of this House were proved guilty of such an act what punishment ought to be awarded to him ? Again I say, if a person were proved guilty of printing and cir- culating such an abominable statement what punishment ought to be awarded to him? On the face of it the statement is absurd, for what woman, moral or immoral, could make use of a member's pass? Now, this paper, the Christ- church Press, is, next to the Evening Post of Wellington, the paper which clamours loudest for an amendment of the law of libel in the direction of affording them greater protection. Could the farce of impudence any further go ? Sir, it may be asked why I did not bring an action for libel against the Christchurch Press. This is my answer : I have said in this House on many occasions,- not only in connection with Libel Bills, but in connection with questions of privilege which have been brought up in the House, -- that nothing would in- duce me to become a party to a libel suit, for the uniform experience of libel actions is that the next to being the loser is to be the winner. On the 3rd July. 1891, speaking on a question of privilege in this House, I said, -- " If I had chosen to take proceedings against newspapers which have attacked me, as many of them have done, in a most ruffainly and blackguard manner, I should have some of the Wellington editors before the bar every week. Nr. Fisher If I had chosen I might have had many of them in prison for criminal libel. But, Sir, the best way is to treat them with silent con- tempt, and leave them to the reprobation of all honest men. That is my own course. I would never go to law with a newspaper, no matter what it said-and I have had some rough things said of me; and it is because that is the course I have adopted in my own case that I recommend the House to adopt it now." I have spoken of the attempts made by Sir A. Borthwick and Sir Albert Rollitt to repeal the libel law of England. What force is there, then, in the statement of the honourable mem- ber for the Taieri that his Bill is a transcript of the English Act? I repeat that if it be a transcript of the English Act it is a transcript of an Act which the people of England have made repeated attempts to repeal. And, in the face of these persistent and consistent attempts in the House of Commons to repeal that Act, why should we pass a law through our Parlia- ment in order that we may have the pleasure of following the course of the House of Com- mons as to its repeal? Let us take the precaution of not putting the Act on our statute- book. Then we shall be safe. I have shown that the newspapers of this colony require no protection beyond the protection they already have; and that protection is un- doubtedly great. I showed last year what enormous profits are made by these par- ticular newspapers which rave and crave for a new libel law. But, supposing they lost one libel action a year, could not either of these newspapers-these two champions of journalistic freedom, the Christchurch Press and the Wellington Evening Post-well afford to pay a thousand pounds a year? I have referred to one case of libel in which I myself was concerned. Undoubtedly, in the case of the Christchurch Press I could have prosecuted the editor of that paper criminally, but I have given the House the reason why I took no action in the matter. But here is a case which strikes this Parliament nearer home. It strikes not at the individual, but at the very root of the honour and the independence of the Parliament itself. This House prorogued on the 20th of October last year, and within five days of the prorogation there appeared in nearly all the newspapers of the colony this scandalous article. To show how widespread has been the dissemina- tion of this nauseous news, I take this version of the article from the Dunedin Evening Star, published on the 25th October, 1900. The Star introduces the matter in this way : "The Manawatu Standard, edited by Mr. F. Pirani, M.H.R., contains the following editorial state- ments in a recent issue" :- " Those who feel any respect for representative institutions cannot but regard the result of the session of Parliament just concluded with loathing and disgust. It is well to speak plainly, and therefore we can say with truth that a depth of degradation has been sounded which is unrivalled in the annals of New Zealand, and both Chambers are equally blameworthy," --- Formerly the Evening Post confined its attacks 