before the day passed. What does the House as a whole know of the position of the Patca Harbour Board ? I have myself endeavoured to glean all the information attainable, and I find it is meagre and scanty. I find that the Harbour Board was intrusted some years ago with nearly four thousand acres of land as endowments. We have not been informed what revenue is derived from those endowments, or whether. like a neighbouring Harbour Board -the Wanganui Harbour Board-it has suc- ceeded in selling them and spending the pro- ceeds. Hon. MEMBERS .- Oh ! Mr. TANNER .- Honourable members say " Oh." but it is a fact that the General Government endowed the Wanganui Har- bour Board with 25,000 acres of land, the whole of the freehold of which has been sold and the money spent. I remember, in 1892, when the last Bill was passed through this House giving power to sell the last remnants of the 25,000 acres, and at the time I called attention to the fact. Sir, I find the Patea Board has had large borrowing-powers extended to it in the past. In 1878 power was given to borrow $10,000), and in 1890 power was given to borrow a further $5,000. I should have been glad to hear from the honourable member who moved the second reading how far the Board has used its powers of borrowing : whether any large amount has been borrowed. Mr. PIRANI .-- It has all been borrowed. Mr. GRAHAM .- No ; $13,000 out of $15,000. Mr. TANNER .- Well, at any rate, no mem- ber wishes to stand in the way of the develop- ment of any portion of the colony. Our large harbours have been a success. Some of the secondary harbours have not been the success the people of New Zealand might have wished. and a good deal of useless and unnecessary expense has been incurred, casting burdens on the people for many years to come, which money has been, to all intents and purposes. wasted in some instances. I do not say that this applies to the Patea Board. I remember seeing the works some years ago, and they reminded me of the pictures we generally see in good books of the ruins of Tyre and Sidon on the Mediterranean coast. There were a few blocks of concrete standing above the level of the water, but the whole place had a dismantled and forlorn look, and is the most wretched spot one could conceive. But, Sir. things may have changed since then; I hope they have, but it would have been well if the honourable gentleman who moved the second reading had given the House some assurance. and some knowledge of the details, and whether it is likely, if the House passes this Bill giving further borrowing-powers, that the expenditure of the money will be carried out with somewhat greater degree of wisdom than has characterized the expenditure of such moneys in the past. ] feel that we pass many of these Bills far too lightly. The member for a district just intro- duces a Bill. He takes up the attitude that the from one member to another ; and, partly out of sympathy, and partly from indifference or a wish not to take any trouble in the matter, members assent to a Bill which, on reflection and thought, they would rather blame them- selves for sanctioning. I appeal to the honour- able gentleman who has introduced the Bill, in his reply, to submit some further knowledge to the House than what it at present possesses with regard to the Patca Harbour Board. Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) .- Sir, as a member of the Local Bills Committee, to whom this Bill was referred, I feel it incumbent on me to speak a few words in explanation as to the position of this Bill. With reference to the merits, pro- visions, and particulars of the Bill, and as to how the money which the promoters of the Bill desire power to borrow is to be spent, and what it is going to be spent on, I say nothing. I leave that to the honourable member in charge of the Bill, who represents the district. My concern is with reference to the Bill as reported from the Local Bills Committee, and as to whether the Standing Orders have been complied with. The Right Hon. the Premier this afternoon, with- out one atom of knowledge of the subject, in supporting the second reading of the Bill made an apology for the Standing Orders not having been complied with, inasmuch as a plan had not been deposited with the Marine Department, as required by clause 148 of the Harbours Act. That, Sir, in the face of the Committee having reported to the House that the Standing Orders had been complied with, renders it necessary for me to make some explanation on the subject. This Bill, Sir, was referred to the Local Bills Committee in the ordinary way. When it came before the Committee there was a plan attached to the Bill. li the Bill had provided for carry- ing out the works that were shown upon the plan that was attached to it, the Bill would have been absolutely barred by clause 148 of ". The Harbours Act. 1878," which says,- " No land shall be reclaimed from the sea or in any harbour, and no graving-deck, dock, or breakwater shall be constructed in any har- bour or in the sea, except under the authority of a special Act ; and the applicants for such special Act shall, three months at least before the session of the General Assembly at which such Act is sought to be obtained, deposit at the office of the Marine Department a plan." And so on. No plan had been deposited with the Marine Department, therefore, as I said just now, if the Bill had provided for the plan that accompanied the Bill before the Local Bills Committee being given effect to it would have been completely barred by that omission. It has been stated by the honourable member for Avon that local Bills are passed far too lightly by the House. I can assure the honourable member and the House that the Local Bills Committee gave this particular Bill a great deal of attention. They not only considered it on one occasion, but they adjourned it for a week for the purpose of 