HOSPITAL NURSES' REGISTRATION BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 5 .- "A certificate given after the pass- ing of this Act by the medical officer of any hospital shall not entitle the holder thereof to registration unless a course of at least twenty-five lectures has been delivered in that hospital in each of the three years' residence therein of the holder of the certificate, and unless the matron of the hospital is herself a registered nurse." Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) moved to strike out the words " twenty- five, and to insert in lieu thereof the word " twelve." Word struck out and "twelve " inserted. Mr. HALL-JONES moved to strike out the words " and unless the matron of the hospital is herself a registered nurse." Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 8 .- " Any registered nurse who is con- victed of any indictable offence, or is proved to be guilty of misconduct, is liable to have her name erased from the register by order of the Governor in Council." Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) moved to strike out all words after "offence," and to insert, in lieu thereof, " shall have her name erased from the register by order of the Governor in Council ; and any registered nurse who is proved to the satis- faction of the Registrar and any Stipendiary Magistrate to have been guilty of grave mis- conduct shall be liable to have her name erased from the register by order of the Governor in Council." Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) moved the addition of the following new clause : - " For the purpose of enabling nurses who, previous to the coming into operation of this Act, hold certificates issued by any hospital au- thority, or who may have had not less than four years' experience as nurses, and who do not come within the foregoing provisions, to be registered under this Act, the Minister may make regulations prescribing the qualifications or form of examination required and the fee to be paid for the issue of a certificate which shall entitle the holder to registration under this . Act : "Provided that no such certificate shall be issued after the thirty-first day of December, , one thousand nine hundred and two. New clause agreed to. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) moved to add the following new clause :- " In all appointments of nurses in hospitals under the control of Boards constituted under 'The Hospitals and Charitable Institutions Act, 1885,' preference of employment in regard to future vacancies shall be given to registered nurses : Provided that nothing herein contained shall be construed to interfere with the employ- ment of probationer nurses in such institu- tions." New clause agreed to. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) moved to add the following new clause :- "This Act shall come into operation on the first day of January, one thousand nine hundred and two." New clause added. Bill reported. LAND FOR SETTLEMENTS BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said that subsection (3) of section 6 had been amended to read as follows :- " (3.) If the Governor determines not to pro- ceed with the purchase he shall forthwith give notice thereof to the claimant, and there- upon the restriction on the disposition of the land under subsection one hereof shall cease to have effect." His opinion was that that meant that there was no restriction as to time. An Hon. MENBER .- I do not think that is right. Mr. SEDDON said he was going to move to disagree with that. The House fixed it at twelve months, and he thought that was the right thing to do. He moved that the amendments made in subclause (1) of clause 8 be agreed to. He had promised the House in Committee that he would see that the machinery was pro- perly adjusted, and after consulting with Mr. Marchant, the Commissioner of Lands here. these were the suggestions he had made so as to make it workable. He said that, although there might be no classification under the head of "ordinary farms" or "run," you would have to group them, because there would be some large and some small tenants, and if a tenant took up a small section he could not possibly take up a large one. At any rate, these suggestions had been made, and he moved that they be agreed to. New subclause (3) was en- tirely at variance with what had been done in the House, and he moved that it be not agreed to. Clause 9 was now read to form part of sub- section (4) of clause 8. He moved that that be agreed to. In subclause (5) there required to be inserted before the word " Board " the word "Land," so as to make it " Land Board." Mem- bers would notice that throughout the piece " Board," " Board," " Board " occurred, but it should be " Land Board "; so far as the section dealing with applications was concerned. Then, new subclause (7), he moved, should be agreed to. Clause 13 he moved should be agreed to. and the new clause 14 take the place of the wording struck out of clause 13. He was advised that it would be better to strike out those words in clause 13, and simply to put in a new clause. The summing-up as to the amend- ments was this : Subclause (1) of section 6 to be agreed to. The amendments in subclause (3) of section 6 to be not agreed to. Subclause (3) of section 8 to be not agreed to. The amend- ments in subclause (1) of section 8 to be agreed to. The amendments in the 3rd subsection of 