been sanctioned by them. There was no attempt in any shape or form to infringe any of the rights of the suburban boroughs. But, Sir, seeing that the suburban 3.30. boroughs imagine it would, and that as it stands at present it is valueless, be- cause they have to take a poll, it is just as well to knock the thing out altogether and let them take another poll. It is simply adding the expense of taking another poll on to the citizens of Dunedin, and adding to the cost of the tramways, but they are prepared to do so rather than have any trouble over the Bill. Sir, I think that, having conceded these points, the whole of the objections to the Bill have been met, and I trust that when the Bill gets into Committee there will be no further trouble. If there are any further amendments of a nature that I can reasonably accept I will be prepared to do so at the hands of any honour- able member, but I think, so far, I have met the whole of the objections. I beg to move the second reading. Bill read a second time. # REMUERA WATERWORKS EMPOWER- ING BILL. Mr. LAWRY (Parnell) .- Sir, in moving the second reading of this Bill on behalf of your- self, I would like to point out to honourable members that the Bill has been before the Local Bills Committee, and I see it has been returned with only slight amendment proposed by yourself. I do not see that there can be any single objection to this Bill. One clause in the Bill provides for borrowing £15,000, and any person who knows the Remuera district as I know it, and as you know it, and as the honourable member for Franklin knows it, will know that there cannot be a single doubt as to the district being well able to provide ample security for the money proposed to be borrowed. When the Bill gets into Committee perhaps I shall have something to say in the same direc- tion as was argued by honourable members re the rate of interest ; but that is a Committee objection which you, Sir, will be fully capable of dealing with. The ratepayers have, by what I might term an overwhelming ma- jority, indorsed fully the proposal contained in this Bill of borrowing #15,000 to furnish their district with a copious supply of water. On the 2nd May, a poll was taken on the proposal contained in the Bill of borrowing the money, and the result of the poll was 274 in favour and 83 against. I remember, Sir, in the year 1888, there was an amendment to the Road Boards Act which empowered two dis- tricts now represented by myself-namely, the Eden Terrace and the Mount Eden Road Boards, to borrow money under the conditions prescribed under that Act, which further en- acted that the provisions of that Act should apply to any other Road Boards to which they may be declared to apply by any Act of the General Assembly. The Remuera Road Board for the same purpose. I do not think, Sir, that it is necessary for me to detain the House at present with any further comment on the Bill. The Bill is very plain and very simple, and I do not think there is any honourable gentleman who knows anything about the local require- ments of the district between the Waitemata and the Manukau, who would not be prepared to indorse and support the proposal contained in this measure of establishing a good supply of water for the important and thriving district of Remuera. Bill read a second time. # TEMPLETON DOMAIN BOARD EMPOWERING BILL. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- Sir, this is a very short Bill of a purely local character, and it has passed the Local Bills Committee. In the early days of Canterbury a number of domain reserves were set apart for the recrea- tion of the people, and amongst them was one called the Templeton Domain. It is a some- what valuable endowment, from which a sum has accrued by way of rentals, amounting to something about +300 or $400. But in the meantime two or three townships have sprung up, and as they are without recreation-grounds the Templeton Domain Board wisely desiro power to spend its accrued capital in providing recreation grounds in other parts of its district. It therefore asks the power to do so, selecting at this juncture the townships of Templeton, Yald- hurst, and Hornby, and such other places as may be fixed upon. The necessary safeguard is in- serted that the Minister of Lands shall in each case be satisfied that the position of the land is suitable and the price reasonable. I may say, in further explanation, that the substantial parts of this Bill were included in the annual washing-up Bill last session, and received the imprimatur of the Lands Departinent ; but unfortunately, honourable members will re- member, that Bill went by the board at the close of the session, and I therefore had to wait another year, and the proposition has been introduced in the shape of a local Bill. I have much pleasure in moving the second reading. Bill read a second time. WELLINGTON CITY RECREATION- GROUND BILL. Mr. J. HUTCHESON ( Wellington City) .- Sir, it has been felt by the citizens of Welling- ton, who feel the necessity for an extension of the area of our city, in addition to providing addi- tional breathing-spaces and recreation-grounds, that this area should be acquired, subject to the approval of the ctizens being first obtained by a poll, as provided by the First Schedule to the Municipal Corporations Act. The Bill is purely a machinery Bill, and forms the basis for the proposals to be submitted to the electors. I do not know that there is anything in connection with the Bill that honourable members require to have explained to them. It merely provides 