Mr. FLATMAN .- How do you propose to get at the " fat man"? Mr. TANNER .- I did not suggest. Mr. GUINNESS .- He is going to vote for the second reading. Mr. FLATMAN .- Then he is going to vote in the same way as I intend to do, providing the Premier is going to amend the Bill in the direc- tion I suggest. As far as the unoccupied sec- tions of the cities are concerned, I doubt very much whether it would be wisdom on the part of this House to dictate as to whether there will be any speculation in land or not. In some instances these town sections have been offered by the Government, and in other instances by private individuals, to the public, and they have been bought in all good faith that they will be more valuable in the near future. Now, so long as we invite speculation in that direction, why should the law come down upon those people and say, " You must build on your land, or you will be taxed out of existence." I do not think it would be just that the law should compel people to put up buildings that were not required. I think the argument brought forward by the honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Smith) was very full on that point. Then, there is another point in regard to rating on unimproved value, and I think the system would be beneficial in many districts. There are some districts in which there are water-races, and which have been declared special districts for that purpose -they have become responsible for a loan to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 construct water-races ; but under the pre- sent system a person who is within that district not only contributes to the interest on that loan, but he also pays a special rate, because it is said by the valuers that the construction of these water-races has enhanced the value of the land to the extent of $1 an acre. Now, the injustice of the thing is this : that the rest of the county is not liable for the responsibility of the loan that is raised for that portion set apart as a water-race district ; and, therefore, at the present time in these cases the occupier or owner of land is rated for an improvement on which he pays special interest for a special improvement, constructed by spe- cial loan. Therefore, in many instances, while it would be advisable to rate on the unimproved value in some districts, it might not be bene- ficial in others. If the clause I suggest is added to the Bill I am sure it will be a great improve- ment, and under those conditions I shall have much pleasure in voting for the second reading. Mr. BENNET (Tuapeka). - Sir, I have watched the course of this debate with great care and much interest, but have not got any information that will induce me to vote for the Bill. The honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell) gave an example of a working- man who was now paying $3 15s. in rates, but who would only pay 15s. if the Bill was passed -only one-fifth of what he is now paying. This ! would necessitate the raising of the rate to five times what it is at the present time, so as to give the local bodies the same revenue as they therefore, be gained by altering the present system of taxation. It would press very heavily on many of the working classes in the outskirts of the boroughs in my district ; in fact, they would be almost rated out of their homes. Many of them have a few sections of land fenced in as paddocks for keeping a horse or a cow, and if they have to pay three or four times the rates they are now doing they will have to sell out and go somewhere else, and those who follow them will be no better off. This Bill will be very detrimental to the whole of my district from a financial point of view. The revenues of the three boroughs in my dis- trict would be affected as follows : Rates under the present system-Lawrence, £278; unim- proved rate, $68; Alexandra South, present rate, £97; unimproved rate, £29 ; Roxburgh, present rate, £82 ; unimproved rate, £10 Ss. And the counties would be similarly affected. The Counties Bill at present before the House only provides for a rate of ?d. in the pound on the capital values, and the local bodies would therefore be put in a very awkward position. I consider the Premier should either withdraw one Bill or the other. He should have allowed the Counties Bill to be disposed of before he brought this measure down. So far as I am concerned, I shall oppose the second reading of the Bill as being detrimental to the interests of the country settlers. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) .- There ap- pears to be a considerable misunderstanding in the House as to rating on unimproved values. Personally, I have always supported the prin- ciple : still I am opposed to this Bill. There is not the least doubt that rating on unimproved value is the only fair and equitable system of rating : but I fail to see where is the necessity for this measure at present. Last year we passed a measure giving local authorities power to take a poll on the subject every day in the week, if they liked. There is no reason what- ever why we should not give that measure time to work. I cannot understand why the Premier will force this measure on the House. It re- minds me of an old grandmother who makes a child swellow medicine whether it likes it or not, and when it is likely to be most injurious. Rating on unimproved value is a phase of the single-tax I very much approve of, as being the only fair and impartial method of rating, be cause our present systems are all more or less faulty, partial, and oppressive in their operation. This is the only phase of the gospel preached by the disciples of Henry George that I have any faith in. Most of them seem to me to be cranks, with cracks in their craniums or bees in their bonnets. But they are on the right track in in- troducing and advocating rating on unimproved value. We have had the man with a small section trotted out in this House to an enor- mous extent in this debate ; but we do not hear anything much about the large section-holder. There is an estate in my district containing 89,000 acres, and the rates paid on it amount only to a few pounds a year. An Hon. MEMBERr,-Very poor land. 