attributed whatever credit may be due for the satisfactory settlement between the two local governing bodies in this city as set forth speci- fically in the deed of agreement embodied in the Bill called the Wellington Harbour Board and City of Wellington Empowering Act, which enabled that interchange of endowments, and en- abled the sweeping-away of the slums, and en- abled a satisfactory solution of what was really a difficult problem. I say to Mr. H. D. Bell be- longs the credit wholly and solely for the initiative idea embodied in these enactments. These and many other services of a solid character of which the public are scarcely cognisant, and for which he has never got public credit, Mr. H. D. Bell is the author. And, above all other members of this House, I think it comes with ill grace in- deed for my colleague the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) to malign in any way Mr. H. D. Bell. Now. Sir, as to the Bill, all I have time to say is that a proposal must be submitted to the people. If it is not a proposal to raise a straight-out loan of $75,000, then it is an alternative proposal that the City Council be empowered to raise, under this deed of agreement, a present loan to redeem the mortgage of ¥10,000, which the Corporation will require to liquidate at once, the balance of the purchase-money, amounting to £65,000, to re- main till the 1st day of January, 1905, at a rate of interest of $2 10s. per centum per annum ; so that by that time the City Council may be deriving some revenue from the leasing of a portion of the recreation-ground, and be in https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 a better position to raise the necessary loan to discharge the liability. I say, Sir, that in the 400) acres now at the disposal of the citizens of Wellington, we have the least advantage that will accrue from the passing of this Bill, and we have 1,100 acres that will be available as building - sites for the working - people of this town, so that under municipal control we may arrive at a solution of the question of the housing of the poor of the city. Not only will it not impose a single penny of taxation or rates on the people of Wellington, but in the imme- diate vicinity of the city we will have a glorious recreation-ground, over every inch of which, with the exception of fifteen days in the year, the people of Wellington will be able to roam at. will. Sir, I submit the Bill with every con fidence to the House, and now move the second reading. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) .- Sir, may I be allowed to trespass on the time of the House for a moment to make a personal ex- planation ? The honourable member for Wel- lington City (Mr. Hutcheson) produced from a file of a newspaper a letter in which he charged me with a certain mistake, which he alleged was made by myself. I often make mistakes- I admit it-but this particular mistake with which he charges me I never made. I believe the letter was written by himself. I am credibly informed that he wrote it. and signed it over a nom de plume, and I understand it was written by him to help Mr. Aitken against me. Fur. thermore, the honourable member's inventive genius is well known, as is his personal animus Mlr. Hutcheson to myself; but I feel certain that when he cackles against me in the future he will have to roost a little higher, when he will be out of the wet. Mr. HUTCHESON. - Sir, I think I should be allowed to disclaim the authorship of the letter, portion of which I read just now. I know nothing at all of the authorship of it, and, as for the honourable member's covert threat, I simply treat it with contempt, as it deserves. Mr. WILFORD .- Sir, may I be allowed to say -- Mr. SPEAKER. - No ; I cannot hear any moro personal explanations. The House divided. AYES, 37. Rhodes Arnold Houston Lang Russell, G. W. Barclay Bollard Laurenson Smith, G. J. Buddo Lethbridge Stevens Carneross Steward Massey Mackenzie, T. Tanner Duncan Ell Meredith Thompson, R. Fraser, A. L. D. Millar Thomson, J. W. Willis. Graham Mills Hanan Monk Hardy Morrison Tellers. Napier Hogg Atkinson Hornsby Pirani Hutcheson. NOES, 10. Allen, E. G. McGowan Tellers. Carroll Mckenzie, R. Fisher Guinness McNab Wilford. Lawry Parata. Majority for, 27. Bill read a second time. ELECTIVE EXECUTIVE BILL. Adjourned debate on the question, "That the Bill be now read a second time." and the amend- ment proposed thereto, "To omit the word ' now,' with a view of inserting the words ' this day six months." " The House divided on the question, "That the word ' now ' be retained." AYES, 22. Steward Atkinson Lethbridge Tanner Buddo Mackenzie, T. Collins McNab Thompson, R. Graham Meredith Thomson, J. W. Guinness Monk Hornsby Pirani Tellers. Russell, G. W. Ell Hutcheson Lang Laurenson. Smith, G. J. NOES, 31. Allen, E. G. Hall-Jones Napier Parata Hanan Arnold Hardy Barclay Rhodes Russell, W. R. Bennet Hogg Bollard Houston Stevens Carneross Lawry Symes Wilford. Carroll McGowan Mckenzie, R. Duncan Tellers. Fisher Millar Palmer Flatman Mills Fraser, A. L. D. Morrison Willis. 