the table forthwith, or at certain times, and it is refreshing that there is one official in the Civil Service who does respect the law so far as that is concerned. This correspondence apparently extends over some time. The last letter is dated the 26th August, and if it had been held any longer from Parliament it would have been a highly improper thing. I am glad the honourable gentleman has decided to allow this to be printed, because we ought all to know what is in the correspondence. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin). - It might be better to divide the motion into two parts, taking the first part down to the word "printed." Sending the paper to the Public Accounts Committee will have the effect of preventing any member from referring to it in the course of the financial debate. I do not think the suggestion that this matter should be postponed until the arrival of the Treasurer from the South is unreasonable, but it seems to me that we should simply postpone consideration of the matter until to-morrow, and then take a discussion upon the arrival of the Treasurer from the South. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) .- I am not posted up in every phase of this matter, but it seems to me that this is a document belonging to the House, and with which the Premier is already familiar in his position as Treasurer of the colony. I do not see what can be gained by referring this to the Public Accounts Committee. I am seeking information, rather than objecting to it ; but, if there is anything in what the Hon. the Acting- Leader has said, it seems to lose it, for the Premier must already be informed of these documents, and have made up his mind on the matter, and must have been aware that this http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero document was coming before the House. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) .- I just want to say a word or two in reference to the somewhat ungenerous explanation given by the Postmaster-General as to the motive actuating the Controller and Auditor-General in submit- ting this document to the House now. Honour- able members will recollect that when the Premier was speaking in connection with the Public Revenues Bill, some few days ago, he used something like these words, "Honourable members will perhaps get a fresh instance within another forty-eight hours showing the necessity for the passing of this Bill." That shows, I think, that the Premier was aware that this document was about to be presented to the House. An Hon. MEMBER .- What do you find fault with now ? Mr. HUTCHESON .- I am finding fault with the attempt to deprive the House of what be- longs to it by statute. The report is presented to Parliament, and not to the Government. The terms are apparently synonymous in the mind of the honourable member, and I admit that the time is fast approaching when they will be synonymous, but they are not so yet. I submit that each member of the House has the right to a printed copy of that document, and that he has also the right to use whatever information is in that document ; and I simply say that the Mr. Pirani reference of this matter to the Public Accounts Committee will close the mouths of members of the House so long as it is before the Public Ac- counts Committee-that during that time the House will be dumb on this subject. I do not think that is fair. I agree with those honour- able members who state that the matter ought not to be brought on for discussion in the Colonial Treasurer's absence. I have as keen a sense of fairness and decency as any honour- able member, and I agree that, as he is inti- mately concerned with this matter, we ought not to discuss it in his absence. At the same time I submit that every member of the House ought to have a printed copy of this document in his possession at as early a time as possible. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) .- I beg to move, as an amendment, That the paper be laid on the table and be printed. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) .- I will tell the House why I think they should adhere to the motion which I first proposed, and why I think they should negative the amendment of the honourable member. I pointed out carlier that, as a matter of courtesy -to say nothing of its fairness-the Colonial Treasurer, who is in charge of this depart- ment, ought to be present when this report is being dealt with, and I therefore moved that consideration of the paper be postponed for a week. Honourable members upon that side of the House immediately took exception to it, and they asked that the report should lie on the table, and be printed. I then agreed to do so. Very well ; now they move an amendment. The course I first suggested, to have considera- tion of the report deferred until the Colonial Treasurer is here, was, I think, the better course ; but as soon as honourable members get my resolution before the House, that this docu- ment be laid upon the table, and be printed, and referred to. the Public Accounts Committee. then they ask that the consideration cf 3.0. the matter be postponed until to- morrow, and if by any chance the Colonial Treasurer is not here to-morrow they will go on with its consideration in his absence. I submit that the right thing to do is to allow the docu- ment to be printed, to go to the Public Accounts Committee, and then, when the Public Accounts Committee has reported on the matter, the Colonial Treasurer, from his seat in the House. will have the opportunity of criticizing and discussing the whole question. I think that is, under the circumstances, the best course to take. I may say that I made no reflection whatever on the Controller and Auditor-General in stating that it was unfair, in the absence of the Colonial Treasurer, to present the papers to the House. I am still of the opinion I ex- pressed, and I most certainly think the Colonial Treasurer should be here when such a matter is being dealt with. I do not agree with the view of the honourable member for Palmerston that this report should be held over until to-morrow. as no benefit would be achieved. It is admitted that it cannot be discussed now in the absence of the Colonial Treasurer, and it would therefore surely be better to have it introduced into the 