know something about accounts, but you must certify as correct anything I submit to you." It is a farce. I would rather, as the honour- able member for Palmerston said this after- noon, see the office of Controller and Auditor- General abolished altogether, and have substi- tuted therefor the necessity for the Government of the day to place full details of the accounts of the colony on the table of this House. There was a time, I believe, Sir, when every item of expenditure was available to members of this House, even down to the bannister-brush and chamois leather for the windows. There was no such thing as a £1,000 for contingencies or £10,000 for miscellaneous. It is true we are told that when the proper time comes we shall get details of the contingencies; but of what avail are they, and what opportunity have mem- bers to look into the matter when they are submitted at the moment the estimates are being passed ? Now, this is why I have risen to speak : to merely place on record my most emphatic, my most thorough and real, determi- nation that I would not on any account sup- port any Government, no matter what their other policy may be, unless they agreed to repeal the extreme power that is given to the Government of the day to set aside, to drug, to do to death, the watch-dog of the public purse. And that is precisely what the Public Revenues Act has done for New Zealand. I take notice that the Hon. the Premier did not secure the increase of his own and his colleagues' salaries by vote of the House. He placed it on the sta- tute-book ; he made it law in a constitutional way, so that it might remain. He did not do a like act of justice to honourable members. He placed honourable members in a compro- mising and humiliating position, so that it was necessary for them to apologize, more or less, and defend a temporary Act they themselves were made to pass. It would have been more becoming and dignified, and more to the credit of the Ministry and Parliament itself, had it been made statute law, and then there could have been no capital made out of it. Now, I would just like before I sit down to make one reference to the speech of the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) this afternoon. I was hoping he would be present in the House. It is somewhat tire- some to honourable members to have to suffer the awful hollowness, the thin veneer of so- phistry, of the honourable member for Auck- land City. In spite of the speech which he was reported to have made in Auckland to his constituents, the sophistry of his words this afternoon-for he used no argument-was pro- truding like the jibboom of a ship; it was so obvious. He prated about the Constitution, he prated about the sovereign power of the people, he prated about the power of control of the representatives of the people, and he said, "Why should we not control the finances? " Now, I ask, why do we deliberately make a Civil List ? Why do we deliberately fix the salaries of the puisne Judges and other high officers of the land by statute ? So that they may not be tinkered with and altered at every whim and Mr. Hutcheson we are to proceed on constitutional lines in this colony in the future that is what this House will revert to. It will not tamper or tinker with Acts that are so important as the Public Revenues Act, but will do what it requires to do in the way of alteration by deliberate statute law. As I have already said, there is not a single law in the whole of our statute-book that cannot now be set at nought and overridden by virtue of this wicked, dishonest Public Reve- nues Act of 1900. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Before the de- bate proceeds I would like to say that the report of the Committee has gone missing. Has any member the report in his possession ? Mr. NAPIER .- Yes, I have the report. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) .- Sir. the debate . of this evening narrows itself down almost exclusively to the discussion of the amendment made last session in the Public Revenues Act, and I should certainly lower myself in my own self-respect if I allowed this debate to pass without expressing my senti- ments with regard to the discussion that has been raised. Honourable members may re- member that last session I opposed the altera- tion of the Public Revenues Act. I opposed the second reading, I opposed it clause by clause in Committee, and I opposed the third reading. I have not the slightest desire to import any heated feeling into the debate, and I certainly desire to avoid anything in the shape of personalities; but I must confess that if ever any action disappointed me with regard to the party to which I am allied, and to which I hope to remain allied, it was the action taken last year with respect to the Public Revenues Act ; and, although I have listened with great care and attention, I have so far failed absolutely to hear a single reason in what has been said that, to my mind, justi- fies the action taken last session. I have no desire to utter one unkind word in regard to the Ministry, but, Sir, I must confess that my admiration of the Ministry would have been ten-thousandfold increased if I had heard the honourable the leader of the House this session declare that the action taken with regard to this matter was a mistake, as some other matters are admitted to have been a mistake that were done last year. Mr. SEDDON .- I am more convinced than ever of its necessity : and within forty-eight hours you will probably get another reason why the right of review in case of dispute, and that the Governor should finally decide, should be on the statute-book. Mr. COLLINS .- I cannot conceive of any reason in a democracy that would justify the passing of an Act to enable the Treasurer to meet demands that were barred by statute, and that is really what the Act does. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. Mr. COLLINS. - If the honourable member says " No," he does not understand the nature of the amendment that was made. A great deal has been said to-night with regard to the speech delivered this afternoon by the member 