nected with the office if that information were regularly supplied. There is another thing that I think the Government might take into con- sideration, and that is whether the funds at the disposal of the Public Trustee and the Govern- ment Life Insurance Department should not be distributed through the medium of one office. We have several Government departments ad- vancing money, and I think it is most desirable, for various reasons, that the moncy should be advanced by one office, instead of having several lending departments. One department or one Board should do the whole of the work. It would be much more efficiently done than through the medium of several Boards belonging to different departments. I would like to see the whole of the lending departments grouped together, and the Advances to Settlers Department intrusted It would with the whole of these funds. . strengthen that office and prevent Govern- ment departments competing in the money- lending business. I merely point out certain suggestions that have occurred to me. They seem valuable. I intend to support this Bill, for the reason that I believe the Advances to Settlers Office is doing a wonderfully fine work for the colony, and that it ought to be well supported with plenty of money in order to help the settlers in their efforts. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- Sir, in spite of the speeches which have been made in support of this measure, some of them much beside the question, like that of the member who has just sat down, I do not think the Government are justified in introducing this Bill, for the reason admitted by the Minister in charge of the department-and by the Premier himself- that there was available on the 31st March last for the purposes of the Advances to Settlers Department something like three-quarters of a. million of money. We are lending at the present time at the rate of about $500,000 a year in the Advances to Settlers Department, and that will probably decrease as the repay- ments increase. All the time money is coming in, and consequently it is reasonable to suppose that the money which is in hand and available at the present time ought to be sufficient to last for the next two years. Such being the case, Sir, I do not think the Government are justitied in proposing to borrow two mil- lions for this purpose this session. Then, there is not a word in the Bill to show how it is proposed to raise the money - whether it is intended to raise the money in the colony or on the London money-market. And here I feel strongly, just as strongly as the honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell), that there are two purposes in connection with the government of the country for which we ought not to go outside the colony to borrow. One is the Land for Settlements Department and the other is the Advances to Settlers Department. I feel strongly, Sir, that, as far as the Advances to Settlers Department is concerned, we ought to utilise the lending departments of the Go- vernment. Of course, two of them already lend money on mortgage-the Government Insur- ance Department and the Public Trust Office ; but I think we ought also to utilise the Postal Department-that we ought to use the moneys of the Post-Office Savings-Bank for the purpose of lending either directly to the settlers of the colony or indirectly through the Advances to Settlers Department. I think it would be better for the colony as a whole, and it would certainly be very much better for the depositors in the Post-Office Savings-Bank, which has lent very large sums of money to the Government at 3 per cent. net. If they lent it to the settlers on mortgage I believe they would be able to get a higher rate of interest than the rate they re- ceive at the present time, and the benefit would be mutual. But I feel strongly, in spite of what has been said to the contrary, that this money it not being raised for the purposes of the Advances to Settlers Department. I am inclined to think that the Government intend to take advantage of the Act of 1895, which allows the moneys of this department to be in- vested in the securities of the colony, and that probably we shall find later on that the money which it is now proposed to borrow will be used, perhaps, for public works, or for land for settle- ments, or for some other purpose. I want to tell the Premier that I am quite willing to sup- port a loan straight out for the purpose of carrying on public works-I am willing to sup- port such a loan-but I am not willing to raise a loan for such a purpose in the roundabout manner that this Bill proposes. Another point that I wish to find fault with is this : that we are not supplied with sufficient information in the report of the department. Honourable members, I think, will remember that two years ago we amended the Act in the direction of allowing the department to lend on urban and suburban properties as well as on country lands. Now, there is nothing in the report to show what proportion of the capital is lent on such properties. I want to tell the Minister that there are ugly rumours about some of the urban properties on which advances have been made, and I hope the Minister, in the interests of the colony, will give some information to this House about those properties. I do not think anything has been said about two very We are peculiar statements in the report. told in one place that "The instalments of interest and principal to the 31st March, 1900, have been collected in full, no sum remaining outstanding on the 31st March, 1901." In another place the accounts show that there was interest overdue on the 31st March, 1901, to the amount of £4,734 6s. 7d. I am willing to admit that that is only a very small sum in proportion to the amount of business being done, but I have heard over and over again- and I have reason to believe it-that what the department is doing is this : that where the settler gets behind in his interest the interest is capitalised and added to the mortgage, and the mortgagor has to pay not only the interest on the money borrowed, but also on the back interest as well. I hope the Minister is paying attention, because I wished particularly to bring this matter before his notice. That is about al! I wished to say. I am as anxious as any one 