balance-sheet at a certain period. Surely it is a matter of no consequence to any other body, seeing that it does not interfere with the other Harbour Boards of the colony. But, Mr. Speaker, I rose principally to deal with the misstatements of the Right Hon. the Premier. I did feel moved this afternoon and wondered whether justice and truth would eventually pre- vail, or whether misrepresentation and distortion of facts must always obtain. The right honour- able gentleman told us this afternoon that the Harbour Board inserted in a clause of the Bill called "The Wellington Harbour Board and Corporation Empowering Bill " provision to en- able it to take land which was not required for dock purposes Because, forsooth, it lay to landward of Victoria Street and the Railway- station, therefore it could not be used for dock purposes. Is that not what the right honour- Would this House be able gentleman said ? surprised to learn that there is an inviolable agreement between the honourable gentleman's Government and the Wellington Harbour Board empowering the Board to alter the railway and the public road right through the land in ques- tion, in order that their dock might take the place of the site occupied by his railway and the public road? Why could he not put his pre- sentment to the House in a way that was fair, and would not be misleading ? Mr. SEDDON .- That had nothing whatever to do with it when the Bill was introduced. Mr. HUTCHESON .- I say that when the Bill was introduced the Board's intention was revealed as clear as day ; but perhaps it may https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 not be inappropriate that I should recapitulate shortly the history of the negotiations between the two local bodies alluded to to-day. The Wellington Harbour Board had as an endow- ment a block of land known as the Hunter Street Block, upon which are certain ware- houses -amongst others, Sargood, Son, and Ewen's, Bannatyne and Co.'s, the Queen's Chambers, and others-and which, so far as the revenue is concerned, the Harbour Board re- tains till 1907. The right to reclaim the Te Aro foreshore was vested in the Wellington City Corporation at a time when the Wellington City Corporation managed the harbour affairs of the City of Wellington. After the City Cor- poration had ceased to manage the affairs of the harbour, and having no longer any interest in reclaiming the Te Aro foreshore, it was con- sidered desirable that that power should be transferred to the Wellington Harbour Board. In the beginning of 1897 there was an agree- ment arrived at between the two corporate bodies, which ultimately eventuated in the preparation of and the mutual agreement to this very extensive deed of transfer contained in Schedule A of the Wellington Harbour Board and Corporation Empowering Act of 1898. Therein it is specifically set forth that the Wel- lington Harbour Board will make over and con- vey to the Wellington City Corporation that block of land known as the Hunter Street Block in exchange for the right to reclaim the area foreshore, over and above the land which the Wellington City Corporation was entitled to grant to the Harbour Board for the dock site. The granting to the Harbour Board of the dock site was always a condition of the right to re- claim the foreshore incumbent upon the Welling- ton Corporation. In the preparing of the Bill between the two bodies, and in order to extend the dock beyond the originally decided length, so as to meet the increased size of our shipping, it would be necessary to trench still further to the landward of the five-acre block known as the dock-site block. In order to do that it was necessary to deviate or deflect the present Te Aro Railway Extension, and also the adjacent road known as Victoria Street, so that when the road and railway is in the new position they will form, together with the old position, the upper limbs of a letter Y, and so leave the Har- bour Board the necessary increased length for the dock. Mr. SEDDON .- That is the reason why. Mr. HUTCHESON .- And I want to ask the Premier the reason why, if he knew what he was talking about, did he so disingenuously mislead the House as to the true reasons for the acquisition of the Grainger Street block ? I want to convince the Premier as to the im- propriety of his being a coadjutor of those who are seeking to subvert the principle that he is always contending for. He has bewailed to the House that when the Government go before a Compensation Court they always go to the wall, and he ought to appreciate the position of local bodies, who, unfortunately, are also so treated. The overlapping of the road and the railway upon the block of land known as the Grainger Street block would have cut into certain sec- tions of land at a long acute angle, leaving small patches of land that would be absolutely valueless to the owner or to the Harbour Board. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why not put it into the Bill in the first instance ? Mr. HUTCHESON .- It always was in the Bill, and I am coming to that now, and I say that the Premier stands convicted of having no grounds for the threatening and vindictive abuse which he gratuitously hurled at the Wellington Harbour Board this afternoon, or that he did it with malice prepense. It was ungenerous and most unbecoming language that the Premier used towards the Wellington Harbour Board this afternoon, and I want to demonstrate the fact. But to continue my narrative : Both of the local bodies came to a mutual conclusion that it was desirable in the interests of public health and morality, and for every reason, that that natural silt-pit, wherein were huddled rows of unwholesome hutches, many of them used for immoral purposes-where, among other things, a man had his face cut open with a lemonade bottle in the broad light of day - should be wiped clean off the face of Wel- lington. The whole block lay in a depression of the land, several feet, in fact, below the level of the surrounding streets, and whenever there was 