give a silent vote on this important matter, and I may say at once that I object to the compul- sory clauses of this Bill. I have been identified for more than thirty years with local govern- ment in New Zealand, and I have been for twenty-eight years consecutively the chairman of a local body. I have studied this question in all its phases, and ever since land-taxation has been in vogue, and I must say that I am a be- liever in the old Act ; and I think we cannot do better than let that Act stand, leaving it per- missive and optional with local bodies whether they wish to apply the unimproved rating system or not. There can be no doubt that in the case of those speculators in land who buy large tracts of unimproved land in different parts of the colony, and hold them until they can get a higher value for them by the process of settle- ment and the making of roads adjoining such blocks, thereby bringing about higher values and enabling them to sell such lands at much advanced prices, it would be a good thing if they could be made to pay heavier local rates on their lands, and I would like to see a law passed to compel such men to pay heavier taxation ; but I consider that it is the duty of this House to legislate in such a way as to do the greatest good to the greatest number, and therefore I am satisfied that in actual working the rating on unimproved value system will be found not to be of the greatest good to the greatest number, and in many cases the Act will be practically inoperative. The honour- able member for Bruce gave instances of a poor man holding an allotment, and who, it is stated, would pay more in rates as compared with what he pays now because his improvements are of more value than the allotment ; and I know plenty of instances where such a man has bought an allotment and he has gone on saving from the results of his labour, so that in a few years hence he will be able to put up a little house, and then that man will pay more than he does now under the old system. In fact, looking at the question from all sides, there is not the slightest doubt but that those who are best able to pay the local taxation will get off, taking them collectively, with less rating. Take, for instance, a local body where the rates amount to $1,000 a year -that is, so-much in the pound on the selling value of the property. Well, if you rate upon the unimproved value you will have to make up that $1,000 somehow. in order to be able to carry on the work of the district, and therefore in some instances the rating on the unimproved value will have to be double and treble what it is now, in order to make up the amount so re- quired. Take the case of a back district where there are a number of struggling settlers, who have only been able to make a limited amount of improvements. In the case of a settler just starting on his land his first consideration is to get that land improved and under cultivation, and a good dwellinghouse and outbuildings are the last things he thinks about. But many of his neighbours who have now reached a good position, and are well-to-do, will, under the refund of rates, or a reduction of rates, while the struggling settler I have referred to will have to pay double the rates he is paying now ; in fact, any one who has studied the whole question from beginning to end must come to this conclusion-that the poor will have to pay the same taxation as the well-to-do, and there- fore I say that, while in some instances it would be beneficial to rate on the unimproved value system, it should be left to the people to say what class of rating would suit them best and what they would prefer. The Premier is continually telling us to "trust the people," and I think that, in regard to the method of taxation the people deshe, the right honourable gentleman and those who support him and speak as he does would be quite right in doing so. Why, Sir, it is only a short time ago that we heard anything at all about the rating on unimproved value system, and therefore until we have had more experience in the working of the system we had better not make the Act compulsory. Let us show, before we ask the colony to adopt this Act in toto and make it compulsory, that there are a large number of local bodies who have adopted the system with beneficial results. Surely we can afford to wait a few years until the people on their own motion have pronounced whether it is a good or a bad principle to apply to local taxation. I intend to vote against the Bill because of the compulsory principle it con- tains, as I am quite satisfied with the matter as it stands at present, the people being allowed to judge for themselves as to the wisdom or otherwise of putting on this form of taxation. and having the power to introduce it if they so desire. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- I listened with great attention to the admirable speech of the honourable member for Bruce, which had the effect of convincing me that I ought to vote in favour of the Bill. I say "admirable speech " because it was an admirable speech from the honourable gentleman's point of view. He holds a fixed position in regard to land owner- ship and land taxation, from which neither dynamite nor wild horses will ever shift him. The honourable gentleman holds most pro- nounced views on the land question, and refuses absolutely to see that there are two sides to the question. Now. any man who travels through this country -- and I suppose the honourable member for Bruce travels as much as any of us- must see the injury and injustice caused by the existing form of taxation. I do not suppose the large towns will suffer much in consequence of the change proposed in the Bill, nor do I suppose the country districts will materially suffer, for, as the honourable mem- ber for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell) has shown, there are inequalities in the existing valuation system which the Bill will equalise and render more just all round. In the case of some per- sons their rates will be increased, and in the case of other persons their rates will be corre- spondingly reduced. Now, if one wants to see the evils and the injustice of the present system 