was formerly a member of that Committee, and I have had some experience of its working, and I venture to say there is no Committee of this House which takes so much trouble as this Committee with the business submitted to it, and no Chairman of a sessional Committee who is more painstaking or more conscientious than the Chairman of the Local Bills Committee. think it is necessary, in view of the reflections cast upon him, to make the remarks I have just made. Now, Sir, coming to the Bill, the position of the Patea Harbour Board, as I understand it, is something like this : They have borrowed, in two amounts, €13,000-at one time they borrowed $10,000, and another time $3.000, making, in all, €13,000. But, Sir, their revenue at the present time ex- ceeds their expenditure, and has exceeded it for quite a number of years by nearly $1,000 per annum, so I think they are quite justified in doing what they are doing now-that is, in asking the authority of this House in order to borrow a further loan of $10,000 for the pur- pose of further improvments to their harbour. And, Sir, they are doing what sensible, practical, and progressive people ought to do-they are acting in accordance with the recommendations of one of the most eminent engineers who ever visited this colony-Sir John Coode ; and since he left the colony they have been acting on the advice of another eminent engineer - a Mr. Thomson, I think, at present a resident on the West Coast ; and they are acting in accordance with the plans and advice of these https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 eminent authorities. Mr. HALL-JONES .- Mr. Leslie Reynolds's plans. Mr. MASSEY .- I have got the report of the Harbour Board here, and I trust I will not be interrupted for a few minutes, and I will lend it to the honourable gentleman when I have finished. Another honourable member who cast reflections on Patea and upon the har- bour there was, I think, the member for Avon. He told us, so far as I can recollect, that when he visited Patea some years ago the harbour- works at Patea reminded him of the ruins of Tyre and Sidon, or of some other Eastern city. It was quite evident from the remarks the honourable member made that he had not seen Patea during the last few years. He must have seen Patea long before the era of the re- frigerator and the separator, and before the country in the neighbourhood of Patea had been occupied by enterprising and prosperous settlers, as it is to-day. I feel quite satisfied that when the Bill goes to a division a majority of honour- able members will be found supporting the Bill. Now, we had fault found with the Local Bills Committee by the honourable member for Waitaki, and I believe by one or two others, for not having inserted a provision in the Bill limiting the rate of interest. Well, I am willing to admit that it was customary for the Local Bills Committee formerly to insert Mr. Massey years so far as the money-market is concerned ? Why, Sir, the Government itself a few years ago were able to borrow at 3 per cent., almost at par. But now they are glad to get money at 4 per cent., when they find it necessary to borrow. Mr. PIRANI .-- The Government paid more I than 4 per cent. this year. Mr. MASSEY .- Yes, they have paid more than 4 per cent. if you take the cost of adver- tising into consideration and the fact that we paid interest before we received the whole of the money. But the same state of things affects local bodies, of which the Patea Harbour Board is one. I do not know what rate of interest they will have to pay, but I have no doubt that the member in charge of the Bill will be willing to accept an amendment defining a reasonable limit, say, 5 per cent., which I think would be reasonable under the circumstances. I do not think I have any more to say with regard to this measure, but I can only remind honour- able members that the Bill is in charge of the youngest member of the House, and I hope to see that courtesy afforded to him which is always afforded to young members ; and I think I might promise on his behalf that when he gets the Bill into Committee he will be quite willing to afford the House all reasonable ex- planation and to accept all reasonable amend- ments. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- I wish to make a personal explanation. The honourable gentleman stated that I blamed the Chairman of the Local Bills Committee for not having had these plans there for the three months. I alluded to a statement made by the Premier with regard to the three months, and I quoted from the rules of this House; and when the honourable member stated that they were before the Local Bills Committee I was cor- recting the member for Nelson City in regard to the statement he contradicted about the three months relating to the Premier's asser- tion. I am also going to show that the honour- able member, wherever he gets his figures from, has made a most dreadful mistake. He wished to know where I obtained my figures from with regard to the Patea Harbour- Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- I rise to a point of order. Is this a personal explanation, Sir ? Mr. SPEAKER .- 1 am waiting to see how the honourable member connects these remarks with the explanation he desires to make. The honourable gentleman. I presume, considers he has been misrepresented. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- My personal explana- tion is that the honourable member said that I had misrepresented the export values of pro- duce from Patea. That was his statement, and he wished to know my authority. My authority is the annual report of the Patea Harbour Board, which has just been placed upon the table. This is what it says :- 