several separate days. In four of the cases, which were comparatively unimportant, the Committee arrived at the uniform decision, " That the Committee sees no reason for pro- ceeding any further in this matter." In the fifth case, the main case, involving a question as to whether the interest-£5,657 10s. 6d .- on a sum of £500,000 should have been paid to the Government or to the Public Trustee, the decision was, " That, in the opinion of this Committee, the action of the Controller and Auditor-Gene- ral was unnecessary, as the moneys were pro- perly paid into the Treasury." Is that a bald report ? The Committee said all that it was necessary to say. What more could it say? But the member for Wakatipu says the report is a censure upon the Controller and Auditor- General. Why is it a censure upon the Con- troller and Auditor-General? The Committee merely expresses the opinion that the Controller and Auditor-General was wrong in his conten- tion, and the Controller and Auditor-General must be left to take his own interpretation from that. But has anything wrong been done? The Colonial Treasurer has done exactly what was done by Sir Julius Vogel in 1872. The mem- ber for Palmerston admits the historic parallel. It might be argued that because Sir Julius Vogel did something wrong in 1872, the present .Colonial Treasurer is not justified in doing the same thing now-that two blacks do not make a white. But that is not the point. The point is, according to the member for Palmerston, the member for Bruce, and the member for Wakatipu, that the present Colonial Treasurer has done something unprecedented, something heretofore unheard-of, and that the finances of the country and the responsibilities of Parlia- ment are not safe in the hands of those honour- able gentlemen. That is the charge. The charge is that the Government ought not to have the power to settle a " difference of opinion "-that the Auditor-General should reign supreme. Now, here is the Public Revenues Act of 1872. I cannot see the least difference in the two positions. The side-note to section 7 of the Act of 1872 is this : " Difference of opinion, how · determined," and the section says,- " In case any difference of opinion shall arise between the Commissioners and the Treasury as to the vote or other authority to which any expenditure ought to be charged, the question shall be determined by the Colonial Treasurer." The Public Revenues Act passed by this House last year does not give the present Colo- nial Treasurer anything like the power given to Sir Julius Vogel. The section goes on to say, -- " .- but the objections made by the Commis' sioners shall be by them laid before Parliament within ten days thereafter, if Parliament be then in session, and if not, within ten days after the next meeting of Parliament." Now, here is the proviso to the clause, omitted by the member for Franklin because, as he said, it applied only to the question of law. That is a very superficial view. The proviso supplies the key to the whole position. It governs all. It is the master power. It says this :- missioners the proposed mode of charge is illegal, the opinion of the Attorney-General shall be taken, and the matter shall then be decided by the Governor in Council." That is identically what is done under the Public Revenues Act of last session. The ques- tion is referred to the Solicitor-General and ultimately to the Governor in Council. If any member of this House can see the least distinction in the forms prescribed to be taken by the then Colonial Treasurer, Sir Julius Vogel, and the form introduced into the Public Revenues Act of last session, then that honourable gentleman possesses a microscopic power which would defy the research of any Then, suppose the microscopic instrument. Act to be defective, suppose it to be wrong in principle in giving absolute power to the Colonial Treasurer or to the Government-as those honourable gentlemen suggest-who is to blame for that? Do we stand here to-day to review the acts of those gentlemen who sit on the Government benches ? Not at all. In re- viewing the provisions of the Public Revenues Act of last session we are reviewing not the acts of those gentlemen who sit on the Government benches, we are reviewing the acts of the Par- liament, for which the members of the Oppo- sition are as much responsible as the gentle- men who sit on the Government benches. No single member-no special body of members- is responsible for the passing of the Act. The Parliament as a whole is responsible, and those gentlemen must share their responsibility ; therefore those who rail at the Government for the inclusion of this provision in the Act in reality blame themselves. First of all, the votes must pass through Committee of Supply. There is the first opportunity for objecting to them. The votes are then reported to the House. There is another opportunity for objecting. Then the votes are included in the Appropriation Act. The Appropriation Act is the last Act of the session. It comes before Parliament as a whole for final review, when the whole of the Acts of the Parliament for the session are reviewed by Parliament and the people. So that the increase in the amount of members' salary over and above the amount fixed by special Act is overridden by the Appropriation Act, which is the final decree of Parliament. Where were the objections then ? At every stage opportunity was afforded for discussion and ventilation. Yet those honourable gentlemen took the #40 and were dumb. They should for ever after have held their peace. Now we are asked to listen to a rechauffe .of all the proceedings of last session-of all the acts in which they them- selves took part. We are now asked to join with them in their pious indignation, and to condemn the Government for what I leave they themselves assisted in doing. these honourable gentlemen on the horns of that dilemma. Let us come again to the statement that the report of the Public Accounts Com- mittee is a censure upon the Auditor-General. That is the view only of persons opposed to the Government. I say the provision introduced 