and prosperous, that the operations of last year were satisfactory, and that at the close there was a credit balance of $532,000, that this year there will be a surplus, and that additional taxation is not required, provided the present laws remain unaltered. I trust that I have clearly demonstrated that, with regard to the current year's finances, there was nothing to warrant the alarm and pessi- mistic view which some persons have taken respecting them, and that with care and . economy, notwithstanding the very heavy and exceptional expenses already incurred, it is reasonable to expect there will be a fair surplus on the 31st March next. Presuming, as we do, that the public works expenditure will be fairly up to the estimate, the balance left in the Public Works Fund is likely to be less on the 31st March next than it has been for some years past. It is better that this should be so, and that there should be a tapering-off rather than an increased borrowing as compared with last year. The difficulty in raising money in London has not been without its advantages, for it has taught us that we may with success float loans locally. Under normal conditions a 4-per-cent. rate is too high ; and, although money could be raised at 3 per cent. at Home, the expenses there are so heavy that it would be an advan- tage to us to some extent to raise our money locally at 3} per cent., and to issue debentures over the Treasury counter, or even over the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1. 32106019788246 counters of the colony's banker, so that a per- son could as easily obtain a Government short- dated debenture for $100 as he can put his money in the bank and obtain his receipt http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero therefor. From what I can gather after making careful inquiries, it is my opinion that next year finan- cial matters will have reached a normal con- dition in the Mother-country, and that there will be a plethora of money easily obtainable at 3 per cent. It must be pleasing to honourable members to know that the elasticity of finance, for which our colony is noted, still continues, and that, notwithstanding the concessions granted last year, our Customs revenue is buoyant, and more than realises expectations. The Customs revenue is the barometer of the spending-power of the people, and also of our prosperity, and the indicator points between " Fair" and " Set fair," whilst the financial meteorologist an- nounces a blue and cloudless sky. In regard to the railways, since the Govern- ment took charge of them in 1895 concessions have been given to the value and extent of $420,000. Eliminating the abnormal traffic created in the mouth of June last, the ordinary traffic shows that there will be increased earn- ings as compared with last year, and, unless unforeseen circumstances arise, the estimated receipts from railways will be fully realised. The settlement of the people on the land is of paramount importance. What we have done, are doing, and must do is to extend our operations and increase the number of our blocks and the bush land easy terms must be given by way of relieving the tenants from pay- ment of rent for the first few years, and also by way of insisting on improvement conditions being complied with ; at the same time afford- ing relief from rent until the tenant is enabled to get his head above water and to pay his way from the produce of the land itself. In respect to gold-mining steady progress is being made. Science has come to the rescue. in regard to quartz-mining, whilst alluvial mining by dredging has assumed large propor- tions. I understand that the yield of gold this year will show a considerable increase over last year. The proclamation of certain rivers is indispensable, and although the first cost may appear heavy, yet this is unavoidable if ground sluicing and dredging are to be maintained. For years past it has been contended and urged that the State should open its coal-mines and be self-supplying. The existing dearth of coal and excessive charges practically forced the position, and, with a good selection and careful administration, there is every reason to believe that the result of a State-owned coal-mine will, as in many other ventures of a progressive cha- racter, prove successful. In respect to industries, however, the horizon is somewhat clouded, but in a short time this cloud will pass away. The employers and em- ployed should shake hands, and both work to- gether for mutual benefit. What will help our industries more than anything else will be to have complete technical and manual instruc- tion for the young of our colony. This educa- tion is being afforded, and the country will be recouped for this expenditure a thousandfold. The increased expenditure to meet the charge necessary to give effect to the scheme for a national and uniform scale of pay for teachers is fully warranted, for in a great measure the future of our colony depends upon the teachers. They have been underpaid in the past, and the remuneration and scale now submitted is fair and reasonable. During the last few years the increase in our public debt may appear out of proportion to the increase in our population and trade; but when it is borne in mind that a very large proportion of this indebtedness is created for the purpose of advancing money to settlers, for the purchase of land for settlements, for loans to local bodies, for land improvement, and for other purposes of a directly reproductive character, there can be no question that splendid security has been given. There is direct local payment of interest, and many collateral advantages fully warrant the credit of the colony being pledged for such purposes. Contrast the wealth of the colony per head of the population with the increased indebtedness, and the most pessimistic individual must admit that the policy pursued has been in the best interests of New Zealand. The construction of roads to the back blocks, the roading of lands prior to settlement, and the endeavour to improve the means of com- munication so as to permit the settlers to 