provements, and that I consider most unjust. What is wanted in our present system is equality of sacrifice-and anything that has the appear- ance of violating that principle is undesirable. The land should be valued irrespective of boom in any particular branch of business. Due consideration should be given to the cost of improvements. For example, large sums are borrowed under the Loans to Local Bodies Act, and are expended in the construction of roads and bridges, which add to the capital value of land ; but the increased value caused by the expenditure of these loans is not taken into account in fixing the unimproved value, but is added to the taxable value, notwithstanding that the loans to local bodies are a first mortgage on the land. Although £100,000 may be spent in a particular district, and the value of the land in that locality is raised £2 or $3 an acre, which brings more money to the Treasury, no consideration whatever is given for the money that is lent, and upon which interest has to be paid, and that seems to me to be very unjust. Now, I think I have given good reasons why we should hesitate before we pass an Act of this kind. The Land Assess- ment Act requires amending, and the Valua- tion Department requires to be thoroughly re- organized. Local bodies should be given power to appoint a valuer in each district in conjunc- tion with the Government valuer, and, when they have fixed a maximum and a minimum valuation in each district, the Government valuer could go to work, and between the two bases arrive at a fair valuation, with the result that irritation, dissatisfaction, and inequalities would disappear. But as it is at the present time the Government valuer is sent along, and in many instances the valuations made are most uneven. If a compulsory Bill like this is passed, what will be its effect on our Crown tenants? Honourable members must know that many of those people are not in a position to make improvements. The man who has standing bush that he has not the means to cut down will be taxed equally with those who are living in splendid mansions and have cattle grazing on land that is all cleared, fenced, and subdivided. Surely nothing can be more unjust than that. The Government are endeavouring to settle people on the land, and the settlers have in most cases many obstacles to surmount and hardships and difficulties to endure : but if we pass a Bill like this we shall add to their difficulties. I do not wish to go further into this subject, as I know the Premier is anxious to reply. All I can say is that I am against compulsion ; I have no objection to rating on the unimproved value should the people so desire, and I believe the time will come when that principle will be adopted throughout the country. In conclu- sion, I would ask the Government to amend the Land Assessment Act. Loans to local bodies should be classed as improvements, or deducted from the capital value, as other im- provements are, or treated as a first mortgage on the land. Legislation in the direction indi- Mr. McGuire have already stated, I am against compulsion, and for that reason I shall vote against the Bill. Mr. J. W. THOMSON (Clutha) .- I did not happen to be in the House at the time the member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds) com- menced his speech. When I came in he was addressing the House, and I was told that the honourable member had said that many years ago I voted in favour of rating on the unim- proved value of land, and that therefore he expected I would vote with him on this occa- sion. He referred to a division that took place so long ago as July, 1876-upwards of twenty- five years ago. Many things happen in twenty- five years. Just think of finding fault with a man for a vote he gave twenty-five years ago! There are very few men to whom the test could be applied. It is rather a severe test, for we all change our minds. I believe I could stand a test of this kind as well as any man in the House. I have no occasion to be ashamed of any vote I ever gave, and I think it will be found I have been exceedingly consistent. But in this particular case there is nothing in it at all. The honourable gentleman is entirely mis- taken. The Rating Bill was in Committee, and Mr. Seymour moved that certain words be struck out. Mr. FOWLDS .- That is not what I quoted ; it was an amendment by Mr. Button. Mr. J. W. THOMSON. - I am very doubt- ful whether the term "rating on unimproved value " had been invented at that time. I confess I did not know anything about it, and I do not think it was a subject of discussion at all twenty-five years ago. Mr. FOWLDS .- Read the motion moved by Mr. Button. If that is not rating on unim- proved value I do not know what is. Mr. J. W. THOMSON .- I shall look it up at my leisure. But I have no doubt I shall come out of that all right, as I have come out of many things ; and, as I have said, there are very few men to whom this test of consistency for twenty-five years could be applied. I find that, of the forty-one members who voted "Aye " on the occasion referred to, there is not a single member now in the House ; and, with regard to those who voted " No," the only two members now in the House are Captain Russell and my- self. This was several years before even the Premier was in the House. I find that Mr. Ballance voted, not in the way I did, but in the opposite direction-the way that the Govern- ment would be expected to vote now. I mention these things just to show that the test which the member for Auckland City wishes to apply to me is one that very few men can pass through unscathed. We all change our minds with time. The chief feature in the Liberal party is progress. I believe I have progressed just about as much as most men. I may say I have listened to this debate from beginning to end. It appears to me that all the arguments in favour of this Bill may be reduced to two. The one is that it would encourage people to put up buildings. I do not see that this is a 