gentleman in charge of the Bill claimed your protection in the early part of the session against the interjections of another honour- able member. I now claim your protection, Sir, against the interjections of the honourable gentleman. Mr. SPEAKER .- I did not hear any interjec- tion. Mr. FISHER .- Sir, I now repeat that of all the daring attempts to hoodwink and baffle the people of Wellington this is the most daring of them all. The honourable gentleman who moved the second reading of the Bill, in speaking to the motion for the adjournment, referred to certain schemers who were opposing this Bill because they wished to work a swindle of their own. You will observe, Sir, that the word "swindle" was used and not objected to. Now, I declare that of the two this is far and away the greater swindle. Mr. HUTCHESON .- I deny that I used the word " swindle." Mr. FISHER .- I heard the honourable gentleman apply the word "swindle " to what he called an opposing scheme. Now, I say that such a disgraceful proposal as this was never before submitted to this Parliament. I have watched the history of this purchase from its very inception. When the Bill, which in- cluded some other proposals, was placed before this House in 1897 I presented a petition to the House, signed by 584 burgesses of the City of Wellington, protesting against the purchase of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 this Miramar Estate. But the House, in its wisdom, as it does to-day, pretended to know more about the matter than the members who represent the city, and so it passed the clause sanctioning the purchase of the Miramar Estate. Sir, I will not call the proposed purchase a swindle. 1 will not apply to the proposed purchase any term which you, Sir, will not allow to be used ; but the term which correctly characterises it is in common use among the burgesses of this city. When the proposal was first submitted to the burgesses at a meeting in this city by Mr. H. D. Bell, who was then Mayor, he bound himself to sub- mit to the motion, whatever it might be, carried by the citizens in regard to the purchase of this property. The Evening Post of the 23rd July, 1897, contains this report :- ## " The Purchase of Miramar. "The Mayor suggested that the Council should defer consideration of his proposal for the purchase of the Miramar Estate until the public meeting had given its views on the subject. "The Mayor pointed out that the Council would be governed by the feeling of the public meeting." The public meeting, convened officially by the Mavor, was held at the Skating Rink on the 24th August, 1897, and was distinctly adverse to the Mayor's proposals. There were twenty- two votes in favour of the purchase and eighty- five against it, and the leading article in the Evening Post - Mr. Bell's claqueur-showed that the meeting was decidedly adverse to the pro- posals. And I say that, in the face of such a deci- sion on the part of a large and representative meeting of the burgesses of the City of Welling- ton, it was nothing short of monstrous that Mr. Bell should ask Parliament to fly in the face of the citizens, by whose decision he pledged himself to be bound. Yet we have gentlemen in this House who, by their speeches to- day, profess to know all about the matter. Well, what was the consequence? In spite of the decision of that meeting, and in spite of the petition of 584 burgesses of the City of Wellington against the Bill, it was smuggled through this House by the votes of members who will persist that they know all about our affairs, while we who live on the spot, and who have investigated this matter thoroughly, are not allowed to give any advice upon the matter. I say that these long continued efforts to foist this estate upon the city show what persistent efforts are being made by the schemers who are at the bottom of the pro- posal. Now, five years ago the Miramar Estate was valued for property-tax purposes at £24,000. At the next valuation, when it was proposed to shunt the estate on to the Cor- poration, a convenient and obliging valuer was found, and the valuation was put up to $75,000. So that the Corporation was to be bled for the difference between £24,000 and $75,000. And I want to know why the people of this city should be asked to pay $51,000 more than the owners of the property valued it at a few years previously. Then, why is the amount of the purchase-money not stated in the Bill ? Why should the city be asked to buy a pig in a poke ? I come now to a point which has already been dealt with by several honourable members, but which cannot be dealt with too frequently or too seriously. Clause 3 of the Bill says,- " Subject to the provisions of section fivo hereof, it shall be lawful for the Corporation to purchase the land comprised in the First Schedule, or any part thereof, in pursuance of the contract existing before the passing of this Act or of one to be made thereafter." Where is that contract ? Was such a thing ever heard of before ? The city is to be bound by a contract of which we know nothing, " or of one to be made thereafter !" Do we dream ? Can such things be ? There is a secret under- standing, a secret compact, entered into between the Corporation and Messrs. Crawford Brothers, the owners of the property aided by the power- ful influence of Mr. H. D. Bell, their solicitor, or trustee for some one connected with the estate. Then, the property is to be purchased " subject to any roads or rights of road or any easements through or over the same or any part thereof." Roads, rights of road, and casements are reserved to give value to all other parts of tho estate, and all at the expense of the Corporation. " And subject also to any leases or tenancies of or affecting any parts of such land." Why not make the proprietors of the estate a present of $50,000 and be done with it ? That would be a far more straightforward transaction, and one that the citizens could casier understand. Now, let me go back one stage in the history 