from getting the advantages of the money- market. But still we must all admit that it is very often by means of these borrowings from private individuals that settlers are led into eventual trouble. The borrowings from the Advances to Settlers Office are not so objec- tionable, and never can be, because every year sees a certain portion of the principal repaid, and the settlers' money, which pays the interest and sinking fund, is really reducing the loan each year. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- The difficulty is to get the advances. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Well, of course, on a leasehold property the advances are limited by the amount of interest the tenant possesses in the lease ; he cannot get advances on anything else. But, of course, he has im- provements he can get advances on, and if he has got a good bit of land at a low rent he has got an additional interest in the lease, which is an interest on which he can raise money. But after discussing the matter with the Minister I have come to the conclusion that he is quite right to endeavour to absolutely prohibit deal- ing with the lands as a matter of mortgage in the early years of the lease. It may seem hard, and it may make it more diffi- cult for struggling settlers to start their new homes when they go on the land; but still it is in their interest in the long-run, inas- much as the Land Board has got so much power in the first instance that before they https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 accept an applicant they are able to ascertain that they have the knowledge and capabilities to make a good use of the land for which they are applying, and that they also have enough / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero financial power at their back to enable them to treat the land well. I think there need be no trouble in dealing with land of this kind, because nine men out of every ten who are approved by the Land Board ought to be able to carry on for five years without money. I therefore trust that the honourable member's amendment will be rejected, and that the third reading will be agreed to. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- I shall vote for the amendment of the Hon. Colonel Pitt, not because I am disposed to promote dummyism, but I am disposed to give more time to con- sider the point raised by him. The crowning glory of the land-for-settlements policy in the first years was that men who were almost penniless were settled on the land and made a living on it, and are settled, to my knowledge, there ever since. Now, avowedly, the inten- tion of this clause, and the declared intention of the Minister, is that no such man shall go on the land. I regret that, as to my certain knowledge men who went on the land with very little or nothing are there still, and making a comfortable living, and getting into a position of comparative opulence. An Hon. MEMBER .- With the help of the money-lender. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- Helped by friends, more likely. But even if money-lenders help to put men in a position of comfort and affluence I do not think they can be regarded as enemies. The money-lender is not a great friend in many respects, but if he puts a poor man on the land, and that poor man makes a living and succeeds on it, he is then the friend and benefactor of that man. Why I want this clause postponed and reconsidered is this: I think it can be so framed that the same object will be gained, while at the same time the settler will have the opportunity of borrowing money. Somebody said that there should be a limit. Very well, why not make a limit like this-and I am cer- tain that the Hon. Colonel Pitt will be able to draft a clause that will suit it : Why not put in a clause that would enable the Advances to Settlers Department to make advances to these settlers ? My idea is this: Why not open to the Advances to Settlers Depart- ment the means of advancing to these men if they possess sufficient security ? That is the point. Why not allow the Advances to Settlers Department to advance to them. The land be- longs to the Government, and the money of the Advances to Settlers Department belongs to the Government, and why could not the Government advance on their own land and to their own tenant a little money to enable him to tide over difficulties? That is the ground on which I shall vote, and on which I would ask honour- able gentlemen to reconsider the position- whether it would not be to the advantage of the settler and to the advantage of land-settlement if the Advances to Settlers Department could advance to him a sufficient sum to enable him to tide over a difficulty until he gets on his feet. That is the reason why I will vote with Colonel Pitt, with the view that some clause like that may be drafted, for such a clause would have a better effect on the prevention of dummyism than anything else. If you make it so that only the Advances to Settlers Department can advance, then dummyism is dead, and at the same time the tenant will have a chance of borrowing money to enable him to tide over difficulties. The Hon. Mr. W. KELLY .- I intend to vote for the recommittal of the Bill. I can see no good object to be obtained in preventing a man taking up land from borrowing on his improve- ments. In the district I come from there are numbers of small settlers, and on many occa- sions they have applied to the Advances to Settlers Department for loans on their lease- holds, but to those tenants the department refuse to advance altogether. They have prac- tically boycotted them, and refuse to lend to them on any conditions. Several complaints have been made to the Government in con- sequence of that. My honourable friend Mr. Twomey wants to have this business handed over to the Advances to Settlers Department. My opinion is that if this is done the Advances to Settlers Department will refuse to lend on these small sections. I cannot see why there should be any objection to this Bill being re- committed. It appears to me that we should endeavour, as sensible men, to assist the farmers throughout the colony to get money on the best terms they possibly can; and if those 