of moral degradation. I detest this odious en- bodiment of pharisaism and cant. If any of us were in Melbourne, Sydney, London, Paris, Ber- lin, or Vienna, say, and heard any man give to the people of New Zealand such a character as was given to them here this evening, what would we say ? Iask any of those members who have spoken to-night what they would say to such a charge if made by a person belonging to any other country, I am sure they would deny it vigorously. Then, why themselves express such opinions on the floor of this House ? There is the testimony of a high police-officer, Inspec- tor Pender. Thereis the testimony of a minister of the Gospel, the Rev. James Paterson. who oc- cupies a high position in this city. That tes- timony is opposed to the statements made by gentlemen in this House this evening. Sir, we live in a hysterical period. It is one of those spasmodic ebullitions which come in cycles every four or five years. We are now at the eyelic period. As the Young Persons Protection Bill of 1897 was rejected by this Legislature, so I hope this Bill will meet a similar fate. have no care beyond that of any other man in regard to the moral elevation of the people of this country, but I claim to have a care equal to that of any other man. Why should it devolve upon me to speak so strongly and in this strain ? It is because I dislike the ways of the mischievous meddlers who will insist on poking their noses into other people's business, and who defame and traduce the people of this country. Those gentlemen who have spoken here this evening, and those who denounce the morals of the people of this country when speaking at public meetings, do more injury http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero than really results from the actual existence of the evil of which they complain. Why cannot they learn to mind their own business? Why not leave the police and the municipal authori- ties to do their duty without interference ? Those bodies have already ample powers under the legislation of the colony. What do we want with "discreet " women and petticoated termagants who seem anxious to jostle with the midnight rabble? Sir, I do not re- gard them as ranking with the more respectable people of the colony. It is a man's duty which they wish to take upon themselves, and I do object to making a mockery of the thing and to have this country pointed at with the finger of ridicule by the people of all other nations. But what can be said after they read the speeches made to-night, beginning with the mild effort of the Minister for Public Works. What is to be thought of the people of New Zealand by the people of other countries and by the members of other Legislatures? Are they not entitled to assume that these statements, having been publicly made on the floor of this House, are true, and that the gentlemen who made them understand what they are speaking about? It. will justly be concluded that they have studied the subject, and that, having given it their calm consideration, that is their deliberate opinion of the character of the people of New those statements a deliberate contradiction in the presence of the gentlemen who made them. I say it is not a just description of the people of New Zealand. I say it is a libel upon the national character; and I conclude by express- ing the hope that this Bill will not pass. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- - Mr. Speaker, this is a very painful subject, but, as the member for Wellington City said just now, it is one that requires to be faced boldly and robustly. The honourable gentleman is always dramatic in his speeches, and, while one listens to him with pleasure and admires his eloquence and clocution, it is always desirable to pierce beneath the dramatic style of his speeches, and ascertain what the logical position is and what the actual facts are. Sir, like him, I am the father of a family, and I regard the growing tendency to juvenile immorality in this country as one of the most frightful developments of our modern life. No man who goes about the streets of our cities, whether it be Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, or Dunedin-no man whose eyes are open to the facts that are sure I to come under his notice-can deny that there is an awful amount of widespread juvenile depravity, which this Bill proposes to make an attempt to reach and cure. It may, as the honourable gentleman who has just sat down says, be patriotic not to mention these things, or to speak of them with bated breath ; but we have a duty to perform not only to the present population, but to future generations of this colony. I believe I should be correct if I say that, so far as the Stipendiary Magistrates' Courts of this colony are concerned, 75 per cent. of the business, outside of purely criminal and debt-collecting business, relates to affiliation cases. I make that statement with some sense of responsibility, and after making inquiries in one of the larger Courts. An Hon. MEMBER. - NO. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Well, I am speaking within the mark, and if those honourable gentle- men who doubt my statement will do as I have had to do-visit on business the Courts of some of our large cities, and see the class of people that are coming there paying and receiving money - they will know I am correct in what I say. People have no idea of the enormous amount of this immorality that filters through the Courts of the colony. You go and ask any of the Magistrates in the large cities what pro- portion of their business arises out of this class of cases, and they will tell you an enormous amount of it does; and what comes before the Courts is, unfortunately, only a small part of what occurs. An Hon. MEMBER .- This Bill will not cure that. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - The honourable gentleman says this Bill will not cure it ; but what this Bill is intended to do is to reach those at an earlier stage of their life who may, unfortunately, later on join the worst classes of the community : and so far as this Bill goes in the direction of compelling young people to go to their homes in the early hours of the 