improving the condition of the workers of this colony has been met with the same objections on the part of the employers. But what is one to do? The clerks declare that they do not want our good offices. They say, " Go elsewhere with your beneficent intentions, we do not need legislative interference on our behalf ; we belong not to the wages masses, but to the salaried classes." I shall take the hint that has been so indignantly given, and therefore vote, so far as the banks are con- cerned, to leave them severely alone, believing that the time will come when clerks will deem it necessary, unless their condition has in the meantime been voluntarily ameliorated by their employers, to come asking us to take action on their behalf. It has been asked why a piebiseite of the clerks and of others involved in this question was not taken ; but, as I have already pointed out, there is not much en- couragement to take a plebiscite when you cannot get at the true convictions or the true desires of those interested. The voice, Sir, may be the voice of Jacob, but the hand the hand of Esau. Some remarks have been made by honourable gentlemen on the injudiciousness, and even the immoral tendency, of allowing clerks and others to get away to play tennis and croquet, and indulge in other pastimes in the afternoons, and to work in the evenings in order to make up for the time lost. I cannot sympathize with honourable gentlemen who can take such a view of the matter. In my opinion, young men should be encouraged https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 to get out into the sunshine to have a little pleasant exercise, even if they have to work an hour or two in the evening to make up for it. At the same time I admit that it might lead to mischief where there is an evil design on the part of employers to overwork and to "sacat " their employés ; but I do hope that such a thing does not exist in the colony, and that it never will exist amongst the managers of our financial institutions. Now, with regard to the proposed shop legislation, I contend that the legislation with regard to shops in this measure will be to the advantage of all concerned. It places all the shopkeepers on a common level, both small and great. But the shop-assistants as a whole will not be benefited by it so much as one might think. They will work quite as long hours as they work now. We, however, want to bring the small shops into line with the others, and that is why I take it this legislation is sought to be passed. It has been stated that there has been a curtailment in this measure of the hours of adult labour for the first time in this colony. Well, Sir, the Bill lays down that a man may work fifty - two hours a week, excluding meal-times-eleven hours one day of the week, and nine hours on the other days; and that he may work ninety hours a year at stock-taking. The pay in some cases is ridiculous. In the case of girls it is 4s. a week ; for boys under seventeen, 5s. ; and for other shop-assistants under twenty, 6s. It has been said by those who are opposing this measure that the legislation just now sought with regard to shops is going to play sad havoc Hon. Mr. Jones with industrial conditions in this colony. But how can that be? In the first place it only refers to shops-the mere distributers-not to manufacturers ; and in the second place there is no attempt to increase wages. How much do those who set up this theory think ought to be paid as wages, and how many hours would they like the poor drudges to work ? Notwith- standing that we must admire what has been done in regard to labour legislation in this colony in the past, the adult assistants in shops throughout the colony have been sadly neglected and cruelly treated. I am therefore pleased that, although the concession which is being made to them is not a very great one, some concession is being made to them. I listened with intense emotion to the pathetic appeal that was made by the Hon. Mr. Shrimski on behalf of the small shopkeepers ; but I would point out that we have as much right to consider those who are engaged in the large shops as we have to consider the small shopkeepers or any other class, and it is to meet the condition of the great majority of those who work in the large establishments that this Bill is being brought in. It will be readily understood that we could not possibly allow any class of shops, whether great or small, to escape the restrictions which are contained in this Bill without doing incalculable injury to the whole of the shop- keepers and shop-assistants. It is clear to my mind that if the honourable gentlemen who pointed out that we could not do anything in regard to the banks or warehouses wish to be consistent, they must support the legislation which is being suggested in regard to the shop-, because the reason for omitting the banks and warehouses from the Bill is that satisfactory evidence has been given against their inclusion. It must be obvious that the evidence which has been given and the desire which has been expressed for the inclusion of the shops are just as strong and binding upon us. In regard to warehouses, there are only two provisions now in the Bill -- one as to sanitation and the other as to keeping the extra-time books. Well, Sir, the provisions with regard to sanitation are admirable, and absolutely necessary ; but with regard to the extra-time books, which some honourable gentlemen seem to have placed so much reliance on, I must say that I consider they will be utterly useless. Who is to keep these time-books? Who is to see that they are honestly kept ? It will surely occur to honourable gentlemen's minds that there can be no reliance placed on books kept under the circumstances. Why, it would be neces- sary to have a State official at every book in order to see that the entries were properly made. I am now going to read a letter which I received from a respected citizen of Wel- lington in regard to a certain matter which I think is met by the clauses in the Bill :- "I have read the Evening Post's digest of the Shops and Offices Bill, and I do not see that it provides a remedy against certain prac- tices now existing. There are in Wellington tea-rooms established by certain drapers in their business premises, and as part of their 