mittee is examining witnesses, but with- : would do it at his own risk. Of course he did draw by courtesy when the Committee is : not choose to risk it. But I do say it is a deliberating." I stated that, as the Committee had shown me no courtesy, in accordance with the Standing Orders, I did not intend to show them any, and I maintained my right to be pre- sent at the meeting. I have since also looked up the authority on these matters, and I find that May, 1593 edition, is stronger even than our wn Standing Orders. On page 886 of May it is stated,- " Members of the House of Commons have claimed the right of being present as well during the deliberations of a Committee as while the witnesses are being examined ; and, although, if requested to retire, they would rarely make any objection, on the grounds of established usage and of courtesy to the Committee, they ought immediately to retire when the Committee are about to deliberate; yet it appears the Com- mittee, in case of their refusal, have no power to order them to withdraw." And, further, on page 287 May points out, - " As members cannot be excluded from a Committee-room by the authority of the Com- mittee, if the occasion should arise the Com- mittee must apply to the House for power to effect their exclusion. At the same time it may be observed that such applications are not favourably entertained by the House." So far so good, and probably I should not have taken any offence at the action of the Com- mittee had it not been for the subsequent pro- ceedings. When members remember that on that Committee were present such burly speci- mens of humanity as the Premier, the honour. able member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher). and the honourable member for Caversham, / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero they will understand that, at any rate, so far as physical proportions were concerned, there was no necessity to call for outside interference to expel me from the Committee-room. Still, there was some hesitation. The Premier looked first at the Chairman and then measured the proportions of the honourable member for Ca- versham with his eve, and said, " Well, we must do something to get this member out." But nobody seemed to know what that some- thing was. Then the honourable member for Caversham moved that the Committee adjourn to take the opinion of Mr. Speaker : and the Chairman suggested that they should leave the room and leave me in possession, go to an adjoining room, and lock the door so that the honourable member for Palmerston could not get in. An honourable member pointed out that this could not be done, and then - which I con- sider the most offensive part of the proceedings the Chairman (Mr. Fisher) suggested that he .. should send for a policeman to enforce the desire of the Committee. Of all members in the House to suggest such a thing, surely the junior member for Wellington City is the last. I do not think he meant Commissioner Tun- bridge to be sent for, but he suggested they should send for a policeman ; and the honourable Mr. Pirani breach of the privileges of this House that any member, no matter what position he holds, should suggest seriously on a Committee that. in defiance of our Standing Orders and May's rulings, a member of the House should be turned out of a Committee-room, so as to pre- vent his listening to the minutes, by a police- man. The House has come to something! I do not think it right in the interests of the House --- personally I do not care a button for any threats-but I do not think it right that a member of the Public Accounts Committee should be allowed to threaten a member of the House in the way the Chairman did. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) .-- What was the final result ? Mr. PIRANI .- When the Committee had finished this little pienie and found themselves utterly powerless I got up and said, " Now, gentlemen, as I have had my own way, by courtesy I will withdraw while you deliberate on your minutes." Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- I think it an unequalled parody and a gross abuse of the forms of this House that a trumpery incident of this kind should be elevated to the dignity of a question of privilege. One could under- stand if the honourable member had just reason for insisting that he should be allowed to remain to witness or to listen to the procced- ings of a Committee-one could understand that he should be allowed to remain to witness the proceedings of a Committee if he had an honest desire in some manner to further the interests of the Legislature or the interests of the State -- one could understand the henour- able member so persisting in remaining if he desired honestly or honourably to forward the interests of his constituents or of the public in general- one could understand all that if he were imbued with any honest inten- tion; but throughout his conduct there was no semblance of such a desire. It was a parody, bereft of all sense or humour. When the Com- mittee saw that the honourable gentleman re- mained in the room in an attitude of deliberate defiance. and not from a deshe to honestly gain information from the proceedings of the Com- mittee, they naturally felt very greatly annoved. As I have said, there could have been no objection to any member remaining in the room for the purpose of gaining information : but one cannot understand an honourable member remaining in the room out of pure "cussedness," and a desire to set the Committee at defiance. Such conduct would irritate and annoy any Com- mittee. True, the Committee was in a dilemma through the pranks-one cannot call them an- thing else of the honourable gentleman, and it is painful to me, when a member relates with pride and satisfaction such circumstances as the honourable member for Palmerston has related to the House to-day, that certain mem- bers who regard themselves as paragons of 