saving and of bringing up stock ; and it had occurred to him that, as there was now a Health Department, it would be a very useful thing to prepare and circulate leaflets or pamphlets teaching young parents how best to preserve the lives of their children. He there- fore hoped the honourable gontleman would be able to give him a favourable answer. With regard to the third branch of the question, " Whether he will give consideration to the expediency and practicability of providing cheap maternity attendance for the poor ? " he would say that he believed a number of deaths resulted from want of proper attention at the time of birth, and, as there were those who could not afford to pay for proper attendance, he thought it was a very desirable thing that the necessary assistance should be provided. This also was a subject to which he hoped the honourable gentleman's attention would be directed. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister of Public Health) might say in reply, with reference to the pub- lication of a pamphlet containing rules for the proper care and feeding of infants, such instruc- tions had been prepared in the office, and would be printed and circulated at an early date. He might also state that a lady lecturer had been appointed a week or so ago, who would also visit outlying places, and give instruction in this and kindred subjects. She had been ap- pointed for six months, and he hoped that her services would be of very considerable value in reference to these matters. Respecting the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 second part of the honourable member's ques- tion, there were difficulties in connection with it. In Great Britain there was an officer termed the Poor Law Medical Officer in every district ; but in this colony the only officer of the kind was appointed by the Charitable Aid Boards, and his duties consisted principally in attending people in the Charitable Aid Institutions. The honourable gentleman would see that, if the Government were favourable to appointing such officers it would mean the appointment of a great many ; for to meet the necessities of the poor in all parts of the colony would re- quire a great number of medical officers, and this was more than the colony could under- take. He might state, however, that medical officers generally throughout the colony were by no means indifferent as to the require- ments of the needy. In fact, there was no medical man of standing who would not give his advice gratis to the poor if required, or even attend them at times of maternity. He was glad to say that that was the character of the medical practitioners throughout the colony ; but he was afraid it was too large an order for the country to establish a system of what might be termed poor-la w medical officers. To do this would require the appointment of a great many, and he was afraid the difficulty in the way of expense was so great that it could not be overcome. Mr. BOLLARD said the Charitable Aid Medical Officers did this in Auckland. Sir J. G. WARD was glad to hear that was so ; he knew that medical practitioners through- services gratuitously, and they did a large amount of good for which they received no remuneration whatever. As to the latter part of the question, as the honourable gentleman knew, that had been met by the Bill which had been introduced by the Government. HEALTH OFFICER, HAWKE'S BAY. Mr. HALL (Waipawa) asked the Colonial Secretary, When the Health Officer for the district of Hawke's Bay will be appointed ? He believed that all the Health Officers had been appointed excepting the one for Hawke's Bay, and the people there were very desirous that- such an officer should be appointed, so that a responsible person should report upon the con- dition of the several townships. He believed that already reports had been made by officers who were not to be the permanent Health Officers of the district ; but reports from a permanent officer should be made as soon as possible. He would therefore ask the honour- able gentleman to kindly say when he in- tended to appoint a Health Officer for Hawke's Bay. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) might say that the question of the appointment of a Health Officer for Hawke's Bay was now before the Cabinet, and that he hoped a decision would be arrived at at an early date. If a Health Officer was appointed, it would be Dr. De Lisle, who had been strongly recommended. There was one condition necessary, and that he understood Dr. De Lisle was willing to comply with. A diploma of Public Health was required which would probably necessitate a visit by him to the Old Country. All the other qualifica- tions required were possessed by Dr. De Lisle, and when the other requisite condition was fulfilled by the doctor obtaining the D.P.H. degree, he would be recommended for final appointment to the position. RAILWAY SLEEPERS. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether it is true that the Govern- ment have imported half a million sleepers from Australia ; and, if so, does the Government in- tend to continue the importation of sleepers ? He might state that he had no official or actual information as to quantities, but it was stated by some that it amounted to half a million. In travelling along the railways of the colony, members must have seen lying alongside the railway lines at various parts large quantities of sleepers of Australian wood that had been im- ported. He need hardly point out to the Minis- ter that there was any quantity of New Zealand timbers that were quite fit for sleepers, and which rendered it unnecessary to go outside the colony for supplies. He would be very glad to hear a statement as to the facts with regard to this matter, and a favourable expression of opinion from the Minister to the effect that the Government did not intend, if they had trans- gressed in this matter, to transgress again by going outside the colony for railway sleepers. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) 