taura's Bill of 1898. Well, I do not think any explanation I can make will make the matter clearer. I was simply calling attention to the fact that it appeared to me that the Bill of the honourable member for the Suburbs, Mr. Wil- ford, was not quite as good a Bill this session, because he was not following so precisely in the footsteps of the honourable member for Ma- taura. And now the honourable member for Mataura gets up and explains that the section in the Act of 1893 was quite unnecessary, and the honourable member for the Suburbs did better when he did not follow the honourable member tor Mataura at all. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) .- Sir, I shall first of all deal with the speech on this Bill delivered by the Right Hon. the Premier, and I propose to show the House, without the slightest difficulty, that if ever any honourable member in this House turned a somersault the Hon. the Premier has done so : whether he has lit on his feet or not, I will leave honourable members to judge. Now, in the first place, the Right Hon. the Premier discusses with a great deal of-well. strength- Mr. PIRANI. - Pomposity. Mr. WILFORD .- No, I am not going to be rude-there is nothing to be gained by that. The Right Hon. the Premier discussed, in a way I think it hardly necessary to describe, what he called the flippancy with which I had introduced this measure. Now, "flippancy" is a word that hardly applies to the Right Hon. the Premier; but when we remember https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 the speech he delivered against the Bill, one hardly knows what word of the Eng. lish language would describe it. He dragged in a description of himself being dragged up by block and tackle to be weighed ; he described a member being dragged into this Chamber with a halter round his neck and being dragged out again ; and his speech was generally discussing matters absolutely irre- levant and absolutely apart from the Bill alto- gether. Let me tell honourable members this : that in 18-7 the Right Hon. the Premier not only supported every one of these clauses I am introducing, but he went further. When I say that the Right Hon. the Premier supported the clauses I should not say that he voted for them -he paired in favour of them. In 1-87 a Bill was introduced by another member of the Bar, Mr. Samuel, of New Plymouth, and in connec- tion with that Bill Mr. Samuel proposed the following amendments to the divorce law. First of all,- " That the respondent has, without just cause or excuse, wilfully deserted the petitioner, and, without any such cause or excuse, left him or her so deserted during three years or upwards continuously before the presentation of the petition." That is the very clause that is in my Bill. Now, the Right Hon. the Premier denounced in unmeasured terms the idea of the House, for social reasons, supporting such an innovation, and yet the Right Hon. the Premier paired in word " five " in lieu of the word " seven "-that is to say, giving the petitioner power to obtain a divorce on the ground of a man having been in prison or having suffered penal servitude for a period of five years, instead of seven years. Would the Premier be surprised to know that the very Bill which he paired for in 1887 had these words in it : - "That the respondent is, and for not less than twelve months before the presentation of the petition has been, imprisoned for some crime under sentence, or a commuted sentence, for a term of seven years or upwards ; or, being a husband, has, by frequent convictions for crime, habitually left his wife without the means of support." That is my clause, only the Premier asked for a longer period-seven years-and I ask for five. Now, the 3rd clause in the Bill is the one which the Premier denounced in such measured terms that I was, theoretically speaking, scorched up. In my Bill, in clause 4, I ask that a divorce may be granted on the ground that the respondent has been continuously in a lunatic asylum for a period of five years. The Premier suggests that the period of five years is too small, and objects to the clause altogether. How did we find him voting in 1887? "That if the respondent was incurably insane, and had been in an asylum for three years," he would support it, and I am asking for five years. How do honourable members reconcile the position of the Premier ? Then, the Premier charged mo with not having given examples for these clauses being in my Bill. I did not give them for a good reason. I could not give the reasons in regard to clause 4 on account of the presence of ladies in the gallery, and I said so when I intro- duced the Bill. It was not a subject to be discussed in the presence of ladies. Even if I have to suffer for it, by losing clause 4, I will do so rather than offend in that respect. In regard to clauses 2 and 3 I will give good reasons for their introduction. I will admit that the Premier is a man of vast experience, that his knowledge is wide, varied, and of a range that it will probably never be in my province to reach ; but let me tell the Right Hon. the Premier this : that I claim to have a little experience in connection with the matter I am discussing, and perhaps I might be able to teach the Premier in regard to this par- ticular Bill. When he says that divorces have occurred with greater frequency in the colony since this Bill of 1898 passed, I say, certainly that is so. And why? Because there is a new ground for divorce allowed. Before 1898 you could not get a divorce for five years' deser- tion ; now you can. Consequently, when you give new grounds for divorce, you naturally create more divorces, because you have opened up new avenues by which divorces may be obtained. Consequently, when the old ground still remains and the new grounds are available, it naturally follows that there are more divorces. What was the use of our legislation if it was not so ? 