that kind of language took place after the conversation had degenerated into a very poor kind of joking. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). . I am not going to be a party to elevating the honourable member for Palmerston and putting him upon the rack as a martyr, and making it appear to the world that he is an injured individual. What occurred was this : The member for Palmers- ton had evidently been engaged in writing or doing something, and I thought he had not noticed that we were about to proceed with the business, having been in the room before the Committee met, and I then asked the Chair- man if he had not better call Mr. Pirani's attention to the fact that we were about to read the minutes. Mr. PIRANI .-- You are wrong ; it was after the minutes were read. Mr. SEDDON .--. No. We had not read any minutes at all. An Hon. MEMBER .- The Clerk was reading the minutes. Mr. SEDDON .- The Clerk had hold of the book. because you will remember I moved that the Committee should deliberate on clause 2 of the minutes ; and to say that we had read the minutes-well, I cannot understand why any one's memory should be so defective. I say we had not read a single minute. The Clerk had hold of the book. He took the book up in front of him, and I called the attention of the Chairman to the fact of Mr. Pirani being pre- sent. Mr. HERRIES .-- I rise to a point of order. Mr. Speaker having given his ruling on this subject, if all the members of the Committee give their version of what occurred the debate / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero will be an interminable one. Will other mem- bers be allowed the same opportunity of speak- ing. in view of your ruling, Sir? Mr. SPEAKER .- If other members of the Committee who have not spoken manifest a desire to do so they will be in order in stating their views as to what occurred. Mr. SEDDON. - It is always the case that if he thinks he can obtain an advantage over me the member for the Bay of Plenty likes to do so, but surely, as my name was mentioned. I should be allowed to give my explanation of what occurred. I do not deny the same right to other members. I say there was no dis- courtesy intended, and there was no discourtesy shown. When the Chairman first asked the member for Palmerston to withdraw I had called his attention to the minutes, and I used these words : "If members, when we are deal- ing with matters of a delicate character, hear the minutes read they become acquainted before other members with the nature of proceedings which have to be laid on the table of the House, and this is not in accordance with the Standing Orders." If members go to a Committee and sit there until the minutes are read they be- come acquainted with the proceedings of the Committee, and are thus in a better position Mr. Fisher to keep to himself. An ordinary member of the House is not bound to do so. An Hon. MEMBER .\~ Yes, he is. Mr. SEDDON .- An ordinary member of the House is not. I have heard that argument used before. We have had members of the House who considered themselves not bound by the deliberations of the Committee. The honourable member for Palmerston complained of the "policeman " proceedings. It was sug- gested that we should leave the room and go into another room and leave the member for Palmerston outside the door, but I said, "Certainly not. We will do nothing of the The best thing for us to do is to go sort. on, and let the matter be reported to Mr. Speaker, and take Mr. Speaker's opinion upon it." Then one of the members moved. I think, that we should adjourn and take Mr. Speaker's opinion on the matter, but we de- cided to go on. And I consider that this Stand- ing Order No. 224 is of a permissive nature. Members of the House may be present when the Committee is examining witnesses, but must by courtesy withdraw when the Committee is deliberating. That occurred. and the Chair- man said we were about to deliberate in respect to our minutes. I say that even now there is a dispute as to whether what took place at a meat - ing is correctly recorded on the minutes. But it really is only a matter as between the members of the Committee. As to what transpired. and regarding the confirmation of the minutes, there could be no objection on the part of a member to retiring until we confirmed the minutes. We expected that courtesy would have been shown to us; but, now that this matter has been brought up I say, as a member of the Public Accounts Committee, or of any Committee, that if members will go there while minutes are being read I shall not take these matters before the Committee, and I say further that it is owing to this that the utility of the Public Accounts Committee is entirely destroyed. I assure the House that but for this I would take the advice of the Committee on financial mat- ters. I should refer financial matters to them, and I would be quite prepared to leave the matter entirely to the Public Accounts Com- mittee and the members of that Committee, and I am quite prepared to alter the order of reference ; but if other members of the House who are not on the Public Accounts Committee are to be allowed to come there when delicate financial operations may be under discussion, I say I cannot be a party to doing that under existing conditions. That is what I say. Mr. J. ALLEN ( Bruce) .- Sir. I have only a few words to say. Practically the Chairman of the Committee has admitted all that the honourable member for Palmerston has placed before the House. He has not denied the details of what took place as given by the member for Palmers. ton, and I think the only point that wants clearing up, or one of the points, is this : that the member for Palmerston before he received 