be that measure. However, the Minister in charge of the department has promised to con- sider the question, and when we bring on the State Fire Insurance Bill no doubt this ques- tion of our settlers will be dealt with. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- I think that, with regard to the last point raised by the Minister for Public Works, if the State Fire Insurance Bill becomes law and goes on the statute-book it will supersede this one and make this un- necessary ; but, with regard to the appropriation clauses, I think it is a very great pity that the honourable member in charge of the Bill did not consult the Executive before wasting the time of the House. From the "Decisions of the Speakers " it is quite clear that the Govern- ment alone can initiate measures for the appro- priation of public funds. Abstract resolutions that money be devoted to a particular purpose can be passed, but when not supported by the Executive Government are futile. That is exactly the position with regard to this Bill : it requires an appropriation. If not supported by the Executive Government, the Bill, though it may go through all its stages, will be abso- lutely useless. Mr. MILLS (Minister for Trade and Cus- toms) .- I would like to say, by way of personal explanation, that the honourable member for Riccarton knows as well as any other honour- able member in this House the usual and proper mode of procedure in these cases. Of course, if the honourable gentleman who introduced https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 the measure had consulted me I would have informed him at once as to the position. But the matter evidently escaped his memory and escaped mine. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley). - Sir, I think the House should be guided by your decision, and go on with the second reading. It would have provoked a very animated and interesting de- bate. I do not agree with the honourable mem- ber for the Grey in moving the adjournment of the debate. If the honourable member in charge of the Bill will press the second reading of the Bill I will support him in doing so. I intended to have spoken on the second reading, but the honourable member for Grey has taken the ground from under my feet and from under the feet of honourable members. I notice the Government have introduced a Bill which has the same intention as this Bill, but which is rather more general in its application, and I think it would be of great advantage to the Government if this question had been thoroughly ventilated this evening. I regret the position of my honourable friend the member for Mas- i nity of the centres of population are concerned. terton. He and I have been brothers-in-arms ' I will illustrate what I mean. Christchurch in this House for very many years, and in | City electorate is four miles by two miles and a bringing forward a measure so liberal and so | half, and has a rural population, according to much to the point I would have supported | the reports of the Boundary Commissioners, of him. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) .- Sir, I cannot understand the line of the honourable gentleman who has just sa down. He appears : bo. Dunedin is seven miles by four miles, desirous of having debate simply for debating and in this city electorate there is a rural have done nothing but talk, and the honourable member has delivered more speeches than any other honourable member. It.is quite true we all delight in the honourable gentleman's elo- quence, and he, no doubt, throws a flood of light on every question he discusses ; but if we are to discuss a Bill let us discuss a Bill with some practical issue, and it has been clearly shown that there can be no practical issue so far as this Bill is concerned. Debate adjourned. REPRESENTATION BILL. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City). - Sir, the honourable member for Caversham and the honourable member for Avon have applauded me on rising. I am glad to see they meet the proposal I make with such kindly feeling. I can assure members that it is not with any desire to injure any member in any way that I introduce this Bill. I think both these honour- able gentlemen know me very well, and know I strongly believe in representation according to the population, so far as we can reasonably put the principle in operation. Now, it will be remembered that last session I brought in a proposal with the object of reducing the concession to country districts from 28 But I found per cent. to 15 per cent. this : that after collecting a good deal more information than I then had when I gave notice of it, I found that there was more in the arguments which had been adduced in favour of granting a 28-per-cent. concession than I had at the time realised. But, Sir, I would remind honourable members that at the time the concession was first granted- prior to 1887-it was with the object of assisting those districts in a fair representation where the population was very scattered. In 18-7 it it was reduced to 18 per cent. Then, in 1889 a Bill was proposed to make it 25 per cent., but it was extended to 28 per cent. The late Mr. Ballance then expressed the opinion that the objection to the 18 per cent. arose from the strong feeling in the mind of the country mem- bers that, on account of the scattered popula- tion in their electorates, they were entitled to some concession. Well, we will grant that much ; but it must be conceded that while a 28-per-cent. concession shall be granted to an electorate that is perhaps forty miles by sixty miles, or eighty miles by a hundred miles, or thirty miles by forty miles, the argument does I not hold good so far as the centres of popula- tion and the electorates in the immediate vici 260, so that the Commissioners are entitled to add a nominal addition of 28 per cent. to the rural population, wherever it may 