cases dealt with within a short time they found them standing over for months. Against that, if they had appointed another Judge to take Arbitration Court work they might have orders and awards varying in different parts of the colony. Or, if they had a Judge appointed for the South Island and one for the North Island, there might be a difference in their awards. Honce it was necessary to have one Judge sitting as Judge of the Arbitration Court. He had thought, himself, and was led to believe, that the work would be overtaken, and he could only say that he would do his best to get that satisfactory position at- tained. He regretted the delays that had taken place, but, unfortunately, just after the ap- pointment of the Judge of the Arbitration Court had been made, the absence of one of the Supreme Court Judges from the colony neces- sitated the work of the Arbitration Court being to that extent set aside ; and then, in addition to that, the Appeal Court sat, and these circum- stances prevented the Judge of the Arbitration Court from overtaking his work there. How- ever, he felt sure the President would do his best to overtake the work and remove the unsatisfactory state of affairs now existing. Apart from that, he thought that in respect to the Conciliation Board's proceedings there was room for improvement. In his opinion, so many cases and so many persons being cited meant riding the thing to death. He thought there ought to be more Court, less Board, and more conciliation. GOVERNOR OF FIJI'S SPEECH. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked the Premier, When he intends to lay on the table of the House the answer to despatch No. 87 with regard to the speech of His Excellency the Governor of Fiji at the opening of the Wainibokasi Hospital ? Despatch No. 87, from His Excellency to the Secretary of State for the Colonies, was dated the 27th November last, and enclosed a memorandum from the Premier himself, in which he called attention to this now celebrated speech. He (Mr. Herriest had looked into the despatches from the Principal Secretary of State for the Colonies, which had been laid on the table, and he saw no indication of any answer given to this despatch or to this memorandum. He thought it was important that they should have it. as they were about to discuss a motion, of which the Premier had given notice, with regard to the Governor of Fiji's speech. There was a despatch from the Secretary of State to the Governor of Fiji, and a copy of that des- patch was, he believed, sent to His Excellency the Governor of this colony. He trusted that, if the Premier had had no answer to the other matter, he would agree to the copy of the despatch from the Secretary of State to the Governor of Fiji being laid on the table. VOL. CXVII .-- 7. honourable gentleman referred came under the head of " Confidential," of course he could not possibly lay it on the table of the House. What was intended was the reply to the despatch sent from the Secretary of State to the Governor of Fiji, and that would be laid upon the table. It was his intention to lay it on the table before proceeding with the debate on the Fijian reso- lution. He was only speaking from memory, but he was inclined to think there was some more correspondence, but that it was under the head of " Confidential. " # MEMBERS OF RETURNED CON- TINGENIS. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) asked the Minister of Defence, If the Goverment will take steps to obtain a list of the names of mem- bers of returned contingents desiring to obtain employment in the colony? His reason for asking this question was that he believed tho Premier only required to know the names and addresses of those members of returned con- tingents who were desirous of obtaining em- ployment in the colony in order to provide them with that employment. On every occa- sion that he had communicated with the Go- vernment on this matter they had done their best to assist returned members of contingents in getting the employment they needed. He trusted the Minister of Defence would obtain the names of all members of New Zealand con- tingents who desired to obtain work. If the Minister of Labour would act in concert with the Minister of Defence, he was quite satisfied they would have this matter properly carried out. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said a list of the names and addresses of members of contingents applying for work was made. The officers commanding the districts were also keeping lists of applicants and of employers requiring men. As to those returned troopers who were previously in Government employ, there was a standing instruction that they should take the places they left before going to the front. In regard to Government employ, it had been decided that preference should be given to members of returned contingents, other things being equal. Then, in respect to private employment, the Government were ascertaining where men were required, and were endeavouring to get them back to their ordinary avocations. The sooner they were enabled to take up their ordinary avocations the more pleasurable it would be for them- selves and for the people of the colony. The Government would do their best in the direction indicated. MANGATORO ESTATE. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) asked the Govern- ment, If they will acquire the Native rights of 11,000 acres at present held under lease by tho Assets Board as part of the Mangatoro Estate ? 