fore I do not think any one can find fault with that. With regard to the honourable mem- ber's statement that ugly rumours were about the city, I may say I have heard many ugly rumours about burglars lately-rumours about one thing and another ; but, if the honourable gentleman means that somebody is going to put his hand into the public chest and take this money out of it, all I can say is that I have never heard a word about such an absurd rumour, nor do I understand what the honour- able gentleman means. What I can assure him of is this: that the accounts are carefully and jealously guarded, and that they are given in a clear statement, which any person who wishes to investigate them can easily under- stand and rely upon. Now, Sir, I come to the statement made by my honourable friend the member for Riccarton. Mr. MASSEY .- There is another statement. What about capitalising the back interest ? Mr. MILLS .- Much as I would like to, I can- not devote any more time to the honourable member for Franklin, but with regard to what the honourable member for Riccarton, Mr. G. W. Russell, said, at first I started taking his figures down, thinking there might be some- thing in them, and that possibly this statement which I hold in my hand might, through some unfortunate circumstances, be incorrect. When I looked into it. however, and saw how he had mixed the figures, I was agreeably astonished and more than surprised at the numerous blun- ders he made. I will now ask the honourable gentleman to look at the report, and he will find that it bears me out in my assertion. Sir, he stated that we had this £760,000 at command, taking no notice of the €200,000 advance made http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero against it, and he immediately added to that a sum found in the statement of mortgages and instalments repaid of £155,237, and said we should have the large sum of over £900,000 to work upon. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I said that this year it would be £175,000. Mr. MILLS .- Does the honourable member not know that item goes to the Public Trustee immediately, and that these instalments are part of the settlers' savings to redeem his pro- perty, 1 per cent. being put aside to repay the loans. The honourable member should have known that fact, especially when he presumes to be a financial critic. To say that all this amount will be paid over and over again shows how very carelessly the honourable member has studied the balance-sheet and statement ; evidently he only had a superficial glance at it, and made no attempt, even if he was compe- tent, to master its details. It was simply absurd when he said that it would all be available for lending by the Superintendent. I saw at once where he was at fault, and realised immediately that the other statements the honourable gentleman made could only have about the same weight, so were unworthy of further notice. Passing from that, I hope that later on in our history some of these loans will be floated in the colony, as was done recently in the case of another loan. If we can do this, and get the interest circulating among ourselves, it will be better for 'every one. The moment we stop our interest from going to the Old Country, and have it permeating through our own circles, I feel sure that we shall get into a much more healthy and satisfactory financial position. Then, I was asked by the leader of the Opposi- tion to explain how it was the report said on one page all the interest due was paid, and by another page showed over $4,000 owing. Well, I am afraid the honourable gentleman, with some others also, must have read this report very carelessly, because the only member who questioned the statement in the House, and who seemed to grasp the clear facts, was my honourable friend the member for Christchurch City (Mr. Smith), who is a clear-headed busi- The meaning is that the instal- ness-man. ments of interest and principal due on the 31st March, 1900, have been collected in full, but that paragraph only refers to those outstanding amounts. If you turn over the leaf you will see that the interest receivable on the 31st March, 1901, was only £4,734 6s. 7d., and, as the mortgagors only pay their interest every six months, there is bound to be some accumu- lation. There must of necessity be more or less interest owing on balancing-day in a large business such as this is. I should therefore like honourable members to think twice before making such absurd statements, because a paper such as this is, when presented to the House, is not the result of the calculations of the department itself. It has to be checked in every possible way. It has to go through the fiery furnace of the Audit Department previously to coming before this House. It has to be certified to by the Controller and Auditor - General, and surely these checks are sufficient safeguards for Parliament. There are a few other minor matters in regard to these figures that I have been asked to give an explanation of by various honourable members, but the time-limit will not permit of my doing so, and I must therefore again refer them to the report and balance-sheet, or take an oppor- tunity of doing it another time. Or, if any honourable gentleman will come to me or write to me at any time pointing out where they consider anything is wrong, I shall be only too glad to see whether there is any blame attached to the department. I must just say this before I sit down : The honourable mem- ber for Geraldine pointed out how unfair the leaseholders wishing to borrow on their pro- perties were treated in comparison with the freeholders. Well, of course, there are mem- bers in the House who hold very strong views about the difference in those two qualifica- tions ; but I would point this out : that formerly if you went to the money-market in order to borrow money on your leasehold you would have been told the lender could not make any advance on your leasehold at all, no matter what the improvements were ; but they always took care to include it in the mortgage-as the solicitor would say, " just as collateral security." Well, that day has passed by. At any rate, the department is 