is, No; and it can and will only be used to lend to settlers, and it will not strengthen my general finance in the slightest. My finance for public works depends on itself, and a Bill will be brought down asking for a further loan for aid to public works this session. Mr. MASSEY .- Another Loan Bill ? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes, another Loan Bill. My honourable friend and others have forced it upon me. Mr. MASSEY .-. I did not force this on you. Mr. SEDDON .- No; but you like it all the same, and you will not vote against it either. So far as I know, the settlers in your district have benefited very much by it. At all events, in answer to the honourable member for Waite- mata, whether it is intended to be used as a means of improving my finance in regard to public works, I say it will not affect it. The money will be raised, if we can get it, at 3 per cent. ; it will be raised to the best advantage and when the market is most favourable, and I ask the House, under these circumstances, to leave this discretion with the Government. Having dealt with the financial part of the Bill, there may be some who will ask when the de- partment is going to round the corner. The an- swer to that is very simple. Last year there was a profit of about $2,200; at present there is about £20,000 to the good, and that is there practically as an insurance fund. And I must say that in respect to our advances we have been very fortunate. I made an exclama- tion when my worthy colleague was speaking https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 this morning, asking members to be somewhat merciful- An Hon. MEMBER .- " Charitable." Mr. SEDDON .- That was only a little slip of the tongue. That is not wanted at all in respect to this department. It is on the whole a well-conducted department, and investments made are very safe, so that there is nothing to be found fault with in that respect. The honourable member for the Bay of Plenty is very good at ferreting, and he thought he had done something when he had ferreted out that matter of the £1.000. and he thought the world ought to know more about it. Probably it might be a slip of my memory, but I really thought the House knew all about it. It so happened that a clerk to a barrister who was conducting the business of the Advances to Settlers Department embezzled the $1.000 while he was in course of conveying it from the department to the people who were borrowing it. The barrister and solicitor was responsible, and he has ac- cepted his responsibility, and, to his credit, he is doing his best to pay it off by half-yearly in- stalments. We therefore had to show on one side the deficiency and on the other side the credit. I think, under all the circumstances, we must sympathize with the barrister : and, as far as the department is concerned, they have shown it as a business transaction, and, with this explanation, I hope there will be nothing further said about that £1,000. Then, some- thing has been said in respect to charging Mr. Seddon ought to be free and not required to be paid for by borrowers. I do not see that that is possible. There must be in this department at all times, where you have almost week by week sales of land and transactions in land taking place, a live spirit in respect to its business, and the valuations must be care- fully watched during the whole time. Now, that phase of the business -- the valuation por- tion - is really the most important part of the department, because, as a lending institution, unless you are careful in watching your values, on the one hand you will make mistakes in not lending, and on the other hand you will make mistakes in advancing too much. You may, unless you watch carefully, make the mistake of refusing advances, and thereby doing an in- justice to probable borrowers. It is absolutely necessary, therefore, that these valuations shall go on. Now, when you contrast the position in respect to such advances and the different amounts chargeable thereon before this system became the law, with the expenses now-taking even the amount paid for valuation before as compared with what people have to pay now when borrowing from the Government-I say the contrast is greatly to the advantage of the settlers who are borrowing under this Bill. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. Mr. SEDDON .- I undertake to say that any person who takes what the charges were for- merly and compares them with what they are now under this department will find that they are reduced by more than 20 per cent. But outside that there is the fact of its having brought the outside fees down-the charges of outside persons-and therefore it has been an advantage to the settlers. I also wish to deny the statement that has been made that there has been an advance in the valuations, and that that has gone on the rate-book. I say that is not so. I say the larger value is not placed on the rate-book. The Valuation Act especially states that the valuation returns for loans are not to be used for rates, taxes- An Hon MEMBER .- They are. Mr. SEDDON .- Then, according to your law as you have laid it down the valuations are not to be used for taxes or rates. There is your answer, and you must accept it, because you yourself have enacted that it shall not be so. And I suppose that you do not want the head of the department to shut his eyes and to lend your money blindly. If so, I think if you asked him to do so he would not be ready to please you. Mr. HOGG .- They are honest valuations. made by the same valuer. Mr. SEDDON. - I have been asked once or twice to allow the valuations for the Government and for the local bodies to be made conjointly, but we could not possibly agree to that. The result is now that in some districts there are over-valuations and in other dis. tricts under-valuations, and where the valua- tion is for State purposes, and there is a responsible head to the department, and that department is an important one-it would 