is called an " authorising order," and they have to make a joint or two or more separate appli- cations. Shortly put, the whole meaning of the proposal of the City of Dunedin as con- tained in this Bill is this : they are asking for powers from this House which would enable them to go into the Caversham district or any other suburban district, and if they are success- ful in procuring that power, then they can snap their fingers at any agreement which may have been entered into with any local Borough Coun- cil in the past, and they can lay down tram- ways, rails, or lift or alter or erect posts along any street or road, or anything they like-in fact, they can do anything without consulting the Borough Council. The City of Dunedin virtually seek the power of entering into any suburban district in or about Dunedin and doing just as they like. All they would have to do would be to apply to the Governor for an authorising order, and the suburban districts interested would not have a voice at all in the question. I ask, Is this in conformity with the statute we passed last session ? I say it is not. and that the City of Dunedin at the present moment is trying to get behind the provisions of the statute of 1990. There are other objec- tionable features in this Bill, some equally as strong and as cogent as the one I have just mentioned. In clause 17 it is stated that the consent of the ratepayers is not necessary before applying for an authorising order; and the honourable gentleman used as an illustration that it might affect my district -- the section from the City of Dunedin to Anderson's Bay. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 But a proviso has been added to that clause by the Local Bills Committee, to the effect that the clause should only apply to the construction of tramways sanctioned by the ratepayers prior to the passing of this Act. The origmal Bill as drafted by the solicitors in Dunedin and sent up here sought to give them full control and power to construct tramways where they liked in or about Dunedin without consulting the ratepavers ; but the clause has been amended, although when it comes to be examined, it does not go far enough vet in my opinion. Clause 18 states that " The tramways shall not, nor shall any property or appliances belonging to the city in any way connected therewith, or with the generation or transmission of power to be used in connection therewith, be liat le to be rated by any local authority." I would like to know what the City of Dunedin means by this clause. Here is a Bill brought down and placed before this House which states that the ratepavers are not to be consulted with regard to the lifting or the laving-down of any fresh lines of tramways, which states that the rate- payers are not to be consulted with regard to whether it is advisable to extend the tramway system in any portion of Otago, and in the next breath they want power to say, " If we acquire land, erect buildings, or establish any other works in your district, you will get no rates from us." They want to be exempt from paying any rates in the suburban dis- Mr. Morrison have the power to lay down tramways all over your district whether you like it or not, and we are going to take all the money we can out of your district : but if you want any rates from us you cannot get them under this Bill." That is the position ; and I ask honourable members if they are going to support so obnoxious a mea- sure, the provisions of which I have only just touched upon. In fact, owing to the difficulty I am labouring under in speaking to-night, I have been obliged to skim over many of the points more hurriedly than I otherwise should have done ; but, Sir, I think I have said enough to show the House the gravity of the situation. The whale meaning of this Bill is " Trust the City Council of Dunedin." Well, I, for one, do not trust them too much. We know what the City Council of Dunedin have done in the past. Why, only a short time ago there was an at- tempt on the part of that City Council to get the necessary authority to run the tramway service through the Botanical Gardens. The honour- able gentleman did not tell us that. In fact, I believe a committee of the City Council re- ported in favour of such a scheme, and a considerable amount of agitation was created locally over the matter, and it was only at the last meeting of the Council that, by seven to six, it was decided that the proposal should not be entered into. And I say, when you find a City Council composed of men who are pre- pared to cut into our public reserves simply to enable the tramways to yield a little more revenue to the city, it behoves members from all parts of the colony to see that the reserves that have been set aside for the benefit of the publie and for the enjoyment of future genera- tions are kept inviolate for the people. I shall not take up the time of the House any further, but I hope honourable members will think over the various points I have touched upon. ] shall not block the honourable gentleman in his second reading. I shall give him his second reading ; but I shall certainly see that there are some very drastic alterations made in Com- mittee, or else I can promise the honourable gentleman about the liveliest time he ever had in this House. Mr. CARNCROSS (Taieri) .- Sir, as this is a Bill which has a very close bearing upon the district I represent I do not intend to give a silent vote upon it. I intend to vote against the second reading, as, in my opinion, the Bill should not be allowed to pass in its present form. I am not going into a general considera- tion of the Bill, but will regard it merdy from a local point of view so far as it concerns my d.strict But, although it may be only a local point of view, it is a highly important one, and I should not be doing my duty to my con- stituents if I did not speak upon this measure to-night. The honourable gentleman, in his reply, may possibly tell us that the local lodies in my district have offered no opposition to this Bill as it is framed. Well, I be- 9.30. lieve that may be correct : but I am not here to be governed by the local bodies 