"Supposing you received an official notice from the Controller and Auditor-General not to pay the money, would you still pay it over ?-- Yes. I cannot find any authority by which I should be justified in holding the money. It certainly belongs to the Treasury. " Would the Audit Office be able to prevent you paying it over ?- I do not know what would be the procedure. In March last I announced that I would pay the money over with the con- currence of the Audit Office. Of course, the Auditor-General may stick the matter up, but I do not see any objection to it. The money simply belongs to the Government. The Audi- tor-General is independent of me, and he may see objections from his point of view and refuse to pass it, but I do not see any objection. "He has to countersign the cheques ?- I cannot speak positively about that. The Ac- countant arranges that. If the Auditor objects there would be other proceedings. " Would not that be an interference with the administration of the Public Trust Office ?- No. The Auditor-General has control of our pay- ments, and can object to any of them. "Then, if such a contingency arose it would mean a Governor's warrant ? - Yes. If the Auditor-General objected, we could not pay the money without a Governor's warrant. " You are a barrister and solicitor ?- Yes. " And you are satisfied that what you are doing is well within the law ?- I have no doubt of it. I contend the law is so clear that no lawyer can have any doubt about it. All works on Trusts and Equity set the law out so clearly https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1. 32106019788246 that there can be no doubt about it. "Have you not a barrister in the office, and a solicitor outside, whom you could consult ?- Yes ; but I did not consult them in this case. / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero The principle is so clear that I took the respon- sibility on myself if any difficulty arose. If I had any doubt I should certainly have consulted the solicitor who conducts our cases outside ; but I had no doubt." The honourable member takes the narrow interpretation ; but I take the broader view, and I have given to the House what was really in- tended by the Legislature as the true interpre- tation of the law. Very well, what was this case ? Parliament said that the $2,000,000 should be paid to the Public Trustee, so that when the debentures matured, the principal would be there, and the Act said nothing further as to the interest upon these moneys -as regards the dividend on these preference shares the Act was silent, and why ? Because every member of Parliament knew that there was no use hampering the Act by putting these details into it, when the law already made all the provision that was necessary. If the shares are taken over by the bank, in that case the interest shall be paid to the Public Trustee, who shall pay it to the Government ; or, other- wise, that the interest accruing shall be paid, first to the Public Trustee, and then by the Public Trustee to the Government. I say, to have put all that into the Act was unnecessary, and not being in the Act they had to take the ordinary law of trusts. For the time being the Mr. Seddon Government are the beneficiaries and are en- titled to this money. If we do not get the money we should not be able to pay the interest on the debentures. Consequently, there was no necessity for it at all. At all events, that is the interpretation given by the Public Trustee, who is a disinterested party, and who says he would have done the same, whether the parties were the Government, the bank, or outsiders. Sir, that is the position, and upon it the attack is made upon the Government and upon the Legislature by the honourable member for Bruce. Sir, I can only say this, Why should we amend the law, when the law is at present perfect ? Is it because of the interpretation of the Controller and Auditor- General that an alteration should be made ? I say there is no necessity for it. We have done a good deal in the direction of altering our laws so as to avoid these petty troubles. Now, however, a position was being assumed that was becoming serious-so serious, indeed, that I think honourable members will see that there will be a necessity not only for main- taining our law as we passed it, but also for . a further extension of the law. As to the ques- tion of bringing the payment of the $40 to members into this question, I say that was al- together unwarranted. The honourable gentle- man, in my opinion, brought it in with the view of playing to the galleries. The law was not altered at all in respect to the €40. Hon. MEMBERS .- Yes, it was. Mr. SEDDON .- I say it was not, and I told the House that, in the face of the recommenda- tions that came before the Government, we were not prepared to go back from the posi- tion taken up, and where the law was altered we could not have paid in any classified department a shilling more for any service unless we had altered the law. We could not have paid the increase to the railway servants, and the recommendation came from the Railway Department. Of course it ap- plied in other cases as well; but it applied particularly to the railways, and it was to give effect to what was recommended by a Com- mittee of the House, which recommendation was carried unanimously by the House. To say that that was used for the purpose of giving a Government supporter a position is altogether false. Sir, I say it was a good thing for the country that that power was given. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) .- The honour- able member for Bruce said very truly that this report is the first-fruits of the Public Revenues Act of last year. The Premier has attempted to give a defence of the Public Revenues Act of last year. I do not think any member of this House looks with pride on the vote given for that Act, and if their inmost thoughts were known I think they would admit that they had done wrong. Mr. SEDDON .- You would not take the responsibility of repealing it. Mr. W. FRASER. - I would be only too happy to get the chance of doing so, and for the credit of Parliament I hope the Premier will bring down an amending Bill. Of course 