this case. We want to discover who the guilty parties are, and, if the Committee discover the names, they will report them to the House, so that the House may deal with them as it thinks fit. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) .- Sir, I de- sire to make a personal explanation. I under- stand the honourable member represented me as saying that no one was liable to punishment in this case but the publisher. Of course, I never said anything of the sort. I never dreamt of it. I said that, whoever was not responsible, the publisher certainly was responsible for the pub- lishing, and the House had so decided. I con- tend that the publisher is the one person who we certainly know is responsible, whoever might not be. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- Sir, by way of explanation, I would like to say that I took down the words as they were spoken by the honourable member. The words used were, "The only person who is responsible is the publisher." I think the honourable member will not deny that I am correct. Motion agreed to. Sir J. G. WARD .- It has been suggested to me that the member for Bruce being a mem- ber of the Goldfields and Mines Committee, it would, perhaps, be better if some other member of the House took his place on the Committee of privilege. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I would rather not sit on the Committee. Sir J. G. WARD .- I move, That the name of Mr. Pirani be substituted for that of Mr. J. Allen. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Sir, I submit the time for amending the motion has gone past. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I wish to ask leave to with- draw from the Committee. Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER. - The amend- ment can only be made with the indulgence of the House, and, under the circumstances, I do not suppose any member would object to the Minister for Railways moving the amendment. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) .- I would like to point out that the member for Palmerston expressed some strong opinions on the subject this afternoon. He is also connected with a newspaper as proprietor. He has expressed the opinion that these cases never come to any- thing, which is not quite correct. I think it would be better to select some honourable member who has not expressed such a very decided opinion on the question. Sir J. G. WARD .- I feel sure that the honourable member will, on reflection, see that what he has suggested is scarcely fair. An honourable member from the opposite side ought to be on the Committee, and he should be one of experience. I did not select the honourable member for Palmerston because he is a news- paper proprietor, but because he is an intelli- gent member on that side of the House. Amendment agreed to. Mr. Massey Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- Sir, when 7.30. the debate was adjourned on Friday evening last I was speaking, and the Premier attempted to prevent me going further by urging his colleague the Minister for Public Works to move the adjournment of the debate. The result of that would have been that I would have been excluded from making any further remarks ; but fortunately that was frustrated. I had been alluding to the fact that the Right Hon. the Premier and Colonial Treasurer had ended the year on the 31st March last with a deficit in the Public Works Fund of something like £260,000. I do not know that it has ever occurred before in the history of New Zealand that we were unable to meet our liabilities at the end of the financial year, either by loans in hand or by loans authorised. Neither by loans authorised nor by money in hand had the Pre- mier sufficient money to meet this liability. and I think it may be said to be a dishonest action on the part of the Treasurer or on the party of the colony to incur liabilities with- out having money to meet them. I had also alluded to the enormous power of borrow. ing money that had been placed in the hands of the Colonial Treasurer for the current year. and I stated it to be no less than, including the balance in hand, including loans already authorised, and including the two millions which he proposed to ask for this year-I say I stated that the amount available during the current year was no less than $5,000,000 sterling. The Premier, however, denied that; and it will. therefore, be necessary for me to give deta .. to show that that is correct. Under the Cor- solidated Stock Act of 1884 the Premier is authorised during the current year to borrow money by means of debentures for the sinking fund, say, to the extent of $50,000; under the Government Loans to Local Bodies Act, be can borrow $200,000 without appropriation. under the Act of 1886; he has authority. with the appropriation of Parliament, to borrow $50,000 under the Act of 1891; he has the authority, without the appropriation of Parlia- ment, to borrow, under the Act of 1898. another $250,000 : making altogether. under the Govern- ment Loans to Local Bodies Acts, EMwww. Under "The Land for Settlements Act. 190)." he has power to borrow the balance of the sim not borrowed last year, amounting to. Mv. $281,000 ; and under the same Act this year he can borrow another $500,000-making 57-1.00 under the Land for Settlements Act of 190 Under the New Zealand Consols Acts. 144 and 1900, he has authority to raise another $294,000. Under the Government Advan .::: to Settlers Act he had a balance on the 31 .: March last of $620,000, and, with the new kat this year of a million, that will give her £1,620,000. Under the Aid to Public Works and Land Settlement Act the balance = the 31st March was £800,000, and, as he po- poses to ask for a new loan of a mi ... that will make £1,800,000. Under " Tb" Dairy Industry Act, 1898," he has author:) 