about any alteration whatever in that respect. Though I have no doubt it would please the honourable member who is the father of this Bill to see it pass, for he has brought it for- ward for two or three sessions, I do not think it would really do anybody any harm or any good. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) .- I differ slightly from the last speaker with regard to the merits of the Bill. In past years I have supported a somewhat similar measure which was brought up by the honourable member for Waitaki. I believe the object of the Bill is a good one : it is simply to reduce the cost that mortgagors have to contend with when they borrow money pri- vately. I think that is a very good object. We know that a very large number of enterprising people in this colony, as in all new countries, re- quire the aid of capital, and they ought to be as- sisted in every possible way, by having the forms they have to comply with simplified as much as possible and made inexpensive. Now, the whole object and scope of this Bill, as far as I can see, is to simplify these processes and re- duce the expenses attached to them. In the past borrowers have had to pay somewhat heavy charges in connection with mortgages. Now, we have a simple form of mortgage prescribed under this Bill. Under present conditions the various Land Boards have a great deal of trouble examining every mortgage that comes before them. The provisions of the Land Act of 1892 require Crown tenants to submit their deeds of mortgage to the Land Boards and obtain the permission of the Boards before they are allowed to mortgage their properties. Now, inasmuch as each solicitor who prepares these deeds inserts his own terms and conditions, it requires a great deal of time and trouble on the part of the Commissioners and members of the Boards before they are able sufficiently to overhaul and examine the documents, and see whether the terms are of a reasonable character or not. This Bill aims at uniformity, and at protecting the mortgagor as well as the mort- gagee. Both will be protected by having some uniform form of mortgage prescribed. Why, Sir, this should have been done years ago, instead of being left to the present time. There are a great many mortgages executed in the country every year, and it is very desirable that the necessary deeds should not be ren- dered too expensive. With regard to the registration of covenants, conditions, and other processes, everything should be simplified. If the parties are agreed and attach their names, that indorsement should be sufficient. The Bill before us provides that the mortgage can be altered or its terms extended by a pro- cess exceedingly simple, and at the same time inexpensive. There is one thing, how- ever, that has been omitted, and probably when it goes into Committee I will endeavour to get the omission filled in. That is, in con- nection with mortgages for a specified term. In cases where they have been running over three years, or as soon as a term of three years is up, the mortgagor should have an opportunity, Mr. R. Thompson mortgage. As now happens, a mortgagor may have to wait for a number of years, although the rate of interest has altered very materially, before he is allowed to redeem his mortgage. Now, I think that is unfair. There ought to be a provision for redemption on reasonable notice in every mortgage, and, in cases where no pro- viso of the kind is made, it ought to be made mandatory that if a man chooses to say, " Iam going to redeem my mortgage and pay up the debt," by giving six months' notice he should have the opportunity of doing so. I 4.0. hope members of the House will sup- port me in getting such a proviso as I have indicated inserted in the Bill. Mr. SYMES (Egmont). - This is a lovely lawyers' Bill, and I am certain the last speaker has never read the Bill, or he would have under- stood it better than to speak of its effect as he did. He talks about the difference in the mort- gages of Crown tenants. Why, they are all the same ; they are all under the Land Transfer Act. Mr. HOGG. - I was referring to private mortgages. Mr. SYMES. - They are not Crown tenants. Private mortgages cannot possibly come before the Land Board. Mr. HOGG .-- But they do. Mr. SYMES .-- It is utterly impossible, be- cause they must all be under the Land Trans- fer Act, and they are all on the usual form. I notice that not one single lawyer has spoken on the Bill, showing- Mr. GRAHAM .-- They all want it to pass. Mr. SYMES. - Of course they do. Now, it is. utterly impossible to carry this into effect. The Bill says in the Second Schedule :- "Secondly, that the mortgagor will forthwith insure, and, so long as any money remains owing on the security, will keep insured, all buildings and erections for the time being situate on the said land against loss or damage by fire, in the name of the mortgagee, to their full insurable value, in some insurance office in New Zealand to be approved by the mortgagee, and will duly and punctually pay all premiums and sums of money necessary for the purpose of keeping every such insurance on foot. And will, not later than the forenoon of the day on which any premium falls due, deliver or cause to be de- livered the receipt therefor to the mortgagee, who shall also be entitled to the exclusive custody of all policies of insurance." Why, Sir, the thing is an absurdity. It may happen that on this particular day on which the premium falls due the mortgagor and the mort- gagee may be thousands of miles distant from each other, and, under these circumstances, how is it possible to deliver this receipt ? There may not be a post-office within reach to get the re- ceipt delivered in time. Anyway, a permissive thing of this kind could never be of any use. It is very clear to my mind, at any rate, that the father of this Bill has never had anything to do with mortgages. An Hon. MEMBER .- Lucky man. Mr. SYMES .- I do not think that neces -. 