be put in one of the industrial homes. Now, in regard to the question of petty larceny, and so forth, which has been imported into this debate, is there one honourable gentleman in this Council who at one time or another in boyhood's happy days has not been guilty of pilfering an apple or some other fruit, for which under the laws of the country he might have been convicted of petty larceny ? I am really astonished that the question of petty larceny by immature boys should have been trotted out in this Council to-day. In regard to the Kohi- marama training-schooner, which the Hon. Mr. Scotland referred to. Sir, that training- schooner, though mismanaged, and though irregularities occurred-not altogether solely on the part of the boys-was productive of a large amount of good. Here is a return presented to the Government, signed by Mr. W. T. Glasgow, showing that, out of sixty-five boys placed on that schooner, no less than thirty-eight were apprenticed to the sea. And, Sir, when I was recently in Auckland one of those boys, now a bearded manly fellow, came up to me and said, " Mr. Jennings, I hope you will go on with that training-ship proposal. My experience of the Kohimarama training was such that all of us boys who took to the sea are in fairly good posi- tions. I myself am in command of a large vessel "-giving me the name. That is one instance of the good that has been done by the training received on such a vessel as I advo- cate, and it is worth all the boxing about the compass that has taken place here to-day. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 Another point raised is : Are the opportuni- ties sufficient to enable the boys to follow a seafaring pursuit in New Zealand at the present time? I shall give a statement made by Captain Allman, who at the time was attached to the Marine Department :- # " Marine Department, Wellington, 14th October, 1895. "It has been urged that the effect of this measure [the Shipping and Seamen's Act] is to shut out from all chance of following a sea- faring life the many young lads who, in a country having the large seaboard of New Zealand, naturally have an inclination to follow this calling, and that in consequence our mercantile marine now and in the future must inevitably be manned solely by 'foreign' labour-that is, by men who do not claim New Zealand as their home. The contention is, undoubtedly, a sound one, and would be serious to cause concern were there no way out of the difficulty." His way out of the difficulty was that each ship should be obliged by law to carry a certain number of apprentices according to the ton- nage ; but at present our shipmasters and ship- owners have no inducement to carry lads in addition to the number of able seamen they are compelled by New Zealand law to carry. He further says, - "Unless some action is taken, therefore, a scafaring career must be beyond all boys who Hon. Mr. Jennings Captain Allman's suggested solution was that the Government should pay a bonus of $12 per head for every lad carried by the master or owner of any ship registered or owned in New Zealand. There is the opinion of a captain who was attached to the Marine Department of this colony, bearing out what has been said here, that the opportunities presented to our boys of following the sea are extremely limited. Sir, in regard to the question raised by the Hon. the Minister as to why there should not be equal advantages in the training of boys in shore institu ions as compared with that on a training-ship, as I said last year, a boy is full of ideals, he is full of freedom, and is con- stantly wondering what this world is, and what it all means. He wishes to wander abroad, and, finding the daily routine work in the shore institutions too dull for him, he becomes dissatisfied, and the very first opportunity he has he "clears out "; and it is then that he gets into trouble, as he has to suffer additional confinement and harder terms, because of his running away. On the other hand, a boy on a training-ship has more varied occupation. If a training-ship was in Welling- ton, for instance, he could go about the harbour, across to Day's Bay with the other boys in the ship's boats, under proper control ; he could indulge in agricultural or gardening pursuits as taste so dictated ; he could go in for fishing. Further, the boys have to go through their drill. All these things, with their own band, and wearing of a uniform, tend to turn the boy's mind in a direction that makes him a think- ing and useful boy, amenable to discipline and obedience, and therefore better able to go through life and its stern battling. I have received a letter from Major Loveday, and, with the permission of the Council, I shall read portions of it which bear on the teaching of the boys, and I shall ask that the whole of the letter be published in Hansard. The letter is from Captain Mason, the gentleman who has produced such marvellous results on the reformatory training-ship " Sobraon " :- "Nautical Ship 'Sobraon,' Sydney, N.S. W. " Major Loveday, Wellington, N.Z. " MANY thanks for Hansard containing such an interesting account of your Council's de- bate upon the training-ship project. When- ever you can have a talk with that level- headed member the Hon. Jennings, M.L.C., do not fail to impress upon him that he could not render the rising generation of his fellow-colonists a more far- reaching and permanent benefit than by bringing about the inauguration of a training-ship for young- sters such as I deal with. All members of our community benefit by catching and curing the budding criminal young. Let him make no mistake about a ship, when the super- vision is thorough, being far preferable to even a semi-marine shore institution. There need be no jealousy about where the ship is anchored ; that should be Wellington, which holds the <!-- PageNumber="1" --> 