He always rivets the attention of the House as he speaks upon any matter. I do not regret the time spent upon it, and particularly will I not regret it if, as a result of the discussions that tako place from time to time on this question, it should call the attention of the Press itself to the necessity of at least criticizing public men in a fair, impartial, and just manner in the interests of the public and in the interests of public affairs. If that is so, then much good will be done ; and, as far as the individual is con- cerned, the honourable gentleman declares that he has not suffered-he has lost nothing, has suffered nothing ; and, that being so, I fail to understand why he should want this Bill passed into law. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) .- It was not my intention, Sir, to say anything when this Bill was introduced by the honourable member to-night, but some things that have fallen from the honourable member for Waihemo and the honourable member for Christchurch City in opposition to the Bill seem to me to require This seems to me such a Bill as some notice. the House would be very willing to accept and to carry. From the " Aves " that arose when the honourable member had finished his speech to-night, I took it for granted the Bill was going to be carried on the voices. Sir, it appears to me it is high time some steps were taken to re- strain to some extent the chartered libertinism of some of the newspapers of the colony. I be- lieve I am speaking the truth when I say that a https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 very considerable number of the newspapers of this colony have for years fought against the rights of the people - the rights of the de- mocracy-and in favour of the privileges, the unrighteous privileges, of the classes - I was going to say of the aristocracy ; but "aristocracy," after all, is a good term ; it is a term which ought to be applied to the best people, and per- haps in such a connection as this I ought not to use it -- but I should say, as I have said, on behalf of the classes, and particularly of the wealthy capitalists. Sir, I am not surprised at the honourable member for Waihemo speaking strongly against this Bill, for surely he is the one of all men in this House who can least complain of being ill-treated by the Press. He seems to be the special pet and favourite-" the curly headed boy " .- of some of the newspapers of the colony. And I can assure you that down our way the sayings and movements, however insignificant, of the honourable member for Waihemo are chronicled and blazoned forth in the columns of the newspapers with every sign and mark of approval. Does the honourable gentleman write a letter to a Minister : Forthwith there is a local in the news- paper to the effect that the honourable mem- ber for Waihemo-the indefatigable member -has written to the Minister so-and-so. and so-and-so, and a favourable answer may be expected shortly .. two or three inches of it. Does the honourable gentleman go to a cattle show, the report commences : "Amongst the distinguished guests was the honourable mem- ber for Waihemo." Does he send a telegram I audience, and they carried a vote of thanks to Mr. Collins railway journey for two or three miles : it is duly chronicled with a great flourish of trum- pets in the papers. Does he make a little speech at some function or another : it does not matter who or what goes short the honourable member gets a long report. So it is easy to understand the honourable gentleman's par- tiality for the newspapers. It is not difficult to understand how it is that I am not quite so partial. Sir, I think I may claim the distine- tion-I do not know whether it is a "proud distinction "-but for one who has been in politics for so short a time as I have I have had more abuse levelled at me, and more libel- lous, if I might so call them, paragraphs in news- papers about me than almost any other member in the House. I confess, at one time, this sort of thing gave me a considerable amount of an- novance. When I was younger I used to think they had a great deal of influence, and that I <!-- PageHeader="1" --> would be regarded by people as if I was a black- sheep and a bad character generally, and that my friends would never look at me again. But as time went on I found that the people were not altered in the least, and that my constitu- ents always welcomed me and shook hands with me all the same, and it did not seem to make a bit of difference. One of the latest examples of newspaper criticism that I came across was in a paper that I confess I never saw before-a paper published in Napier, I think, called the Telegraph. It refers to me as the "canting. posing Barclay," and it also alludes to me as the "sea-green incorruptible," which, as every- <!-- PageHeader="\-" --> body knows, was Carlyle's synonym for the celebrated Robespierre. I ask you if it is fair criticism to refer to me-such an inoffensive, mild, harmless person as I am-as a modern Robespierre ? Sir, as far as the newspapers in my own district are concerned, I am bound to say that the Times is extremely well conducted, and although opposed to me in politics has always treated me very fairly in that respect. There is one column in that newspaper, however, which some nondescript and anonymous writers contribute to, headed " Passing Notes," and if it was not unparlia- mentary I would say it was a sort of sink for all the wretched worthless stuff that those un- fortunate writers could produce. It used at one time to be a brilliant and humorous column, but of late years it has sunk very very far below its old level. There is another paper with which I seem to live in a sort of chronic state of awe, called the Erening Stair, also published in Dunedin. This is the paper which shortly after my election published in its lead- ing columns in large capitals that, "morally, Mr. Barclay does not represent the people of Dunedin "- in large capitals, mind you. Well, it made me quite uncomfortable for a little while. However, in due course I met my con- stituents on the public platform. and I ex- pected to be greeted by a howling mob and to have it demonstrated to me that " morally I did not represent the people of Dunedin." but, to my astonishment, there was a large and orderly 