counties arises from the fact that they are so | districts of the colony. This brings me to far distant from any centre, and the territory is so great, and the circumstances and conditions differ so widely, that it is necessary to sweep away the Road Boards of the locality and make a small county. That is what was done in one Bill passed here the other day, and that has been done with the unanimous consent of the Road Boards and local bodies. That showed that the original boundaries were too large and the county unwieldy. This is a matter upon which there can be little or no difference of opinion, and I do want to have an Act passed, and not have applications con- tinually coming before the House for changing boundaries and creating new local bodies. Then, this brings up the question of Road Boards. Now, in one of the Bills originally adopted the passing of the Bill meant prac- tically the extinction of Road Boards; but I found in some parts of the colony that the con- ditions were such that the Road Boards, if there was to be any local government at all, were an absolute necessity. This was the case in some parts of Canterbury. Take the East Coast up towards the Kaikouras- An Hon. MEMBER .-- There are no Road Boards there. Mr. SEDDON .-- The latest information I have upon the subject is from Sir George Clifford. I thought his estate was up in that direction. Mr. MEREDITH. It is on the Waipara Road, in the Ashley County. Mr. SEDDON. - Well, at all events, I think the distance from the nearest centre is about one hundred miles, and the control and management of the roads the County Coun- cil itself admitted could not be done by them, and that they ought to be controlled, and were controlled and maintained, by the Road Board. This was given as a case in point, but it is not the only one. I know there are many parts of the colony where the Road Board is de facto the local body. The extent of the county may be very great, and members may have to travel a long distance to the meetings of the Council, and in cases of that kind I think there cannot be the local supervision or the local knowledge that is ne- cessary for the carrying-on the work properly, and in instances of that nature a good argument is, no doubt, made out in favour of Road Boards. I am still of opinion, how- ever, that under such circumstances, it would be better to have more counties, and do away with all the local bodies except the ones that are given boundaries. Extended powers should also be given, and in addition an increased and assured finance. As to the question of finance, I think before dealing with it we should get this measure passed. The finance is provided for under another measure entirely, so that that aspect of the matter need not be dealt with in this Bill. If you provide the neces- sary machinery as contained in this Bill, you may then take up the finance ; but unless we have the necessary machinery we cannot divest ourselves of the responsibility of deal- ing with minor works affecting the country the question of subsidy. I am not at all in love with the existing system of subsidising, because wealthy communities draw the larger share of the money, while their requirements are really not so great as those of districts where there is development work to do. I would prefer to have subsidies given to local bodies on the amount expended on new works -- on roads and bridges. That, I think, would be a fair way to subsidise. Under the existing system of subsidising on the general rate you relieve other bodies and settlers of charges, and you are not advancing the development of the country at all. As far as the subsidies are concerned that are mentioned in the Bill, I may say I am going on the old Act. I am not making any change. As I have already said, let us have the powers granted that are provided in the Bill, and the matter of finance may then be dealt with under separate legislation, as it is at the present time. There will probably be a fight made in respect to the town districts, but I con- sider that the objection taken so far is purely a Committee objection. So long as they have the power of the dominant body maintained, I do not think it is wise to allow a settled population, as soon as it finds itself able to more than supply its own requirements, or when it is just able to supply its own re- quirements, to secede from the parent body, and, wrapping itself up, take the whole of its revenue to itself, while the burden of main- taining roads and keeping open means of communication is thrown on the ratepayers in the other district that is being excluded. It is a question whether we should go on existing lines, and allow these considerations ; whether it is not better for the district as a whole and for the people in that district where there are these revenue-producing centres, and those centres are supported and maintained by the outsiders - whether they should have the power they have at the present time of forming themselves into a local body and depriving the other districts of the large re- venue which they produce within this circle. I myself have long been of opinion that there has been too much of that. I have known dis- tricts where the ratepayers' money has gone to develop other bodies because of an aggregation of population, and the moment they have sur- plus revenue part of the district forms into a borough, and the rest of the county is im- poverished by that action. I think that in country districts the small boroughs are much more interested in the development and in the increase of population, and in the iu- crease of settlement - that without it the borough suffers ; and that being the case it would be much better if there was only the one governing body, the one common purse, and the one common control. Those are the views I hold upon that point, and, as far as I have been able, I have put them into this Bill. Another material alteration is that the whole of the County Councillors go out of office every two years, and the date of elections is altered from November to May. 