Mr. SEDDON said the Government was not going to put an army of clerks on to that work. It would be unfair to saddle the colony with that enormous additional expense. Captain RUSSELL .- I am only asking for those that are authorised by law. Mr. SEDDON said they had extra clerks engaged preparing returns for the House, but some of the returns that had been asked for would cost a tremendous amount of money, and it was unreasonable to expect the Govern- ment to incur that extra expense. As regards returns that had to be supplied according to Act of Parliament, he thought the Government had fairly complied with the law. Hon. MEMBERS .- No, no ; you have not. Mr. SEDDON said it would be impossible for him to supply anything that would satisfy honourable members on the Opposition benches -- it was intended that it should be so. With regard to the Financial Statement, he could assure them that he mtended to make it as clear as possible, but if after they got it any further information was required to make it plainer, he would do his best to meet the wishes of honourable members. He thought honourable members would like to have the B .- 1 paper; but he could not do impossibilities. He had known sessions pass by without it being given at all. The un- authorised expenditure must, of course, be given. Captain RUSSELL .- When are we to get it ? Mr. SEDDON said honourable members would get it before the financial debate took place. He wanted to push on the business of the country, and he believed that by giving what information he could it would facilitate He would meet the wishes of business. honourable members in the matter as far as he could. # PUBLIC HEALTH BILL. Interrupted debate on the question, "That the amendments of the Legislative Council be agreed to." Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said he was speak- ing when the debate was interrupted. On that occasion he was not speaking on the amend- ments themselves, but he was protesting that members were being asked to agree to amend- ments that they had not seen, and there- fore could not understand, and he suggested that the amendments should be printed. Since then that had been done, and he found that two important amendments had been made. According to new subclause (2) goods imported contrary to the provisions of Orders in Council, and which in the opinion of some official might be likely to convey infectious diseases, might be dealt with under "The Customs Laws Consolidation Act. 1882"-that was to say, that they might be destroyed or otherwise disposed of at the option of the Minister in charge of that department. The other clause was even more important. It referred to the vaccination clauses in the Public Health Act, under which, he believed. persons who objected to compulsory vaccination might have exemptions granted them by a Stipendiary Magistrate, or & Registrar of Births, Deaths, and Marriages; but according to the new amendment "Registrar" was struck out, and people would have to go to the Magistrate- probably in the open Court. The arrangement would, in his opinion, not be nearly so con- venient, for while many people objected to going before a Magistrate, there was no such objection to going to a Registrar. He did not feel very strongly about either amendment, but there were members in the House who held strong opinions on the vaccination question ; and the importance of these amendments justi- fied their contention that the House should not agree to amendments made in another place without having them printed and circulated, so that they might be thoroughly understood. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City) said he de- sired to enter his protest against the alteration with regard to vaccination. He did not think that the door should be narrowed to get the exemptions. It was the opinion of many medi- cal men that vaccination was not merely use- less, but exceedingly dangerous. The alterations meant that no one could get an exemption ex- cept from a Magistrate, while formerly the order could be signed by a Registrar of Births, Deaths, and Marriages, or by a Magistrate. He thought the proposed limitation was altogether wrong, and he would vote against it. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) wished to add his protest against this alteration being made. He thought it infinitely better that the law should remain as it was than that people should have to get an exemption from a Magis- trate. As had been pointed out, many people who would strongly object to having to apply to a Magistrate would not object to applying to a Registrar. This was a matter of very con- siderable importance, and had given rise to a great deal of agitation in almost every part of the world. There was a difference of opinion regarding it, and a great deal of medical evi- dence could be produced in favour of both sides. He felt sure it would be far better to leave the law as it was at present. Mr. HALL ( Waipawa) had very much pleasure in supporting what other members had said. In this matter we were far behind the English law, where no difficulties were put in the way of parents who desired to have their children exempted from vaccination. Those who were opposed to vaccination were supported by a large amount of medical testimony. There were many cases in which vaccination had been the means of producing in children disease that remained with them throughout the whole of their lives. If people were against vaccination, if they had conscientious objections to it, those objections ought to be given effect to without the people being dragged before a Magistrate and questioned, probably by a gentleman who was prejudiced very strongly in favour of vac- cination. He had therefore great pleasure in supporting what previous speakers had said upon this subject. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) also wished to lodge his protest against the amendment, 