able gentleman who introduced this Bill to that effect, which was quite enough for him, and should be for the House. When they had the assurance of that honourable gentleman (Mr. Rhodes) that this course had been recommended by the Supreme Court, they should not hesitate to at once give effect to the Judge's suggestion. As to the honourable member's (Mr. Napier's) suggestion that they were treating this Bill too lightly, why if Mr. Napier knew the Standing Orders of this House he would know that a Select Committee for private Bills was set up every session, and when a Bill was before that Select Committee it was submitted to the most searching inquiry. The Bill had been before a Committee set up by another House for inquiry into these class Bills, and it would be before another such Committee set up by this House, and he thought nothing more need be said about it. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said the honourable member for Auckland City seemed to have been arguing that they should not pass the Bill because the same powers as the Bill provided for had already been given to the Supreme Court. Mr. NAPIER .- Except in the case of the minors. Mr. HERRIES said that was the reason why legislation was necessary. If the honourable gentleman would look at the end of the pre- amble he would see, "Whereas the objects of this Act are not attainable otherwise than by legislation." That being the case, this Bill https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 proposes to do by legislation exactly the same thing as the section of the statute quoted by the honourable member (Mr. Napier). If, therefore, he approved of the statute, why not / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero approve of the Bill? This is also the same principle as the law in force in the Old Country, known as Lord Cairns's Act, by which settled lands could be diverted from the in- tention of the man who settled them. An Hon. MEMBER .- The guardians of the minors must consent. Mr. HERRIES said that was the reason this legislation was brought in. At any rate, the measure had to go before the Committee, and, as that Committee would investigate the whole position, he submitted that if honourable mem- bers wished to take any objection to the Bill they should do so when the Bill came back from that Committee. There was one point to which he would like to draw the attention of the Committee which would be set up to consider the Bill. It seemed to him there was no provision in section 5 for any expense of The whole of the cutting up the estate. proceeds had to go to the trustees, to be kept in the terms of the trust ; but he thought only the net proceeds should go to the trustees, and a certain amount should be allowed in the Bill for the expenses of advertising and other matters which would arise during the sale of the estate. Mr. RHODES (Ellesmere) said, If the honour- able member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) had Mr. Palmer private Bills, and he would not then have com- mitted the error of stating that he would move an amendment when the Bill was in Committee. He would have known that private Bills were referred to a Select Committee, and that they were not dealt with in Committee of the House. He would have known, too, that a private Bill did not pass through the House without in- vestigation. The investigation before the Select Committee was a very thorough investigation indeed. With regard to the objection of the honourable member, that the Bill ought to have cited in the preamble the necessity for the introduction of the Bill, he thought he stated in his opening remarks that the reason the Bill had been brought forward was that certain minors in the case could not give their consent. Mr. NAPIER asked why the guardians of the minors did not consent ? Mr. RHODES said, As far as that went, he might say the Bill was introduced on the sug- gestion of a Judge of the Supreme Court, and the Court had given its approval. The consent of the guardians of the minors would not have been sufficient. Had that consent been suffi- cient there would have been no necessity for putting this Bill through Parliament, and the Judge would not have suggested such a course. As for the objection raised by the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty, he had put the point to the solicitors who had the Bill in hand -Messrs. Moorhouse and Hadfield-and was informed by them that such provision was made under section 3, which said that the powers of sale and leasing should be under "The Leases and Sales of Settled Estates Act, 1865." If the matter were not clear, objection could be taken when the Bill was being investi- gated by the Select Committee. Bill read a second time. # CEMETERY TRUSTEES VALIDATION AND APPOINTMENT BILL. A message was received from His Excellency the Governor transmitting the following new clause in substitution for clause 3 of the Bill : "It shall be lawful for the Governor to appoint the Rotorua Town Council as the trus- tees of the Rotorua Cemetery." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I move, That the amendment be agreed to. We find that the land was vested in the Council, but we did not give it power to administer. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- I would like to ask whether the Premier intends to ap- point them trustees. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes. Motion agreed to. COAL-MINES: REPORT OF ROYAL COM- MISSION. Mr. McGOWAN ( Minister of Mines) brought up the report of the Roval Commission on Coal-mines, and moved, That it do lie on the table, and be printed. He was unable to lay the evidence taken before the Commission on the table, as it was not yet printed. 