Premier remarked he was reported to have said so, and never yet has the Right Hon. the Pre- mier said that the report was incorrect. But, lawyer-like, later on he attempted to trip up the member for Hawke's Bay in a misquotation -and I suppose this is characteristic of lawyers also-namely, that he immediately afterwards fell into such an error himself, and in the same passage, for he quoted the member for Hawke's Bay as having said that, " If ever the time arrives when increased taxation is required to meet the ordinary expenditure, so surely will reductions in salaries eventuate ; " and he stopped there. Why did he stop? He accused the member for Hawke's Bay of leav- ing out part of the quotation, and immediately he did the same. I will finish it for him: "To avoid the contingency, and the injustice which arose in the past, it is well for those having responsibility to do their utmost to keep down expenditure." What is the meaning of this passage, if it has any meaning at all ? There is only one possible meaning-namely, that unless expenditure is kept down the salaries will have to be reduced. Then, Sir, the honour- able gentleman, later on in his speech, accused those who were in power from 1884 to 1887 of having cut down the salaries. It is admitted that the salaries were cut down, and the necessities which the Right Hon. the Premier is himself now pointing out-the necessities at that time caused the salaries to be cut down because the colony had got into such a condition of finance https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 that it could not pay the salaries it had been paying. And, Sir, the cutting-down of salaries came not alone from those who were then sitting on the Ministerial benches, but from Mr. Bal- lance and his own supporters, who were then in opposition, but assisting Sir Harry Atkinson to cut down the salaries. With regard to the ques- tion of ability, the honourable gentleman said that those who are so-called Liberals have always been ready and willing to pay for ability ; and I ask him, or any other member of Parliament, to go over the long, long list of able men who have gone out of this colony during the last ten years because the colony would not pay them a salary proportionate to their ability. I could start that long list and carry it on until I came down to perhaps the best and most able officer we have had in the Railway service - Mr. Hudson. And there sits the Minister for Railways, and he knows as well as any other member of the House that Mr. Hudson, who was the mainstay of his railway system, was allowed to go because he would not pay him an adequate salary. Surely this is suffi- cient answer to the honourable gentleman's argument that the Liberal party tries to keep men who are able by paying them good salaries. And then the honourable gentleman said that the honourable member for Hawke's Bay had accused the Right Hon. the Premier of bribery, and he said he did not know of such a thing taking place in New Zealand. I am afraid the honourable gentleman's political education has been neglected, or else that he will not see what his eyes will easily let him see if he only uses them. It has been only too common a practice, and many members of the House are well ac- quainted with the fact that open bribery has taken place. I refer, not to those indirect bribes which the Premier so often tries of this nature : Starting away into a constituency, as he often does, meeting there the electors of that constituency and saying, as he has said to them, " Do you expect any support from me, any financial aid from me, unless you give me something in return?" Is not that bribery ? I do not know what it is if it is not bribery. Then, I can quote other instances in which, for certain local public works, some dis- tricts have received the whole of the money required for those works. Take, for instance, the Otaki Bridge. In this case there was re- ceived from the Government the whole of the money to erect that bridge ; but when other members go and ask for some assistance for a bridge to be re-erected or built in their dis- tricts they are told-what ? That it can be done only on the condition that the districts find half the money. Did Otaki find half the money ? I recollect a few years ago that this House was confronted with so patent a bribe that they cut that bribe out of the estimates. I refer to a vote-I forget how much it was- that was put down for a Mr. McKeague, who proposed to be a Government candidate at the next election. On the estimates a vote was put down for a work on irrigation by this Mr. McKeague, and that vote was cut out of the estimates by the House. Mr. HALL-JONES. - And was voted next year. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Yes, Sir; and why? Be- cause the Ministry were strong enough to make the House vote it. The House cut it out, as I say, and the Minister paid it without the au- thority of the House, and then with their strong majority they got it voted. Sir J. G. WARD .- I understand McKeague did not stand as a candidate. Mr. PIRANI. - Oh, yes, he did. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Then, Sir, I look to this year, and I come across an item the honour- able member for Wanganui will be interested in. I am sorry he is not in the Chamber just now. I see a vote down for a Wanganui steamer, and I understand the story to be told about the Wanganui River steamers is this-perhaps the honourable member who has recently joined the House, Mr. Haselden, member for Patea, will be able to confirm what I say : that a subsidy for conveyance of mails, without any tenders being called for was given to Mr. Hatrick, who owned one line of steamers ; that an election was coming off; and that the owners of the other line of steamers which runs upon the Wanganui River, and in which a large number of settlers are interested, were grievously dis- appointed because no tenders were called for the carriage of mails on the Wanganui River, and they insisted upon it that a wrong had been done. To put the matter right, what happened ? A subsidy was given to these steamers as well. Now the Wanganui River is in a happy condition of having a subsidy for Hatrick's steamers and a subsidy for the 