cation might be made to the Supreme Court under section 3, which, so far as he knew, would effect all the purposes contemplated by this measure, provided the parties interested consented, with the safeguard that the sale would have to be approved by a Judge of the Supreme Court. Now, he maintained that the honourable member ought to have stated to them whether any application had been made to the Court under section 3 of "The Settled Land Act, 1886." Section 3 of that Act was as follows :- " A tenant for life, with the consent of the Court, may sell the settled land or any part thereof, or any easement, right, or privilege of any kind over or in relation to the same." An application could be made to the Supreme Court, and the evidence would have to be sub- mitted to a Judge, and, if a Judge were satisfied that it was in the best interests of the parties, and the public, the sale of the land could be ordered. But there was no recital in this Bill that such an application had been made, and to show why the statute law of the land should not be availed of. He could not understand the position, and the honourable member should explain why it was necessary to require a special statute in the face of the existence of the Settled Land Act. With the very brief opening of the honourable member, no one in the House, with, perhaps, the exception of the Premier, who had probably gone into the matter, understood the necessity for the Bill. Mr. SEDDON .- The matter has been before the Court. Mr. NAPIER said, That fact was not stated in the Bill. Then, if the Court had declined the application they should know why it had de- clined it. There was an important principle involved in this Bill-namely, that of utterly depriving a testator of the right to say how his land should be regulated after his death. He was not in favour of the dead hand as applied to landed estates; but still there was this principle in the Bill, which the Legislature might or might not adopt-namely, the taking away the right of testamentary disposition in this particular case. Was that what the honourable member wished to do? They ought to be informed, further, whether all interested parties were consenting to the general law of the country being interfered with in this patch-work manner. Were all the beneficiaries under the will agreeable to the proposals in this Bill? If it was desired that no person should have the right by his will to say how his estate should be dealt with after his death, let it so be declared. But there should be a general law. Why should a poor person be deprived of the right to have a similar privilege to that which this Bill conferred on wealthy people - the right to deprive the testator of any control of the pro- perty after he has passed away, and the right to override the wishes of beneficiaries? The testator in this particular instance clearly defined what his wishes were in regard to this property, and the Legislature, considering that stringent powers possessed by testators, passed the Act to enable a Judge of the Supreme Court to allow settled land to be sold. And honourable members could see that that Act safeguarded the interests of all persons benefited under the provisions of a will, because the Judge to whom an application was made would investi- gate the matter in a calm and impartial way, and would have the benefit of sworn evidence before him. But they had no evidence before them in this particular case. The honourable gentleman merely said that there was a large property contiguous to the City of Wellington that they would all admit it was desirable that it should be cut up, and that they should therefore let it be cut up. The extracts from the will referred to in the Bill clearly showed the intention of the testator ; but he did not see any recital to the effect that the present legal powers had been exhausted. In principle he was not opposed to the Bill, and he did not wish at this stage to take the responsibility of moving that it be referred back to the Committee ; but it had provisions of an extraordinary character, and they had had no explanation why special legislation was required. He would like to see the estate cut up, and hundreds of smiling home- steads on it in place of one ; but he looked with jealousy on all private Bills which had for their object to override the will of testators without the consent of all the beneficiaries. The general law appeared to work satisfactorily ; he- knew hundreds of instances where applications had been made to the Supreme Court, and had never known one to be refused where evidence had been supplied that it was to the interest of the parties that a sale should take place. He trusted the honourable gentleman would give the House some further explanation on the matter in the course of his reply, and particularly if the guardians of the minors interested in the pro- perty objected to the proposed sale. Mr. PALMER (Ohinemuri) thought the honourable member for Auckland City had raised a storm in a teapot. There was nothing in the Bill to raise a storm about, the Bill was simple, and one the House ought to pass. Who had any interest in the matter? Only the beneficiaries themselves, and if they were all agreeble why should not the Bill pass? An Hon. MEMBER .- It does not say they are all agreeable. Mr. PALMER said, Of course there were minors, but evidently they were agreeable ; and those who had charge of the minors surely ought to have some say in the matter. The honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) had complained that this was altering the wishes and directions of a testator ; but how often was this thing done in the Supreme Court ? The Bill showed that it was only in consequence of a technicality that it could not be done in this He understood, also, that the Supreme case. Court recommended that this course should be taken, which, if it had been an improper course, the Court would not have made such a recom- mendation. The honourable gentleman, Mr. Napier, said there was no evidence that the 