this colony that men are to go outside the law ? Surely he is not going to assert that the Treasurer, or the Judge, or even the common policeman, whatever may be their personal views, are not to be guided by the law? The Auditor-General in this matter has, I say, been endeavouring to enforce the action of the law, because he has been put there for the purpose of doing so. And, now, what is the proposal of the Solicitor General, Dr. Fitchett ? Why, Sir, the most astounding thing ever I have heard in the way of legal interpretation is when Dr. Fitchett, in order to get the Government into the position that the Treasury wanted to be put into, actually makes a law. It is true that in the Public Revenues Act of last session power was given to the Treasurer to settle disputes between himself and the Auditor. Mr. SEDDON .- We have always had that power. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Yes, you may have always had the power ; but you did not know you had it, and when you got it in the Bill last session you thought you had got entirely fresh power, and you used it very considerably, because cases of this kind have not occurred before. Now, Sir, coming back to what I was saying : Dr. Fitchett, not being able from the law to give the interpretation the Govern- . ment wanted, actually has to make a law, and he says that certain words should be read in. Here is subsection (2) of section 8 of " The Bank of New Zealand and Banking Act, 1895." " (2.) All moneys received for the said repur- chase of such shares shall be paid to the Public Trustee, and applied by him to the redemption, when due, of the securities authorised to be issued by section seven hereof." But Dr. Fitchett says the wording of the clause should be extended by including these words : "to the extent of the total capital sum represented by all" the securities issued under section seven hereof. He admits the words are not there, but he thinks they should be read in. That is the way Dr. Fitchett gets over the trouble. Now, Sir, I come to what I think is a somewhat characteristic attitude of the Right Hon. the Premier. In the first diffi- culty that occurred between himself and the Controller and Auditor - General the right honourable gentleman is as courteous and as nice as he can possibly be. No. 14 of the correspondence reads thus : " His Excel- lency the Governor is respectfully advised to sign the accompanying instrument," and so on ; signed "R. J. SEDDON." That is the attitude the honourable gentleman takes up at that point. But what is the attitude he takes up a little later ? When we refer to paragraph 25, after the correspondence has gone a considerable distance between the Treasury and the Audit, this is the Premier's memorandum : "Get the Governor's order. R. J. S., 24/ /1901." Sir, I can quite understand what the feeling of the honourable gentleman was when he penned that short, sharp, and incisive order. That, Sir, was the crack not of the party whip, but of the man who held the whip over the Auditor have the honourable gentleman when he gets to this point-possibly his liver was out of order at the time-issuing the mandate, " Get the Governor's order," and the Governor's order was obtained. Now, a good deal has been said in connection with the Public Re- venues Act of last year. Let me say that so far as the speech made by the member for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins) is concerned I entirely agree with it. There were certain machinery clauses of a very important charac- ter in the Public Revenues Act of last session which were absolutely necessary for the carry- ing-on of the government of the colony ; but there were, in addition to those necessary and desirable clauses, certain other clauses which were objectionable. One of those clauses was clause 3, which gives power to the Government under a vote of the House to override statute law. I think that is a most dangerous prin- ciple to be introduced into our legislation. I indorse every word that was said by the member for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins) with regard to the dangerous character of that. If we consider the numerous safeguards that attach themselves to the passing of a statute -- how it has to be introduced, and read a first, a second, and a third time, and passed through Committee, and then passed through the Upper Chamber, where it goes through the same process, each step being a safeguard -can we, as members of the House, feeling the sense of responsibility we ought to feel, say that a vote of this House, passed in the dying hours of the session, is to be allowed to override and set aside all those solemn safeguards and sanctions that are employed in the passing of a statute? Yet that was done by the Act named. And what, to my mind, is the gravest part of the whole thing is the tremendous power placed in the Premier of the colony, whoever he may be, because in the hands of the Premier, as head of the Government, rests solely the right of initiative in connection with these votes. If Parliament as a whole had the power of initia- ting money votes I would not complain so much; but when I know that the one man in this House who holds the key, who can raise the honorarium of members of the House, who can raise the salary of the Speaker, who can raise the salaries of the Judges - and who can raise the salary of every officer whose monetary compensation is fixed by statute-is the Premier, and that he alone can initiate the vote, I cannot but feel that is a tremendous power to place in the hands of any man, and it is a power that I am not prepared to continue. Something has been said about the repeal of the Public Revenues Act of last session. I am prepared to vote with any man or any party which will go for repealing that power, which will go for repealing the power of the transfer of votes, and which will go for repealing also the power of the Colonial Treasurer to override the powers of the Auditor-General. There is one power in connection with the Public Re- venues Act of last year which has not been referred to, but which I shall show honourable 