exemption from the privileges of education. But before making any further remarks I would like to ask the Native Minister how he expects to bring the Natives under the provisions of this Bill, and to enforce its provisions in respect to them. How can he compel them to pay the fines ? He knows that in most cases they have strong objections to the payment of fines, and have not the means of doing so, and therefore I want the House to realise the danger of pass- ing a drastic measure such as this, which may be intolerable to the Natives, who are not pre- paired for such exemplary pressure. It is the great characteristic of the Native to move spas- modically. As soon as you take any action deal- ing with them -- perhaps specially for their ad- vantage-they will take at first a very active interest in the movement, but in a very short while they become tired of. it, and ! education compelling a teacher to cram ap to relapse into a period of absolute relaxation | fourteen or fifteen years of age. The Fourth or indifference. I am speaking now of the adults, but the same characteristic applies to the children, who in many cases soon tire of going to school, and the parents have not got that control over them which is necessary to compel their attendance; in fact, discipline is not carried out to that extent by the Natives which is necessary to enforce that regularity of attendance which this Bill is presumed to se- cure. I hope nobody will misunderstand me, for there is no one in this House who is more zealous and stronger in his desire that a very perfect system of education should be secured to New Zealand. Particularly as a democracy https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 is this necessary. I think this reason is ap- parent to most minds: that if we are to be in truth a democracy-if that form of government is to rule in this country successfully-it re- quires education ; and no other form of govern- ment can equal it in which there is not that demand for individual fitness by culture in the units composing the communities that possess it. Without such fitness there can be no suc- cessful democracy. I am one of those who believe that up to the present moment the teachings of history are that democracies con- trolled, like ours, by the mere volition of public will have proved in the long-run a failure. There is no instance of a democracy ruled by the voice of the masses in which popular greed and selfishness did not bring about national decay, excepting in Helvetia. Taking the human heart as it is, we can only reach, so to speak. a certain quality of de- mocracy in which. for endurance, there must always be a strong element of conservatism : With that was stated by Aristotle ages ago. regard to the enforcement of an education system, I wish to commend to some extent the remarks made by the honourable member for Patea. I say that we are not reaching a per- feet system of education, because we are trying to secure equality of results in the scholars with a feverish pressure of a weights curricu- ! lum. as if all would alike receive and assimilate i of fine weather ; and I believe, with the honour- it with beneficial results to the State. We able member for Franklin, that it will be the Mr. Moni: teacher has to enforce is to estimate that every child has a perfect capacity, say, up to thirty gallons, and is capable of being the recipient of thirty gallons. Children, the same as adults, vary from a very low ca- pacity to qualifications for the very highest degree of attainment. We want a system of education which shall be more tentative that when children reach up to a certain age you should try and ground them thoroughly in the educational status which they are fitted to receive, and which will best qualify them for the battle of life. That is the secret of good education. And when you reach up to a certain age those children who are fitted to go in for higher educational attainments shall be selected, and they shall be placed in special classes. But there should be no system of Standard thoroughly grounded in the child- ren will be far better than the achievements of the Sixth Standard under cramming that they may not be able to assimilate. How many, I wonder, of the successful and able men, taking the community of New Zealand as a whole, could have passed the Sixth Standard with credit. Not, Sir, but what they may possess, so far as practical abilities are con- cerned, a very high degree of education. I wonder what proportion of scholars there are who, when they leave school, are conscious that their school has been but the imparting to them of the machinery or the keys with which to unlock for themselves further stores of knowledge, and to feel the aspiration for know- ledge and information that will last throughout their lives. But perhaps seven children out of ten, the moment they leave school, are thankful they are leaving behind all the discipline and knowledge which the teacher attempted to impose on them, and they for the rest of their lives have a dislike to that mental effort which, could they have been well edacated, would have made them feel that for them the acquisition of knowledge had only commeneed - had only been initiated -- when they left school. Now, Sir, with regard to the starting-point of education : Seven years for country dis- tricts is too late. I feel that the honour- able member, in dictating this Bill, has had regard for children in the cities-the child- ren who are only a short distance from the schools. But surely the honourable momler can have very little familiarity with country life. Of course. Palmerston is a very thickly- populated district, though a country district : but let him go away up North, and he will find there children struggling from five to six miles in order to get to school. Mr. PIRANI .- They are provided for. Mr. MONK .- - I cannot find where there is any provision in this Bill for children who can do such long distances only during periods 