nived at the wrongdoings. The fathers and mothers of the children -- there are cases of the kind on record -- have been proved in some instances to have shared the proceeds of the in- famous way in which these young children have lived. I do pot know what good could be doue by suggesting that women should enter on this crusade for the purpose of remedying this social evil ; but I do say that if some power is given to the Protection Officer, he being a male, as is set out in the statute, then good may be ex- pected to result. Subelause (1) of clause 5 pro- vides that the Protection Officer may "ques- tion the young person as to his name, abode, parents, or guardians, and his reason for being abroad, and may in his discretion report the occurrence to the parents or guardians of the child." Again, " If the answers are not satis- factory the Protection Officer shall accompany the young person to his home and hand him over to the person in charge thereof, and report the occurrence to such person." That act, it seems to me, must be taken as a warning to the parent or guardian. When the Protection Officer reports the young person to his parent he is to be considered guilty of a first offence. and if he offends again, then the law will deal out the penalty to him. I may say that, in my opinion, the penalty is too heavy. Section 9 says,- "In every case where the Magistrate finds such young person to be not under proper con- trol, each of his parents or guardians is severally liable to a penalty not exceeding ten pounds, or https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 to imprisonment for any period not exceeding three months." I admit that when the statute says " not ex- ceeding ten pounds " the fine may be limited to 1s., but I may tell the honourable gentle- man in charge of the Bill that the presiding Magistrates or Justices look to the amount of the penalty which is the maximum in order to decide what penalty to inflict. If you find a penalty of £100 in the statute, it is absolutely impossible to get any Magistrate to fine any- thing like a small sum. They say that the Legislature has considered the offence a severe one, and that it must be met by a severe penalty, and consequently a large fine follows the conviction. Then, subclause (3) of clause 5 says, " If the young person has been previously dealt with under the last preceding subsection the Protection Officer shall forthwith take such young person to a shelter." That seems to be a good idea. It is an innovation, but I think it is the right one. It would, at any rate, have the effect of pointing out to the parents and to the children that the law has an eye upon them, and that the State intends to prevent habitual loitering at unreasonable hours. Sir, I could give heart-breaking instances to members of the House. I could introduce into this House instances of young girls -- I know of some in my own mind - who have come into the town from the country ; they have got into the Chinese dens and the opium dens ; they have got about the streets, and have gone to ruin. I cannot par- ticularise on account of the state of the Mr. Wilford stand my position. At any rate, I say 1 could give instances to members to prove that some- thing should be done to help these children from falling, for children they are. Of course, nobody outside has any idea of what is going on. I hear people saying this kind of legislation is an absurdity. A sceptic will exclaim, " I have been in the city for so-many years : I have seen nothing of all this: I cannot believe such a canker -such a sore - exists." I always reply to gentlemen who talk in that way in these terms : " Your probable beat is from your house to your office and from your office to your house ; you do not go where you can see these things." How many people, for instance, going from Lambton Quay to Cuba Street at night-time, walk by way of the reclaimed land ? How many people go into the by-ways and streets known to be of low repute ? Very few; and that is where you see these sad sights; you do not expect to see them garlanded and festooned in the light of day. They live and flourish in darkness, where there is no brightness. I know the evil exists ; I know there is a necessity for some legislation to cope with this evil. Whether this Bill will have the effect of curing the evil I do not know; it is an experiment, and, like all experiments, has to be tried before we can guarantee a success. Turning again to the question of women Protection Officers, I do not believe the women of this colony desire that they should be placed in the position of being Protection Officers or Inspectors ; I do not think they themselves have asked for it ; and I think if any ladies or women - I think they prefer to be called women-have asked the Minister to introduce the clause to allow women to go round in this way, honourable members will be much astonished. I hope the Minister, when he replies, will tell us whether he has been urged as I suggest. I do not consider women should have that power. I am one of those who never had the opportunity of voting for the female franchise, but I know the benefits of it. My constituency never re- turned a Liberal member until women had the franchise, but when the ladies in my con- stituency had a vote everything was casy. I myself believe it has been a complete success. But I do not believe for a moment they desire this power should be given them, and in Com- mittee I intend to vote for the elimination of the clause. The very hours mentioned in the Bill are, to my mind, prohibitive of women acting in this position. Again, how is the female Protection Officer to be distinguished ? Would she wear a uniform ? Would she have a badge with a number? Would she have some kind of cap with a gold rim, or how would she be distinguished ? She would be in ordi- nary dress and attire. If, then, she is in ordinary dress and attire, look at the door it would open to fraud. We know at the present time there are young girls straving about the streets with no one to look after them, and they are very often entrapped by scheming women - bad, low women. What a weapon this Bill would be in their hands if all they 