was by having an improved steam service. The matter was under the consideration of the Go- vernment, and he might say that for a long time he had not been able to see why the P. and O., the Orient, and other boats did not come down to New Zealand and make it their terminus and point of departure. Mr. HUTCHESON .- And bring their Lascar crews along with them. Mr. SEDDON said, Let them get the steamers here first ; and when they got them here he supposed the captains would prefer white men as their crews. LIQUOR-SELLING IN KING-COUNTRY. Mr. LAWRY (Parnell) asked the Govern- ment, If they will supply each member of the Legislature with fifty copies of the evidence and report presented to the House last session by the Public Petitions A to L Committee on the question of licensing the sale of alcoholie liquor in the King-country (Rohe-Potac) ? He might explain, in order to remove any misapprehen- sion that might otherwise exist in the minds of honourable members, that he referred to the evidence which was brought before the Com- mittee last session. Members would remember that last session the House was flooded with petitions on the question of licenses and no licenses in the so-called King-country. The Petitions Committee sat for two or three weeks investigating those petitions. The evidence was taken in shorthand, but, as far as he could as- certain, it had never been disseminated through the country, and he desired more particularly https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 that members should be able to send to their friends the concise, practical, logical evidence given before the Committee by one of the most able Natives in New Zealand-he referred to that highly educated, eloquent Maori gentle- man Mr. Ngata. He hoped the honourable gentleman's reply to the question would be in the affirmative. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said there were a few remaining copies of this evidence, and he would let the honourable member have fifty. If other members of the House required the balance they should let him know. It was a question whether it would pay to set up the type again and reprint the evidence, or whether after reprinting-if they did it-they would not have the matter on their hands. He would meet members' wishes as far as he could in regard to the matter. IMPERIAL TRADE ZOLLVEREIN. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihomo) asked the Premier, Whether he has, in fulfilment of his promise of last session, opened communication with the Governments of the various colonies, and also with the Secretary of State for the Colonies in England, with a view to promoting an Imperial trade zollverein ; and, if so, will he kindly inform the House what measure of suc- cess and support has attended his efforts ? This was a question that the Premier very kindly last session promised to take in hand, and it Mr. Seddon man then approved of heartily, and he desired to know to what extent success had attended the honourable gentleman's efforts. They had evidence year after year that some system such as this within the British Empire must be established if we were relatively to obtain the benefits that should acerue within a great nation. In that morning's paper there was a report that the Germans had enormously increased the tariffs upon all agricultural products imported into Germany. On frozen meat and butter they had levied a duty of 30 marks by double hundredweight, and, as a mark was equal to nearly 1s., it meant 14s. 6d. per hundredweight on frozen mutton and butter. He did not emphasize that point with regard to <!-- PageHeader="\-" --> frozen mutton particularly, because at present Germany took very little of it ; but this fact indicated the trend of legislation amongst the leading Powers of the world. They were build- ing walls against British enterprise and pro- ductions on every hand, while the people of Great Britain were extending to foreigners the same concessions that they were extending to their colonies ; and he maintained that if some system of retaliation were established, Germany would be brought to its senses ; it could not then do without us, and would be forced to conclude a system of exchange of pro- duets which would be equitable and just. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said this was 11.0. a question surrounded with difficulty, and it was not because of these difficulties that no move had been made, but it was impossible to do anything in the direction indicated until we had the Commonwealth established. The Commonwealth was now established, and they were preparing their tariff; and it might be argued probably that in introducing the matter now he was looking to New Zealand with a view to obtaining reciprocity for our products if he advocated this national zollverein. He did not think the time was opportune, and we should allow things to get into place before moving in the direction indicated. Then, there was this: We would not gain anything, nor would the British manufacturers gain, so long as foreign Governments subsidised their steamers and gave facilities for getting their products to the colonies. So long as the foreign manufac- turers paid the remuneration they did to their employés as against the payments by British traders, the fact of altering our tariff would simply be acting against our own people, and would be of no benefit to the British manufac- turers. That was the conclusion he had arrived at. And we would have to arrange that when there was a demand for a certain class of articles they should be supplied. That was the first thing to be provided. At the present time British manufacturers could not give us the goods we wanted : and when they could supply them, they could not let the colonies have the goods within the time the same were required. That was the trouble. They admitted they could not do it. Mr. T. MACKENZIE said we could give them what they wanted. 