Smith, G. J. Tellers. Mills O'Meara Monk Stevens Wilford. Morrison Tanner Napier Majority against, 20. Amendment negatived. Mr. SPEAKER .- The House has decided that the Bill shall not be now read a third time, and it has rejected both amendments for the recommittal of two clauses. The only course now is for the honourable member to ask if the House will consent to allow the third reading to be fixed for Thursday next. Mr. WILFORD .- Perhaps honourable mem- bers will consent to allow me to move it now. Mr. SPEAKER .- It cannot be read a third time no ., as the House has already refused that. I think the honourable member will have to be satisfied if the House will allow the third reading to be set down for Thursday next. Consent was given to allow the third reading to be set down accordingly. PATEA HARBOUR BILL. Mr. HASELDEN (Patea) .- In the absence of the honourable member for Hawera I have been asked to take charge of this Bill. I did not expect to have charge of a Bill so soon after taking my seat in the House, but I wish to say a few words with regard to the Patea Harbour. It is not a very large harbour, but it is a very use- ful one. A great amount of produce is sent out https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 of this particular harbour, especially now that we have so large an export of butter. An enormous quantity of butter is sent via this harbour to Wellington, and so are quantities of wool, tallow, and preserved meat. The history of the harbour is this : In 1878 the sum of $10,000 was borrowed to improve the harbour, and that was expended under supervision in accordance with plans prepared by Sir John Coode. This sum of $10,000 was very judiciously expended, and improved the harbour very considerably. Later on a further sum of $5,000 was borrowed, and of this £3,000 has been expended ; but £5,000 has also been expended out of the ordinary revenue of the harbour in improving it, showing conclusively that the harbour is returning a very large amount of revenue; and it is ex- pected that with increased facilities the revenue return will be even greater than it is now. The Bill before the House asks permission to borrow £10,000 for further expenditure. We are not asking Parliament for any assistance, except for permission to borrow money and to pay for it ourselves. The revenue will meet the whole of the interest necessary, and a little more. Be- sides, as I have stated, £5,000 has already been paid out of revenue for the improvement of the harbour. The total sum now to be ex- pended is #25,000, and the revenue derived will amount to £1,910, leaving a margin of £535 above the amount required for interest. I think I need say little more. This harbour is outside the harbour and go direct to London. I move the second reading of the Bill. Mr. SEDDON .- In seconding the proposal I do so because I know positively that the har- bour improvements are badly wanted at Patea. After what has been spent something more must be done, otherwise what has been already spent will not give that benefit residents of the district are entitled to expect. There is some- thing wanting in the Bill, and that is the plan of the proposed works. That has not been deposited with the Minister of Marine. An Hon. MEMBER. - It was put before the Local Bills Committee. Mr. SEDDON .- Did the Local Bills Com- mittee have the plan of these works before them, or the previous one? Will the honour- able member answer that question ? That is just one of the defects. It was not deposited. An Hon. MEMBER .- It was produced before the Local Bills Committee. Mr. SEDDON .- The old plan. Mr. GRAHAM .- The new general plan. Mr. SEDDON .- We shall get at it by-and-by. What I claim is that in respect to the expendi- ture of money on harbour-works we ought to have had the plans submitted. That is all I claim-that it speaks in general terms :- "The Patea Harbour Board (hereinafter re- ferred to as ' the Board "), constituted under the said Act, shall have power from time to time to borrow, in the manner and subject to the con- ditions of the said Act, upon the security of all lands vested in the Board or set aside as endow- ments, and of any works constructed or being constructed under any Acts heretofore in force, and of all other property or income of the Board, all such sums of money as may be necessary for the purpose of constructing or repairing harbour-works within the Harbour or Port of Patea." Now, the words there are "constructing or repairing " within the Patea district, or within the Harbour Board district, to the extent of £10,000. I know the works they propose to construct are necessary. I know that they are in accordance with Sir John Coode's plans, and they were subsequently reported upon and ap- proved by Mr. Thomson, who is now the har- bour engineer at Greymouth, so if there is any objection taken by the Crown as to the pro- posed works we know the lines that they intend to go on-that they are as recommended by Sir John Coode, and that they are as approved by Mr. John Thomson; consequently, the £10,000, in my opinion, is necessary, if you are to put anything there at all. But my only fear is that they would not have enough money. As to the necessity, I think we all admit that. As to the plans, of course, that is a matter that can be seen to afterwards. This last plan.and re- port, I understand, are from Mr. Reynolds. Mr. GRAHAM .- The plan for a new work was prepared by Mr. Leslie Reynolds. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, with Sir John Coode's plans, with the extension under Mr. John 