and somewhat anomalous that we should be here to-day to pass encomiums on such a man as Sir John Mckenzie. He was one of those men who write their names on the scroll of fame. Throughout the whole of New Zealand he has erected tangible and practical monu- ments to his memory. But, Sir, it is pleasant to dwell upon the virtues of a departed friend. It is pleasant and profitable too, I think, to look upon those virtues, to glance at what the man was, and to try to live up to the high standard which he set up. Sir John Mckenzie's cha- racter and his attributes were peculiar. There have been very few men who have lived in New Zealand and moved on our political stage possessing similar attributes. He had a strong mind and a strong hand. What he deemed to be right he was resolved to see car- ried out so far as in him lay. When he had a conviction he was uncompromising. There was no surrender, no compounding with evil, in order to attain his object. He was no oppor- tunist. Everybody who has had any association with the honourable gentleman will be aware of these facts. He was, as it were, our political Kitchener, and as I once before said in this Council-I wish to emphasize it now -- there is in the field of our politics as much heroism and indomitable pluck displayed as have ever been shown on the field of battle. As the people's champion, just at a very important juncture in the colony's history, Sir John Mckenzie came forward and promulgated his land policy. At the outset he was met with bitter opposition. Things were said and written of him which the utterers and writers have since regretted, because he has lived down all opposition and silenced all his enemies; and the honourable gentleman would have this consolation on his death-bed : there was nothing left but admiration for his principles and for the way in which he carried them out in the interests of the colony. More than that, there was a time in the history of our advanced Liberalism when things were just trembling in the balance. There was just a chance that the great policy which had been set up by Sir John Mckenzie might fail. Sir, there was just the possibility, indeed, that the Liberal Government might fail ; but he not only saved the cause of those who were carrying out the principles of that cause, but he raised to a high pinnacle its popularity. Sir John Mc- Kenzie's name will last as long as the principles he professed and practised will be admired ; and I do think, Sir, that the world is growing better, and that in the history of the human race we shall yet find that those principles are more and more admired as the years roll along. Sir, though unyielding, the deceased gentleman was never unjust, and beneath a rough exterior he carried a genuinely kind heart. We must all regret having lost such a man, but we should feel grateful that we ever had him amongst us. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- I should not like, as an old friend of the late Sir John Mckenzie, to let this occasion pass without availing myself of the opportunity of making some contribution to the well-merited eulogies honourable gentleman. By the sad event which has occurred I think this Council has been de- prived of services which have been very con- spicuous, and which, to my mind, would have added very much to the value of our delibera- tions. Sir, he has gone. The varied experi- ence of his public life enabled him to render effective those natural qualities which he pos- sessed in forming and guiding the policy of a new country. Brought up as a humble son of the soil, he very quickly came to the front against all opposition, and he became a great authority on all matters connected with agri- cultural life. And what evidence has he left behind him of what he has done ? Take the reform of our system of land tenure, and his land - for - settlements policy, and I think it may be said that he has left behind him almost a peaceful and unintentional revolu- tion. At any rate, I think I may say that in carrying on his work he was first of all inspired by high ideals, and his work has been done with great perseverance and with great skill, and always with a transparent honesty of pur- pose. As a private friend I have known him for many years. I have visited him and been visited by him, and I have always recognised that he had the true qualities of a good, kind, and generous friend, and I shall always appre- ciate his memory in that respect. I saw him only a week before I came up to the Council, and was pleased indeed to find that his health had made so much progress, and he then shared with me the hope that within a few weeks he would make his appearance here. But, Sir, that was not to be, and I am quite certain the Coun- cil will join with me in regretting that is not so. Sir, I take a wider view of the loss we have sus- tained by the death of the late statesman. I feel quite sure that the colony has lost one of its best servants, and that his memory will always be cherished and kept green by those who regard honesty, true patriotism, and devotion to duty as the finest attributes that can be attached to men taking part on life's stage. Motion agreed to. The Council adjourned at a quarter-past three o'clock p.m., until Tuesday, 13th August. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Wednesday, 7th August, 1901. First Reading-Death of the Dowager Empress of Germany-Death of Sir John Mckenzie. Mr. SPEAKER took the chair at half past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Sale of Preventives Prohibition Bill. DEATH OF THE DOWAGER EMPRESS OF GERMANY. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Mr. Speaker, I rise to propose the following resolution : 