But to begin where the Hon. Colonel Pitt left off, in regard to the boot trade, it is easily ·explained why Americans can send boots here and undersell the manufacturers in New Zea- land. America is a protected country, and does not allow importation of foreign boots. The boot-manufacturers have an immense home trade, and supply boots to eighty millions in America. Consequently, they produce on an enormous scale, employ first-class machinery, and to keep their machines running are willing to export at cost price. They dispose of their surplus all over the world at a low price. You can buy American boots in New Zealand at a cheaper price than the American user can ob- tain them in America. In regard to agricul- tural machinery, you can buy reapers-and- binders of American manufacture in New Zea- land cheaper than the American farmer can in America. The reason of this is because the American home trade is protected by prohi- bitive tariffs. I was in considerable doubt how to vote on certain sections in the Bill - namely, in regard to clerks in banks and warehouses - as it is very difficult to get at the truth as to whether these petitions which we have received express the real feeling of the employés, or whether they are coerced by the employers to sign the petitions. I have tried to find out from independent persons who have been em- ployed in banks at one time, but are now out of the bank, and therefore can express their minds freely, and they have told me that the petitions do express the opinions of the employés. But on the other side I have also been told by reli- able persons that the employés need protection. But then comes the question, even if they do express the opinions of the persons interested, why should the banks and warehousemen be left out altogether? Why should they not be treated like any other institution? We must recollect that we have a large interest in a bank that does half the business of the colony, with a body of employés who are practically the officers of the colony. We find the bank the capital to carry on ; we find them four millions and a half ; and therefore to all intents and purposes the bank is a colonial bank, and we are responsible for its actions. The bank officials are our officers, and it is our duty to protect them ; and therefore, balancing the opinions on both sides, I intend to vote for the Bill in regard to bank clerks and ware- houses. I see no reason to make a distinction between the employés in banks and ware- houses and other persons in the community. If any injustice is done by the passing of this Bill we shall hear of it next session. The Bill has been introduced in this Chamber, and has to go to another place to be revised. We initiate these great Bills, and, instead of this being the revising Chamber, in this instance the representatives of the people will have to revise our work, and if we have done an in- justice they will have an opportunity to put it right. I therefore state that I will vote for the Bill as a whole. I see no reason whatever for departing from the general principle. very much astonished to think that one or two new provisions in this Bill should have emptied so many vials of wrath upon my head. After all, we must admit that the Bill has not only passed this Chamber on two previous occasions, but that it is absolutely the law as it stands at the present time, with one or two exceptions. The strange thing is this : that the inclusion of these different occupations were inserted in the Bill by the operation of our own Labour Bills Committee. Members of that Committee will know that the original Bill did not include some of these provisions. For instance, it did not include the provision as to overtime. That was inserted by the Labour Bills Committee last year. An Hon. MEMBER .- How many were at the meeting ? The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I do not remember, but there were enough to show an intelligent interest in the Bill. Then, in the same way, this Bill is the same Bill that was brought down two years ago, only with certain suggestions accepted from our own Labour Bills Committee. Of course, honourable gentlemen may endeavour to throw out those suggestions, but they must admit that the Labour Bills Committee takes a very painstaking and intel- ligent interest in all these questions. They have done a great deal to claim not only re- spect at the hands of the Council for the work they have done in the past, but they have also won the esteem of the public at large, because I find that the public at large is more inclined to lay a case, or any hardship in proposed legisla- tion, before the Labour Bills Committee of this Chamber than they are to lay it before the Labour Bills Committee of another place. And that is accounted for by the care and the time the Labour Bills Committee of this Chamber devote to a subject. I do not think it is right, therefore, to endeavour to minimise the work that that Committee does, or to say that because they have inserted a clause in the Bill that has been before them that clause should not be carefully considered and approached with a certain amount of re- spect. That is all I wish to contend for. I wish to point out that when this Bill was first before us two years ago it did not contain some of the clauses that are now most strongly ob- jected to. I must say, too, it is very refresh- ing to hear an old warhorse on the warpath again. It was pleasing to notice that the Hon. Mr. McLean, when he gets the chance, can still take his preliminary canter and bring out the old stock arguments against any kind of labour legislation. Sir, it did us all good, and we are glad to know that he is able still to think that there is either sound or sense in the old stock argument which he has used so often. Of course, he has been encouraged to a certain extent, because he finds certain clauses in this Bill to which there is a certain amount of opposition ; but he must not delude himself into believing that the Council as a whole is going to stultify all its legislation of the past ten years, or into thinking that 