City of a young colony with its whole future before it; the port of this colony that is des- tined in the near future to become the Liver- pool of New Zealand ; and the total area within the city boundaries for all purposes at the pre- . sent time is not much over a thousand acres. Now, it must be perfectly obvious to the most casual observer in the city that there is no room for the ordinary extension even of business pre- mises that will be necessary in the growth of tho city in the next twenty-five years. The meaning of the proposals in this Bill is first to provide adequate recreation grounds for the people, and also a proposal, almost of equal importance-in fact, of greater importance-to secure an area of 1.100 acres-in addition to this 400 acres of recreation-ground-to provide for the future ex- pansion of the City of Wellington. Now, I ask those members of the House who are concerned in the question of the housing of the poor, whether every day there is not fresh evidence of the encroachment of business premises on the localities formerly exclusively devoted voted to workmen's residences ? Now, what is to become of a city like Wellington, confined as it is by the everlasting hills, with an area of something like a little over a thousand acres, how are we to provide for future expansion unless by choosing the line of least resistance, and pur- chasing that beautiful area of flat land, with its surrounding low hills - a total area of some fifteen hundred acres-known as Miramar. That is the proposal that has been denounced as a hole-and- corner scheme; and many other unhandsome https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 things have been said about it. The Minister asked me if there was not a deed of contract. There is a deed of contract, and the Minister knows it, and has seen it. http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero Mr. HALL-JONES .-. Seen one clause. Mr. HUTCHESON. - I want to be perfectly just to the honourable gentleman. He just got a glance at it, and, although he has seen the instrument, he is not conversant with all its contents. But he has handled it, and he has also seen, and has now in his possession, a clause which was drafted at my instance by the City Solicitor in order to remove what were reasonable and honest doubts on the part of the honourable gentleman, that the Bill did not really provide for the absolute necessity of taking the people of Wellington into the fullest confidence of the City Council. Now, this is the clause that I suggested the honourable gentleman might permit me to put in the Bill in Committee : Instead of the words " Subject to the provisions of section five hereof," intro- duced at the beginning of clause 3, to insert the following words at the end of clause 5 :- " This Act shall not be deemed to authorise the Corporation to purchase or take the said land unless either a special loan shall have been first authorised under this section to pro- vide the purchase-money or estimated compen- sation, or an epitome of the leading provisions of the contract for purchase shall have been submitted to a poll of the burgesses or rate- pavers of the city, and shall have been approved of by a majority of the votes cast : Provided, however, that a full copy of any contract for purchase and a tracing of every plan drawn thereon or annexed thereto shall be deposited at the City Council Office, and shall there lie open to public inspection for at least seven days before the taking of the poll." The Wellington City Corporation have, under provisional memorandum of contract and deed of agreement, a right to purchase this estate of 1,500 acres for two months after the rising of this present session of Parliament. $75,000 is the sum agreed upon between the parties. There is a mortgage of $10,000 on the land at present, and the condition of the deed of con- tract-the main condition-is that the City Corporation discharge or take over the liability of this #10,000 on mortgage, and pay on the balance of the purchase-money 23 per cent. per annum. There will be a saving to the citizens of Wellington of at least 11 or 2 per cent. on the whole of the purchase-money. As was sug- gested by Mr. Speaker in giving his reasons for voting against the adjournment of this Bill, there is ample time after the second reading of the Bill to learn the fullest information on the subject, and I am willing to take every member of this House into the fullest confidence, and to let him see from start to finish every agreement, provision, and undertaking between the parties. There is absolutely nothing to hide ; but it will be ponderous and impracticable to put any such deed of agreement into an Act of Parliament when the only bearing it possibly could have on the subject only concerns the citizens of Wel- lington in casting their votes for or against it, or for or against the alternative proposal of a loan. Mr. HALL-JONES .- It was not suggested that the contract should go in the Bill. Mr. HUTCHESON. - I understood the honourable gentleman to say, "Why not lay the contract on the table, and get it printed and put in the Bill ?" Now, I can assure the honour- able gentleman I have not had time to study fully this deed of contract ; but it is only an alternative, and has been drafted and agreed to by the most popular City Council that has ever sat on the municipal benches, if we are to draw any deduction from the result of the recent elections. Just three or four days before the last general municipal election the Mayor and Councillors, the great majority of whom are now back in their seats in the Council, submitted proposals to the City of Wellington which in- volved raising loans for expenditure amounting in the aggregate to $330,000. For electric tram- ways there are £225,000; for the erection of a Town Hall, $50,000 ; for the blocking of certain of our principal streets, so as to remove from Wellington the stigma of having badly paved streets, $55,000-that is, for blocking on the most modern system the arterial streets of Wellington from one end to the other. And yet those gentlemen who oppose great reforms, and stand up in their place as iconoclasts, to smash up that which they had no hand in building, declare against the wicked, the profligate, proposal to spend £55,000 to remedy that which they declaim against. They want us to make bricks without straw. Now, I think 