in clause 9 to be so amended as to form part of clause 8, and also the amendments made in such section to be approved. New subclause (7) to be approved. The amendments made in clauses 12 and 13 agreed to, and the inser- tion of a new clause 14 to be agreed to. On the question, That the amendments made in subsection (3) of clause 6 be agreed to, Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) said that it appeared to him that the time in subsection (3) of clause 6 was too indefinite. He did not think they would do right unless they insisted upon a speedy determination as to purchasing or not. Under the Bill there was a date fixed for the commencement of official negotiations, and surely three months after that the Govern- ment ought to know whether they were going to proceed with the purchase or not. It was not right to keep this sword of Damocles over the heads of the owners of land indefinitely. Mr. SEDDON said they had six months' notice. Captain RUSSELL said it seemed a very hard case. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said it seemed to him the alteration was necessary, because as it was the matter might be hung up for several years. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) agreed with the last speaker. When the Bill was before Committee he expressed the opinion that the period of twelve months was too long, but this was worse, because it provided for an indefinite period, or, at all events, until the Governor determined not to proceed with the purchase of the land, and that might be years after the negotiations commenced. The clauses were put seriatim, and all the amendments made agreed to, except those made in subclause (3) of clause 6, and the addition of a new subsection (3) to clause 8, which were disagreed to. Mr. SEDDON moved, That a message be sent to the Legislative Council setting out the clauses disagreed to. Motion agreed to. THE GOVERNMENT ADVANCES TO SETTLERS EXTENSION BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 2 .- " In addition to the loans autho- rised to be raised under Part II. of the principal Act, it shall be lawful for the Governor in Council to raise under and for the purposes of that Act any sum or sums not exceeding in the aggregate the sum of two million pounds : "Provided that not more than one million pounds (inclusive of any portion of the loan authorised to be raised by the principal Act and which has not yet been raised) shall be raised in any financial year." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, That "two million " be struck out, with the view of in- serting " one million " in lieu thereof. Motion to strike out words "two million" agreed to. " one million." Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) moved to insert " five hundred thousand." The Committee divided on the question, "That ' five hundred thousand ' be inserted." AYES, 14. Allen, J. Russell, W. R. Lang Thomson, J. W. Lethbridge Atkinson Bollard Monk Tellers. Herries Rhodes Hardy Russell, G. W. Massey. Haselden NOES, 43. Allen, E. G. Gilfedder Palmer Graham Arnold Parata Hall Barclay Seddon Hall-Jones Bennet Stevens Buddo Steward Heke Hornsby Symes Carncross Houston Carroll Tanner Collins Kaihau Thompson, R. Colvin Ward Laurenson Duncan Wilford Lawry Ell Willis. McGowan Field Mckenzie, R. Meredith Fisher Tellers. Fowlds Flatman Mills Fraser, A. L. D. O'Meara Hogg. PAIRS. Against. For. Hutcheson Smith, J. G. McGuire Smith, E. M. Mackenzie, T. McLachlan Pirani. Napier. Majority against, 29. Amendment negatived, and words " one mil- lion " inserted. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to strike out the proviso. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) moved to strike out "one million " from the proviso, with the view of inserting "five hundred thou- sand." The Committee divided on the question, "That the words down to 'one million' be retained." AYES, 14. Russell, W. R. Allen, J. Lang Lethbridge Thomson, J. W. Atkinson Bollard Tellers. Massey Hardy Herries Monk Haselden Russell, G. W. Rhodes NOES, 42. Field Allen, E. G. Houston Arnold Fisher Kaihau Barclay Flatman Laurenson Bennet Lawry Fowlds Buddo Gilfedder McGowan Mckenzie, R. Carncross Graham Carroll Mills Hall Collins Hall-Jones O'Meara Heke Colvin Parata Duncan Seddon Hogg Ell Stevens Hornsby 