which occurred before the Public Accounts Committee last year. Evidence was then given that the B .- 1 paper would be ready to print in the middle of June, and the Govern- ment Printer said if he were given a fortnight from that he could have it ready to lay on the table. That was what I had in my mind ; and I say this : that the cause might be the large amount of printing owing to these Royal Commissions, which are neither of use nor ornament, and which have been to a great extent blocking the printing-office; but, so far as the Treasury is concerned, the evidence given by their officers to the Committee was that it was possible to have the B .- 1 statement ready long before the present time. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I can only say, in answer to inquiries as to when the B .- 1 paper will be available, that when I made inquiries with a view to placing information before the House I was informed that it was an impossi- bility, and therefore, I say, what is the use of my allowing honourable members to believe that I can get done that which cannot be done ? It is quite true that on the occasion mentioned by the honourable member, and on . a previous year, the B .- 1 statement was ready. I say now that the circumstances are entirely exceptional this year, and both the Government and members must wait. We were for a month before the House met, as members are aware, away from the public business, and I think myself and my colleagues ought to have some credit for the manner in which the business of the country has been placed before the House as it has been this session. I shall give the B .- 1 statement as soon as possible, but I do not think I can possibly have it ready for this debate. I am quite prepared to furnish all the papers that are necessary in order that members may understand the finances of the colony and be able to debate the Budget intelligently. Motion agreed to, and progress reported. The House adjourned at twenty-five minutes to eleven o'clock p.m. LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Tuesday, 20th August, 1901. Bicyclists in Parliament Grounds - Presbyterian Church of New Zealand Bill-Land for Settle- ments Act-Shops and Offices Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock p.m. PRAYERS. BICYCLISTS IN PARLIAMENT GROUNDS. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND wished to ask the Hon. the Speaker, If it was possible to take any steps to prevent cyclists passing through Parlia- ment Ground at a fast pace. When he was en- tering the ground that afternoon by the Museum Street entrance, a cyclist ran into him and knocked him down, with the result that his leg cyclist went head-over-heels on to the road. He thought some steps should be taken to prevent such a nuisance existing on the premises. Some by-law should be passed or some order should be given that cyclists were not to go through the premises at a fast pace. The cyclist of whom he complained was going at a fast rate and knocked him down, and went himself right into the middle of the road. The Hon. the SPEAKER said he would in- quire into the matter, and see what steps could be taken. # PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH OF NEW ZEALAND BILL. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- Sir, this is a Bill that is necessary on account of the union of the Presbyterlan Churches of New Zealand. It is their unanimous wish that the Presby- terian Church of Otago should retain the management of the property they now hold. I would like to tell members that this property has been administered in the past without any reproach to any one, it has been well conducted, and part of the property maintains three chairs in the Otago University. It would be impos- sible for them to put that property into the Union, and it has therefore been unanimously agreed that they shall administer the property in the future as they have done in the past. There is no opposition to the Bill-it is a private measure-and I shall be very glad to give to members any other explanation that it may be in my power to give. I move the second read- ing of the Bill. Bill read the second time. LAND FOR SETTLEMENTS ACT. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND moved, That there be laid on the table of the Council a return showing,-(1.) All land purchased under autho- rity of " The Land for Settlements Act, 1894," and handed over to the Lands Department, giving the acreage of each block, and the cost, including all expenses in acquiring the same. (2.) How such lands have been disposed of, giving a separate return for each block, such return to show how the lands have been classi- fied-that is to say, if a block has been divided into several classes the return shall give the acreage classed as agricultural land, second- class land, third-class land ; also, the acreage devoted to providing homes for workmen in the vicinity of cities or towns ; the acreage disposed of as small grazing-runs, the number of sec- tions into which each block has been divided, the acreage of the sections, and the rentals ; also, a return of advances made to settlers in each block under the authority of the Land for Settlements Act. The return to show the cost to the colony of each block, including surveys, roading, and all expenses to date of disposal, and the gross rental at which such blocks have been disposed of. Wher. he gave notice of this motion some weeks ago the Land for Settlements Amendment Bill was in another place, and he had hoped the information he wanted before the Bill reached 