great many people whose political creed may be summed up in the words, " Tax the land ; in- crease the land-tax," but I venture to say that, given the opportunity. these people could not make a living out of the land to save their immortal souls. The member for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell), when speaking on this Bill, told us, as an argument in favour of passing it, that one effect of it would be to compel people to ; ceeded to drain the land thoroughly and erect build and to fill up the vacant allotments ; but the honourable gentleman forgets that in every large city, not only in Wellington and Christ. church, but in every large city in the world, there are only a certain number of people re- quiring to be housed ; but, after the demand has been supplied, he did not say what was to be done with the houses which are not wanted. Mr. ELL. I never said that. Mr. MASSEY. . I may not be giving the exact words, but I understood that is what the honourable gentleman meant. He also quoted figures to show that certain people will have to prv more than they do now, and those figures were rather convincing at the time ; but we discovered afterwards that they were only esti- mates of the honourable member's own calcula- tion. Mr. ELL. - On a correct basis. Mr. MASSEY. - That remains to be seen. There is no doubt in my own mind that if this Bill becomes law, the effect in the country districts will be that a wealthy man, who has a certain amount of capital at his disposal, and who is, consequently, able to go in for extensive improvements on his land, will pay less than he pays now ; while the comparatively poor man, who is not so well able to improve his section, would pay http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero more than he pays now. Take the case of two : coaching firm, who use the roads more than all settlers occupying, sav, 250 acres each, which is about an average farm. The one is a fairly well- to-do man, a man who has got into a good posi- tion, who has brought his land into a high state of cultivation, and who is in every sense of the word a well-to-do settler. The other man is perhaps a comparatively new settler, with most of his land unimproved, and finds a good deal of di heulty in making two ends meet, but who probably looks forward to better times in the future ; yet, according to this Bill, these two men will have to pay exactly the same amount of local taxation. I say the proposal is unfair. Then, what is the position in the suburbs of the large cities? On one section, perhaps a five-acre or ten acre section, you will see the handsome residence of a wealthy man, with, perhaps, grounds beautifully laid out, substantial outbuildings, everything in first- class order; and adjoining this section you will see on another section, of exactly the Same area and unimproved value, the cottage of the mechanic or artisan employed in the city, with perhaps a vegetable garden and other improvements consistent with the means of the owner. Again, on the adjoining section you will probably see a market garden, and very likaly occupied not by the owner, but by a Mr. Massey Bill, these three men will pay exactly the same amount of local taxation. I will now give an instance which came under my notice not very ! long ago. Not very far from where I live, two or three years ago a man who owned a forty- ---- - acre paddock made up his mind to sell it in two 'sections. One section was purchased by a man apparently of considerable wealth, who pro- a handsome residence, with substantial out- buildings, and went on to beautify the grounds generally. The adjoining section was pur- chased by a widow, who manages to make a living from it by keeping a few cows and fowls, and working as only small farmers have to work. Here are two cases which this Bill will apply to; and these two people will. under the Bill, pay exactly the same amount of local taxation. And, Sir, I say again, that the proposal is unjust and absurd. Here is another instance: In the Auckland Provincial District there is a township which was laid out as a military settlement many years ago. Military settlers were placed there, and each of them was given a quarter-acre section in the township for residential purposes. Many of the buildings are there to this day. As time went on, and population increased, some of these sections { changed hands, and are now occupied as busi- ness premises. One of the sections is occupied as the headquarters of a coaching firm. They have a very extensive plant, and a large number of horses. The other sections are mostly occu- pied by working men who are employed on cer- tain industries in the neighbourhood. The point I am coming to is this : that each of these working-men on the quarter-acre sections will pay just as much in local rates and taxes as the the rest of the people in the township put to- gether. There is the fact, and there is no get- ting away from it. Another instance was quoted in this House by Sir Robert Stout -then member for Wellington City-when he was speaking on a similar Bill some years ago. He said : - " Let us take two men- we will suppose, two miners. They have gone into mining, and we will suppose they have sold out their claims to a wealthy syndicate and are now wealthy. They have got, we shall say, $2,000 or $3,000) each, say, £3,000. The one man buys, we shall say, two thousand pounds' worth of land. He puts £1,000 in improvements. He has got two thousand pounds' worth of land. He has got to pay taxation on this two thousand pounds' worth of land. He pays it, first, to the colony, subject to the $500 exemption ; he pays on $1,500 to the colony his 1d. in the pound. Then, in municipal rates, he will have to pay 2d. or 3d. in the pound. In some cases, as much as 5d. in the pound will be paid in municipal taxa tion on the value of the land if this Bill be- comes law. Suppose he only pays 3d. in the pound in municipal rates : he is paying 4d. in the pound in municipal and colonial rates. That is what the one man pays. The other 