the natural thing is to say that our efforts in this direction ought to be confined to moral suasion, and we fully recognise the efforts that are made by women's societies, by the Salvation Army, and by other organizations that try to remove the children from our streets. But we all know they have not succeeded. It is a pain- ful statement to make, but we all know they have not succeeded. The member for Welling- ton Suburbs has drawn a picture, and painted it in very dark colours indeed, of what goes on, and I do not think he has overstated it. The reply of the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) is this: that certain cases have come before the Criminal Courts and that these cases were not successful so far as proving the guilt of the persons charged. That, Sir, is not the gravamen of the remarks made by the member for Wellington Suburbs. The member for Wellington Suburbs was deal- ing with the general question of immoral con- duct as distinguished from criminal conduct : and I believe that that is the correct position to take up. Now, I regretted very much to hear the remarks made by the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) in regard to the influence of certain ladies in this city. I believe that those ladies are actuated by the highest humanitarian and philanthropie motives, and that they endeavour to raise public opinion on this subject. Let us take the quota- tions which he read from the evidence of In- spector Pender, and from the evidence of the Rev. James Paterson. In his evidence, Mr. Paterson made one remark - I do not know whether the honourable member intended to read it, though I will do him the credit of saying he read it deliberately -to the effect that the tendency of the Bill would be to require these young people to go home early in the evening. I under- stand that that remark from the witness the member for Wellington City put into the box, when he was delivering his speech just now, was a clear proof in the Rev. Mr. Paterson's mind that there is a necessity for some such Bill as this measure which is now before the House. And yet, while saying this regarding the Bill, I cannot help thinking it goes too far. My impression is that it would be better if we were to start legislation on this subject by having in cities-cities that should be proclaimed by the Governor by Order in Council-the ringing of the curfew bell at nine o'clock at night. An Hon. MEMBER. - For everybody ? Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- No; I do not say for everybody. Will the honourable gentleman allow me to finish ? If at a certain hour every night a signal were given, by a bell or in some other way, that all young persons under the age of fifteen or sixteen years had to repair to their homes, and the responsibility were then laid on the police- for I would have no one but the man in uniform to administer the Act, or some other person in uniform-to warn any young person of the apparent age of under fifteen or sixteen years that they must at once proceed to their homes, it might be found that Mr. G. W. Russell be given a trial for a year, and if it did not succeed, or help to lessen the social cancer that undoubtedly exists, then let the House take the further step that is proposed in this Bill. Mr. FISHER .- Ring a bell for the fathers and mothers too. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .-- I have known some fathers who would not go home if you rang twenty bells. A great deal depends upon the fathers and mothers. I am speaking now with regard to young people, and I say no one, un- fortunately, who goes about our streets - especially in some of the more secluded por- tions-can fail to see on every hand evidence that some such proposal as underlies this Bill is absolutely necessary. I shall support the second reading of the Bill, because I believe it makes an attempt to reach what is undoubtedly, as I have said, a running sore upon the beds politic. In passing it I believe the House will be not publishing the shame of the colony, but taking some practical step towards preventing what will be a disastrous and sorrowful state of things in future years. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- I listened with a great deal of interest to the speech delivered by the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), and I cannot say I felt at all con- vinced by his arguments. I was rather asto- nished that he made the speech he did, holding in his hand, as I knew he did, the report of the Young Persons Protection Bill Committee in 1897. I followed him when he was reading from that report, and I carefully noted that he picked out the passages which suited his own argument, and left out those which dealt with the position from another point of view. Mr. FISHER .- One usually does so. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I generally read both sides. Nevertheless, in quoting the evidence of the Rev. Mr. Paterson, by mistake he went on too far, and got into a sentence he did not mean to read : " I think the Bill will serve a good pur- pose in checking the young people going on the public street in the evening." Of course this is the pith of his evidence, no matter what he said in regard to other things. In Inspector Pender's evidence the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) picked out the evidence which dealt with the question practically from his point of view, but did not give the material evidence given by Mr. Pender. I am aware that the honourable gentleman was doing what he naturally would do-attempting to protect his own city from any aspersions that might have been cast, in the course of the debate or pre- viously, on the morality of his own particular place ; and it is quite right that he should. And I do not want to say that Wellington. or any other city, is more immoral than any other large city in any other country : but to ignore altogether the evidence we have had not only exposed in the Courts but also given before that Committee would be wrong. nor should we be doing our duty as legislator- if we did not attempt to at any rate view the question as placed before us publicly, but more The particularly by the evidence in 1897. 