that are available, and those who are left will then get a section each. But let us :suppose there are one hundred applicants for .some ten sections. The process of balloting down would not necessarily eliminate the speculators who desire to get sections in order that they might sell again at a profit, as has been done over and over again. The principle of balloting down might, indeed, have the effect of shutting out all the legitimate appli- cants, and leaving nobody but the speculators, who would, of course, get the land. There is only one expedient which I think might put a check on speculation in regard to these sections, and that is the steadfast refusal to allow any transfers. Unfortunately, my eyesight has been so bad recently that I have not been able to read, and I am therefore not so well posted up in the measure as I would like to be. An amended Amendment Bill is a thing one cannot understand when read to him; one must read it himself and compare notes. It seems to me, however, that it would be best to say that there shall be no transfers, and that if any settler desires to abandon his section it should go back to the Government and be dealt with afresh. I know it is hard to detect dummyism ; but if I had my way I would take care that the man who was detected in dummyism should be severely dealt with. He should be dealt with by imprisonment, without the option of a fine. That, I think, would put a stop to dummyism. But I have https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 no doubt that this measure is an honest attempt to get over difficulties which have been detected in the working of the land-settlement system in the past, and, as it seems to be the best possible suggestion we can get at the present moment, I shall give it my support. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI .- Sir, my friend is wrong in the remarks he has made with regard to dummyism. Clause 10 says,- "Every applicant who obtains an allotment under this Act shall reside continuously there- on." And clause 11 says,- "It shall not be lawful for a lessee under this Act to transfer the land comprised in the lease within the period of five years from the date of such lease." I think that is quite enough protection. There will be no dummyism after those clauses are passed, because if a man has to pay five years' rent, and has to reside on his land and improve it, it is not easy to act as a dummy. Taking the Bill as a whole, I agree with the Hon. Mr. Bowen that it proposes to give the Minister rather too much power, and that it would have been better if the acquirement of these freeholds were laid before both Houses of Parliament before being carried into effect, so that members of both Houses might decide the matter. I think it is stretching the point too far to leave unlimited power in the hands of one individual. I must say I believe the present honourable gentleman who occupies the posi tion of Minister of Lands is thoroughly honest. I have known him for many years, and it is my belief that he would not do anything that was possible, however, that a person may have a feeling against an individual, and that he might exercise that feeling to the disadvantage of the person from whom he takes land. I therefore think that that power should not be given into the hands of one individual. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- Sir, I cannot understand that a Minister of the Crown would have a vindictive feeling against any one who may apply for an allotment of land under the Land for Settlements Act. I think it is ridicu- lous to suppose that such might be the case. Any man who would be called on to fill such an honourable position would scorn such an act. When his judgment was called into operation he would act to the best of his ability in deal- ing with matters of this importance. I have looked carefully through this Bill-it was before the Waste Lands Committee-and I find that it deals with a most difficult subject. The policy of the land-laws with regard to taking land compulsorily has been settled for years back, and there is no occasion to go into that ques- tion now. The occasion for the Land for Settlements Act was, in the first instance, to supplement the Land Act of 1892. Under that Act, which dealt with Crown lands, there are any amount of provisions to deal with the settlement of the people on the land ; but it was soon found by those in authority that something was required in addition to that Act. In some districts, where there were no Crown lands, or where they were locked up, it was necessary, if possible, to buy land from private owners for the young people who were growing up, and who could not possibly get land in their own district. The intention of that Act was really to provide land for the landless. There is a great distinction be- tween this Act and the Land Act of 1892, but people generally do not carry in their minds the difference that exists between the two Acts. This Bill and the principal Act provides that land shall be purchased by the Land Commis- sioners. When it is purchased and cut up and offered for sale it passes over to the Waste Lands Board to administer, and they adminis- ter it under the provisions of the Act of 1892 and under the provisions of this Bill. It is difficult for any person who is not accustomed to these matters to fairly grasp the position. One must also read the Act of 1892 and the amending Act, and the regulations made by the Governor in Council. This amending Bill really does not alter the position very much. It is an attempt to give fair-play to all the parties concerned, and gives the Boards very large powers-unnecessarily large-the object being to give the landless an opportunity of getting land. A good settler, who is a holder of land, may apply for these lands, and another may apply who has no land at all. The Board, under this Bill, may decide that the man who has no land shall have the first chance, and I say that to do that fairly and well is a most difficult thing. Of course, when you once depart from the principle of selling land by public auction you get into all sorts of diffi- culties, and I myself know, as a member of 