attention of members of the House. A question that involves so much expenditure and that necessitates the collecting of so much revenue is one that should certainly engage our serious attention, so that we may see if we cannot devise some means to check the further growth, and to do something in the direction of reducing the great public debt which now rests on the tax- payers of the colony. Mr. R. THOMPSON .- How will you do it ? Mr. ELL .- The member for Marsden wants to know how we are to reduce it. Well, the best way to reduce it is to endeavour to pay some of it off, and to check the further in- crease we should borrow less from the foreign bondholder. Then, Sir, there is a matter that has on various occasions in years past engaged the attention of the House-I refer to the question of the currency. Hon. MEMBERS .- Oh! Mr. ELL .- It is a matter that seems to excite some of the members of this House. Whenever any one mentions the currency it brings a smile on their faces, and directly any one mentions the word "currency " the ex- pression comes from the lips of members, "Oh, you only want a bale of paper and a printing-press." I have been charged by cer- tain honourable members, who have not taken the trouble to listen to what I have said but have simply jumped at conclusions, that I have been advocating the purchase by the State of a bale of paper and a printing- press, and rolling off notes for distribution https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 amongst the people. I have suggested nothing of the sort, but what I have suggested is that the State should adopt the same methods of creating credit as banks have adopted. Now, Sir, with regard to the State controlling the currency, I desire to say that, prior to the year 1666, the State had absolute control of the cur- rency, and issued all the currency to the people A clause was then inserted in one of the laws giving private people the power of taking their gold to the Mint for the purpose of having it minted, and from that date up to the present time the currency has practically been under the control of the banking institutions of the English-speaking world. Now, how have they used that power? It has been said that the State is not a proper authority to have absolute control of the currency, and that, if the State were to get this. terrible disas- ters would result. If honourable members will refer to " The History of Monetary Systems," by Alexander Delmar, who is regarded as one of the greatest authorities on currency and on banking, they will see in Appendix B a list of suspensions and failures of banks covering eight or nine pages of closely printed matter- of failures that have occurred since the esta- blishment of private coinage, and since private control of the currency was allowed. Now, we have instances on record, not only in the Old Country, where the State has frequently had to come to the assistance of banks to enable them to carry on their functions to prevent disasters taking place, but in Australia also Mr. El of the banks. We know the history of our own colouy in the case of the Bank of New Zealand ; and also the savings-bank at Auckland, which There is on record a reso- there was a run on. lution of the directors of that bank. Mr. MASSEY .- It was not the Post-Office Savings-Bank. Mr. ELL .- No; it was a private savings- bank ; and we find that the directors thanked the Government for coming to their assistance in helping to tide them over a difficult period. I am sorry that the honourable member for Wakatipu is not in his place, for he has stated that the banks cannot create credit. I am now about to quote from McLeod on " Banking." He is a recognised authority on the customs of bankers. On page 128 of the first volume he says,- " He reaps exactly the same profit by creating a credit in favour of his customer as if he gave him the actual cash,"-he is now referring to what a banker may do in his banking parlour, whether to a State, a Municipality, or a mer- chant-"and the cheques drawn against these credits so created by the banker circulate commodities exactly in the same manner as bank-notes do, which circulate commodities exactly in the same manner that gold and sliver money does. Consequently, these credits so created by the banker are currency or circu- lating medium. From this it manifestly fol- lows that banking credit is banking capital." We have the testimony from Delmar showing the injuries that have resulted from handing over the control of the currency to private bankers, and we have the authority of one of the greatest writers and authorities that the bankers can create credit, and that they do so. Now, what does McLeod say ? On page 136 he says, with regard to the benefits that have re- sulted from creating credit by bankers,- "Now, suppose a farmer is known to be active, skilful, and industrious, and obtains a farm upon lease, which is capable of great im- provement. He goes to the bank. and, upon the security of his lease and some friends. who become bound for him, the bank grants him a cash credit. With this advance-pure credit- he reclaims the land, employs the people, reaps the harvest, and, when that is gathered. pays back the loan. It was in this manner that that prodigious progress in agriculture was made in Scotland. There were immense quantities of reclaimable land and abundance of unemployed people, but no capital or money to set their industry in motion. Seeing this state of matters, the Edinburgh banks opened branches in numerous parts of the country, and sent down boxes full of one - pound notes, and granted cash credits to the farmers. The farmers made their purchases and paid wages with them ; and the enormous tracts of barren land were changed into fertile cornfields. Now, these one-pound notes were not a substitute for any specie : they did not supersede or displace any previously existing money ; they were a pure addition to the existing money ; and, see- ing all this, what are we to say of the doctrines 