fact stares us in the face, and when we also have the encouraging fact that the banks of the colony have now lying at credit and at fixed deposit a sum of seventeen millions sterling, and that the Post-Office Savings-Bank has deposits of over six millions sterling, many of the sums bringing in not more than 2 per cent., I think we might with reason expect to raise money within our own borders in a very simple way indeed. The Government could easily take on themselves the duty and the re- sponsibility of issuing State notes. I know with what a howl of derision this proposal will be received by the average Conservative. The old story of the printing-press and the bale of paper will be thrown at us again ; but, Sir, this will not do away with the fact that the proposal would be a success, by which money would be saved to the country. We would on future moneys raised save the interest we have now to pay annually - interest that is increasing from year to year. Sir, at present there are notes to the value of $1,400,000 cir- culating throughout New Zealand, and I believe the Government could easily have at least two million notes in circulation. We could have behind that circulation a gold reserve equal to one-sixth of that note issue ; and if we did this we would have our loans issued on a gold reserve, which some people insist so strongly on. But, Sir, I think we would not require the gold reserve. All we would require would be to have the State behind our note issue. These notes https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 would be legal tender for paying our taxes, Customs duty, and for paying all the Government charges we are paying every week ; and with such prospects I ask if it is not time the Government / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero cast about them and realised that. instead of going to the London market. hat in hand, to borrow money, we should raise it within our own borders in a more rational manner than we have hitherto been doing. At one time New Zealand was a country that was undeveloped and struggling, but every year the wealth of the population is increasing in an extraordinary degree, and, that being the position, it is surely not unreasonable that we should begin to press on the Government the necessity of facing the advisability of raising our loans by note issue, and also by raising them, with the Government State security behind them. from our own people. I do not wish to say any more on the subject. Members have already listened to a number of speeches of half-an-hour's duration- speeches the thought in which could have been easily expressed in five minutes ; and, that being so. I will not at this late, or, rather, early hour further detain the House. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- Sir, the last speaker commenced his remarks by saying he intended to support the Bill : but I think nearly the whole of his arguments were against it. He said he was opposed to borrowing ; at all events, that he was opposed to going on the London market for money, and that is exactly what is proposed in this Bill. The measure we are now considering gives the Colonial Treasurer authority to go on the London market for a loan of | The Treasurer has made it known that he will a million. In one respect I propose to imitate the honourable member. I know that honour- able members are tired, and I do not wish to keep the House long. We have had a great many sets of figures submitted to the House in connection with the Bill. One set was sub- mitted by the Colonial Treasurer, another by the Minister in charge of the department, an- other by the department itself, and still an- other by the Minister for Railways, who spoke the other night in Committee. At any rate, I think we got the right set of figures to night from the Colonial Treasurer. He commenced his speech by admitting that on the 31st March last the Advances to Settlers Department had $760,000 in the way of unraised capital ; but against that there were issued by way of short-dated debentures £140,000, thus leaving £620,000. Then, again, on short-dated de- bentures there was issued $90,000 against the ¥620,000, leaving £530,000 on the 31st March. That was the position as stated by the Trea- surer. We have been lending money at the rate of something like $500,000 per annumn. Last year the amount advanced was $539 .: 30. Supposing that next year we require for lending purposes $550,000, which is more than we have ever required in one year -we had in repayments last year $155,000. Suppose that next year we have in repayments #150,000 : we deduct that $150,000 from the $550,000, and the net amount required for the current year will be $400,000. The Treasurer admitted that the amount on the 31st March last was £530,000, so that, according to my estimate-and I believe I am correct, because I followed the Treasurer's figures care- fully -- there will be in the possession of the department on the 31st March. 1962. $130,000. That will be the position. Yet the Premier comes down to the House and tells us that he wants a million of money. It seems to me that the Treasurer is a sort of political Oliver Twist - the more we give him the more he wants. Now, I will leave figures. I do not believe in the system under which advances are at present made to settlers, but under the circumstances I am willing to sup- port a Bill to borrow half a million of money for the purpose of the Advances to Settlers Department. In saying that, I may repeat what I said in Committee on the bill : I think that, instead of going to London to borrow money to re-lend to settlers, we should make available the money we have in the lending departments of the Government -- that is to say, that arrangements should be made by which the moneys of the Post-Office Savings-Bank, the Public Trust Department, and the Govern- mont Insurance Department should be advanced to settlers directly or indirectly at a fair rate of interest, instead of going outside the colony to borrow. I am sure that would be better both for depositors in the Post-Office Savings-Bank, and also for those who require borrowed capital. It is quite evident to me that if the Government continue to pursue the present system the effect will be to make money dearer, because they are mopping up all the money available. 