-those gasworks have been paying rates to the Borough of Sydenham, but under the unim- proved land - valuation they are exempt. So are the great grain-stores, and the bonded stores. Now, all this taxation which is taken . serewed on, and if one turn did not do it, then off these valuable properties has to be made up , he would give it another, and so on. The by somebody. You cannot get away from that ; , speech made a sensation at the time, and was the same amount of money must come in to carry on local government, and if it is not coming from wealthy companies, the pro- ; prietors of gasworks and bonded stores, some- body else has got to pay it. You may say that that will be equalised over the whole of the lands. That may be so, where you have large boroughs including much unoccupied land. Precisely, but if you force the capitalist to step in and build houses in competition with the owners of houses that are now let at reasonable rentals, you will get the houses occupied by the comparatively poor built by the wealthier men, who will look for, and can afford to accept. a lower rate of profit, whilst the houses already built and owned by poorer men will be either unoccupied or lessened in value. That will be one of the effects it will have. My opinion is that the Government in connection with this matter are swinging in the direction of the single-tax. That, Sir, is my opinion. I regard this proposal as somewhat in the nature of a pilot balloon. The Government are not pre- pared to bring in proposals for the taxing of holders of leases in perpetuity ; they are allow- ing them to escape taxation ; so in order to placate a certain advanced section of the Liberal https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 party in the House they are going in the direc- tion of compulsory rating upon unimproved values. Now, I would like to say this: that I am not prepared even to subscribe altogether to / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero the doctrine laid down by the Premier that for national purposes all improvements should be exempted. I am not fully sure you are right in that. Let me tell the honourable gentle- man that in 1890-91 he received under the property-tax $357.348 by way of direct taxa- tion. What did he receive from direct taxa- tion during the year which has closed ? Only $295,000 by way of land-tax and €173,000 by income-tax-that is, $468,000 during the year just closed through direct taxation, as against $357,000 ten years ago. I also point out that this sum showed an increase of some €50,000 over the previous year, through hardening up land-values and more rigid collection of income- tax. What has been the fact ? Why, by adopt- ing this principle for national purposes of rating on the unimproved value you have been allow- ing so much wealth to escape taxation that at the present time the Government is actually looking all round for some means by which : on unimproved value law, is one that I ap- they may increase the direct taxation, and from all I can hear they are going to put it on the graduated land-tax. Sir, if I am not mistaken - I do not wish to anticipate the Financial State- ment, but the Premier certainly indicated that possibility the other night. I shall tell him where he is getting that policy from. It is from Mr. Earnshaw. Mr. G. W. Russell Earnshaw. If honourable members will turn up one of the earliest speeches by Mr. Earnshaw in this House, they will remember the occasion when he stated that the graduated tax should be disavowed by the leaders of the Liberal party, and the honourable gentleman to-day. if he goes in the direction of increasing the graduated tax, is going to get his policy from that old speech of Mr. Earnshaw. I certainly do not envy him if he has to look in that direction for his financial policy. The effect of exempting improvements from taxation has been this : that you are not obtaining that amount from direct taxation that you have the right to expect considering the increase in the value of the property of the colony during the last ten years. I do not advocate a return to the property-tax. I am quite prepared to admit that we should in our taxation discrimi- nate between those improvements that exhaust themselves and those that do not. I do not think for one moment that a man should be taxed upon improvements that go to improve the fertility of his land, or to increase the pro- duction of his land ; but if a wealthy man, as was pointed out by the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, can build a house worth $10,000 upon a section only the same size as a market- gardener is occupying who is selling rhubarb, cabbages, and potatoes for his living, I see no reason why that man, because he spent $10,000 on buildings, should for all time be exempted, so far as the capital expended on those build- ings is concerned, from taxation for colonial and local purposes. I say, Sir, that while the law was permissive it was open to argument, and the ratepayers could exercise their option with regard to its being brought into force; but I believe, if the Government attempt to make this mandatory and com- pulsory upon all the local bodies throughout New Zealand, it will give great dissatisfaction, at any rate, in the electorate which I have the honour to represent in this House. It appears to me that if we adopt this Bill we lay down this principle : that the richer a man becomes, the more money he expends in buildings upon his property, the more he escapes taxation. There can be no logical escape from that. I have no- thing further to say except that, if any division is called for upon this Bill, for the reasons I have stated I shall feel bound to vote against the second reading. The present law, as far as it permits the localities to settle for themselves whether they will bring into force the rating prove of, but so far as it seeks to make it com- pulsory upon localities that this drastic change shall be brought into force I object to it. Mr. HANAN (Invercargill) .-- I intend to give my cordial support to the principle of rating contained in this Bill, because I believe that rating on unimproved value is the most equi- table system of rating that has yet been con- 