be no doubt the statements that have just been made are correct -- that is to say, that the death of Constable McDonnell was directly at- tributable to blood - poisoning contracted in the execution of his duty. I remember the cir- cumstances very well. At the time Constable McDonnell was one of the water-police. As Chairman of the Auckland Harbour Board, and in my professional avocations, I was often brought into contact with him. I knew him for nearly twenty years He was one of the smartest officers in the Force. He was always at his post, and, no matter at what hour of the day or night, he was ready to do his duty. If any special service was required at any of the outlying islands or districts, Luke McDonnell was ever ready. When the steamer " Waira- rapa " was wrecked it was found by Mr. Greenaway, who at the time of the wreck was temporarily residing on an island adjacent to the Barrier, that bodies of the drowned pas- sengers were being washed ashore. There was no medical man on the islands, and Luke McDonnell went down with one or two settlers, and I think he was left there alone with Mr. Greenaway for a time, and they buried a large number of bodies as they were washed ashore, and assisted in the work of identifica- tion. The bodies were in an advanced stage of decomposition, and he had no gloves or any- thing of the kind to put on his hands. He was sent away from Auckland without any of the necessary things to prevent blood-poison- ing, and the inevitable result followed. A pro- fessor, I think, of the Auckland University Col- lege, was the first to give him antiseptics, and with these he endeavoured to protect his hands. But the damage had already been done, and within a very short time he was laid up. He continued intermittently to do his duty, not- withstanding the fact that he was weak and ailing, and exhausted from many operations, until he finally had to succumb. If ever there was a case in which the Government ought to provide for the widow and family of a worthy servant of the State, this is one. The argument of the Hon. the Minister of Justice was most fallacious-that because Mrs. McDonnell had been appointed to a position in the Govern- ment service, in which, as pointed out by the honourable member for Ashley, she is giving an adequate return of service, the State is therefore to be exempted from doing its duty. I hope the Government will accept without any reservation the recommendation of the Committee, and as a mere act of justice grant the desired relief. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I think the House will give to the Auckland members all praise for supporting this petition in the way they have done. There is generally unanimity amongst them on matters that affect that province. Hon. MEMBERS .- No, no. Mr. SEDDON .- At all events, the Minister of Justice has fairly explained the position to the House, and the House must take the responsi- bility. Mir. Napier with what has been done. Mr. SEDDON .- You are asking the Govern- ment to go beyond what your own laws permit them to do. Your laws will not permit more than two years' salary to be given as compassion- ate allowance, whilst this recommendation was for three years'. The Government have any amount of cases before them in which only two years' salary has been granted as compassionate allowance in the case of officers who have de- voted their life-service to the country. That is the position. Under the legislation affecting the Police Force, by a provision you made the session before last, you have not permitted any- thing like this being done. Consequently, you must consider that you are laying down a pre- cedent ; and, whilst the sympathies of the Go- vernment are as keen as those of any member of this House -- and we admit that the constable in question performed his work in a most satis- factory and almost heroic manner in endeavour- ing as far as he could to obtain identification for the bereaved relatives of those who suffered in the wreck of the " Wairarapa "-it must be remembered that there were others who had been refused in the past, and who had claims equally as strong as Constable McDonnell, and the Government would be bound, once the pre- cedent was laid down, to follow it. There was a constable in Dunedin who certainly risked his life and was wounded, and could never be again the man he was. I think he is dead now. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- He is not dead ; but he cannot get anything to do. Mr. SEDDON. - Anyway, the rule was laid down and the Government had to adhere to it. In considering this matter we must bear in mind that we are laying down a precedent. 1 must say that, as stated by the Minister of Justice, to have given permanent employment -- with good behaviour it may be life employment -at a salary up to £100 a year and a free hous". the State, as far as this woman and family are concerned, has put them in a better position than if the husband was alive. Consequently it cannot be said that the State has not dealt with this case in a fair and liberal manner. 1 only rose to point out to the House that, while sympathy may carry us away, we must not for- get that what we do in one case we must do in any similar case that arises, and in a number of similar cases that have occurred in the past. Members may rest assured that the Govern- ment will do their best to do justice to all cases coming under their notice. Motion agreed to. PUBLIC ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE. 1 Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) brought up the report of the Public Accounts Committee on Paper No. 59, to the effect that in cases Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 5 the Committee saw no reason for proceeding further; and that in case 4 the action of the Controller and Auditer- General was unnecessary, as the moneys were 1 properly paid into the Treasury. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- Sir. with 3.30. regard to the first three clauses of this 