ballot the supporters of the members who got fourteen votes and twelve votes would not vote for one another. They would be watching one another, and naturally say, " We will not assist an opponent," and then cast their second vote for the man who got five votes. In the second ballot, most likely, the man who originally got fourteen votes would go out, and then, in the final ballot, the supporters of the man who got fourteen votes would go for the man who only got five votes, and he would be returned. A worse system of electing by ballot than that used here it would be hard to conceive. If we are to have election by ballot, let us have it pure and simple. Let nominations be made on a certain day to be fixed, and on those names nominated let a straight vote of the Council be taken, and the majority return whoever they wish. Under the present system there are quite a number of informal ballot-papers. I hope, at all events, if we do make a change, it will be in a fair and reasonable direction, so that we shall have a proper ballot, and not a ballot by which we shall have to vote for persons we do not want to vote for. No such form of ballot, under the same circumstances, is used in any other part of this colony. Forty odd names are put before members, and we do not know whether any of those gentlemen wish to stand, and they have to cast a vote for two members they do not wish to vote for. I hope, if the Council alter the system, they will put it in a proper way. I shall vote against the resolution because I can see no need for the change. At https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 present, any member has a right to move to strike out the name of the person nominated, and insert another name. That is proper and straight-out voting. Surely the Council, who have no constituents, are not afraid to show how they vote on a simple question of this kind. If we are afraid to vote openly in this Chamber, and the other Chamber is not afraid, .then it shows the Council is going backward and not forward. I shall oppose the resolution for the reasons I have given. The Hon. Mr. REEVES .- My reply will be very short. The honourable gentleman who has just sat down has given us a bit of a lecture on how we ought to vote for Chairman of Committees. I have no doubt that, to a certain extent, the honourable gentleman is right ; but this motion simply says : "And it be an instruction to the Standing Orders Com- mittee to prepare the necessary new order." I presume it will be in the power of the Standing Orders Committee to bring in such a form of voting as they may think necessary. That is all I have to say on the matter, excepting this : that we have seen, on more than one occasion in this Council, when a gentleman has been put forward who has not been particularly with the Council, that the result has been that we have had to go to the ballot. If we have it laid down in the Standing Orders that a ballot must be taken, it will do away with that diffi- culty. That is all I have to say in the matter. The Hon. Mr. W. C. SMITH .- As a matter of personal explanation, I wish to say that I a reflection on me. I say that he himself wished to be a candidate, and therefore I was personally unpopular to him. The Hon. Mr. REEVES .- I must take ex ception to the remarks made by the honourable- gentleman. I never was a candidate for the position of Chairman of Committees, and I never even mentioned a word about it. But I reiterate what I said before : that it will do away with what we have had on former occa- sions if we carry this motion. The Council divided. AYES, 15. Johnston Baillie Pitt Reeves Barnicoat Jones Kelly, T. Bolt Rigg Feldwick Smith, A. L. Kerr Jenkinson Swanson. Montgomery NOES, 6. Smith, W. C. Arkwright Kelly, W. Scotland Walker, W. C. Harris Majority for, 9. Motion agreed to. The Council adjourned at forty-three minutes past three o'clock. # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Tuesday, 13th August, 1901. First Reading - Cocoanut Oil - cake - Forest-tree Planting - Freehold Estates - Native Land Titles - Lease in Perpetuity - Cook Island Laws - Civil Service Examinations - Stand- ard IV. Examination - Death of the Dowager Empress of Germany - Fiji - Local Govern- ment Bill Committee - Unauthorised Expen- diture - Health Officer for Waimate- Copy- right Act - Carriage of Artificial Manures - Encouragement to Local Industries -Prevention of Cruelty to Animals-Railway Charges-South- bridge Brauch Trains-Infant Mortality : Popula- tion - Health Officer, Hawke's Bay - Railway Sleepers-Varnish Industry-Wool-market - In- spection of Buildings - Railway Traffic on Sundays -Government Balnealogist - Railway Freight on Manure-Lawrence Railway Offices- Grey District Hospital and Charitable Aid Board - Sanatorium for Consumptives - Cook Islands Auxiliary Steamer-Junior Civil Service Examination-papers-Teachers' Certificate Ex- aminations - Increase to Salaries of Deputy- Registrars - Mine-managers' Certificates-Flax- grader for Wellington-Gladstone Association- Lime for the West Coast -Paikakariki Road- Ruapekapeka Pa-Tax on Stallions-Dairy School at Levin-Revaluation at Hokianga and Kaihu - Lime-burning, Albury Estate - Small-bird Nuisance - Masterton Courthouse - Levin and Weraroa Townships - Patent Rights - Waste Lands Boards-Wellington City Abattoir-Work- men's Homes -Imported Stud Stock - Cattle- landing in Auckland Harbour-Makuri-Pongaroa Road-Rating on Unimproved Value Bill. Mr. Speaker took the chair at half past two o'clock p.m. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Egmont County Bill. 