he would have been very glad indeed that occa- sion should be taken at these meetings to bring these properties before the notice of the Land Purchase Board. The fact was that, in this district, it had been exceedingly difficult to get hold of properties that were available for purchase ; and there had also been a certain amount of difficulty because the country was broken and rolling in its nature, and if the Government took a large property it was neces- sary there should be a certain amount of pas- toral country in it. However, taking the honourable gentleman's statement about Ha- tuma, let them suppose it was cut up into thirty holdings. Was it not better that it should be cut up than that it should remain in its old state ? When the honourable gentle- man talked in a grandiloquent way about the enormous estates the Act is creating on the Hatuma Estate-900 acres, 1,200 acres, and 1.500 acres of land that would only carry a sheep and a half to the acre-did honourable members not wonder at the honourable gentle- man's own moderation in what he had done himself in that direction ? If the honourable gentleman could only bring himself to the state of mind of-he thought-Warren Hastings, or Lord Clive, when he was brought before a great tribunal, and was charged with certain things -of course they charged the honourable gentle- man in a Pickwickian sense with being a large landowner-he would likely be able to say he was astonished at his own moderation. All these properties were a monument to the acquirer's personal moderation. Nobody blamed the honourable gentleman or anybody else in Hawke's Bay for having acquired these estates. All that was said was, that the time had come when they must try to break them up for the purpose of assisting that district to progress. Let them compare that district with any other district in the North Island during the last ten years. Let them compare it with Taranaki, and where did they find in any one district a more miraculous illustration, not only of settle- ment but also of good trade, than they would find in Taranaki ? And where would they find the opposite of this steady progress more than in Hawke's Bay? There was the difference of pole from pole between the two places, and the reason was that Hawke's Bay was a district of large estates and Taranaki was a district of small estates. As far as the natural advantages went, it was true Taranaki had the natural ad- vantage of having a marvellous growth of grass, and the consequent production of dairy pro- duce. Hawke's Bay, on the other hand, was a dry climate ; but still it was a climate that had many possibilities, a climate that, in his opinion, lent itself very reasonably and favour- ably to a great number of small cultures. He was certain that in Hawke's Bay they could have a larger variety of small cultures than in Taranaki, because the wet climate naturally limited the range of production. He did not understand, taking a general view of the subject, that the honourable gentleman was at all justified in making the charges he had made against the policy of the Land for Settle- Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker ments Act or its administration. Of course, if the honourable gentleman had taken a wider view of the subject, and had been able to show that in other parts of the colony the same objection could be taken to the administration of the Act as he contended existed in Hawke's Bay, they might have been able to listen to him with more conviction. For instance, he evidently imagined that the administration of the Act in Hawke's Bay was not only typical, but was the solitary instance of the land- for-settlements administration, because he was not aware of any other estate except Hatuma that had been taken over for settlement. He could assure the honourable gentleman that the difficulties in the way of helping Hawke's Bay had been enormous, and not the least assistance towards helping Hawke's Bay would come through the Land for Settlements Act. The honourable gentleman complained that, because of the high range of the land- values in Hawke's Bay, it would be im- possible for the Government to acquire land there under these values at anything like a reasonable price. Well, the strange thing was that for years valuers had been absolutely under-estimating the value of property in that district, and if conscience-money was pro- curable from the landowners of Hawke's Bay. he believed they would pay a very handsome sum indeed to the Treasury at once. It was impossible that these values could be so extreme ; because they had been low for so long it had been impossible to bring them up to their true value. One of the greatest difficulties the Government had been labouring under, as regarded land-taxation, was that in certain districts, owing to the imperfect machinery, the valuers had not brought the land-values there up to anything like their proper level ; because the essence of true valuation was that there should be one standard of value- an even standard of value-all over the colony. It was very wrong for a Wellington settler who held land to have to pay at a high rate ; while if you went across the border and got- into Hawke's Bay the man who owned similar land was only valued at one-half or two-thirds the value. But those were the sort of anoma- lies which seemed to grow with a certain amount of indigenous vigour in the soil of Hawke's Bay, where the values had been most untrustworthy ; and if the honourable gentle- man now complained that the values were being raised too high, he (Mr. Walker) was only too glad to hear it, because he believed it showed that the values now were being put at something like what they ought to be. He knew they had not been so in the past. Values now in Hawke's Bay were reaching the level of what other parts of the colony had reached long ago, and therefore the landowners in Hawke's Bay were just beginning to pay the same taxes on land that other landowners were paying five years ago. Of course, it was very easy to talk about Naboth's vineyard, and to complain of the compulsory clauses having brought this modern sentiment into certain localities, but the Act had served the policy 