comprising the whole of the Dilworth Estate. Then the Government put the trustees to a great deal of trouble and expense. They had to find some $25,000 in connection with that estate as duty; but the trustees appealed to the Privy Council, and the Government has to refund the money. Now, this Bill is evi- dently brought in for the express purpose of enabling the Government to evade a re- fund of the duty in similar cases, because I notice here the words "irrespective of class or creed " have been inserted. I see no good reason why the Cornwall Park should not have been expressly referred to in the Bill. It is a noble gift given by an old colonist to the people of New Zealand, and more especially to the people of Auckland. Its present value is about #100,000, and probably in fifty or, say, a hundred years it will be the centre of a large city, and be a property of enormous value. I can see no good reason why the Go- vernment should not have provided for a remission of the duty in this little Bill. With regard to the remark made by the Minister as to the necessity for special legislation, I do not see what difference it would make if this particular property was specially mentioned here. The evident intention of the Bill is to prevent parties in the future from compelling the Government to refund certain duties, as happened in the Dilworth case. I think it would be very much safer for the trustees in the Cornwall Estate to have this Bill made to specially apply to that gift. If the duty has to be paid in the first instance, and then to be re- funded, the trustees will have to get the money to do this from some outside source, for they have no revenue available for the purpose. It would be much better if the Bill were amended in Committee so as to include Cornwall Park amongst the exemptions from duty. I hope the Minister will see his way to do this. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) .- I regret that the honourable gentleman who last spoke should have been rather sceptical as to the in- tentions of the Government with regard to this Bill. I can assure him that it is not the inten- tion of the Government to exempt itself from any of its liabilities. As to the proposal to make this Bill refer specially to the Cornwall Park gift, all that I can say is that the Com- mittee can settle that point itself. On the broad ground I consider it is not desirable to have retrospective legislation, especially in mat- ters of this kind ; but if the Committee insist on any special clause being put into the Bill to deal with the Cornwall Park gift I should not oppose it. But I think the other course- namely, that a sum of money be placed on the estimates to cover the amount of the stamp duty, is preferable. As to the point raised by the member for Riccarton, I can assure him that this Bill does not in any way restrict the range of the main Act. Mr. PIRANI .- But it does that of the 1883 Act. Mr. CARROLL .- But clause 2 of the main Act, with a clearer interpretation, is brought forward in this Bill. VOL. CXVII .- 29. Mr. PIRANI .- But in one way only. Mr. CARROLL .- It has been declared by our Supreme Court Judges that the present Act is unworkable so far as clause 2 is concerned ; this Bill is to make it workable. Take the case of the Dilworth Estate, referred to by the honour- able member for Eden. All the Judges of the Supreme Court said that we could claim duty on that bequest, but the Privy Council said we could not, and decided against us. Now, wedo not want the law to be so uncertain ; we want it to be clear and beyond doubt. This Bill pro- poses to remove all such doubts, and it is very desirable that this should be done to prevent complications in the future. However, a good deal can be cleared up in a Bill like this when it gets into Committee. I can add very little to what has already been said by honourable gentlemen in their remarks with regard to the munificent and noble act of Dr. Campbell. I can only say that any country would be rich indeed if it had in its possession men of his high character and generous instincts. Bill read a second time. # HOSPITAL NURSES REGISTRATION BILL. On the question That this Bill be committed, Mr. SPEAKER drew attention to two clauses -4 and 7-of the Bill that were read on the pre- vious evening. These clauses were underlined by the Legislative Council to show that they formed no part of the Bill, as they imposed fees and fines which it was not within their power to put in the Bill. Following the precedent esta- blished in 1898, he (Mr. Speaker) suggested that these clauses, which involved the payment of fees and penalties, should be approved by Com- mittee of the Whole before being submitted to the Committee on the Bill. Clauses 4 and 7 of the Bill referred to Con- mitte of the Whole, and approved. Money clauses reported, and Bill, with clauses approved, referred to Committee on the Bill. # IN COMMITTEE. Clause 2. - Interpretation. Mr. HALL -JONES (Minister for Public Works) moved to insert, at the end of the defi- nition of "hospital," the words " and includes such other hospitals, the proprietors of which consent to such hospitals being open to inspec- tion under 'The Hospitals and Charitable Institutions Act, 1885,' as may be approved by the Governor in Council." Mr. PIRANI moved to report progress. Motion to report progress negatived. Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 4 .- "(1.) Every person who, on the first day of January, one thousand nine hundred and two, holds a certificate of three consecutive years' training as a nurse in a hospital, and proves that during her training she received systematic instruction in theoretical and prac- tical nursing from the medical officer and matron (the matron herself being a certificated nurse), is entitled to registration on payment of a fee of ten shillings, and on application to the 