some of us thought he would not be able to take his place in the House this session, or, if he did so that he would not be able to acquit him- self so creditably as he has done to-night ; and we hope that he will continue to improve in health, and that before very long he will be back in his good old form-in the form in which he has been in the days that are gone by. From the tenor of the remarks made on the second reading of this Bill it must appear to the most casual observer that there is more in this measure than appears on the surface, or was stated by the honourable member who introduced the Bill. It has been said on previous occasions during the day that there is an inclination on the part of the House to pass these local Bills without properly regarding their present or future effect. Members representing districts outside Dunedin have said there is a serious danger that this measure will prejudicially affect the interests of the suburban townships. It is to be hoped that honourable members will see that such a clause is put in the Bill in Committee as to preclude any attempt that should be made by the Cor- poration of Dunedin to interfere with their rights and privileges, or do anything against the interests of the suburban townships around Dunedin. Another point was dealt with by the honourable member for Caversham, and that is the danger in the near future that the City Council will construct the Castle Street tram- way through the Gardens. Knowing the Gar- dens in Dunedin intimately, and admiring the good taste of the Dunedin people in doing what they have done to beautify those Gar- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 dens, I consider it would be nothing short of an act of vandalism to run a tramway through what might be regarded as one of the prettiest spots in Dunedin. As one travels through the colony and sees the attempts made in different towns to improve botanical gardens that will be a credit to the place, and the successful efforts in New Plymouth in this direction, one cannot but feel that, should in the course of time the Corporation feel it advisable to run the tramway through the Gardens, then one would be constrained to vote against any measure that could be introduced in order to give them liberty to do so. I hope the honourable member in charge of the Bill will not consider I am opposed to the measure otherwise than on principle, and if he will give the House an assurance that he will assent to a clause being inserted in Committee to pre- clude Corporations from making any attempt in this direction I shall support the Bill, and vote for its third reading. Another point raised by the honourable member for Caversham was in regard to clause 17, where it is not in- tonded to take a vote of the people interested. This is another point that has been raised to-day : that the House is too careless or too liberal in passing local Bills-measures that affect only one locality, and not the colony as a whole. Where is the junior member for Dunedin City - the professor of constitu- Mr. Gilfedder ratepavers - are to be overlooked, and tram- lines are to be constructed whether they like it or not. 1 consider it is the place of the junior member for Dunedin City-a leading au- thority on the constitutional aspect of such a question -to be in his place to protest against any attempt on the part of the Corporation to pass such a law. I hope the honourable men- ber in charge of the Bill will go further than the amendment suggested by the Local Bills Committee, and not endeavour to take out of the hands of the people the right they should possess to control the local expenditure in con- nection with the construction of the tramways, and such acts as will materially or prejudicially affect their own interests and those of sub- urban townships. I am sure that when this is pointed out to the junior member for Dunedin City he will not agree with his senior colleague in this respect. I hope the honourable member will make the point clear, so that we may be able to support the Bill. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- Sir, I believe my objections to this measure are similar to those of the honourable member for Caversham - namely, Committee ones ; but the objections of the honourable member for Taieri imperil the whole Bill. I support the Bill, but I want an amendment made in Committee, and I feel constrained to meet the argument of the member for Taieri in regard to the question of the dam. His argument is that, because the city to secure power has to construct a dam, the presence of that dam is a danger, and that therefore Dunedin is to have no electric trams at all. Mr. CARNCROSS .- I said you could get it from Waipori. Mr. J. ALLEN .-- I will deal with the Wai- pori argument presently. If this is the way we are to look upon enterprises of this kind, then we shall have no enterprises at all, for they are all more or less dangerous. We must not con- struct a railway, because, forsooth, the train <!-- PageNumber="1" --> might run over a precipice and kill the people in it. We must not construct our waterworks, because the dam might break away, and those living in the valley below be drowned. Our waterworks in Dunedin are in exactly the same position as this proposed dam. At any time it might break away and damage be done; but you would not say that therefore the water- works should not be constructed, and that the people should be supplied with artesian water or water from tanks. That is not the modern way of looking at a matter like that. It is impossible to adopt the means requisite for carrying out works of this kind without in- curring some risks. The risks are minimised by our having the experience of ages. In deai- ing with works of this nature the engineers have the experience of those who have gone bit- fore them as their guide, and. having that experi- ence, they will make the works of such a nature that there will be very little risk of danger in the future. I have no doubt that if this dem is constructed there will be very little risk, either 