home. Sir J. G. WARD said he was entirely with the honourable gentleman, but officers of other branches of the service would regard their right as being equally as strong as that of the men whose claim the honourable gentleman was advocating. There must be some principle on which the Railway Department was adminis- tered ; and to make concessions in favour of one body of men as far as railway-fares was concerned would not be right unless it was granted to every employé in the Civil Service. Such a precedent if made to one section would be very hard to resist, and it would require to be done for all ; and, as he said, the general public had to be considered, and if such concessions were given they were as much entitled to them as any one else. The Postal-Telegraph Depart- ment could not be expected to put the money upon the estimates to provide for the payment to the Railway Department of the fares of these men by way of the concession suggested by the honourable gentleman, and that was the only way it could be done. KAIKORA NORTH RAILWAY-STATION. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether he will cause a verandah or shelter of some kind to be erected at the railway-station, Kaikora North, for the convenience of passengers waiting the arrival of the trains? At this station there was a great want of shelter for persons waiting for the train. The station served the convenience of a https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 large country district as well as the town, and persons had to travel considerable distances to meet the trains at the station, and the conse- quence was that they had not infrequently to wait in rainy weather without shelter, because the small amount of shelter at the station was often filled up by goods which were landed on the passenger-platform and stored there. On many occasions he had seen persons on the platform absolutely unable to get shelter from the southerly rain, and therefore the work was a necessity. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the passenger traffic at Kaikora was very small, and he was informed the station was well pro vided for in the matter of shelter by the vesti- bule, which was a good and suitable one ; and, in view of the necessity of more pressing works being provided, he was unable in the meantime to give a promise that a verandah would be erected. If there were funds available for the pressing works of the colony, and something in excess of that for less pressing works, this appli- cation could be then taken into favourable con- sideration. # HASTINGS RAILWAY-STATION. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will cause a crane to be sent to Hastings Railway-station to facili- tate the loading and unloading of heavy pack- ages of goods, which arrive and are despatched in large numbers, particularly during the spring and summer months? He hoped the colony Mr. G. J. Smith was unable to provide a crane for the unloading and loading of goods at this station. At present heavy packages of machinery had to be handled without proper appliances for lifting, and were thereby liable to injury, and he hoped this small expenditure will not be beyond the reach of the department. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) thought, with the honourable gentleman, that a crane was a very desirable thing to have at this station, in order to lift the heavy goods, and he would give instructions for one to be placed there. ROLLING-STOCK FOR WAIKATO LINE. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) asked the Minister for Railways, If he will have the building of a sufficient number of railway- trucks put in hand at the Railway Workshops. Newmarket, to provide for the expanding trade on the Waikato line ? He would point out that trade on the Waikato line had increased con- siderably of late, and he was informed that there had been a deficiency of trucks not only in connection with the Taupiri Coal-mines, but in other directions, to the inconvenience and loss of the trading community. He hoped the Minister would see his way to have the building of an increased number of trucks placed in hand in the Newmarket Workshops at an early date. Of course, he knew that the Minister was doing his utmost to increase the rolling-stock of the railways throughout the country, and that Rome was not built in a day : still he would be glad to have a favourable answer to this question. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the following new rolling-stock had already been authorised to be built at the Newmarket Work- shops for the Auckland Section-namely, four bogie brake-vans, three horse-boxes, ten cattle- trucks, fifteen sheep-trucks, five covered goods- vans, seventy-six 7-ton iron highside wagons, twenty-five lowside wagons, five timber-trucks, two bogie sheep-trucks, and two bogie cattle- trucks ; total, 147 vehicles. This work would be sufficient to keep the Newmarket shops fully employed for a considerable time to come. # MERCER RAILWAY-STATION. Mr. LANG (Waikato) asked the Minister for Railways, When the refreshment-rooms at the Mercer Railway - station will be completed ? The railway-station at Mercer was destroyed by fire about the 23rd December last, and even if the utmost speed was used in building the station it would probably be nearly twelve months from the time of the fire before the refreshment-rooms were rebuilt. The public had suffered a good deal of inconvenience on account of not having a proper station and refreshment-room at an important station like this, where trains so often stopped for refresh- The lessee had done everything in his ments. power to provide for the wants of the travelling public, who, even in spite of that, had been put to great inconvenience. He hoped the Minister would see his way to have the new station erected as early as possible. 