an opportunity of perusing the evidence, they will be in a better position to discuss it and to give their conclusions thereupon. The member for Chinemuri suggests that the Commission should have been extended to enable the Com- mi -- ioners to proceed to the other colonies to take evidence there as to their respective edaica- tional systems. Well, it must be admitted that in the honourable member's case the suggestion comes from the best possible motive and with- out the slightest tinge of selfishness. At all events, if it had boon decided to extend the powers of the Commission to that extent, I do not know that there is any one else in the ; in my name. House who would have been bettor fitted for the work than the honourable gentleman him- self. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - Why did you not put him on the Commission ? Mr. SEDDON .-- Because the gentlemen we selected were immediately connected with Pau- cation Boards and with the education question. However, as an old Victorian, and as one who has some knowledge of the working of the educa- tion system there, I may say that I much prefer what we have here in our own colony. There they have what is known as the central sus- tem. The teachers and schools are directly under the Goverment and Goverminent in-pec- tion, and I do not think the system works nearly so well as the system we have in vogne in New Zealand. Its cost is, I believe, greater relatively to the education that is given. am one of those who do not believe too much in having the whole system uniform. In my opinion, diver-ity really improves and perfects education, and I consider that by having our Boards in the different provincial dis- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero triets we secure a more complete education in the colony than is given in any of the Australian Colonies. Therefore I do not think we have anything to loin from Australia in respect to education. The next question I was asked was as to whether the Government intend to give effect to the recommendations of the Commission. I have not had time to peruse the report. The question, therefore, is premature. Unless the honourable member has been in the secret of the Commission and know- what the report is, he should not ask me the question. He should find out for himself, first of all, whether it would be desirable to give effect to the recommendations : and then, when he has himself come to a conclusion, he might put the question to me, and be better pleased by the reply, whichever way it may be. My reply at the present moment is that the Govern- ment will carefully consider the report. We will do whatever we believe to be best in the interests of the teachers and our schools and education generally in the colony. am, at all events, pleased so far to find that the Commission do not see any great difficulties in the way, and that they have propounded a scheme keeping within the 41 capitation. And they have another scheme outside that : that with an increase of 2s. Od. they have re- complete scheme for the small difference of 2& Cd., I am, when circumstances permit, in favour of effect being given to that rocom- mendation. However, the best thing I can do is. I think, to allow the report to lie on the table, and get the evidence printed. If we decide then that something is to be done, and if it requires logi-lation, I will bring down proposals, and then let the House debate the proposals and the report at the same time. I think that is the best course to adopt, and 1 indicate that as generally the course which will be followed. I move the motion stealing Motion agreed to. PATRA HARBOUR BOARD BILL. # IN COMMITTEE. Clause 3. Power to borrow. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to add the following words : " But no money shall be bor- rowed under the authority of this det which shall produce to the londer a higher rate of in- terest than four pounds ten shillings per centum per annum." Amendment agreed to. Bill reported. # DUNEDIN CITY AND SUBURBAN TRAM- WAYS BILL. INTERRUPTED DEBATE. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .-- When I was inter- I rupted by the adjournment of the House on Tuesday night, I was dealing with the City of Dunedin Tramways Bill, but since then, Lam glad to say, a conference has been hold with the Mavor, and Mr. Frederick Chapman, and Mr. Milan -- representatives of the City of Dun- edin - and other members of this House, and ! am glad to say that I was enabled to accept con- ditions on behalf of the objretors, which are satisfactory. We are now to be privileged for all tim: in having secared the whole of the Botani- cal Gardens as far back as the Opoho and Cone- tory Roads free from tramway construction. 1 am glad to say this, on behalf of the gentlemen representing the City of Dunedin : that we were met in an execedingly fair spirit, and I vonfare to say that after all is over the public will find that the best for all parties has been done. Mr. MILLAR (City of Dunedin). - Sir, in reply to some of the objections that have been made to this Bill, I think the principal ones were raised by the honouradde member for Wailemo, and the honourable member for Caversham - namely, the proposal or supposed idea that the tramways were to go through the Botanical Gardens. I am pleased to say that we have been able to come to a settle- ment on the matter, and I think the amend- I ment I shall move in Committee will got over the trouble. But it is only fair to the City Council, in view of the strictures that have been passed, that I should say this: that the City Council were acting on the advice of the best known experts on electrical haulage, and their 