guilty of a breach of privilege by the House, because that paper challenged a Minister to say outside what he had said in the House, the House laughed at the very idea of bringing the offender before the House, because they have no sympathy with this antediluvian form of pun- ishment. It is altogether out of date, and, however much the professor of constitutional law may advocate such ideas, men of common- sense know that they have no effect. So long as it is a good report that is published-and in this case the Chairman of the Committee assures us that what was published was a fair report of what took place before the Committee- no great harm is done. And, if there is any- thing on which light should be shed by the Press in regard to what is being inquired into by this House, it is what has gone on in connection with these dredging companies, and that is one reason why I am not sorry that this question of privilege has been raised, for it will direct the attention of honour- able members to what is going on before that Committee. If this question had not been raised the Committee would have reported, the evidence would perhaps not have come before the House at all, and the whole thing would have ended in smoke. Now, this matter has aroused the attention of the House to the question before the Committee, and it will arouse attention in the country, and much more thought and consideration will be devoted to the alleged evils complained of than would have been the case had the matter been dealt https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1. 32106019788246 with in the ordinary course. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton). - The motion now before the House is that a Commit- tee be set up to inquire into the matter of the publication of evidence, which publication con- stituted a breach of privilege. Now, Sir, I am not aware, from the Standing Orders, that there could be a breach of privilege in an officer of the Committee giving this evidence. The whole gravamen of the offence is the publication. That publication has already been declared by the House to be a breach of privilege. The Stand- ing Orders say that it shall be a breach of pri- vilege for any member of the Committee or any other person to publish evidence taken before a Select Committee which Committee has not reported to the House. Then, the question comes, What course is the House going to take, having already affirmed that a breach of pri- vilege in this behalf has been committed? Are we going to do anything at all? What can be the object of setting up a Committee ? All the Committee can do is to try and ascertain how the reporter of the Dunedin Star obtained the information. Supposing it should be ascer- tained that he obtained it from one of the officials of the Committee, the House will not be in any better position, except that it will be the duty of the Government to dismiss the official who is guilty of handing over the evi- dence. On the other hand, the Committee would, no doubt, have the power to call upon the reporter of the Star, put him on his oath, Mr. Pirani formation, it would be the business of the Com- mittee to report to the House, and the House would deal with him in the ordinary course for contumacy. This seems to be the position which would naturally follow. But after all this investigation has taken place the House would be no nearer than it is now, it having affirmed that a breach of privilege has taken place. I should like the Minister for Railways. in the course of his reply, to indicate what good purpose he expects to follow from the setting- up of the Committee-what is the object of it ? If it is merely to provide a means of retreat to the paper from the probable results of its action in committing a breach of privilege, let us under- stand plainly and straightforwardly that that is the object. If, on the other hand, he pro- poses to set up the Committee to ascertain whether an official has been guilty of handing the information over, I have already shown he would be able to accomplish nothing but the dismissal of the erring official. So far as I am concerned, I have been connected with the Press of the colony for a great number of years, but while I hold a seat in the House I consider the honour of the House to be far greater to me than any professional connection I have with the journalism of the colony. I do not sympa- thize at all with the remarks of the honourable member for Wairarapa, who spoke from & journalistic point of view, as if it ought to be the duty of the House to stand by and see its dignity set aside and then laugh at it. I do not wish to dwell on this point; I merely rose for the purpose of saying that I trust the Minister will explain how far he proposes to carry the matter. If the proposal to set up a Committee is to provide a way out by the back-door for the paper, let us understand what we are doing. If, on the other hand, it is intended as a genuine effort to provide means of ascertaining on whom the responsibility must lie for the breach of privilege, I say that is already settled by the House in the motion that a breach of privilege has taken place. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) .- I think the honour- able gentleman in charge of the motion can well defend the proceedings he adopted. I do not think it follows that his resolution is out of place. In the first place, I would refer honourable members to the "Rulings of the Speakers " already quoted from. On page 156 they will find, "The first motion moved should be that a breach of privilege has been com- mitted. If that is affirmed, then a further reso- lution is moved." Honourable members will remember, in spite of this being laid down by Mr. Speaker O'Rorke, there is one other method by which the House proceeds : it appoints a Committee to go into the evidence and report to the House whether a breach has been com- mitted. If honourable members would only listen until I have settled the point they will then be able to understand the position. At the present time I am settling this question. Now, in place of the procedure which was adopted in 1874, this House has this after- 