and members will understand now why the Premier was anxious to exclude members from that Committee's meeting when they were de- liberating, because at the following meeting to that on which such action was taken, I am informed, the Committee passed a resolution ordering the Chairman to bring this report down to the House, and the Chairman, who now wants the Standing Orders obeyed, actually neglected to carry out that duty until two members of the Committee went to him and asked why the report had not been brought down. Then he comes here to-day with a bald report, without the evidence, and without the minutes of the proceedings, and expects the House to discuss it. Mr. FISHER .- Why bald ? Mr. PIRANI .- Because you are bald. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable member must withdraw that expression. Mr. PIRANI .- I will withdraw it, but I can- not deny that the honourable member is bald. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I must ask the honourable member to withdraw the statement unreservedly. Mr. PIRANI .- I will withdraw the expres- sion. Will the honourable gentleman with- .draw his statement ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I did not hear it. Mr. PIRANI .- No, of course not. Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER .- What remark was made by the honourable member for Wel- lington City (Mr. Fisher) ? Mr. FISHER .- He said I had brought down a bald report ; and I asked, "Why bald?" I will give my reply to that when I speak later on. Mr. PIRANI .- Now, there is a most extra- ordinary thing about the proceedings of that / http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero Committee, and the reason, I suppose, why the minutes of evidence have not been brought down is that the Public Trustee, an officer of the colony, who is supposed to carry out the duties of his office independent of the Govern- ment, comes to the meeting with an armful of legal opinions in support of the Government's position - not in support, mind you, of the position between the Public Trustee and the Government, but in support of the opinion of the Solicitor-General under which the Order in Council has been made. It is a most extra- ordinary thing that a man in the position of the Public Trustee should show his hand so plainly in that direction, and that a barrister and solicitor of the Supreme Court-as the Premier tells us-should come to the Public Accounts Committee prepared to back the Government up at any price. The Premier read from the evidence of the Public Trus- teo his opinion as to resulting trusts. The Premier did not understand what he read a little bit, and anybody who knows anything about resulting trusts will see that the Premier got hold of the wrong end of the stick in this matter. We had the opinion of the Public Trustee as to reading words into an Act, but in the Public Trustee's evidence he said that you only read words into an Act when the meaning of that Act is not plain. I will Mr. Pirani are plain or not. This is the section of the Bank of New Zealand Act in which the Solici- tor-General so conveniently read the words :- "The bank may, from time to time, within six years after the issue of any such preferred shares, and on giving twelve months' notice of its intention so to do, repurchase from Her Majesty all or any of the shares so issued, at a price equal to the nominal amount thereof, plus the amount of all dividends accrued and unpaid in respect thereof up to the time of payment of the price ; and, upon payment of the price therefor, all such repurchased shares shall be surrendered to the bank, and be avail- able for reissue as hereinafter provided." Now, that is clear. The bank may purchase at the par price of the shares, plus the amount of dividend. And what is meant by plus? Is it minus? Then, subsection (2) says that all the moneys received for the repurchase of shares-that is, the par value of the shares plus the accrued dividends-shall be paid to the Public Trustee, and applied by him to the re- demption, when due, of the securities to be issued under section 7. Does that want any words read in it to explain its meaning ? The words are plain in the section. Then, the Public Trustee, in his evidence, said it was the Government who owned the money-that the money belonged to the Government. Why. there is no money that belongs to the Govern- ment. The idea of a lawyer using a loose expression of that kind! As a matter of fact, public money is not even under the control of the Government until we vote it on the Appropriation Act. Anybody who knows anything about the law of trusts knows this : that the moneys belong to the person who created the trust ; and Parliament created it, and it is to Parliament that any surplus over the £500,000 belongs, and if Parlia- ment likes to appropriate this money, that is a matter for Parliament itself. But it is as clear as can be that under the law the accrued divi- dends undoubtedly must be kept by the Public Trustee as a resulting trust for Parliament to \-- dispose of as it thinks fit ; and I challenge any lawyer of any standing in the colony to prove that that is not the law as to trusts and result- ing trusts. The Public Revenues Act has been. referred to very fully and very freely by the member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier). But I may tell the honourable member this : that one of the strongest supporters of the Govern- ment said this to me, with reference to the ±40 vote, when I was opposing the passage of the Bill, "That if that clause was not passed. the $40 could not be paid " ; probably a state- ment made to him by the Premier. An Hon. MEMBER. - I would like you to name him. Mr. PIRANI .- The member for Wallace, Mr. Gilfedder. I have no objection to name him. and I said to him, " If that is the case why does the Premier not get up in the House and say i so ? " Mr. SEDDON. -- It was not so. 