vance totalling $90.000, advanced by the reduced it to a million," and my answer is Bank of New Zealand, and it reduced the . "Yes." And why ? amount to #530,000. Then, I stated further that I thought the total amount available on the 31st March next would be $49,000. So as to make sure of that, since the House was in Committee I have asked the Super- intendent of the Advances to Settlers Office to confirm or otherwise the statement made, and his statement is that there will not be $100,000 of loan money available, unless further authority is given on the 31st March next. I suppose we shall have honourable members telling us that the head of that important department does not know any- thing about it. It is a question whether you are to take the Treasury and the head of the departinent, or the member for Ric- carton or the member for the Bay of Plenty and others, who know all about it. Members have the statement submitted to the House up to the 31st March, and it is impossible to know what has been done since ; there is no official record. You cannot alter the facts, which are as I have told you. Then, I was told I might rely on the receipts from repayments, and this amount was put down by the honourable member for Ha ke's Bay and others at #175,000. What are the facts ? " It is idle to place any reliance on repay- ments which may be made by mortgagors, as the amount fluctuates in any given month from nil to $10,000." https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 " A very nice cup of tea," for a big lending department to be dependent on refunds that may never take place, and which the Superin- tendent of the department tells me vary from nothing to $10,000. An Hon. MEMBER .- Will you lay it on the table ? Mr. SEDDON .- I do not want to keep any- thing back from the House. Anything I give the House you may take as being absolutely correct. I have been speaking from the book all along. I cannot understand why there has been any doubt. I am prepared to lay on the table a statement showing that there was loan authorities for only $760,000 not drawn against on the 31st March last, that there was #140,000 advanced by the Bank of New Zealand on short-dated debentures, that there was £90,000 advanced on short- dated debentures, and from this it will be seen there was $530,000 available. Having now given the House this information, it will remove, I think, the doubts there were in the minds of honourable members, raised prac- tically by some honourable gentlemen who were trying to make out that we were trying to raise this money to aid the Public Works Fund. the first place, it is almost impossible ; secondly, it was not done ; and, thirdly, it was not con- templated. The whole reason why two millions was asked for was to give a strong finance -- a strong capital account -to the Advances to Settlers Department, showing intending bor- rowers and the settlers of the country that it was intended to continue this great boon to Captain RUSSELL. - Because you could not get the two millions. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, there is nothing im- possible, and had it been that the circum- stances at Home would have facilitated my being able to obtain two millions at the end of next year I should, had I so desired, have succeeded in getting it though the House. I know the House, when it is shown to them there is an advantage to finance and to the good of the country that it should be done, would not have been appealed to in vain. But I wish to be straightforward, and in the face of information I received that I was not called upon to disclose-that it was not likely there would be an opportunity for raising the money at an early date, and it would not be to our advantage to have a borrowing-power we could not use-1 voluntarily asked to reduce the amount. Instead of being received as it was, it ought to have been received with pleasure by those who objected to the larger amount, instead of wishing to make out that it was done because of their objections. It does not encourage one to meet members, and I say the treatment I received from some honourable members does not encourage me to repeat the operation. I have done what I believe to be in the best interests of the Advances to Settlers Department. I will conclude by saying that the amount I am asking for is, in my opinion, barely sufficient to meet requirements. Honour- able members will appreciate my difficulties- namely, that I do not wish to borrow money to a large extent at the present high rate of in- terest ; and, not wishing to pay a high rate of interest for our money, we are keeping down the amounts that we are lending. That is what I call business; but when I can get my money at a low rate the amount that we will be lending will be much more than half a million. The Superintendent of the department has been almost like a gigantic steamer lashed to a wharf for some time past. An Hon. MEMBER .- With you straining at the hawser. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes : but the hawser has been manufactured outside this colony, and under circumstances which we could in no way control. The difficulty of obtaining money at a cheap rate of interest in the Mother-country has stopped us from advancing as readily as we otherwise would have done. I was surprised to find myself reported to have said that we could not obtain the money, and that but for th it there would be no restriction. Sir I have had no difficulty in obtaining money, but I had In a sufficient knowledge of business to know that it would not pay to borrow money at 4 per cent. for the purposes of the Advances to Settlers Department. and that to do so would be to pull back the benefits ; for all the calculations had been based upon getting money at not more than 8} per cent. If we depart from that prin- ciple by lending largely at the higher rate the department would be pulled back to the 