tional implied covenant being put in the Sche- dule. As to the point raised by the honourable member for Bruce, regarding a joint insurance by the mortgagee and mortgagor, the honourable gentleman will see that there is a clause in this Bill where the option is given to a per- son to contract outside the terms of the Sche- dule entirely, and in that case a joint insurance by the mortgagee and mortgagor can be effected if they so desire. But I may say the almost universal practice now is for the insurance to be in the name of the mort- gagee, and it is the best one. But if there are people who have an interest in properties such as the honourable member refers to, and who desire to insure in the joint names of the mortgagor and mortgagee, there is nothing in the Bill to prevent them from doing it. On the contrary, subclause (2) of clause 3 makes pro- vision for it exactly as the honourable member desires. Sir, while honourable members have treated this Bill with fairness, and have given every credit to the honourable member for Waitaki, who was its author, I am surprised to find some of them seem to dissent from the Government having taken up a Bill which had already been passed in this House two or three times on former occasions, and which had been before the Statutes Revision Committee. think it is the duty of the Government of the day, when private members have been success- ful in getting measures through the House more than once, to assist those members in getting their measures placed on the statute-book, as a member in his private capacity has not the same facilities for doing it as the Government itself has. If, Sir, as suggested-jocularly, I think-by the honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Smith) it is undignified for the Government to take up private members' Bills, then all I can say is that other honourable members may some day find themselves in the position of having passed a measure two or three times through this House and yet not having suc- ceeded in getting it on the statute-book. They will, under these circumstances, no doubt be glad to avail themselves of what assistance the Government may be able to give them. In Committee I shall be very glad to give careful consideration to any suggestions honourable members may have to make. Bill read a second time. # HOSPITAL NURSES REGISTRATION BILL. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) .- I think, Sir, that this Bill will com- mend itself to honourable members. It has seemed strange that while we insist upon people in other callings having the necessary qualifications and experience, nothing has been done in the direction in which this measure goes. We insist that no man shall work as a surveyor until he has been licensed, nor can others engage in a seafaring life until they are proved to be competent, and so in several other professions until they can procure portant matter of attending to the sick, how- ever, no means are at present provided by the State to enable those engaged in this profession to produce evidence of their ability to carry out their important duties. The object of this Bill is to provide for the registration of those who at present possess the necessary qualifica- tions and of those who may hereafter be- come qualified. Each year those registered would have their names published in the Gazette, and any one requiring the services of .a nurse could make sure of getting a competent nurse by a reference to this list. The Bill is not a lengthy one, and the clauses. explain themselves. Its one object is to pro- vide for the registration of hospital-trained nurses in New Zealand. There is no inten- tion to interfere with any competent per- son at present acting as a nurse. The Bill provides that hospital - trained nurses now qualified may become registered upon pro- ducing evidence of their fitness. Clause 2 defines " hospital" as a public hospital within the meaning of " The Hospitals and Charitable Institutions Act 1885 Amendment Act, 1886." Section 3 provides for the registration of nurses, and that a copy of the register shall be published in the Gazette annually in the I month of January. Subclause (1) of clause 4 deals with the case of those who have been trained in the larger hospitals that issue certificates, and provides for their registra- tion under certain conditions ; subclause (2) provides for the examination of those who have served in the smaller hospitals, but who produce a certificate of four years' training ; and subclause (3) deals with the cases that may arise after the passing of the Act. Those- whom it affects will require to have three years' training as a nurse in a hospital, together with systematic instruction in theo- retical and practical nursing, and must pass an examination from time to time held by examiners appointed under the Act. Sub- clause (4) provides for the registration, under certain conditions, of certificated nurses coming from other places. The remaining clauses are the machinery clauses required to give effect to the provisions of the Bill. I beg to move the second reading of the Bill. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce). - I do not know exactly what the object of this Bill is. One object of registration nowadays is to protect the public, and when I read the title of this. Bill I assumed that its object was to pro- vide that the public should be secured against bad nursing ; that nobody should be placed in the hands of incompetent nurses. But, in my opinion, it does not protect the public at all, and is useless, and is as so much waste-paper. In fact, it is rather worse than that, because it imposes certain conditions upon those who expect to become good nurses, which conditions may or may not be fulfilled. If they complied with its provisions they would certainly be able to wear their badge ; but if the Minister desires to better the condition of those who are at present hospital nurses he ought to go a step. 