tive body which would be a substantial and workable substitute for the Education Boards and the existing School Committees. I ask any man whether it is sensible or reasonable to maintain in existence two bodies to per- form duties which can more satisfactorily be performed by one. Two bodies must necessarily be much more expensive than one. And I appeal to those members in 12.0. Parliament, and to those gentlemen out of Parliament, who complain of the exces. sive cost of the education system to tell me why the redundant body should not be elimin- ated from the system. If they say the Educa- tion Boards and the School Committees should remain in existence as at present established, how then can they logically complain of the excessive cost of the system? Sir, I say the duty devolves upon the Government to give us a lead and to take its proper stand upon this vital question. It is the highest question to which any member of this Legislature can devote his attention. It is a question to which the Government ought to devote its closest attention. I hold that the education system of this country will never be perfect and strong as it ought to be until the Government itself seizes upon the subject with a determination to do what I am convinced in my own mind can be done-namely, to alter, strengthen, and improve the system in the manner laid down in my Public Schools Bill, which has now been before the country for ten years past. That is a sys- tem that would make more perfect the educa- tion of the youth of the colony and at much https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 less cost. But, as I say, it is a question the Government fear to touch. I get the credit in connection with this, as with other questions, of "belling the cat "; but I aspire to some more valuable recognition than that. I know that my Public Schools Bill struck terror into the Education Boards of the colony. They feared their dissolution ; but I say, as I said on the first day 1 introduced that Bill to this House, that the abolition of the Education Boards is the first thing to be done before it becomes possible to make any important im- provement in the education system itself. I do not want to labour that point, but I say that under the administration of the Education Boards the education system is simply drifting along as best it may. There are in qualities that ought to be rectified. I often ask myself if an intelligent visitor were passing through this country, and he saw the unequal manner in which the education funds were distributed to the Education Boards through the Educa- tion Department in Wellington, whether he would not say, " How is it that this district is living in comparative affluence, with magni- ficent school-buildings and highly paid teaching staffs, while these other districts are literally financially starved ? " That is literally the case; and what must be the effect upon the pupils in the starvation districts ? The visitor cannot avoid the conclusion that it is a piebald system. There are Education Boards in the they do not know how to employ, while there are education districts in the North Island which do not know where the money is to come from for the erection of schools in their districts. I will mention the names of some of the poorer districts, although it is not necessary to give the names of the affluent dis- tricts. The poorer districts are Taranaki, Wa- nganui, Marlborough, Westland, and Grey. 1 am not here to cast reflections upon any mem- ber of this House, or upon any Minister of the Crown, but I am here to say this : that if there were a Minister of Education with the courage to exercise his prerogatives in the way those prerogatives ought to be exercised it would be impossible that there could be rich districts in one part of the colony and poor districts in other parts. If the pupils in all parts of the colony are to receive equal education, the Boards should receive equal finance-that is to say, each should receive sufficient for its actual needs. There should be no such thing as plenty on the one hand and actual poverty on the other. I was once Minister of Education. I may be again pardoned for referring to that, though it usually creates a laugh in that part of the House where the member for Palmerston sits. But the honourable gentleman is not laughing to- night. Mr. PIRANI .- It is no laughing matter. Mr. FISHER .- Well, Sir, when I was Minis- ter of Education I did this: I took the total education vote. I ascertained for myself by diligent inquiry which of the education dis- tricts of the colony were in most straitened circumstances, and, instead of distributing the vote by rule-of-thumb, as it was distributed before and has been distributed since my time, and as it is being distributed now, I found out which of the districts were most in need of money for the erection of schools for the educa- tion of the youth of those particular districts. Mr. PIRANI .- You mean the building fund. Mr. FISHER. - Particularly building. 1 built a school at Blenheim, which I believe is a credit to the district. I rebuilt one at Hokitika-one which was burned down-when the honourable gentleman who is now Premier of the colony came to me along with Mr. Joseph Grimmond to ask for an increased grant to build a school which would meet the requirements of the future. I built a school in the congested Clyde Quay district, Wellington. I gave increased grants to New Plymouth and Wanganui. I distributed the money placed at my disposal according to the best of my judgment, and I say that that method of distributing the colonial education vote ought to be adopted to-day, to-morrow, and for all time. There ought to be no poverty- stricken districts, and no rich districts receiv- ing more money than they can legitimately spend. This state of things ought to be changed. Perhaps I have spoken forcibly, but I have spoken as dispassionately as I could, and without the least desire to make any charge against this Government. But I say that the ad- 