with on terms of equity. The head of the Stock Department had acknowledged they had no claim in law, but one in equity ; and therefore, as the head of the Stock Department had ad- mitted they had a claim in equity, that was all they asked for now-that they should be met in a spirit of equity. He considered this peti- tion should be again referred either to the Petitions Committee or to the Stock Com- mittee for fuller consideration. It was hastily dealt with, and on somewhat imperfect informa- tion. He would support the motion of the Hon. Mr. Bolt, and would also like to have the petition referred to the Stock Committee. He thought, however, it should go first to the Public Petitions Committee and then to the Stock Committee. The Hon. Mr. JONES said, if the persons prejudiced by the Act of 1900 were entitled to compensation so also were these people who were prejudiced by an Act previously passed that placed certain powers in the hands of the local bodies. But those who passed that Act which gave the local bodies such powers should have thought of it at the time the Act was passed, and should have made the necessary provision. However, it was never too late to mend, and if any injustice had been done it was their duty to rectify that in- justice. He did not, however, see what good was going to result from referring this report back to the Petitions Committee. What would the Petitions Committee do? As the Hon. Mr. Scotland had asked, were they to go through all the evidence again-the self-same evidence that was taken before ? If they were, then they would come to the same conclusion, presumably. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. The Hon. Mr. JONES said, Well, if the personnel of the Committee was the same, and the same persons attended as had attended on the occasion that the decision was come to, that was likely to be the result. He therefore thought it would be far wiser to adopt the sug- gestion made by the Hon. Mr. Jenkinson, and that they should not send this report back to the Petitions Committee with the idea that that Committee should send it on to the Stock Com- mittee, but that they should send it direct to the Stock Committee, and let that Committee deal with the subject. The Stock Committee had more knowledge of the matter, he imagined, than the Petitions Committee, and they, having had all the legislation dealing with the sub- ject before them, would probably be able to deal with the petition in a more enlightened manner. He therefore moved, That the motion be amended so as to read, That the petition be referred to the Stock Committee for considera- tion and report. The Hon. Mr. BOLT said he had no objec- tion to the amendment which had been pro- posed, and probably the adoption of it would be the best course to take ; but he would like to make a few remarks upon what had been said in the Council. In the first place, it had been asked, Why should not the City of Dunedin pay the compensation ? To his mind, that was Hon. Mr. Pinkerton liament had already provided . by enactment that not the Municipalities but the State should pay compensation in these cases. The case under review by the Council was exactly on all-fours, with the exception of time, with the cases where the State was to pay the compensation as provided by the Act. The Parliament of 1894 passed an Act which em- powered the City of Dunedin to do what an Act of Parliament passed in 1900 recognised might result in injustice being done, and the Parlia- ment then, very properly, made provision for compensation being given in such cases. It was to give the petitioners the advantage of this later legislation that they were now contending. Surely there was nothing improper, nothing wrong, in that .. They recognised at once that the petitioners had no legal status in the Council ; but, as the Hon. Mr. Pinkerton had pointed out, if they had had a legal status they would not have required to petition-they would have gone to the Courts. It was only because it was a question of equity that they had brought it before the Council, and he thought that fact should be sufficient to empower the Petitions or the Stock Committee to give the question some further consideration. It had been asked. What could the Petitions Committee do ? Well, they could do something more in a question of equity than simply say they had no report to make. Surely they could say whether there was a question of equity at stake or not, but they had not even done that. They had passed no opinion whatever upon the merits of the case, and that was what he principally took excep- tion to. He thought that, whatever Commit- tee the matter was referred to, that Committee should express an opinion upon the merits of the petition. He accepted the amendment of the Hon. Mr. Jones. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH wished to say a few words. These people had been sacrificed in the public interest, first of all, by the Bill of 1894 ; and, as the Hon. Mr. Bolt had said, the Government after that had recognised that there might be throughout the country a great many people sacrificed, and therefore had made provision against it in the 1900 Act. And what was remarkable was that in one of the Dunedin cases the slaughterhouse had been burned down. and the insurance company, possibly taking ad- vantage of the fact that this slaughterhouse property was no good to the owner, did not pay the insurance, but reinstated the buildings after the Act had passed that rendered them useless. and the owner had been put to great expense to alter them so that they might be used as stables, which stables he did not require. They knew the man could get no compensation. and yet they had reinstated the buildings as a slaughterhouse, as they had previously been. That was certainly an additional hardship. With the leave of the Council the question was put as amended, " That the petitions of Samson and Sons and Blackwood Brothers, Dunedin, be referred to the Stock Committee for further consideration." Motion agreed to. 