ness. Now, the point I wish to put clearly is this : If that man had been properly treated, and if the conveniences were there, why should I have kicked up a row, and called the nurse's attention to it, and at once asked my friend to see Mackenzie's doctor? It is fortunate they admit this incident, and they will find a diffi- culty in getting over it. Then, they go on to say, " When the nurse came along, she re- ferred ine to the hospital doctor." No such thing occurred ; I sent word to the doctor attending the man. The next point in this rather hysterical display that occurred in Dunedin was when the Chairman went on to say that "the nurse and the authorities were not aware I was a member of Parliament." think it is very fortunate that people in office are not always aware when members of Parlia- ment are about. When I was connected with some of my explorations I found some of the most interesting occurrences in all my career, because I was not known in my rough bush clothes. I remember on one occasion going to a railway-station, when I wanted several second-class tickets for some of the men of my party. The stationmaster refused to give me them, and said I should be there five minutes before the train started, and that the station- master was not there to suit the convenience of every tramp knocking about the country. In last November, when I was travelling by train from Christchurch, all my goods were put out of the carriage, and in explanation I was told they were not aware I was a mem- ber of Parliament, otherwise I might have had a reserved carriage to myself. Therefore members see, one discovers little irregularities when one moves about incog., and when it is not quite known who you are. Then the Chair- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero man of the Hospital Board makes a great point of the fact that I went to see this sick man and took no fruit with me, and did not even spend sixpence on this man. First of all, the statement is incorrect, and if it were correct it could not possibly have any bearing on the case. I do not want to talk about what I have done, but I may say I both sent and took fruit to my friend, which can easily be verified. Then, Sir, he says : "Why did I not go myself to Dr. Macpherson ?" I explained, I rang up and had him communicated with. Then they say, after arranging to take the man away, it was not done, although the house surgeon said he could then have been taken to any part of New Zealand. What an inaccurate statement, The doctor said he was too weak to be removed ; and had he been fit to travel, long before that I had been ready to take him to Rotorua myself, as is well known by John's friends. Then, Sir, I say too, in this connection, that evidently the Hospital Board are working up public sympathy for the nurses. They never mention the doctors perhaps the Cusack case was in their minds-but they talk about an attack being made on the defenceless nurses. Sir, the statements were not made on the nurses alone, but on the institution, and particularly on the doctor who had browbeaten the man Mr. T. Mackenzie should be properly attended to. Sir, for my part I know there are many excellent nurses in that institution. I have already said so in this House. But, Sir, is nothing to be said for the men and women who enter the institution from the back blocks? A great many of the patients who enter the institution are men who come from up-country, and I ask, Is nothing to be said for these patients? Sir, we know these institutions get support from the State to the extent of hundreds of thousands of pounds. and we are, therefore, justified in asking that proper treatment should be meted out to the patients. Then, a member of the Hospital Board, who is also a member of the City Council says I made untrue statements with regards I the actions of the Council, but he does not say to what statements he refers. Now that I have little more time I will quote, Sir, from a letter in my possession, which was referred to pre- viously by the member for Dunedin City .Mr. Arnold). This is my letter to the Hon. M .. Ward : - "MY DEAR WARD,-I congratulate you on your activity in taking stringent measures to check the chances of success to the plague. I! you are communicating to the Dunedin Citr authorities you should insist on that boc; stopping people from discharging filth into the Water of Leith stream. I am told that the City Council say the Lands Department have control of the stream ; but, whoever are responsible. i should be stopped." The honourable gentleman took up the mitter. and succeeded in stopping the nuisance, so that. as far as my statements in that connection am concerned, there is nothing to be said to :h contrary. Sir, it has also been stated by other honourable members in this House that they have heard the statements of patients in bx pitals who have been treated in very much ?? same way that John Mackenzie was treats The member for Masterton can tell us sec- thing of the same story. Then, there is a mx- ber who comes from the South who has also told me some strong things in connection with hospital treatment. For my part, Sir, I do not wish it to be misunderstood. 1 consider the hospital is a very excellent institution. My reason for bringing the matter up publicty is that public attention may be called to it, and that the authorities, who may not know what is going on, should be informed of matters as they really are. They may not have opportunities of knowing, and it is only right they should know of them, so that any evils that exist may be remedied. I have bumped against a few big interests and institu- tions in my time, and raised many hornets nests, and may do so again. But I feel sure. Sir, that great good will result in many parts of the colony by the matter being ventilated in the House. In conclusion, Sir, I wish to say it has never been my desire to court notoriety b: pointing out a matter of this sort : and the Chairman, Mr. Millar, in straining at motives and calling names, was unworthy of himsi As a rule, one brings more public odium that 