Government, If it is their intention to grant three days' leave of absence to the whole of the Police Force on account of the Royal visit, or only to those who followed the visitors over the colony ; and, if to the latter, why not to those members of the Police Force who left their homes to attend at the large centres during the stay of the Royal party ? He had put this question in view of a communication he had received from a constituent, who was not a policeman, and who thought it a great hard- ship to some of the police that they had not been allowed the same concession as the police who actually followed the Royal visitors through the colony. He hoped the Minister would give him an explicit answer on the question. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said he was glad to be able to inform the honourable gentleman that not only those members of the Police Force who left their homes, but those who had done extra duty in connection with the Royal visit, would receive the consideration which was mentioned in the question, the order being to grant three days' extra leave to all members of the Force who were called upon to perform extra duty during the Royal visit. # LAKE ELLESMERE. Mr. RHODES (Ellesmere) asked the Minister for Railways, If he has yet come to any de- cision with regard to the request for a grant in aid of the permanent drainage. works proposed to be constructed at the outlet to Lake Elles- mere? Shortly, the position with regard to the proposed drainage- works was that the Minister of Lands had promised £1,000 towards this work on condition that the Minister for Railways would give $700. He was not sure that the Minister for Railways had not already consented to this effect, and had so informed the Selwyn County Council. If so, he would not proceed further with the question. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said the Selwyn County Council had been advised that the payment of a sum not exceeding $700 towards the construction of an outfall, provid- ing the cost of the outfall alone amounted to $4,000, with a proportionate reduction in the event of the cost of outfall being less than $4,000, had been approved by the Government, on condition that the Railway Department in- curred no liability for the future maintenance of the outfall; and arrangements were being made accordingly. SLY-GROG SELLING AT PORT ALBERT. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Justice, Whether he is aware of the particulars of two cases of sly-grog selling brought before Mr. Bush, S.M., and Mr. Hutchison, S.M., respectively, at Port Albert on the 25th August, 1893, and the 15th May last, and the con- tradictory decisions arrived at therein ; if so, what remedy will the Minister suggest for what seems a serious irregularity ? This question arose out of two cases heard at Port Albert. and the Stipendiary Magistrate, Mr. Bush, ruled that it should have been brought against the steward, who was practically the guilty person. Subsequently a similar case was brought before Mr. Hutchison, Stipendiary Magistrate : but it was held that the charge could not lie because the police had made the charge against the steward instead of the captain. The Minister would at once see that two such contrary decisions rendered futile the efforts of the police, who did not know what to do ; and it seemed to him that in the interests of justice such un- certainty should be put at rest by a definite decision being obtained from a competent authority. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said the case had not been brought before him until he had noticed it in the honourable member's question. He was now instituting inquiries into the matter in order to ascertain the posi- tion, and when that information was obtained it was possible some action would be taken. # COAL COMMISSION. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) asked the Minister of Mines, When does he intend to lay the report, minutes of proceedings, and evidence of the Coal Commission before this House. He would be glad to hear that it was the intention of the Government to print this evidence, as it was of considerable importance, and especially in regard to the occurrence of a fire in the Cardiff coal-mine, which the Commission was sent down to report on. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) said he was very pleased to be able to answer in the affirmative. The only delay in the bringing- down of the report was in connection with the accumulation of work in the Printing Office. As soon as that was overcome the report and evidence of this Commission would be laid on the table of the House. # AWAMOKO STREAM. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Minis- ter of Mines, Whether it is intended to proclaim the Awamoko Stream as a sludge-channel in accordance with the petition of Maerewhenua miners to that effect ? Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) said this was a very important question. The position regarding this stream was that there were some forty-five claimants, and their claims amounted to over $66,459. Besides this, there were ob- jections from the Waitaki County Council, the dairy-factory proprietors, the farmers, and the Land for Settlements Department. Under these circumstances it was not intended to proclaim the Awamoko Stream a sludge-channel. SUPREME COURT JUDGES' SALARIES. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) asked the Minister of Justice, If the Government intend this session to afford the House an opportunity of increasing the salaries of Judges of the 