From the time constitutional government was list of authorised railways ? The authority for the construction of the line between Stratford given to this country up to the session of 1900 members of the House had enjoyed the privilege and Kawakawa had only been given for that and, indeed, the unquestioned right of having re- portion up as far as Whangamomona. It was desirable, therefore, that authority should be prints of their speeches for circulation amongst given for the completion of the line. The line their constituents ; but after the second reading would intersect the North Island Main Trunk of the Industrial Schools Bill of last session in- Railway at Kawakawa, and would bring the structions were given by the Minister in charge people of Taranaki into direct communication of the Printing Office that members were no with the City of Auckland. This route had been longer to have that right. During the present session he (Mr. Meredith) had sent a note to accepted by the Government, and the House were unanimous in approving of the determina- the Government Printer-not being aware that tion of the Government to construct this line that embargo continued in force-asking him to simultaneously with the North Island Main reprint a few copies of his speech upon a certain Trunk line. The land to be opened up was Bill, and he received from the Government very fertile, a large portion was in the hands Printer the following reply :- " In reference to your application for reprint of the Government, and another portion was Native land. The Minister himself had in- of your speech on Land for Settlements Bill, I beg to inform you that it has been decided spected the country some twelve or fifteen months ago in company with himself (Mr. not to reprint members' speeches for the future." Napier). At present he believed there was As each member was only allowed sixty only one settler in the Ohura Valley beyond Whangamomona, and there was no doubt that copies of Hansard for circulation, very few out if this railway were constructed rapid settle- of an average number of ten thousand electors ment would follow. The initial step was, of in a constituency would be able to gain any course, the authorisation of the line, and he information of what actually transpired on the hoped the Minister would see his way to have floor of that House. He represented a country electorate extending from north to south about this done during the present session. Mr. HALL- JONES (Minister for Public two hundred miles, and from east to west about Works) said the authorisation of the line would eighty miles, and his constituents were scat- tered in small communities. If, therefore, he be of no use unless they had a vote of the House had not the right to reprint copies of his to enable the Government to carry out the work. Now, the honourable member had speeches many of his constituents would have pointed out that in the Ohura Valley there no opportunity of knowing what their repre- were only a few settlers, and it would be far sentative was doing in the House. He had better to expend the money where the country brought the matter before the House towards was well settled. In taking the line through the close of last session, but had not received a from Stratford to Kawakawa they had started favourable reply. He intended to press this from the Stratford end, where every acre of question until the restriction was removed. land had been taken up for some fifty miles Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public along the route, and consequently there would Works) said the honourable gentleman ought be an immediate return upon the money ex- to know that this so-called " privilege " of re- pended. To commence work at the northern printing members' speeches had only been in end of the Ohura Valley would necessitate a operation for a comparatively few years. It smaller vote for the Main Trunk line, and he never was a right or privilege, but it appeared was sure the honourable gentleman would not to have been allowed as a matter of courtesy have a single pound diverted from that work to members of the House. If the honourable for the purpose of starting a new work at Kawa- member wanted to let his constituents know kawa through the valley. When the Main what he was saying in the House, he could go Trunk Railway was opened to Kawakawa it to any of the outside printing-offices and get would be time enough to consider whether they ten thousand copies of a half-hour's speech should commence the work at the northern end printed at a cost of 30s. more than he would as well as at Stratford. be required to pay at the Government Printing Mr. NAPIER did not ask that any money Office. And if a man considered that was too should be expended, but merely that this should much to pay, then he could let his constituents be placed on the list of authorised railways, go without the speech. He was advised that to do which would cost nothing. the Government Printer was responsible, per- Mr. HALL - JONES said he would, if the sonally and officially, for any libellous matter honourable member desired it, consider this that appeared in those speeches when reprinted phase of the question when bringing down any from Hansard. Authorisation Bill. Mr. MEREDITH .- When did you discover that ? HANSARD REPRINTS. Mr. HALL-JONES .- Last session. And it Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) asked the Govern- was unfair to the Government Printer that he ment, By whom, and why, instruction has should be placed in the position of having to been given to the Government Printer not to run the risk of a prosecution in the event of any Mr. Napier 