reduced they would have their demand acceded to. Every one in politics knew that there was a certain time when the Government got weak in the House, and when members went to them and said they were pledged to get certain reductions in rent for their constituents, and that they could not go back to them with any hope of get- ting returned without getting those reductions, and that if they did not get them they would have to vote with the Opposition. Every one knew that then the rents would be reduced, otherwise out would go the Government. He was not one of those who believed in big es- tates, and he had never contrived to get them. He had always held that there was no need to take land compulsorily for land-settlement. The people who got their estates taken were the lucky people, in his opinion. An Hon. MEMBER. - What do they growl about ? The Hon. Mr. McLEAN said he did not know any one growling about having had their estates taken from them, except one in Hawke's Bay, and he did not believe he was in earnest. If he had land he would be very glad indeed to have it taken, and he would rejoice with others similarly situated at having got rid of it. If the Tax Department were raising the value of land in Hawke's Bay before Go- vernment took it, surely that was the worse for the colony ; and for his honourable friend to say it was to equalize values all over the colony, was simply ridiculous. Land was valu- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 able according to the position it was in, and according to its access to the railways or water carriage, and although people might give $50 an acre in the neighbourhood of Christchurch for land, it did not follow that land in the neighbourhood of Napier would fetch half as much. It would be absurd to compare Taranaki with Hawke's Bay. A great portion of Taranaki had been reclaimed from the bush. Other parts were Native land that had been cut up and sold. He would ask: What about the plains out of Hawera? That was Native land which had been confiscated, he thought, and afterwards cut up into sections, and beauti- ful land it was for the purpose. They could not successfully grow crops, nor breed sheep there, but it was excellent dairying country, and was of considerable benefit to the colony. He did not think any one would hold that the land in Hawke's Bay was suitable for dairying, as the land in Taranaki was. It was, however, suitable for other classes of cultivation. In his opinion, it was very suitable for fruit-growing, and that industry could be worked up there. They could grow crops without any incon- venience there. The difhculty of doing that in Taranaki was that, after even they got them into stook, they started sprouting again, on account of the dampness of the atmosphere. As a consequence dairying was found to be much more profitable there than cropping. To make the excuse for not . supplying the return, that the printing-office was not able to print returns required by statute to be placed before Parliament within a Plenty of matter was being printed in that office that could very well be kept. He thought the resolution should be carried, and if the re- turn was laid on the table and conveyed the information required in the return, he thought his honourable friend would not put them to the inconvenience of compiling or printing it. He thought the return should be ordered. There was one thing regarding land for settle- ments which he would say he had always upheld himself to a certain extent, and that was that it had prevented other people from cutting up pro- perties and selling them. It was only the Govern- ment that could sell or let them, and everybody rushed to the Government, in the hope that some day they would get freehold when wanted, or their rents reduced. If laws were made pre- venting settlers from increasing the size of their properties, then he did not see why they should not have the freehold. He was quite satisfied that some of those estates mentioned should have remained untaken until the railways were sufficiently advanced into their Native lands. on which a large population could be settled. Traffic for the railways could thus have been made, while a large tract of country would have been settled. That would have prevented running up the debt of the colony at a pace which every one must know could not continue. They required something like two millions a year for public works at present, and he did not think it would be long before they saw an end of that boom. He would support the motion for the return. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY saw no objection to the return asked for by the honourable gentleman. In his opinion the Act had been very beneficial to the colony, and would continue to be so if properly administered. When the Government purchased land from a private individual where it was well situated and suited for the purpose of cultivation, they must, in the terms of the Act, give a good price for it- that was, at least, the market price-and unless the land was of good quality and was easily accessible, the tenant would not be able to pay 5 per cent. on the cost to the Government, besides fencing and building, in order to profit- ably occupy it. Comparison had been made between the land in Hawke's Bay and Taranaki. There could be really no comparison between the two. On the East Coast the climate was a dry one, while on the West Coast in Taranaki there was continual rain and sunshine; and in dealing with lands subject to these different descriptions of climate the class of purpose to which the land was most profitably applied were entirely distinct. In Taranaki, round the base of Mount Egmont, owing to the reliable rainfall, which on an average was 6 in. or 7 in. every month in the year, the most profitable pursuit was dairy - farming. The climatic conditions dominated the class of farming that was most beneficial to the occupier. It meant that they could not hope to grow grain there ; but dairying, on the other hand, could be carried on more cheaply and successfully than in any other part of the world. Hawke's 