these had been from the honourable member, one was from a colleague of his (Mr. Hall- Jones), and one was from the Opposition benches. He had acted strictly in accordance with the legal opinion on the matter. He did not know whether Mr. Speaker would be pre- pared to act as censor, and to say whether or not certain speeches should be reprinted at the Government Printing Office and cir- culated. Personally, he would not take that position. It was the duty of the House to protect the Government Printer from any action that might be taken. Let the honourable member move in that direction. They had more work in the Printing Office this session than they had had for years past. Many of the reports were delayed owing to the work of the Education Commission coming in late ; and then to ask that they should take up the time of the Office-apart from the legal liability -in printing reports of members' speeches when they could get them done nearly as cheaply in an outside office was undesirable. He was not aware it was a right any honourable gentle- man could demand -it was a matter of courtesy ; and he would have been only too pleased to continue it if it had not been for the warning he had received last session. He considered he was doing his duty as the administrator of the When department in acting as he had done. the question had been referred to recently he had pointed out that a member's speech containing libellous matter printed separately might be held to be libellous, but that if an ordinary number of Hansard were circulated with the Government imprint it was privileged, and he had stated that he was prepared to issue the single number of Hansard at almost the same price as the single speech. That was a fair offer, and if the honourable gentleman wanted to circulate his speeches all he had to do, after he had made one of his eloquent addresses, was to notify the Government Printer that he wanted ten thousand copies of the number, and he would have them printed, and the honourable gentleman would be supplied with them at a cost not much in excess of that of the single speech. He failed, however, to see why liability should be thrown on the tax- payers of the colony, or why they should be called upon to defend any libel action, or why the Government Printer should be called on to do so, in order to satisfy the vanity of any member of the House. Mr. MEREDITH said the honourable gentle- man was drawing a red-herring across the scent. Could he state any instance of a libel action being brought against the Government Printer for a reprint of members' speeches ? In the second place, he might be permitted to say. in reply to the honourable gentleman, that whenever he had a reprint of his speeches he had always paid to the full the account rendered by the Government Printer. He was under no obligation to the Government Printer ; and, notwithstanding the honourable Printing Office. Mr. HALL-JONES said he did not for a moment doubt that the honourable gentleman had always paid for the printing of his speeches ; and in regard to any action for libel being brought against the Government Printer, he did not know of any ; but he did know of the lia- bility of that officer if what the honourable gentleman desired was to be given effect to, and it was his duty to protect him, and it was the duty of the House to protect him. It was open to any honourable member to get the whole number of Hansard, or to give the work to an outside printing-office at an extra cost of 30s. more per ten thousand copies of his speech. KIOURANGI POINT LIGHTHOUSE. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motucka) asked the Minister of Marine, What progress, if any, is being made with the construction of the Kiou- rangi Point Lighthouse ? Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) said very good progress was being made. The lamp and apparatus had been ordered, and was expected to reach the colony in November. Then, a contract had been let for the iron tower, also to be completed in November ; and the plans and specification of the other build- ings were now ready. # TADMOR BRIDGE. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) asked the Go- vernment, If they will make provision on this year's estimates for the railway-bridge over the Motueka River at Tadmor being also made a road-traffic bridge. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) hoped to make provision for the work referred to. The plans and specification were complete, and ready for inviting tenders. WAIMATE HIGH SCHOOL CADET CORPS. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Go- vernment, Why so long a delay-namely, eighteen months-has occurred in connection with the offer of the services of a cadet corps in connection with the Waimate District High School, and when the school authorities will be informed of the decision arrived at? He asked the question in consequence of having received the following letter from the head- master of the Waimate District High School :- "Waimate, 14th July, 1901. " DEAR SIR, -- I am in receipt of your letter of the 5th, for which many thanks. " In reply, I may say that the Government have not vet accepted the corps to be formed in connection with our school. The position is simply this : Fully eighteen months ago both High School Board and School Com- mittee resolved that a cadet corps be formed in connection with the Waimate District High School. The former body voted $30 towards uniforms, and the School Committee agreed to find the balance. All the necessary details were gone through-number of boys eligible, 