tured in the country successfully. This amounts almost entirely to a revenue tariff; it is cer- tainly not protective in any sense. And yet we are allowing the land-values of this country, which have gone up to such an enormous extent, to get off without paying a fair share of taxation. If members will turn to the amount of the land-tax in 1893 they will find it amounted to £297,181, and in 1901 it amounted to $294,583-£2,598 less than in 1893. That, Sir, is what we are getting out of the land-values, although they have gone up nearly 20 per cent. This is due, of course, in some measure at least, to the fact that estates have been subdivided. That is one reason. Another is that the Government, in the ad- vances to settlers, escape paying the mortgage- tax. Now, with regard to the dispute as to whether the Premier is responsible for the mild panic which spread over the colony, there is no doubt, if the newspaper report is correct, that he started it ; but that has been pretty well threshed out by the member for Hawke's Bay, the member for Bruce, and the member for Riccarton, and no good purpose is to be served in considering the point any further. I now wish to refer to a social question. The member for Auckland City a short time ago referred to the fact, in answer to some remarks I made, that drunkenness is not on the increase in New Zealand. It seems to me, while we are dealing with the economic side of the questions in this country, the Legislature and the Ministry have a duty with respect to the social life of the people. If members will turn to the Police Commissioner's report of last year they will read these remarks :- "The increase in the number of charges of drunkenness during the year has far exceeded that of any previous year, so far as the records show. The total during the year was 6,289, being 757 over the figures of 1898." Then, again, it goes on to say :- "This large increase in Auckland is, in my opinion, largely due to the increased efforts of the Auckland police, under Inspector Cullen, to more expeditiously remove drunken persons from the streets than was formerly the case, and to the fact that during the whole of 1899 the closing-time of licensed houses in Auckland was eleven o'clock p.m. instead of ten p.m." And yet in the face of this report that drunkenness was increased by increasing the hours of sale, the Premier has the audacity to suggest that the hour of closing for the whole colony shall be fixed at eleven o'clock. Mr. HANAN .- And reduce the penalties. Mr. ELL .- And reduce the penalty, as the honourable member for Invercargill states, in order to encourage drunkenness. There is no other term for it. Now, the Commissioner does not repeat his remarks respecting the effect of drunkenness in this year's report, but, however, they are applicable to this year, namely :- "Drunkenness is always reflected in the number of such offences as manslaughter, abusive and threatening language, breaches of decent exposure and behaviour, obscene and profane language, and obstructing and resisting the police. The net increase under the fore- going heads is 288." Now, here we have the opinion of the Com- missioner that some of the worst features of our criminal record, that some of the worst crimes that disgrace New Zealand, are at- tributable directly to drunkenness, and yet we have the Hon. the Premier suggesting to in- troduce legislation that will give further privileges to a trade which is working these terrible results upon a young country like this, and amongst the people of a young country like this. The Commissioner, in his report for the present year, states :- " During the year the number of charges of drunkenness was 7,299, being an increase of 1,010 on the figures of the preceding year. This increase far exceeds that of any previous year so far as the records show." Here we have again the report of the Com- missioner that drunkenness is still on the in- crease. Now, with regard to the drink bill of New Zealand, this bill has been prepared by Mr. C. M. Gray, one of the oldest Justices of the Peace, and one of the most respected citi- zens of Christchurch, and a man who has been Mayor on several occasions. Mr. Gray has pre- pared the drink bill for a number of years past. The drink bill for the 31st March last is as fol- lows :- Gallons. 555,772, at 40s., 1,111,544 Spirits Wines 116,703, at 40s., 233,406 .. Ales 52,617 175,390, at 6s., Colonial beer .. 6,773,520, at 4s., 1,354,704 7,621,385 £2,752,271 This gives an average for the year of £3 78. 6d. per head. Now, in 1896 it was $2 17s. 2d. ; in 1897, £3 1s. ; in 1898, £3 2s. 4d. ; in 1899, £3 3s. 1d .; in 1900, £3 5s. 10d. ; in 1901, £3 7s. 6d. : so this will show that the drink bill per head of the people is going up at an alarming rate. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is our prosperity. Mr. ELL .- Yes, Sir; but it has its effects, and, instead of granting facilities for the sale of drink, the lesson is this: that it is the duty of the Legislature and the duty of the Govern- ment to assist by every means in their power in checking the sale of liquor amongst the people, seeing it has such terrible results, as shown by the police reports. Mr. FISHER .- The reports published in the Appendices to the Journals last year show that the consumption has gone down. Mr. ELL .- The honourable member can speak after I have done. Sir, a kindred subject to the one that has been so fully dealt 10.30. with and so fully commented upon by honourable members is that of the enormous increase of our public debt, and the enormous increase of the interest charges upon that debt. One-third of the total amount of our revenue has now to be taken every year to pay interest to the foreign bondholder. It seems to me 