there from another place ; and I have no doubt that, with the careful consideration it will re- ceive there, and the revision the Bill will also undergo in Committee, every effort will be made to make the law as perfect as possible. Bill read a second time, and referred to the Statutes Revision Committee. The House adjourned at a quarter past twelve o'clock a.m. LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Friday, 16th August, 1901. First Reading-Shops and Offices Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Presbyterian Church of New Zealand Bill. SHOPS AND OFFICES BILL. ADJOURNED DEBATE. The Hon. Mr. RIGG .- Sir, I confess that I was not affected to the extent that I might have been by the fervent appeal of the Hon. Mr. Shrimski last evening in regard to the wel- fare of the poor people of the colony, for the reason that I have heard the same story before, and very frequently since I entered this Council. I might point out for the information of the honourable gentleman that that cry was raised over half a century ago against the factory legis- lation introduced in England, and it has done duty ever since for the opponents of all labour measures. If the poor people of New Zealand required a champion in a matter of this sort, I would be one to come forward to champion their cause, for the reason that I was once a poor man myself, and, as I may probably be in that position again some day, I speak with a full sense of responsibility when I say that it is better that these poor people should be working for those who are capable of paying them a fair wage than that they should be engaged in a com- petition which is not only disastrous to them- selves, but also to others. If there are poor people who cannot engage in fair competition, either in trade or in the labour-market, then I say it is the duty of the State to find them employ- ment, or to give them charitable aid. That is the way to deal with poor people, and I am one of those who are always willing to do what they can to bring that about. What surprised me most in the course of this debate was the remarkable speech delivered by the Hon. Mr. Jennings. I could hardly believe that I was listening to the speech of one who has been regarded as a representative of labour in this Chamber. From the heat that characterized it, the speech seemed to me to be rather that of one bitterly opposed to labour legislation of any kind. I know that is not so, because the honour- able gentleman has supported labour legislation in the past, more or less. But I intend to dwell for a few minutes on some of the statements warned the Council that it must give the most serious consideration to this measure, and he indicated that if any one would move in the direction of throwing the Bill out he would vote with him. But surely the honourable gentleman must be aware that this is the second time this Bill has been before the Council. It has been before it three times, but not perhaps in the same form as it is at present. Last year the Bill was much more stringent in its provisions than it is now, and in that more stringent form it passed through the Council. As regards the Bill we are now considering, in the Labour Bills Committee an endeavour has been made to meet every reason- able objection on the part of employers through- out the colony. And yet in the face of that we are told we must give the most serious con- sideration to the measure. And why? Be- cause there is going to be a revulsion of feel- ing. Now, who is going to revel-may I be permitted to say, who is going to " revulsh " ? Is it the workers who are affected by the Bill, and who are going to be benefited by having their hours shortened and by pay- ment for overtime ? Surely it is not the employers, because they must then become in favour of the Bill, as they have hitherto always been against legislation of this kind, although, as I shall show later on, it has been for their benefit in some cases, which they have acknowledged. But when this revul- sion of feeling takes place, then something is going to happen. I want to know what it is. The ominous tones of the Hon. Mr. Jennings would lead one to believe that it is going to be something fearful. Well, I am one of those who cannot be frightened by a bogey. If there is a danger to be faced I want to know what it is, and so I say, let this terrible thing come on, whatever it is. The bigger it is the better, for the simple reason that, as Josh Billings says, " You can dodge an elephant, but you can't dodge a flea." Let it come on, and we will meet it in the same spirit, I hope, that we have met objections of that kind in the past. Then, the honourable gentleman proceeded to say, in a most dramatic way, that he would sooner retire from political life than force down the throats of the people what they do not want. I am afraid the honourable gentleman said rather more than he intended. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- No, he did not. The Hon. Mr. RIGG .- Then, I should say his time in this Council will be exceedingly limited. There is no law passed in any Parliament which is not against the desire and wish of some per- sonor class of persons, and it follows as a mat. ter of course that you must, in order to benefit those you desire to benefit, force unsatisfactory legislation upon another class of the community. So that we see his dramatic statement when it is analysed does not amount to very much. Let us take, for instance, people who live in un- healthy premises surrounded by insanitary con- ditions. They have low rents to pay, and so they are quite prepared to live on under those conditions. They do not want to be interfered 