indeed, Sir, that a discussion of this kind has arisen at this period of the session. If there is anything which honourable members should avoid it is the recriminations, the charges, and the threats that have been indulged in this evening. I know that some honourable mem- bers pretend to have exceedingly clean hands, and now and again they are in the habit of deprecating the conduct of their colleagues ; but if there is anything excessively discredit- able in connection with the voting of the money -- which I believe was appropriated by every honourable member to whom it was offered- Mr. PIRANI. - You are wrong. Mr. HOGG .- I am glad to hear that there may be an isolated case. I have been look- ing in vain for the man who has not taken the money. I hope he will turn up eventually. I say, Sir, that if there is anything peculiarly discreditable in the conduct of any honourable member who has taken something which was spoken of as an inducement to pass a certain Act, the discredit attaches specially to those who, having voted against it, have since endea- voured to wash their hands clean of it in front of the country, and deprecated the action of other honourable members before their consti- tuents, yet have handled the money and made use of it. I would ask, What does the whole of this long discussion amount to? What was the object of the Bill that was passed last session ? What was the difficulty that we had to deal with ? What was provided for in the Public Revenues Act ? Was not that measure virtually the re-enactment of a statute that had been passed over twenty years before ? The provision that so much attention has been paid to this evening is one of a very simple character. Under it, when a dead- lock occurs between the Treasurer and the Controller and Auditor-General on a question of law, the Solicitor-General is called in to settle the dispute and get rid of the deadlock. In a matter of that kind, whose opinion should be taken ? Who is to decide a question of law where there is a difference of opinion as to whether a certain amount of money can be legally paid away or not ? Should it be left to the Auditor-General or the Solicitor-General ? I say, Sir, that the Act very properly provides that the opinion of the Solicitor-General, the legal adviser of the Crown, shall prevail. The Act merely asserts the right of this Parliament when it votes money to see that the votes are fairly appropriated, and that they are used in the way that Parliament intended. It asserts the right of the country to deal with its own revenues, and it provides that the people of the country and the Parliament shall not be placed under the heel of any officer. But, Sir, what does the honourable member for Riccarton say ? He said, " If I am to be abused I will open my mouth wider than I have yet done." I, for one, challenge the honourable member to open his mouth as wide as he likes. What is the meaning of such a threat? Why does he not open his mouth and give us his re- velations ? He refers to two members of this House as having seduced him from giving his vote. I did not know the honourable member was open to seduction before. This innocent member is led away like a lamb to the slaughter. He allows himself to be taken away from the House at the very time when he should have had the manliness to have given his vote for or against the matter that was before Parliament. What does he tell us? That he allowed two members to take him away so that he should not vote on that occasion ! He consented to do a thing which no member who has the courage of his opinions would do, and he leaves a reflec- tion to be cast on every member of the House by refusing to say who were the two members who carried him away captive. If the honour- able member had a spark of manliness in his carcase Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable member must withdraw that language at once. Mr. HOGG .- I withdrawit, Sir, with pleasure ; and will say that if the honourable member acted fairly towards his colleagues in the House he would not allow a reckless imputation of that sort to remain in Hansard directed against those with whom he has been working during the present session, and for years past. I say it is a very unjust reflection. When the honour- able member assumes such an attitude, and asserts that he has been led to do a thing which he now regrets having done, he should be pre- pared to say who were the members that in- duced him to do so. But, Sir, what did he. do ? He admits that on the second reading he voted for the Public Revenues Bill. He says that the Bill was a measure which should never have been passed. If it was a measure of the kind he declares, and contained the dangerous provisions he referred to, why did he vote for the second reading? And, having voted for the second reading, why does he now come before the House and denounce the measure? I trust there are very few members in the House who having voted for a particular measure would a year afterwards. say, " I did something I should not have done. I allowed myself to be carried away at the time, and supported a measure which I now say is objectionable, and that I should like to see repealed." What reliance is to be placed on a member who takes up an attitude like that -- who votes one day for a measure and the next day deprecates it, and says there is something dangerous in it, and if any one would move that it should be repealed he would assist him ? Is that the attitude an honourable member should take up? I am not at all astonished, because if one honourable member is continually waver- ing in this House from one side to the other it is the honourable member for Riccarton. He has been "everything at times, but nothing long." At one moment he has been an ad- vocate for huge borrowing, and the next time he comes forward and tells us we ought not to borrow. An Hon. MEMBER .- When was this? Mr. HOGG .- Even during this session. Did he not say the Government ought to be satisfied with a million of money for the Advances to Settlers Office, and yet when it was proposed to 