further, but I wish to thank honourable mem- bers for the way they have received the Bill, and I feel sure they will assist me in passing it. Bill read a second time. ## DUNEDIN CITY AND SUBURBAN TRAMWAYS BILL. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) .- In rising to move the second reading of this Bill it will be unnecessary for me to detain the House at any great length because it is practically a machinery Bill. Under the Act which was passed last ses- sion honourable members will remember that authority was given to the City Council to pur- chase the tramways of Dunedin, and likewise to borrow the sum of $200,000 for that purpose. After making full inquiries they have decided to adopt electricity as the motive-power for the trams. In order to enable them to do that they had to get the necessary water-rights. These water-rights have been obtained from the War- den's Court, and one of the conditions for con- structing the race and dam was that the Council should be liable for any damage that might ac- crue by reason of that work, and it was neces- sary, therefore, for them to come to Parliament to get that power. If honourable members will look at the Bill they will see that the first three clauses are machinery clauses. A great deal of misapprehension exists in the minds of certain members that certain things are in this Bill which are not there at all. There is nothing in the Bill which states that the tramways shall pass through a certain part of the Town Belt. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 An Hon. MEMBER. - Can you say that they may not go there ? Mr. MILLAR .- At any rate, this is a mere Committee objection, and the honourable mem- bers who are talking about this matter know that it is a Committee objection, and that in Committee we can deal with the whole subject. No. 4 clause simply clears up a defect in the definition of suburban districts in the original Act. An Hon. MEMBER .- Where is that ? Mr. MILLAR .- You will find it in the Tram- ways Act. Then, clause 5 clearly defines the position of the City of Dunedin as the pro- moter of the tramways. Clause 6 vests the mining privileges in the Corporation. Then. clause 7 is a clause which throws the liability upon the Council for any damage which may accrue in connection with the construction of the dam or weir. That is one of the conditions imposed by the Warden's Court when granting this right. Clause 8 simply makes a good title for the City Corporation in respect of these works, and that is absolutely necessary, because a large sum of money will be bor- rowed for the construction of these tramways. $50,000 has already been borrowed, and they may have to go to the foreign money- market for more. This is to make a good title for those who may advance the money. Sec- tions 10 and 11 simply contain what is con- Mr. Haselden and dam are deemed to be waterworks, with this exception : that if it passes through a mining district a miner is not liable if he fouls the water that passes along the water-race. Clause 14 gives the ordinary power to make by-laws. Clause 15 refers to the form of debentures to be issued. Clause 16 gives authority for the issue and sale of debentures. Clause 17 pro- vides that the consent of the ratepayers is un- necessary before applying for an authorising order. The reason for that is this: A poll has already been taken on a loan of $50,000, which it is understood will cover the whole matter. and the ratepavers have sanctioned it. There- fore the Council ask that they be not required to take another poll of the ratepayers if there should be any slight deviation of the line. It has been proposed to extend the line beyond the limits of the boroughs as contained in the original Act. Here is a case in point : Honour- able members will know where Anderson's Bay is. The proposal is to carry a line to that locality : but that cannot be done under the original Act, because Anderson's Bay is not contiguous to the city, although it is con- tiguous to one of the boroughs. This clause. therefore, gives power to carry the line beyond the ordinary boundaries. Clause 18 of the Bill sets out that the tramways are not liable to be rated by the local authority. That is only fair, as an agreement has been entered into between the local boroughs for rent to be paid for the trams running through their districts. The rent that is agreed on will be a fair rent. no doubt, and there should be no other rate beyond it. Clause 19 embodies in this Bill what is contained in section 10 of the Second Schedule of " The Tramways Act, 1894." Clause 20 states that the period for which any borough may delegate its authority shall be stated in the Order in Council. At present there seems to be no time defined. Then follow the schedules to the Bill, granting the right to the Council to 350 heads on the Taieri River and to thirty on the Lee Stream. The form of the debentures is also set out. I hope. Sir, the Bill will be allowed to go through with- out further delay. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) .- Sir. I should like to know if the honourable mem! er is prepared to refer the Bill to the Goldfields and Mines Committee. There are mining interests affected, and under the law all Bills affecting mining and mining interests are to be referred to that Committee. I have not had time to look closely into the measure, and I am not prepared to say what position I would take up in regard to it. If the honourable gentle- man would let the Bill go to the Committee I think it would facilitate its passage. There are some clauses to which opposition might be raised, but I do not intend to refer to them at present. I think the honourable gentleman should allow the Bill to go to the Goldfields and Mines Committee. Mr. MILLAR .- I might reply at once to the. 