hours day in the institutions instead of the present hours, it would mean the large in- crease in cost of £6,500; as more hands would be required for the extra attendance. Of course, in any steps the Government took they would consider at the same time what was desirable in the best interests of the in- mates of the institutions. Mr. FISHER said it was a little unfair to say that the board, lodging, washing, et cetera, formed an addition to the pay. That was a hard, stereotyped, official, and, might he say, a narrow view to take of the matter. The honour- able gentleman said the work was not hard. He (Mr. Fisher) knew men who after a year or two were very glad to get away from it. There was a rule in the asylums-he said this subject to correction-to the effect that if an attendant were dismissed, even after years of service, he received no retiring allowance ; but that if he were retired, or retired voluntarily, he might receive a retiring-allowance ; but if he left the asylum in opposition to the wish of the Superintendent he was cut off from any hope of receiving a retiring-allowance. If the Go- vernment were about to review the whole mat- ter, as the honourable gentleman said, that question should also be taken into considera- tion. He knew one attendant named Power who wished to retire after three years, having had enough of the work. Dr. MacGregor wished to retain him, but rather than remain in the service he abandoned his retiring-allow- ance. Mr. HALL - JONES said the honourable gentleman expected that board, lodging, wash- ing. and uniform should not be taken into account in considering a man's salary. Surely it was only businesslike that such things should be considered. As far as the lightness of the work was concerned, he did not say it was light, but, at any rate, it was not hard ; but he admitted it was trying to those who undertook the duties. The question of retiring- 4.30. allowance would be considered at the same time as the other questions. # RAILWAY-WORKS. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) asked the Minister for Public Works, How it is that 81 artisans and 1,062 labourers are employed on the North Island Main Trunk Railway-line, while only 18 artisans and 404 labourers are employed on the Midland Railway, 9 artisans and 248 labourers on the Blenheim-Waipara line, and 86 artisans and 484 labourers on the Otago Central line? Honourable members would be aware that a very large amount of influence had recently been brought to bear on the Public Works Department with the object of compelling that department to make more strenuous efforts in regard to the completion of the North Island Main Trunk Railway. He did not in the least degree oppose these efforts, and he would like, as much perhaps as honour- able members representing northern electo- rates, to see that railway completed ; but he just wished to draw the Minister's atten- there were within fifty as many artisans and labourers employed on the North Island Main Trunk line as were employed on the combined Central Otago, the Midland Railway, and the Waipara-Blenheim line. And, while he had no desire to interfere with the works on the North Island Main Trunk line, he did think it was his duty to see that in the working of that line the other lines were not correspondingly neglected in regard to the number of men who ought to be employed upon them. As he had just pointed out, the number at work upon the North Island Main Trunk line was within fifty of the total number employed on the other three lines to which he had referred ; and he wished also to emphasize the necessity of the Waipara-Blen- heim line. He would ask the head of the department how it was that there was such disparity in the number of labourers and artisans that were employed on these respective lines, and to urge the necessity of a greater number being employed on the completion particularly of the Waipara-Blenheim line. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) said the matter was of very easy ex- planation. The honourable member was no doubt aware that the sums voted for these respective works were: North Island Main Trunk Railway, $130,000 ; Midland Railway, $100,000-that meant on the Canterbury side, the West Coast side, and the section in hand from Nelson ; Otago Central, $100,000; and $50,000 was set apart for the Waipara-Blen- heim, and the greater part of this £50,000 was being spent at the southern end. There was another thing to be considered : how many men could be employed on the various works advantageously. They might have large sums of money voted, but it must be used to the best advantage. It was the duty of the Goverment, with the money at their disposal, to carry on the works in an economical manner. It was this latter course the Government were following. Now, take the Midland Railway : On the Can- terbury side they had a section about six miles in length, a work which the honourable gentle- man had some knowledge of. And when he knew-perhaps he did know-that nearly the whole of the men employed on the Midland Rail- way were employed on this very section, he must admit that that work, at any rate, was fully manned, and he thought it would be unwise to place any more men there unless there was scope for them to be advantageously employed. Then, as regarded the North Island Main Trunk line, the large majority of the members of the House approved of a greater number of men being employed upon that work, because it was recognised this work should, as far as practicable, be completed within a reasonable time. There was one section fifteen miles long at the northern end which consisted of fairly easy formation. At the same time, it was inadvisable to have works extending over too great a length, as the cost of cartage for the materials required added considerably to the cost of the work. Then, take the Otago Central, the same remarks applied there. They had 