those mortgages, while new ones are issued, and therefore the balance must vary, and always will do so, monthly. But if I did not clearly explain the position with regard to the I claim to have figures let me do so now. done so before, but I spoke more on the broad facts of the measure; and when I have a com- plate report such as I hold in my hand-a report which honourable members should read, mark, learn, and inwardly digest-it is not too much to ask them to look at the details. At any rate, I will give the figures once more, and, of course, honourable gentlemen will realise that I am speaking not from my own book, but from the books of the Valuer-General-the Superintendent of the Advances to Settlers. According to this statement, we had a balance of $760.000 of the old loan that we could raise by way of debentures or otherwise. Against that sum $200,000 has to be set as temporary advances already obtained. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is only £140,000 ac- cording to the published accounts. Mr. MILLS .- Well, I shall be able to ex- plain to the honourable member for Riccar- ton, Mr. G. W. Russell, where his figures are wrong, as they generally are when he criticizes audited balance-sheets. The figures I have re- ceived are, in my opinion, from an undoubted source, and therefore I give them with the weight of that authority to the House. Now. then, there would be only $560,000 available for the coming vear ; and any one can under- stand at once that, if the office is putting through a sum of something like $500,000 an- nually by way of investment, there could only be available under any possibility a sum of .€60,000 at the 31st March next year. An Hon. MEMBER. - How about repayments ? Mr. MILLS .- Repayments are falling in, but the business is also steadily increasing, and therefore the department is surely not to be tied down to a paltry sum of $60,000 for its working balance in an immense business of this class. Sir, honourable members begin to talk about millions in such a casual way as if these vast sums of money meant nothing. Is there any lending business in this colony whose in- vestments amount to a fifth part of the busi- ness of the Advances to Settlers Department ? Every one knows that there is not. But the office itself has grown up so steadily that it is only now and again members in this House realise the importance and magnitude of the advances made, and have anything to say in regard to it. It would never do to tie this office down to only a paltry sum of $60,000 in credit. Really, Sir, I am astonished, because honourable members, one and all, have said, either by way of forcible discussion or by im- plication, that they believed in this great policy ; and if so, if they mean what they say, why not do the best that can be done and keep it moving in the way that it should go? Why should we not carry out the wishes of the people who sent us here? Of course, I know, and every one else in this House knows, that for some years past the Government has had the authority to raise They had the power to borrow £3,000,000 under statute ; but did they not show a wise discre- tion when raising that money, and only make a move to raise it when the time was opportune ? I say they did. They have guided this busi- ness, and they have done what they thought was best in the interests of the colony as good sound business-men ; because, after all, it is a business office, not a sentimental office, and one that is conducted on fair and reasonable business lines. Now, passing on from that, I will refer to the members as they spoke. The honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay) said some one had a grievance, and he gave us quite a history with regard to some letter sent to him. Well, after all, let me ask you, what weight are we to place on an ex parte statement of this kind against the office and against the officers of the department, who have had no chance to refute it ; because I say em phatically that there is no wish on the part of any one in that office to do anything but what is right and proper. However, I will make it my business to ascertain if that statement was true, with regard to the Board refusing to sign the transfer or to release the mortgage until the money was actually paid, and also what were the reasons for so doing. Now, the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty also said that in introducing this Bill I gave no reasons for its necessity. It is impossible in the limited time at our disposal to go into minor details in intro- ducing an amending Bill of this kind. It is not a new measure. It has been before the country for years and years, and those who have been in the House for some little time ought to show they understand the position, and give a little more reliable information than the honourable gentleman gave to this House. The main facts were given to the House by me, and 8.0. the report from which he was quoting conveyed-at any rate, it did to my mind -- all the information any honourable member need wish to have before him. The report probably required a little looking into to find out what the figures referred to; but otherwise every member who gave it reasonable consideration would, I think, understand the position at once. However, I was pleased to hear the honour- able gentleman admit for it was a great concession from that honourable gentleman- that the Act had been of great benefit to the settlers. That admission from the other side of the House is really the best testi- mony we could have that good work is being done by the Government and by those who support them in this House. The honour- able member also referred to the fact that settlers have to pay a certain fee for valuations. Well, would it be possible for the Advances to Settlers Department to lend money unless they conducted their operations on fairly sound busi- ness lines? If a man wishes to have his pro- perty valued, and pays the fee, the valuation is made for him. The fee, of course, is paid to the valuer, and it would really be impossible and quite unreasonable for any applicant to expect that his fee would be returned to him, even 