to what occurred down South. It occurred in my own town. Therefore I say that legislation under those circumstances was different from the present case. A man might keep his shop open and thus gain an advantage over his fellow- men, and to prevent that it was necessary to give legislative effect to the holiday. I say, then, that if it is shown to me that there is " sweating," or any wrong-doing, I will do what I can to put a stop to it; but when people we are supposed to be benefiting come to us and say they do not want our help, I say, " Very well, we will not ask you to have it." Sir, I consider the best speech made in this dis- cussion was that of the Hon. Mr. Bolt. He referred to clause 25, in which it is provided that an employer should keep an overtime-book when he works his employés at night. An Hon. MEMBER .- What is the good of it ? The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- The good of it is this : that if that book is kept and is subjected to inspection the employer will take care that there is nothing wrong to report about him, because he will say to himself, " If it appears in this book that I am overworking my men, and that I am keeping too long hours, the Inspector will report and Parliament will pass a law to prevent my doing so." That will be the effect. Now, the very fact of seeing this ahead of him will cause him to be more care- ful with regard to his employés. I think that book would be a sufficient check for the time being - together with the other checks that are already passed into law. Of course, we are told that this has been placed before us as a consolidation measure. Well. there is a good deal of consolidation in it, but we see a good many black lines in it, and the black http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero lines are always attached to new matter, and it is the new matter that is objected to. As regards the sneer at my honourable friend Mr. Jennings about his resigning, there are two threatened resignations already in con- nection with this subject. Now, I am not going to be rash, but when I see people being dragged here from Invercargill and from Auckland to give evidence against things that people do not ask for, and never wanted, I ask myself, how can I, who have always sup- ported labour measures, now oppose this ? and how can I see these people brought every day from all parts of the colony to give evidence upon these matters ? It makes a man feel as if he would wish to retire rather than have the annoyance of seeing these things. If there is anything wrong, there is no man living would be more willing to right it than I. I shall sup- port the motion that the Bill go into Com- mittee, but I shall certainly support the Com- mittee in the amendments they have made, and I shall consider seriously whether there are not further amendments to be made. I shall sup- port clause 25, for making the employer keep an overtime - book. I think that is the best pro- vision in it. I certainly cannot support the bank clerks being included, nor can I support warehousemen -- An Hon. MEMBER. - Will you support Go- vernment clerks ? VOL. CXVII .- 28. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- I shall give seri- ous consideration to any arguments the honour- able gentleman may bring forward in favour of that, and I shall deliver as fair and honest a judgment upon them as I am capable of. That is all I can promise the honourable gentleman just now. I am sorry to have to say it, because there are few men who have a greater admira- tion for the present Government than I have, but I would suggest to them to be more careful, and not to irritate or annoy or provoke too seri- ous an opposition-not that they need fear it ; but we know that a conflict between factions such as I have already hinted at would result disastrously, and have serious effects on the colony. We know that one firm has already cleared out of the colony, owing, they say, to the labour legislation. If that goes on, I would ask, who will suffer ? They will lose something by leaving, no doubt ; but what about their employés ? What will happen to them ? They will be thrown out on the world ; and I do not mind indulging in a bit of prophecy, if this is carried too far. I say they will be thrown out on the world, and will then come to the em- ployers offering to work for less wages, and these Acts will break down under their own weight, and the final result will be serious to the workers themselves. I say the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is one of the finest Acts ever put on the statute-book, and I would work tooth and nail to keep it there ; but if the employers are to be harassed as they are at present the day will come when that Act will be wiped out. I am giving this warning, for what I now say may be heard outside this Chamber. The employés are working that Act to death. I myself have had no reason to complain about it, although I have got to understand it. I think we have now a Judge who will be the greatest friend of labour that New Zealand has ever seen. The way in which he will befriend labour will be in the direction of repressing the wantonness of labour. He has exercised his powers judicially so far, I think, and I only hope that, for the sake of the labourers themselves, he will discourage their unnecessarily using this Act. If he does that, and keeps them reasonable, that Act will live, and it will become a blessing to labour ; but if ever they go so far as to break down that Act, then I do not know what will happen, but the result must be very serious indeed for labour. Once it is broken down, it is broken down for ever. Honourable gentlemen will, I hope, par- don me for digressing from the subject-matter of the Bill before this Council, but I think that it is well that these subjects should be taken into consideration seriously, and that every one who has influence with labour unions should warn them to be more careful as to how they proceed. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND .- After all that has been said on this subject I find that there is very little left for me to say. I am afraid that I cannot go the length of the Hon. Mr. Twomey's charity and vote for the further pro- gress of the Bill ; at the same time, I have not made up my mind which way I shall vote. 