ported in the newspapers. But what in the world has that got to do with my Bill ? I am quite prepared to admit, as to that matter, that another of the clauses of the Act of 1898 ought to be more frequently used than it is at present. I have argued in favour of that before now. Under the Act of 1898, if application is made to the Judge, the case can be heard in camera, and I can tell honourable members of the House that many cases are now heard in camera, and nobody knows that a divorce has been granted, or that the proceedings have been taken at all. An Hon. MEMBER. - That is not a very good thing. Mr. WILFORD. -- I grant that it is not a very good thing when both sides are not represented, but it is a good thing when both sides are repre- sented. However, that clause is already in vogue. I admit, as I have said, that the newspapers should not publish the details of these divorce proceedings ; but what has that got to do with my Bill ? Now. Sir, honourable members have asked me for reasons in support of the amend- ments that this Bill proposes, and I will give them one or two. Does the Premier expect to have these reasons ? I can prove to the honour- able member that women in Napier and in Gisborne, as well as here in Wellington, have written to me applying for clause 2 and clause 4 and clause 3 of the Bill. I can say that there are cases that have come within my own know- ledge which show the necessity for these clauses. When these women above referred to heard that I was introducing a Divorce Bill. they wrote https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 asking me whether these things could be done. I will give you a case where a man has deserted his wife for four years. Until he had deserted her for five years she could not have got a divorce. But just when the four years were up, and before the five years were expired, he was run into gaol for a term of seven years, and the divorce could not be granted for four years' desertion, for the seven years' imprisonment did not count as desertion. Notwithstanding that the man was in gaol for seven years, the poor woman could not get a divorce for five years' desertion. That is one case. I will give you another case. It is a case where a woman left her husband for two years. After that she got seven years' hard labour in this town. But he cannot get a divorce from her. That is not all. She has got seven years to serve in gaol, and she had left her home for two years before that, leaving him with five or six children, and there is no pos- sible way for him to get a divorce. Take an- other case. There is a young woman in this district who is working as a stewardess in one of the boats trading in this colony, and her hus- band is one of the most notorious burglars, I think I may say, in the whole of Australasia ; in fact, as a sort of shot, I put my finger on him as having been the individual who has robbed that widow of #800, as described in the cables the other day, because that is the particular line he has adopted in all his depredations. Now, Mr. Wilford month out of her wages for the keep of her family. What happens ? This man is nearly always in gaol. He got two years in Dunedin some time ago for practising the confidence trick. He broke his leg while in gaol, and got off with a commutation of part of his term be- cause of good behaviour. He comes back to his wife for a week or two, makes her life miser- able, bangs the children about, and then pro- bably before he has been in town for a few months he is in gaol again for some other offence. In fact. he has been arrested in nearly every town in New Zealand. That poor woman praved to me to do something for her relief, but nothing can be done as matters stand under the present law. Of course, for habitual cruelty and habitual drunkenness it would come under another clause of the Bill. I can enumerate instance after instance where this Bill is required, and I can show documentary evi- dence, and evidence from the Courts. to show that greater facilities should be granted. I quite agree with the remarks of the honour- able member for Lyttelton, Mr. Laurenson, that if two people are happily married 10.0. there is no gate-no matter how wide -that will induce them to walk through it and ask for a divorce. But in the case of those who are unhappily married the position is different ; and when you look at the marital relations of some people, you will agree that it is better for themselves that some relief should be given. If you read Lombroso and Havelock Ellis on the doctrines of Criminology, it is a question whether, when a husband becomes a criminal, a woman ought not to have a divorce immediately. Read statistics, and the books on Criminal Anthropology, and what do you find ? That a criminal father begets criminal children, and that goes down from generation to generation. I could give honourable members more reasons in favour of this measure. If honourable mem- bers want to alter the Bill in Committee I shall be reasonable, and shall be glad to accept any reasonable amendments. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- The honourable member attempted to lead the House to believe that I voted for and supported certain amend- ments. An Hon. MEMBER. - " Paired," he said. Mr. SEDDON .- He said paired subsequently. His first statement was that I voted for and supported the amendments. I think he re- ferred to the year 1887. In respect to the Bill itself I paired : but if he had looked up the records of the debates he would have seen that in cases of continued brutality I advocated that women ought to be relieved, and provision was made to give them relief. I paired on Mr. Samuel's amendment. If the honourable member had done me the justice of looking \- up Hansard he would have seen that the very first time that the same provision came up I was in my place in the House, and I spoke against it, which is consistent with what I have done to-night. Furthermore, on this ques- 