than the applicants really believe the land to be worth. Well, the owners of this land put in an appleation for $25,000 for land that was worth $11,000 or $12,00), or $13,000 at the most. What happened? It was the duty of the Council, under the Public Works Act, to reply to that application, and to say within -ix y days whether they accepted the price the claimants required for the property or not. The City Council actually had sixty days in which to write back and say, " We accept at the price you state, and we are prepared to pay "; or to say, on the other hand, " We contest your claim." But if they do not deny -- if they do not contest the amount the owners are claim- ing-they are deemed under the statute to admit it. Well, the sixty days passed, and this City Council, to which it is now proposed to give power to expend $75,000, had not replied. They had forgotten to reply. Eighty days passed and they had not replied. After the ninetieth day had passed, the City Council awakened, like Rip Van Winkle, from their sleep, and became aware of the fact that the owners had entered up judg- ment against them in the Court for $25,000, or, ratther, for three-fourths on a basis of $25,000. At any rate, judgment was entered up for that amount, and the City Council, awaking from their apathy, called to their assistance Mr. Martin, who is admitted to be an adept at municipal law. Their solicitor engaged the most eminent counsel that New Zealand bas known, who applied to the Court of Appeal, and, in the words of leading counsel applied ad miseri- condam to the Court, and asked for legal for- giveness for their carelessness and inadvertence, and trusted that the mistake which they had made would be overlooked, and that they should be allowed to question the amount, and to set up a Compensation Court : because, according to the affidavits of the leading officers, the amount they had to pay was far in excess of the amount the land was worth. What did the Court do ? By a majority of four to one they said " How are you going to over- ride the statute law ? " And, after the expense of the Court of Appeal had been incurred, judg- ment was entered up against the City Counel for the amount claimed without any deduction whatever. To-day that is the judgment again-t the Council, and the Council, with a disregard of the public purse, and knowing that they have only got the ratepayers' money to deal with. have taken the matter to the Privy Coun- cil. The Court of Appeal simply stated in their deci-ion -- the decision was a lengthy one, but it came to this in a few words : " where any claim is not denied or contested in sixty days, it is deemed to be admitted." The result is that the City Council, by the order of the Court of Appeal, have to pay to the claimants thousands of pounds of the ratepayers' money more than the property is worth. Well, now, is that the kind of Council that should have placed in their hands the power of borrow- ing $75,000 for the purchase of land? Let me They started give you another instance. signed-the Chairman of the Streets Widening Committee-because he does not believe the Committee is carrying out the work in a proper manner. They started the work of widening Adelaide Road by buying the land on the right ! side of the road, and after they had gone some distance up the road they skipped to the other side of the road to start on that side, and, instead of buying the land on one side of the road right through, they bought a bit here and there; and when the owners of land saw the Council coming their way they raised their prices accordingly. This fixed the standard so high that when the street-widening process is completed the City Council will find that they have a big bill to foot. But, however, I suppose the long-suffering ratepayer will pay the piper. I may say that I am speaking not only as a member, but also as a ratepaver. 1 would ask: Is that a body of men that we can repose confidence in to enter into negotia- tions in a deal of this Lind? We have already agreed to electric tramways, and to having the streets paved with wood. I would ask mein- bers of the House to look at the state of the streets to-day. I do not consider that the Council as at present constituted is such a Council as should be given these powers of deal- ing with the ratepayers' money in the way sug- gested. The member in charge of the Bill seems to think that if I had been elected I would have carried on the business better. Well, all I have got to say is this : that when a man makes terrible mistakes he has to run the consequences, and the present Council have made mistakes which can never possibly be redeemed. An honourable member says I have made mistakes. Undoubtedly, I have ; and I believe the honour- able member in charge of the Bill, Mr. Hutche- son, is the only man who is immaculate in this House -according to his own idea. Mr. ATKINSON. - What about me ? Mr. WILFORD .- The honourable member is next door to the most immaculate man in the House. I may inform members that the purchase of Miramar for $75,000 is not mutually consented to by the citizens of Wellington to-day. Numbers believe that it should be ac- quired, and numbers believe that it should not be acquired at the price stated. If Miramar were easy of access to the city, if it could be cut up into land for workmen's homes, if workmen could get to and from there quickly. I think some good would be done in acquiring the land, even at a big price. But I believe at the present time it would be inimical to the in- terests of the City of Wellington to give the Council as at present constituted power to acquire Miramar at the enormous cost of $75,000. If the Bill is postponed the price will soon be reduced. To $75,000 has to be added the cost of roads, and some engineering scheme will have to be evolved for the purpose of getting access to the property. 1 therefore shall vote against the second reading of the Bill for acquiring the Miramar Estate, because I believe that in the present state of the city's 