was keeping large estates on the East Coast, while this gave an opportunity of bringing the land for sale under the Land for Settlements Act or under the Land Act. He thought it was a matter for reference to the Waste Lands Committee to advise, and to take steps later on to deal with it. ## CLOSE SETTLEMENT IN TUAPEKA DISTRICT. Mr. BENNET (Tuapeka) asked the Govern- ment, If they will acquire some of the large estates in the Tuapeka district, with the view of having them thrown open for close settlement ? This was a matter that had been before the Go- vernment on different occasions, but up to the present time practically nothing had been done. In the Tuapeka and surrounding districts there had been very little land made available for the people for settlement, and these estates that he had referred to in his question were most excellent land. He did not know any land that was better suited for settlement. There were a large number of young people about there, and if these estates were thrown open they would be taken up very rapidly. And there would be very little expenditure required in making roads, as the local bodies had already done a good deal in that direction. They had got the steamer running right up between these estates, taking the place in the meantime of the railway : so that everything was in favour of having these estates thrown open. He hoped the Premier would give a favourable answer to the question. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the Govern- ment had this matter under consideration. The Land Purchase Inspector was down South now. The attention of the Government had been called to some estates, but he did not wish to particularise them, nor did he wish to say anything which might tend to make the owners in these localities ask for more money for their estates. If he did, the Government would have to pay too high a price. As long as the (iovern- ment were indifferent they found they could get the land at a reasonable price. ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS. Mr. PALMER (Ohinemuri) asked the Go- vernment, Whether they will consider the ad- visability of printing on the corrected Order Paper the replies to questions that are to be put on Tuesdays and Fridays, or upon such other days upon which the Government do not intend to answer the questions orally, thereby preventing the accumulation of questions upon the Order Paper, and allowing members to get replies to their questions more expeditiously ? Perhaps Thursdays would suit as the day on which the answers to questions might be printed on the Order Paper. It would be better to have them answered on that day, rather than that they should remain unan- swered indefinitely. He might say that he had had to wait as long as three weeks for an answer to a question. He was sure members would be satisfied to have the answers printed on a particular day, rather than be kept waiting for VOL. CXVII .- 3. honourable members of their right to put the questions viva voce on other days except Thurs- days, and would insure the Order Paper being cleared up at least once a week ; and instead, therefore, of being a curtailment of members' privileges, it would, on the contrary, be an additional privilege for them. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he did not see his way clear to give printed replies to ques- tions. It was really the only opportunity . members had of ventilating matters, and if they stopped members ventilating subjects in asking questions their remarks would be made at some other time-either by intercepting Supply or on some other occasion. He could not see his way to accede to the request. WOODVILLE REFRESHMENT-ROOM. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) asked the Govern- ment, When the papers in connection with the alleged Woodville refreshment-room Volunteer scandal will be laid on the table of this House ? Those who had made statements in connection with this matter had been inferentially accused of misrepresentation ; but he thought, for the credit of the Government and the honour of the Volunteer companies, the papers in the possession of the Premier should be laid on the table. An absolute denial had been made respecting these accusations. He telegraphed to the Premier what he considered truthful allegations, and he hoped the Premier would lay the papers on the table. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said he did intend to lay the papers on the table, and then an honourable member-he thought it was the member for Egmont- said he would only put one side of the matter, and therefore it would be an injustice to the other side. He (Mr. Seddon) had not been in a hurry, because, as he had said, a grave reflection had been cast on the Volunteer corps. He was satisfied that there had been misbehaviour-names were men- tioned in the papers ; at the same time it was worth considering whether or not the papers should be made public. Mr. O'MEARA .- Why not ? Mr. SEDDON said he would look into the matter. ## CORONATION OF HIS MAJESTY. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) asked the Pre- mier, If he will, at an early date during this session, submit to this House the Government proposals as to the representation of the colony at the coronation of His Majesty in England, in June next ? Many rumours were going round as to what was going to be done with reference to the representation of the colony in the Old Country, and he thought it was only right that the House and the country should know what was going to be done in connection with the matter. He hoped they would not have re- peated what occurred on a former occasion- namely, haggling over the amount of money involved in sending representatives to the Old Country. The House being now in session, he thought the Government might well lay its pro- 