in his own home before I came into politics, and I have known him there since, and I think I can safely say that all the rugged side of his character disappeared within the walls of his own home. He was blessed with a sweet and noble wife, and, Sir, they lived a sweet and noble life together. I know that Lady Mckenzie will mourn his loss even more than the country will. But, Sir, that side of his character, coupled with the other more rugged side which we are more closely connected with, formed a cha- racter in the whole which I feel certain will go down in New Zealand history. Sir, I think those who have lived with him in politics, and those who have known him in his own home, will have received a benefit which, I feel sure, will be lasting. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) .- Sir, I am sure, on behalf of the people living in the extreme North, I can join with the people in the extreme South in expressing our deep and solemn sympathy at the death of a fellow-man and fellow - worker in political life. We all acknowledge the great force of character of the late statesman who was the Macandrew of the South Island ; and, just as Macandrew was the great power in southern railway-construction, so Sir John McKenzie was the great power in land matters. I am sure the people in the South Island will ever reverence his name, and whatever my constituency may think as regards his land policy, which is perhaps not exactly in accord with their sentiments, at the same time they join in the reverential expression of regret at the death of Sir John McKenzie. Motion agreed to. http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- A very large num- ber of members desire to pay their last re- spects to our late comrade, and the arrange- ments are that the Government steamer leaves at midnight and will proceed to Oamaru, and from there a train will take members to Palmerston, where, so far as I know at the present time, the interment is to take place. Others will probably go by the afternoon's steamer ; but, whichever way they go, there will be a special train leaving Palmerston for Lyttelton in time to catch the steamer " Hine- moa " for the North. Members will there- fore be enabled to reach Wellington again about midday on Saturday. This being so, I feel sure I shall be consulting the wishes of members and paying respect to the memory of our late comrade, and the visitation to our Empire by the death of Her Imperial High- ness the Dowager Empress of Germany, by moving, That the House do adjourn until Tues- day next, at half-past two o'clock in the after- noon. Motion agreed to. The House adjourned at twenty minutes to four o'clock p.m. Tuesday, 13th August, 1901. Death of the Dowager Empress of Germany-Govern- ment Arch-Land- and Survey Report -Cemetery Trustees Validation and Appointment B.Il -- Stare-school Children Drill Bill - The Wellington Harbour Board Act 1879 Amendment Bill- Election of Chairman of Committees. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. DEATH OF THE DOWAGER EMPRESS OF GERMANY. The Hon. the SPEAKER read the following messages from His Excellency the Governor :- "To the Honourable the Speaker and Honour- able Members of the Legislative Council --- " I have received the resolutions passed by the Legislative Council, the one to the King's Most Excellent Majesty, the second requesting me to convey, through His Majesty's Principal Secre- tary of State for the Colonies, to the Emperor and Roval Family of Germany the expression of the deep sympathy of the Legislative Council on the occasion of the death of Her Imperial Majesty the Dowager Empress. " I have forwarded them both by telegraph for submission. "RANFURLY. " Government House, Wellington, 8th August, 1901." "Napier, 12th August, 1901. "To the Honourable the Speaker and Honour- able Members of the Legislative Council,- " The Governor has received through the Secretary of State for the Colonies the com- mand of His Majesty the King to convey his grateful thanks to the Legislative Council for their address and condolence on the death of Her Imperial Majesty the Empress Frederick. RANFURLY." On the motion of the Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER, it was ordered that these Messages be entered on the Journals of the Council. # GOVERNMENT ARCH. The Hon. Mr. ARKWRIGHT asked the Minister of Education, When the Government intend to have the arch near the Government Buildings removed ? Perhaps he might be allowed to explain why he put the question. It was rumoured that the Public Works ofti- cials were so pleased with their work that they were thinking of erecting something perma- nent. He hoped that the honourable gentle- man would be able to tell them that the arch would soon be pulled down. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said the Wel- lington public required a good deal of education in regard to "architectural beauty," and no doubt that was the reason why the arch had been left so long standing. However, he could assure the honourable gentleman that the arch would soon be removed. 