for them to formulate a motion to ask a sub- ordinate public officer to do something. He thought he had done a good thing in drawing attention to the matter by his motion. Having accomplished that end he now asked leave to withdraw it. Motion withdrawn. SHOPS AND OFFICES BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 4 .- Special provision as to hours of employment. The Committee divided on the question, " That this be a clause of the Bill." AYES, 14. Arkwright Jenkinson Swanson Jones Barnicoat Tomoana Pinkerton Bolt Twomey Walker, W. C. Feldwick Rigg Smith, A. L. Gourley NOES, 9. Kelly, W. Harris Ormond Jennings Shrimski McLean Williams. Johnston Montgomery Majority for, 5. Clause agreed to. for accommodation Clause 5. - Sitting women. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS moved, That progress be reported. The Committee divided. AYES, 10. McLean Gourley Pinkerton Shrimski Jennings Montgomery Ormond Williams. Johnston Kelly, W. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero NOES, 14. Swanson Arkwright Jenkinson Barnicoat Jones Tomoana Kelly, T. Bolt Twomey Feldwick Walker, W. C. Rigg Smith, A. L. Harris Majority against, 4. Motion negatived, and clause agreed to. Clause 14 .- Excepted shops. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY moved to omit the words "means a person of New Zealand or European extraction." The Committee divided on the question, " That the words be retained." AYES, 13. Smith, A. L. Arkwright Jones Kelly, T. Bolt Swanson Kelly, W. Feldwick Tomoana Walker, W. C. Harris Rigg Jenkinson NOES, 13. Montgomery Shrimski Barnicoat Gourley Ormond Taiaroa Pinkerton Jennings Twomey Johnston Scotland Williams McLean The CHAIRMAN gave his vote with the " Ayes. " Words retained. to," the Committee divided. AYES, 13. Arkwright Smith, A. L. Jenkinson Barnicoat Swanson Jones Bolt Kelly, T. Tomoana Feldwick Walker, W. C. Rigg Harris NOES, 13. Shrimski Gourley Montgomery Jennings Ormond Taiaroa Johnston Pinkerton Twomey Kelly, W. Scotland Williams. McLean The CHAIRMAN gave his vote with the " Ayes." Clause agreed to. Clause 17 .- Wages to be paid for half-holi- day. The Hon. Mr. BOLT moved to insert "and for the special purpose specified in section fifteen hereof." The Committee divided. AYES, 10. Arkwright Kelly, T. Swanson Barnicoat Tomoana Rigg Bolt Walker, W. C. Smith, A. L. Jones NOES, 15. Feldwick Johnston Scotland Gourley Kelly, W. Shrimski Harris McLean Taiaroa Jenkinson Ormond Twomey Jennings Williams. Pinkerton Majority against, 5. Amendment negatived, and clause agreed to. Clause 18 .- Assistants in hotels, &c., to have half-holiday. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON moved, That the word "hotel " be struck out. The Committee divided on the question, "That the word 'hotel' stand part of the clause." AYES, 15. Arkwright Swanson Jennings Barnicoat Tomoana Jones Kelly, T. Bolt Twomey Feldwick Walker, W. C. Reeves Jenkinson Rigg Williams. NOES, 4. Louisson Gourley Kelly, W. Pinkerton. Majority for, 11. Word " hotel" retained. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON moved to add the following new clause :- "No female assistant shall be employed in any hotel bar after nine o'clock in the even- ing." The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER moved, That the Hon. Mr. Jones be reported to the Hon. the Speaker for not obeying the ruling of the Chairman when requested to withdraw certain words. Motion agreed to. Progress reported. 