"The Equities of Taxation." Mr. FOWLDS .- My friend has read all the books of ancient and modern history, and is the walking encyclopædia of knowledge in this House : but he has not yet got hold of the fundamental principles of economic law. To go on from the point I was at -- if you give to any one a service without getting him to pay for it, it is only at the cost of those who are paying for it and not getting it : The question as to how this thing will affect different classes in the community is only of interest after you have settled the law of justice in the matter. But it is surprising how the old arguments keep repeating themselves after they have been com- pletely exploded, and when you have explained one lot you find they come back afresh. For example, take that story about this system of taxation letting off the owners of big buildings in towns and cities and compelling the workers in the suburbs to pay more. That was stated very frequently in the case of Auckland, and was denied by those who had made a study of the question and knew how it would operate. But they kept on repeating it till slips were issued to each ratepayer showing how the thing would work out in each individual case. The result was surprising. It came out that in two wards, where large buildings existed that were thought would escape, they would have been compelled to pay $5,000 a year more under the new system than under the present ; and, taking Queen Street https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 itself, which is the centre of large buildings, only two properties in Queen Street would pay less under the new system than at the present time, and one is a new one well up the street, where land-values are not so high as at the bottom of the street. But when this fact was made known, the opponents said, " Look at these people : see how they are appealing to the cupidity of the smaller holders." They wanted every one to be informed as to how the new tax would affect them; and then when it was done, at a considerable cost of time and money to many of those inter- ested, it was brought against them as an instance of their appealing to the cupidity of the worker. Then, it has been said against this system that it means when you put a tax upon the unimproved value you take all the value out of the land. Now, it is quite true that to put this tax upon the unimproved value will tend to lower land-values-I say tend. I never say it will lower them, because, coincident with the tendency of this tax to lower the value, there is the tendency to increased industrial activity and prosperity by the building of better houses to take the place of slum properties, and wherever you have this industrial activity and prosperity you have rapidly rising land-values ; so that, taking these two tendencies side by side, the latter will predominate, and land-values will continue still to increase. But we are told that the rate you put on the first year will so lower the land-values that the following year you will have to double it, and in four or five years the whole value will disappear; and in recently with reference to Brisbane, where this system of taxation has been in operation for some ten or eleven years; but the reduction there is due to droughts, and not to the system of taxation. I happened to pay a visit to Brisbane last January, and I went a good deal for the purpose of studying this particular ques- tion. And I will say here, and now, that, while I failed to see as many palatial residences in Brisbane as there are in cities like Sydney and Melbourne-and I believe that is accounted for principally owing to the climatic conditions of the place, as the wealthy people prefer living in a more temperate climate to living in Brisbane - I saw more of a better class of workers' homes than I saw in any of these other cities ; and I saw absolutely none of the slum streets that are to be found in these other centres. But we have experience in this country as to the effect on land-values-whether they fall to the extent that is professed by some. I was personally interested as a trustee in a vacant allotment in Palmerston North, which place had the honour of being the first in the colony to adopt this system. That allotment was valued, since the system was in operation, by the Valuation De- partment at $70, and only a few months ago it was sold for £140-showing conclusively, I think, that the system does not kill out land- values in the way some people assert that it would do. Now, with reference to the way that it operates on workers and their homes : Of course, as I said before, I do not hold that that is an argument cither for or against-the justice of the proposition should be the main determining factor. But wherever you get workers' homes you do not find them in the centres of cities where land-values are $40, €50, and $100 per foot. You find, in the majority of cases, that the land is not more than one-quarter of the total value of the workers' homes-the land may be worth $50 or $60, and the building $150 or €200, and in most of the large cities it works out at just about double the present rate on land alone, exempt- ing the buildings ; so that the result works out in Auckland,-and the law operates pretty generally all round,-that about three out of every four of the ratepayers, and these owners of workers' cottages principally, pay less than they pay under the present system. But some people talk as if this question was purely a question for the ratepayers, and that now it was entirely in the hands of the people, and the people most concerned. But, as a matter of fact, there is a large proportion of people in every community who are as vitally interested in this system of taxation-in any system of taxation-as those who are nominally rate- payers, and yet who have no votes on the question at present. English Judges have decided that whoever pays rent pays rates ; and that ought to be the law also in this country ; and if the franchise was extended in the way the honourable member for Dun- edin City seemed to think it was-for voting on this question-then the necessity for any change would not be so apparent. But, as a 