department, and the Act was very plain as to what was required. So that if people under- stood the Act thoroughly they need not be put to so heavy expense as at present. Mr. J. ALLEN said it was a small piece of land. Mr. DUNCAN knew that. If people went about the matter in the right way, anything that the Government could do would not cheapen it, as nearly all the heavy outlay was made up by lawyers' fees. # WAIHI SWAMP. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked the Minister of Lands, Whether he will place a sum on the estimates sufficient to drain and road the valuable Waihi Swamp, situated between Po ngakawa and Maketu? This question had been asked several times, and, although it had been brought up every session, nothing seemed to have been done. Two sessions ago the Hon. Mr. Hall-Jones, who was then Acting Minister of Lands, suggested that a sum might be placed on the estimates as a preliminary expense, to see whether the work was worth going on with. If the present Minister of Lands did not see fit to do any more, he might adopt that course. It was a very important thing that this work should be carried out, and he thought it would be a really good thing if the Government drained this swamp. There was a similar swamp situated nearer Tauranga, which had proved to be a satisfactory investment to those who had https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 drained it. A drain through the swamp might be made at a cost of $2, or less, a chain, which would mean an expenditure of 2500 to make a drain for a mile and a half of road, which was all that was required. If that was so, it seemed to him that some expense should be gone to in order to carry out this work, as the area of the swamp was, he believed, 7.000 acres. Besides that, the road would open up several hundred thousand acres of Crown land. The Minister promised last session to inspect the swamp, but he did not fulfil his promise. Mr. DUNCAN .-- I visited the district, but I did not visit the swamp. Mr. HERRIES hoped the Minister would at least put a sum down for preliminary expenses, in order to test whether this swamp was good enough for draining. He (Mr. Herries) was satisfied it was. The settlers were of opinion that something ought to be done to open up this land. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) might state generally that peaty swamps involved much more trouble than was often expected. If this had been a silt swamp it would probably have been safe to promise that something should be done, and that right away; but it appeared that this was a six-foot peat swamp. Mr. HERRIES .- No. Mr. DUNCAN said that was the information supplied to him by the department. The de- partment reported,- "The Waihi Swamp contains about 3,000 acres, and is situated between the Pongakawa Stream and the Kaikokopu Stream. It is com- silt. If it was drained, cultivated, and exposed for some years it might be worth about $1 per acre." He questioned whether it would, because if you drained a peaty swamp it would very likely take fire before the next summer was over, and you could not stop it. The report went on, -- " The cost of draining about half of the best of it would amount to about $700. The Ponga- kawa Stream is very slow, but the Kaikokopu Stream is more rapid, running at the rate of about three miles an hour. The waters of the Kaikokopu Stream are, at ordinary water- level, from 1 ft. to 2 ft. below the banks. The Pongakawa flows level with its banks. In time of flood the stream brings down large quantities of pumice from the hills, and this pumice gets deposited in the slack water of the bends, and the river overflows the whole of the swamp. The same thing would probably happen to the drains, and they would consequently be a con- tinual source of expense to keep open. There is also considerable doubt as to whether the banks of the drains, which would probably have to be 6 ft. deep, would stand even at a very great batter. An experimental drain of about 100 chains in length might be made, and it would probably make about 500 acres dry, at a cost of about £60. If such a sum was provided on the estimates the experiment might be tried." From what he had seen of these swamps he was very doubtful whether the work would be a success. He was very sorry he did not see this swamp. It was the Tauranga people who put him from seeing this swamp. They desired him to go by another route, in order that he might see what they said was the best route to have their produce taken to market. So that it was not altogether his fault that he did not see the swamp. He was very dubious about these peaty swamps-he had known so many of them which had been failures. They had cost a lot. of money. He therefore hesitated to put any large sum down to have this place properly examined. Mr. HERRIES asked if the Minister would put down a sum to make the experimental drain. Mr. DUNCAN .- No. IMPORTED STUD HORSES. Mr. BENNET (Tuapeka) asked the Minister for Agriculture, If he will have one of the light imported stud horses stationed in the Crookston and Tapanui districts, and one in the Tuapeka district ? The farmers in these districts were very anxious to have one of the light imported stud horses stationed in their districts. The settlers in the districts referred to had a good class of horses, and were anxious to improve their stock, so that they could supply remounts for South Africa or to the Imperial army. He hoped the Minister would be able to comply with the request. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister for Agriculture) was very sorry there were so few horses to distribute in the country districts. Two horses were 