their views, for carrying out this Act. The first thing they had to do was to utilise the best of their own officers. Mr. HERRIES said the Government had had a year to look for them. Mr. CARROLL said this was a very large and important question, and the Government did not want to miss fire at the start ; and in order to get the best men one might be par- doned for a little delay. They had some very good men connected with the Native Land Courts as Judges and officials, and it would be necessary to gradually bring about their tran- sition from the old regime into that of the new. He could say, generally, to the honourable gentleman, that whoever they appointed to these Councils, they had made up their minds to make the appointments as soon as possible, and they would be the very best men they could find inside their own official lines, and outside if necessary. MANAIA MAGISTRATE'S COURT. Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera) asked the Minister of Justice,-(1) Whether he will cause fort- nightly sittings of the Stipendiary Magistrate's Court to be held at Manaia : (2) if he is aware of the dilapidated state of the building that does duty for a Courthouse at Manaia, and will he have a sufficient sum placed on the estimates for the erection of a new Courthouse ; (3) if he cannot see his way at present to have a new Courthouse erected, will he have a suitable https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 room provided for witnesses, and the present He Courthouse renovated and furnished ? hoped the Hon. the Minister would give him a favourable answer to this question. The matter had been brought up by the Stipendary Magistrate himself, and he understood that, in the interests of the settlers, sittings of the Court In should be held at least every fortnight. reference to the dilapidated state of the build- ings, he hoped the Minister would place a sum on the estimates for a new Courthouse, or, if the Minister could not do this, he hoped the Courthouse would be renovated ; and that a room be provided for witnesses. It was un- pleasant for a Magistrate to have to turn wit- nesses out of Court, which they were compelled to do at times, in all weathers. He might also point out that the furniture was not in keeping with the dignity of a Court of Justice. Now that the subject-matter was brought under the notice of the Hon. the Minister of Justice he was satisfied it would have prompt attention. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said, In regard to the first point, inquiries would be made in order to see if the amount of business warranted an increase in the number of sittings. In regard to the second point, he was not aware that this condition of things existed, and he would have inquiries made at once and a report made upon the state of the Courthouse. In regard to the third point it would be necessary also to make some inquiry, and whether or not the suggestion could be carried out would de- pend on the result of such inquiry. Mr. Carroll Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Minister of Justice, Whether he has noticed the following statements contained in the annual report of the Commissioner of Police just presented to Parliament : That "the tele- phone is largely resorted to by the betting-men in carrying on their illegal calling"; that "many of the so-called private billiard-rooms are little else than gambling places" ; also, that "although ' The Municipal Corporations Act, 1900,' section 404, gives the local autho- rities power to pass by-laws for the regulation of these billiard-rooms, nothing has yet. so far as I am aware, been done in that direction ; consequently, these places are still under no restrictions whatever as to closing, &c., with the result that many young men, much to their detriment, are inveigled into these rooms, and kept there until the small hours of the morn- ing, associating with spielers and other unde- sirable habitués, who subsist on following race- meetings during the daytime and frequenting billiard-rooms at night "? This question, as it appeared on the Order Paper, was not in the form in which he drafted it. He thanked the editor of the Order Paper for his amend- ments, but they had taken the whole point out of the question. As it appeared on the Order Paper, the question put the Commissioner as saying that "the telephone is largely resorted to by the betting-men in carrying on their illegal calling." That signified nothing. This was the point : Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge, in his annual report, dated the 7th May, 1901. said, " I now find the telephone is largely re- sorted to by the betting-men in carrying on their illegal calling." I " now " find. That is the point. It was four years since Mr. Com- missioner Tunbridge was imported into New Zealand. He was imported at the time of the Queen's jubilee celebrations, in June, 1897. consequently it had taken him four years to discover that "the telephone was used by betting-men in carrying on their illegal call- ing." Now, long before Mr. Tunbridge was imported into this country he (Mr. Fisher) did all his betting on the telephone. He did his betting in an open and above-board way-if he chose to bet he betted, and if he did not, he did not. He did not care who it pleased or dis- pleased. For the last seven years he had sent his #1 along on the telephone to the special commission agent he was accustomed to send it to, just as he sent his El to Adams, "Tattersalls," at Hobart, whenever he felt that way inclined. Well, it had taken Mr. Tun- bridge four years to find out that the telephone was "now " used for betting purposes. Then the Commissioner went on to say that "many of the so - called private billiard-rooms are little else than gambling-places." How did the Commissioner know ? The Commissioner might have been so informed by the A.D.C. who followed him round in his evening street perambulations, because the A.D.C. had been known to make special inquiries upon this head ; but no such thing was known to any other person in this city. And the Commis 