such land, and there were institutions there that employed a considerable number of hands-par- ticularly the Lunatic Asylum ; and it was impos- sible for them to purchase from the settlers a single acre of freehold at a reasonable rate for the purpose of making homes. For various reasons, he understood, it had been difficult for the Go- vernment to acquire land in the locality, and mainly because the Land for Settlements Act had not been in a workable condition. Now that was being changed, and he trusted the Minister of Lands would lose no time in seeing that this want was supplied. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) might state in answer that the Land Purchase Board had selected a property, part of which was suitable for the above purpose. Negotiations were in progress to obtain that part, but it might be necessary to purchase the whole, as the owner was at present unwilling to sell the part, although willing to sell the whole. # IMPORTED STUD STOCK. Mr. RHODES (Ellesmere) asked the Minister for Agriculture, If he has vet made arrange- ments for the distribution of the recently im- ported stud stock ? This was a matter of con- siderable interest to the farming community, and naturally they all had a certain amount of curiosity as to what the Minister of Lands in- tended to do with these animals If they were all they were said to be, he thought they would all like to see one or more of them in their own particular districts. He was led to put this https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 question to the Minister of Lands because he was not sure whether the Premier was in earnest in the statement he made in Christ- church when he was approached on this matter some few months ago. On that occasion he (Mr. Rhodes) had the honour of introducing a deputation from Lincoln College, by whom representations were made that one of the recently imported draught horses should be sent to the College. In reply, the Premier answered that private enterprise had already done sufficient for Canterbury, and their agricultural shows proved that they already had as good stock in Canterbury as were to be found in any part of New Zealand, and that therefore his idea was that they ought to send these animals to the back blocks. Now, he (Mr. Rhodes) did not suppose the Govern- ment would go to the expense of importing these valuable animals and then send them out to the back blocks, where they could only serve scrubby underbred mares. He was quite sure the Minister for Agriculture would not agree to this. He would suggest that they should be sent to such districts as Canterbury, where there were good mares ; and they could afterwards send the progeny of these animals to the back blocks. As regards cattle, he did not think they could send pedigree bulls to a better place than Lincoln College. They had an excellent herd of shorthorns there, and he did not think the Minister could do better than send one of the bulls there, retaining the right of taking, on i carry out the working of the wharf in a suit- Mr. Field Mr. DUNCAN (Minister for Agriculture), in answering this question, might state that he had arranged that one of the Shire horses should be reserved for each Island. It would be sent to some central place easily accessible by rail, and a few approved mares of each district could be sent to this central place by train. The idea was that each district should be allowed to send a few selected mares to that horse at a very reasonable figure. There would be three of the horses for remounts for each Island, and they would be divided in such a way that the various districts of each Island would be fairly treated. He had no doubt that one would be placed somewhere in the neighbourhood of Christchurch - one perhaps about the centre of the Island, and one perhaps further South. As for the bulls, he believed it would be a good idea to place one of them, at any rate, some- where near Lincoln, so that it could be used for a few choice cows. Seeing that the public ought to get as much consideration as possible, he would keep this in mind, so that it might not be forgotten. CATTLE - LANDING IN AUCKLAND HARBOUR. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) asked the Government, If they will put a sum on the estimates to assist in providing a cattle-landing for the accommodation of the East Coast and northern settlers in some suitable place in the Auckland Harbour? He might say the diffi- culty at present was that the Auckland Har- bour Board had not within their jurisdiction any site that was suitable for the erection of a cattle-landing wharf. But there was situated some distance down the harbour - Okahu Point, he believed-some Native land that would admirably answer the purpose. Unfor- tunately, the Harbour Board had no jurisdic- tion over the property there, so that it was impossible for them to take the land ; and it was therefore for the Government, in the interest of the East Coast farmers and of the northern settlers, whom they desired to benefit and make prosperous, to see that a cattle-landing was provided there. If that were done, there was not the slightest doubt the Auckland Harbour Board would erect the wharf. If, therefore, the Minister of Lands could see his way clear to inquire into the matter, he he- lieved the honourable gentleman would find a very good landing could be provided ; and, as there was so much talk about improving the position of the farmers' products, he might be permitted to say that charity begins at home, and ask the Government to do something for the farmers of the East Coast and the far North. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) might state at once that the Government would look into the matter of this site, and if it was possible to get it and convey it to the Auckland Harbour Board they would be very pleased to do so. He had no doubt the Board would 