with having ventilated the subject ? It would do no harm, so far as he could see, to pass the motion, and it would emphasize the feeling of the Council that something ought to have been done by the department in the first instance. He thought it did these departments no harm to bring them up to the mark occasionally. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND could not agree with the Hon. Mr. Jones that it could do no harm to pass the motion. Only a few months ago they had been frightened almost out of their propriety by rumours of the plague, and a good many had, in plain English, lost their heads over it. A great deal was said about the unfortunate rats having introduced the disease in Australia, but he believed they had done nothing of the kind. However, thousands of rats were destroyed in New Zealand, but as to whether that kept the plague away from the colony he had his doubts. He maintained that if circumstances had unfortunately been favour- able to its coming to the colony it would have come to the colony. This motion was of such an alarmist character that he really thought tho Hon. Mr. Feldwick in bringing it forward should have given them some statistical data showing that it was necessary to set up a Com- mittee of this kind. He could see no necessity for anything of the sort, and he was certain it would not be a wise thing to do so. If this motion were passed by the Council they might depend upon it any amount of nervous people would be sure to take fright and to think we were on the eve of a visitation of mala- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 rial fever, and enteric fever, too, perhaps. As for the measles causing havoc amongst the Maoris, he believed the Maoris were now just as strong as ourselves in body, and just as well able to withstand an epidemic attack as we were ourselves. They were not now like the North American Indians of old, living in a state of nature-poor creatures, who were cut off by tens of thousands when the small-pox got amongst them in the wild parts of the West. He did not think there was the slightest cause for appre- hension of anything of the kind here, and, even if he thought there was, he would consider it a very injudicious thing for the Council to pass a motion of this kind. In coming to the Council that afternoon he walked through about twenty of these young men, who had just returned from the seat of war, and finer speci- mens of health he never saw. He made the same remark when he saw a much larger party of them land in Wellington a few weeks ago. He would not be afraid of their in- troducing any diseases of the kind referred to. He believed if the germs of disease had got amongst them those germs would have perished on the voyage, and long before they reached New Zealand. He hoped the honourable gentleman would not press the motion, because he really thought if there was one thing they should deprecate more than another it was talking on this subject in such a way as to frighten outsiders, and lead to what might be called a scare in the country. Hon. Mr. Jones it was advisable not to appoint a special Com- mittee merely, but to set up a Royal Commis- sion to deal with this matter, seeing that they were so much in the habit of setting up Royal Commissions. He considered it would be a very proper thing to do. . The Hon. Mr. BOLT said it did seem a strange and unnecessary thing that, having last year established a Public Health Department, and set up a full staff of officials to carry it on, they should now be setting up a special Commit- tee to inquire into what, after all, was only a rumour. He really could not see that there was any necessity for this motion at all. If there was any necessity for it, or anything similar to it, he would be inclined to move an amendment - namely, That, after the word "clothing " the motion should read, " the Health Officer be requested to take the neces- sary precautionary measures." Surely it was not necessary to set up a special Committee of the Council, to be called a Public Health Com- mittee and to join with a similar Committee of the other House, to inquire into what, after all, might be groundless rumour. He begged to move the amendment. The Hon. the SPEAKER understood, as far as he could see, that the honourable gentleman who had moved the motion was about to rise to say that he was willing to withdraw it. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK desired to with- draw his motion, but not without using his right of reply. The Hon. Mr. Scotland had just now made the assertion that the returned troopers did not bring to New Zealand any disease with them. Now, on the authority of one of these troopers, he could assure the honourable gentleman he was wrong in that assumption. When a former party of these men were in Wellington one of them told him- and he was quite certain from the man's style that he was speaking what he knew to be correct -- that the troopship " Britannic," which brought these men from South Africa, had just previously brought from England to the Cape drafts for the reinforcement of a particular regiment which was decimated with measles. It went with them to England. There were over seven hundred and fifty men aboard the boat. and a few days after leaving Capetown they had eighty-three cases of measles in the ship. Under these circumstances, it could be easily understood that the infection could be spread even by the clothing of the men who did not take the measles. Since they had come to this colony they had occupied berths in inter- colonial steamers ; they had been in railway trains, and their clothes had been in contact. he supposed, even with children, so that it was perfectly unnecessary for the honourable gentle- man to state the disease never showed itself on the voyage. This was simply preposterous. However, as he had said before, he had served his purpose-and, he believed, a good public purpose-and he desired now to withdraw his motion. He would have been quite willing to accept the Hon. Mr. Bolt's amendment but 