measure, and I am really surprised that honourable members with a knowledge of the requirements of the country settlers, like the honourable member for Ashley, should attempt to burke a discussion which should take place in its early stages. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) .- Sir, I am rather surprised at the Right Hon. the Pre- mier moving the second reading of this Bill at the present stage. No one knows better than the Hon. the Premier that members can- not have grasped the merits of this Bill. In fact, some days ago a Committee was set up to consider the Bill, and at no Committee meeting was there any consideration or discussion on the merits of the Bill. Another objection was that the Committee could not possibly deal with the Bill at all under the present circum- stances except on a Monday, because the House meets on two days in the week at half-past ten. In my opinion, the Premier expressed his opin- ion very clearly when he said he would take the division as an indication as to whether mem- bers wanted the Bill or not. I take it that the Premier does not want the Bill to become law this session. It has been a standing order now for eight or ten years, and possibly it may pro- vide matter at least for members to talk about for another session. At the same time I am convinced that the country settlers want the Bill. In regard to the remarks of the honour- able member for the Grey, I think it is im- possible that he could have read the Bill. I venture to assert that he has not. Per- haps he has not even read one or two of its clauses, because he says there is no new prin- ciple in the Bill. He says it is simply a consolidation Bill. Well, Sir, it is not a con- solidation Bill, but contains many new and highly important departures from the existing law on local government. I recognise that if the House votes for the amendment moved by the member for Hawke's Bay, for the adjourn- ment of the debate, we tie ourselves up in a knot, and that we shall not be able to get any further with the Bill this session. I would therefore suggest this compromise: that the Premier should move the second reading of the Bill pro forma, which he ought to have done in the first instance, and let the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, by consent of the House, withdraw his motion for the adjourn- ment of the debate. Captain RUSSELL .- The Standing Orders will not allow it. Mr. R. MCKENZIE .-- Well, if the honour- able gentleman's motion is carried, the second reading of the Bill will not get on this session, that is clear enough. Whether it comes on or not, as a member representing a country dis- triet, and my constituents being materially concerned -if it even does not come on this session, I am prepared to vote for the adjourn- ment of the debate sooner than vote for the second reading now, or at any time until the Committee set up to deal with the Bill has a reasonable opportunity of considering it on its merits. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) .-- I think, whether it VOL. CXVII -13. was right in the first instance to go on with the discussion of this measure or not, the House has got into such a condition during the last half-hour that it would not be advisable to go on with the discussion of the main question now. I have not read the Bill carefully, and I have not made myself sufficiently familiar with it to discuss the general terms, because I was under the impression that the precedent of last year of the Municipal Corporations Act would be followed. I think, seeing that was so, and as the House has now spent a good deal of time in discussing the question of adjournment, the proposal made by the member for Motueka might with advantage be followed out. I do not see that our Standing Orders prevent it. I understand it was the member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson) who moved the adjourn- ment, not the member for Hawke's Bay, and, if the honourable gentleman were to withdraw his motion, I take it that. with the unanimous consent of the House, the Premier's motion might be taken as a motion for the second reading of the Bill pro forma. That motion does not require that there should not be any speech delivered when the motion is I understand it prohibits being moved. any discussion on the Bill afterwards; but it does not mean that a speech may not be delivered when the motion is made. I would support such a proposal as that if the member for Wellington City could see his way to withdraw his motion for adjournment. It would put the House in a better frame of mind for discussing the subject : and those members who considered that the scheme of last year would be carried out are surely entitled to some con- sideration, because we all have these local bodies in our districts who are affected by the measure. That, I admit, may be touching on a discussion of the Bill. At any rate, I think that, under the circumstances, there is all the more necessity that the question should be dealt with in a way that would not set one part of the House against the other, because, as a matter of fact, there is no party feeling in the question at all. I do not suppose that any member on either side of the House allows his party feelings to enter into the question of local government at all, and I hope the honourable gentlemen who have moved motions this morning will come to a modus rivendi. and let us get on with the business. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, might I be allowed to say that what I fear more than any- thing else is - Mr. J. ALLEN .- Has the Premier not already spoken to the question ? Mr. SPEAKER .- Yes, he has done so, but I take it he is now making, with the indulgence of the House, a proposal that may lead to a compromise in respect to the second reading of the Bill. Mr. SEDDON .- I wish to say that I never gave any pledge that the second reading should be moved pro forma. I said we would not take it that members' voting on the second reading would pledge them to the principles of the Bill. We know there are differences of opinion with respect to portions of it, and these differences 