but in a little over three years we are already paying, or propose to pay for this year, £215,000 for old-age pensions-just about double the estimate for the third year. The Premier originally made a promise to the House that he would bring down a scheme to provide for contributions being made by those who were to receive the pension. An Hon. MEMBER. --- NO. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Yes; at page 540 of Han- sard, Volume 103, Mr. Seddon said,- "I have promised that I will, if I am able, endeavour to submit a scheme outside this, dealing with the questions of assurance and insurance on the lines of that in connection There is with the British Post Office. no difficulty, I say, in that legislation being passed subsequently to this old-age pensions scheme." That scheme has never yet been produced before the colony, and the time has now come -and, indeed, has long gone past-when the Premier should have fulfilled his promise that the old-age pensions scheme should be put on a better basis than it is at present. Now, in regard to the investment of departmental funds in Government securities I have this to say : that the bulk of departmental funds are in- vested in our own Government securities. For instance, the Post Office funds amount to nearly six millions and three-quarters, and of that amount six millions of money is in- vested in our own Government securities, and only £725,000 out of six millions and three- quarters is invested outside the Government security, and I say that is a doubtful policy. But I am not going to dwell on that as being as of much importance as the other point, and that is this : that the Government are utilising Government funds at 3 per cent., whereas by going to London or by going to the local people here they pay 4 per cent., and have to give them special conditions and advantages to get their money. Yet, at the same time, we are taking from our Post-Office Savings-Bank and from the Government Life Insurance their funds at 3 per cent., and I wish to point out what the effect has been. The effect on the Post Office, I think, has been disastrous. The amount of 3-per-cents now held by the Post Office is $1,879,614. The interest has fallen to the depositors, and the amount which is being paid by way of interest is falling year by year, and now the Government are only able to pay for certain sums 3 per cent., and that amount will have to be decreased still further if we are going to continue to invest the funds of the Post-Office Savings-Bank in our own Government securities at 3 per cent. Then, what is the effect with regard to the Govern- ment Life Insurance Office. The Government Life Insurance have $625,900 of 3-per-cents, and the interest for the period from the 31st December, 1897, to the 31st December, 1898, fell 2s. 8d. per cent. From the 31st December, 1898, to the 31st December, 1899, it fell 2s 10d. per cent., and from the 31st December, 1899, to the 31st December, 1900, it fell 1s. 11d. per cent. Mr. J. Allen this period the Government commenced to take from the Government Life Insurance money at 3 per cent., and the result to-day is this: that the funds invested by the Government Life Insurance Department are earning £4 9s. 2d., whereas the funds of the A.M.P. Society are earning £4 13s. 4d. And, if that is so, can the Government go on competing with the A.M.P. Society, offering equal advantages to those who deal in the Government Life Insurance Depart- ment? It cannot be done, Sir. They cannot pay the same bonuses that the A.M.P. Society are paying, and it is placing the Government Department in an unfair position as regards competition. I regret I have little time left, as you have just rung your bell on me, Sir, but I fear that this large depend- ence on borrowed money is becoming a very serious menace to the colony. I fear the heavy taxation which has been imposed on us, al- though we have been able to bear it during the "fat " years, may be a very difficult thing to bear during the "lean " years, if we happen to get some. I fear, Sir, that the interest on borrowed money, which has been increasing, this year will increase. The estimate is that it will increase this year some £70,000. I fear that is a menace to the safety of the colony ; and this immense dependence on borrowed money is, in my opinion at any rate, a very serious thing for the colony. And, Sir, this has come from those who profess to be able to carry on without this great dependence upon loan-money from outside, or from inside either. And, Sir, it is the same with everything else- they profess, but they never practise : and if the Right Hon. the Premier were here to-night I should have to say something about his profes- sions with regard to those who have been of great service to the colony during the last two years - those who have been fighting our battles in South Africa. Everybody knows how the Premier has paraded "our boys at the front." and on every platform in the colony he has made political capital out of them. I recollect the Premier's patriotism about twelve years ago. It was the patriotism of separation, and the patriotism of elective Governor, and to-day, Sir, I say-although I will not say what I should say if the Premier were here-I say that he is parading "our boys at the front " merely for political purposes, and that alone, and I will prove it to the Premier when he is present. I will not take advantage of him in his absence, but when he is present in the House I shall prove, I think, to the House and to the country that he has simply been using our boys who have gone to the front solely for political pur- poses, and that he cares no more about them than he cares about everybody else ; he only cares when he can utilise them for his own political advantage. An Hon. MEMBER .- You know nothing about it. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I do know something about it, and I shall say what I know when the Premier is here. I will not say it to-night. Sir, I think that this Financial Statement 