The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I do not think it is right to charge the Government or the local bodies with want of appreciation of the beautiful, or with vandalism, or whatever else you like to call it. I will not admit for a moment that other parts of the colony are any- thing like Wellington ; and I may say that the best part of the work done in this city has been done by the Government. Take Auckland, Napier, Christchurch, Dunedin, Invercargill- take many of our country towns from one end of the colony to the other -- most of the works there have been in the hands of the local bodies, others effected by specially directed associations. I can point to a lovely domain created out of land with very few natural advantages at Ashburton. The fact is that Wellington is, perhaps, an exception. But we have always given the Wel- lington Harbour Board credit for a certain amount of intelligence, and I hope they are not now going to cause us to change that good opinion. If it is going to take up the ways of the City Corporation I would recommend my honourable friend, before the Bill passes, to move that it be read this day six months, because I do not think we want to have another instance of Bumbledom in this city. I trust the warning which has been given will be sufficient ; but still I must say that I believe the most efficient warning would be to insert a clause which will prevent them doing that which we object to. The Harbour Board have done very well in the past, and I trust they will continue to do so. I do not see any reason why they should not maintain the position they have held in the past. But I could not sit silent, and hear local bodies and the Government abused for want of taste, when I know that the local bodies everywhere else except in Wellington, and the General Govern- ment everywhere, should certainly not have such a charge made against them. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- One would have thought that these were the dying hours of the session. The speeches made by honourable members have been like stonewall speeches, or like the verbal wanderings which you, Sir, tolerate when we are about to leave for home. The honourable gentleman who last spoke first of all started with the Wellington Harbour Board, and then travelled from Dan to Beer- sheba, or from China to Peru. Of course, I am bound to sympathize with those who denounce the streets of Wellington, and that is about all the reference I am going to make to the streets of Wellington just now. It is quite sufficient to say that they are bad, and about as bad as they could be. But we have always understood that the Wellington Harbour Board was an ex- ample to the whole colony-that it always per- formed its work well ; and not only have I heard that, but I have seen evidences of it with my own eyes. I hope the Wellington Harbour Board will do no such thing as it has been sug- gested they intend to do-erect boatsheds on the foreshore at Oriental Bay. Of course, as the honourable gentleman representing the Go- vernment said, it might be necessary to prevent that being done by putting a clause in the Bill. But I hope moral suasion will be sufficient in this case. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- I think the protest that has been made by members of the Council and by the citizens of Wellington inter- ested in this matter will be sufficient to convince the Harbour Board that they are doing what is inimical to the best interests of the port and the city ; and I feel confident they will take the hint, and will proceed no further with the erec- tion of these boatsheds. If I thought they would not take the hint I would be very glad to move that the Bill be read the third time this day six months. If the intention to erect those sheds is persisted in, we shall probably have another Bill before this Council, in which an amendment might be inserted to the effect, as hinted by the Hon. the Minister, that the power of the Board in this respect will be taken away. As the matter now stood the Government could withhold permission to the Harbour Board to allow boatsheds to be built, and I think we can rely upon them seeing that the sheds are not put there. The Hon. Mr. JOHNSTON .- I only wish to say that I think that the Harbour Board can be trusted The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- Do you pro- mise that they will not allow those sheds to be built ? The Hon. Mr. JOHNSTON .- I will not pro- mise that they will or will not do anything of the kind, but I think they can be trusted not to put up anything objectionable. If, however, they propose to put up boatsheds, reference to the Governor in Council is necessary, and I think after what has been said the Government can be left to look after the beauties of the city. Bill read the third time. LAND FOR SETTLEMENTS BILL. On the question of the consideration of a message from the House of Representatives, disagreeing to certain amendments made in this Bill, The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER moved, That the Council do not insist on the amend- ments made by the Council in this Bill. They were purely the result of a misunderstanding between the Law Draftsman and himself as to the intention of certain alterations that were put in the Bill in the other House. The clauses had to be redrafted, and there was a misunder- standing in consequence. On the merits of the case, he did not think that the Council could object in any shape or form to striking out those amendments. In the first place, in clause 6, subclause (3), the House passed it- " If the Governor does not proceed with the purchase and the land is not acquired by him within twelve months after the date of the notice mentioned in the last preceding sub- section, then the restriction on the disposition of the land under that subsection shall cease to have effect." Everybody knew what that meant. It meant, if the purchase was not proceeded with, that twelve months after the commencement of the 