for Auckland City (Mr. Napier). I had no wish, and no intention, to follow honourable gentle- men who have criticized that speaker, and neither would I have paid attention to it, but that speech has been taken up and indorsed by the Hon. the Minister for Public Works. The Minister for Public Works has practically said "Yea " to everything the member for Auckland City has said. Now, what was said, and what is it that the Hon. the Minister for Public Works has indorsed ? Sir, we are told the pretensions of the Auditor - General were not consistent with a democracy. It is very easy at times to work off a rounded phrase of that kind and imagine that it carries some essential conviction with it, but I would ask the honourable gentleman what he means by the pretensions of the Auditor-General? It is the Auditor-General's duty, I presume, to see that whatever payments are made are made in accordance with the statute law, and surely it is not pretentious on the part of the Auditor- General to refuse payments which he deems are illegal or improper. It appears to me the Auditor-General would be false to his position and wanting in his duty to the democracy if he were afraid to act up to his own con- scientious convictions in seeing that payments were properly and legally made. I am not now saying that payments have been im- properly and illegally made ; but I will show before I have done that payments could be improperly made under the Act as it now stands. We were told that the Public Reve- nues Act restored to the House its proper power, and the proper administration of its functions. That is another neatly rounded phrase that appeared to mean something. Par- liament had apparently been robbed of some necessary power, and had been denied the ad- ministration of its own proper functions. The honourable member must have known when he used those words that it was merely a phrase, and had neither meaning nor effect, and, I might say, it was without sense at the back of it. What does the honourable member mean by restoring to Parliament this power? Are not the statutes upon our law-books the expres- sion of the will of the people through their representatives, and therefore the voice of the democracy? And if a payment has been de- clared improper by the expressed will of this House-by the expressed will of the people of the colony through their representatives in this House-in other words, if the payment is de- clared improper by the expressed will of the people-that is, by the democracy-then, are you to find some back-door way by which this money shall be paid ? I have no wish to make a long speech on this matter. In a short time we shall be discussing the estimates. For the sake of argument, suppose the House is asked to vote for the increase of some particular salary. As long as the amount is passed in the class to which it belongs, then full payment can be made of the proposed increase, even though it be opposed to a statute by which the particu- lar salary has been fixed. The Premier seems to think I am wrong. If I am wrong I shall be glad to be convinced that it is so. The Act of last year provides, - "In any case where any payment of an item is provided for in the estimates as passed by the House of Representatives, and is in- cluded in the total of a vote in the Appropria- tion Act, such payment of the said item may be lawfully made, anything in any Act to the contrary notwithstanding." So that, under the Act, as long as that salary gets through under its class, the class being perhaps taken en bloc, the increased amount may be paid, notwithstanding the vote of the House as expressed by statute. Very well, then. Let me remind the honourable gentleman what I am complaining of is this: he raised the point that we were restoring to the House its proper power and functions-that the position before was not consistent with the proper functions and dignity of the democracy. I ask him again, where are the proper functions and dignity of the democracy shown ? Are they not shown in the statutes? Are they not better shown there than in a number of figures in a list which may be passed on a single vote? I say the proper will of the democracy is expressed in its statute law, and when we fix salaries by statute law that law ought not to be infringed. I am sorry that honourable gentlemen have en- deavoured from the standpoint, particularly, of this Public Revenues Act of last year, to defend that Act ostensibly in the interests of the democracy. I can assure them that when the democracy understands the position they will not thank them for the indignity they are cast- ing upon it - for this besmirching of the demo- cracy. I have something to say of the democracy itself, and I wish to indulge in no high-falutin' language. But if it is to continue to live and to retain its power and position in the minds and hearts of the people ; if it is to do this, it must be clean in its methods, its hands must be clean, and, above all things, it must avoid any possible suspicion of looseness in dealing with the public funds. It is because I desire to prevent any possibility even of the appearance of dealing loosely with the public moneys that I speak. I do not wish to cast suspicion on any person or party. I have no desire to find a single fault with the Administra- tion ; but I do say, in the interest of the demo- cracy, it is, I think, necessary that those mem- bers who hold strong opinions in regard to what was done last session should express their con- victions. I have expressed mine. I hope I have done so free from heat or strong feeling. I took strong exception to the passing of the Bill. I have seen nothing since then to lead me to alter my convictions, and I have heard nothing to-day to cause me to do so ; and I sincerely regret, in the interests of the democracy, which honourable gentlemen themselves have sought to invoke in the course of the debate, the action taken in that amending Act which was placed on the statute-book last year. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) .- I wish to make a personal explanation in regard to a matter referred to by the honourable member. He stated, in reference to my remark that the 