years-that is, from 1891 to 1896-actually de- creased in numbers by 7,366 persons." These few words contain a whole volume of condemna- tion of the Government policy. The Govern- ment have endeavoured-and I believe they have meant to do well-they have endeavoured to place the people upon the land. I shall be able to show they have failed in doing that successfully. They have promised to make railways. I have shown that they have made fewer miles of railway than were made in a similar previous period. I have proved the debt has increased enormously, and population has not proportionately increased ; and I believe they have unsettled trade and industry, and have done an incalculable amount of harm to the colony by their policy. I find, on examin- ing the figures, that the population in counties in 1891 was 352,097, and in boroughs 270,343, showing 81,754 as the difference between those who lived in boroughs and in the country in favour of the country. And we find in 1901, also taking the census returns, the dwellers in the country are 417,477, and in the boroughs 350,097, showing now the difference between the popu- lation in the country and the boroughs is only 67,380, instead of 81,754 in the previous period. Now, this, I think, goes far to prove that, though millions have been borrowed to put people on the land, though millions have been borrowed and expended in public works, the increase of the population is at a standstill : the people are not settling on the land so much as before, and the policy of bribing the people has not been successful. If I have any time left I should like to say a few words in regard to the Crown tenants, and it is exceedingly interesting to me to find on page xix. of the Statement that the very course the Opposition have agitated for for some years past has at last received the ap- proval of the Premier. We have advocated and said all along we who know something about the necessities of pioneer life in the country -- that settling men on bush farms in the back blocks, without roads, is an absolutely hopeless undertaking. We have pointed out over and over again that arterial roads ought to be made into the bush lands, and when the settlers occupy them they ought, themselves, at the time when their properties are not bring- ing in any profits, to be allowed to work on the branch roads so as to give access to their farms, and get employment and earn some money when they cannot be profitably working on their own farms. I am glad to see that the Premier is adopting this principle. But he constantly adopts his opponents' policy without ever admitting it; it is only another evidence of the anfractuosity of the Premier's character. How marked is the contrast between the policy now shadowed in the Financial Statement in regard to the bush farmers with the principle of compulsory rating upon unimproved values. The Statement-one has unfortunately not time to read the passage-admits that, after four years of unremitting and unwearied and un- rewarded toil and accumulated thrift, there are not sufficient earnings from the farm to pay the rent of the bush settler, and he has to have Captain Russell recourse to the money-lender. What, then, I would ask the Premier, is the unimproved value of the farm ? He himself asserts in his Statement that, notwithstanding the arduous <!-- PageHeader="1" --> work of the farmer for some four years. he is deriving no profit whatever from the pro- perty, and. though the whole of the work of himself, his wife, and his family are put into the farm, he is obliged at the end, after four <!-- PageHeader="\-" --> years of ceaseless toil and unremitting anxiety, to go to the money-lender to borrow money to pay his rent. How the principle of compulsory taxation on unimproved value is to be justified passes my comprehension. Mr SEDDON. - You are mistaken ; I did not say at the end of four years. Read it again. Captain RUSSELL .- Well, you say for two <!-- PageHeader="\-" --> years there are no returns, and two years more pass over and he is still behind. Now, the sug- gestion which I have so often made-that the expenditure of the money we are borrowing for the compulsory purchase of estates would be far better expended in driving arterial roads through country not already settled - is the true one; in other words, instead of driving people off property already paying taxation. giving employment to many, and producing considerable profit to the State, it would be far better to spend the money in roading and opening up fresh country. It would pay the colony better, it would pay the industrious settler far better, and the true principle of colonisation would be carried out, instead of merely a policy, in too many instances, of political confiscation. Here is the passage in the Statement that I previously alluded to : - "From facts which have come within my \-- knowledge it is quite clear that a person taking up bush land, and having little or no capital. cannot pay rent until the land vields a re- turn. There are practically no returns for two years. By that time two years' rent are in arrear, and the yield is not sufficient to main- tain the settler and his family. Another two years pass over and still find him behind in payment of his rent, or, if he has paid the rent. he has probably had to borrow the money for that purpose. Under these circumstances it is much better that the State should insist upon the improvement conditions being strictly com- plied with, and allow the tenant to sit rent- free for the first four or five years." Well, I am glad to believe that this solicitude of the Right Hon. the Premier for the Crown tenant is the result of the formation of the Farmers' Union, and that the farmers are to receive some of the attention-I do not say, perhaps, more attention than he has given to the trades unions in the towns. Speaking as & farmer, I have no desire whatsoever that the Farmers' Union should grow in any way into a political association. I believe it will be far stronger if it is not a political association. That it will be a power in the country I firmly believe, and this concession to the farmers is. at any rate, evidence that their wants are being forced on the attention of the Premier. @ thing which he probably never considered in 