but I can assure the Council that the Committee has done no more than adopt the wording which will bring about the object desired. There is no important change in the clause, so far as I can see, since it went to the Committee. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN .- Do I understand that the honourable gentleman proposes to go on with the Bill in Committee ? The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Yes. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN .- It has not been distributed yet, as reported on by the Waste Lands Committee. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Oh, yes. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN .- When ? The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Yesterday, I think. An Hon. MEMBER .- No, not until just now. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN .- Well, Sir, I dare say that a great many of the amendments in the Bill before us will be useful in the work- ing of the Act, but I cannot let this Bill pass, or, indeed, any Bill connected with land settle- ment, without expressing my regret that the Government have not seen fit, in an amending Bill, to remedy what I consider to be the real blot upon the whole of this land-settlement legislation. I am not now speaking of the policy of taking land for settlement compul- sorily. That is a matter upon which there may be differences of opinion. I have known my- self that any amount of land could have been secured by Government without any compul- sion whatever ; and it is evident that this is still the case, as the Government are now ask- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 ing for power to purchase land by auction. But the blot on this legislation, which I think ab- solutely unjustifiable, is the power given to an individual Minister to take possession of any person's property. I remember when the origi- nal Land for Settlements Bill was before the Council, I said, on the part not only of myself but of many others, that we would agree to the Bill if a schedule of the properties that were to be taken was laid on the table of Parliament, and Parliament itself decided on the subject. Nodoubt Parliament has a right to take private property if such a course is proved to be neces- sary for the public welfare. But I say that a new principle-and one that is an absolute outrage upon all our ideas of right and wrong-was initiated in the original Bill, which puts the rights and properties of private citizens in a free country under the bidding and at the mercy of any individual Minister. I say that this is a wrong principle, and this power should not be given to any Government. I admit, as I said before, that Parliament has a right, for the benefit of the public, to interfere with any individual property if such a course is shown to be necessary. But Parliament alone has that right, and cannot constitu- tionally delegate it to any individual, whether Minister or official. There is plenty of land in the market, as the Government has found by experience. And no private owner should be coerced into giving up his property or his home unless the representatives of the people declare the necessity of such action. This is, to my mind, such a fundamental principle that Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker against an amending Bill on this subject being brought before Parliament without clauses repealing a provision which puts the property of individuals at the mercy of any man, whatever his judgment or ability may be. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- Sir, the honourable gentleman who has just sat down has made remarks in regard to this measure and the principles embodied in it which, of course, from his point of view are quite justified. But, Sir, this principle of taking land compulsorily has been in existence for several years, and I think that the great majority of the people of this colony will say the result has justified the means that have been used. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN .- The honourable gentleman must understand I am not now raising the question of the taking of land, but that it should be taken by Parliament, and not by the Minister. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- Well, Sir, that ob- jection has been answered in my expression of approval of the principles embodied in this measure: the result has been nothing but satisfactory. It has been se satisfactory, indeed, that from every part of the colony there is an outcry that more land should be taken. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN .- How many proper- ties have been taken ? The Hon. Mr. JONES .- I have not the record of the number before me, but I know that in the Waitaki district, in North Otago, and in South Canterbury a large number have been taken. An Hon. MEMBER .- Not compulsorily. The Hon. Mr. JONES. - No, not compul- sorily; but you want the compulsory principle in order to maintain your position, and help you to carry out this idea to perfection. Wherever a property has been taken by com- pulsion no hardship has occurred. I have never heard complaints from any landed pro- prietor that his land has been taken from him without his having been given fair remunera- tion. Sir, if the Minister, or the department, to which this duty of taking land has been intrusted does not do what is right, then, I take it, that Parliament can call either Minister or department to book for his or its action. That is quite sufficient. Those who are in- trusted with the duty of administering the Land for Settlements Act know what they are about. They know where the land is. They know what it is worth, or presumably they do, and they act accordingly, and if anybody, either a member of Parliament or a member of the general public, has any objection to what is done he can call those who are responsible to account for their action. Sir, this Bill pro- fesses to deal with what has been termed "dummyism," or what I would term "specu- lation," but I do not think the suggested amendment would have the desired effect. I am not prepared to say what would be effective, because I believe that where the mania for speculation exists it is almost impossible to meet it, whether it is in dealing with land or, in fact, anything else. The sugges- tion is, that the number of applicants shall 