said the work can be done for €10,000, he is generally careful, and his work generally comes out pretty near to his estimates. Not long ago the coastal steamer got ashore, and there is great risk until some improvements are made in the harbour. I can assure the House, there- fore, under these circumstances, that they will i the debate on this Bill to close without saying a do well to pass the Bill. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- Sir. I have much pleasure in supporting the second read- ing of this Bill. I know the district well, and I also know a good number of its settlers, who formerly were residents of Wellington. I have had special representations made to me from persons in business in the Patea district as to the necessity and the great desirability of carrying out this work. The people of Patea have. in the person of Mr. Mckenna, a very energetic and enterprising Chairman of the Harbour Board. The district is notable for its productive power, and these harbour-works are greatly needed to give the district an outlet for its products. There may be some feeling that the Patea Harbour works are calculated to sap the trade of the New Plymouth and Wanganni Harbour Boards, but really there ought to be no jealous rivalry of the kind. The settlers of Patea are as much entitled to a seaboard outlet for their products as any other part of the colony. It is a great drawback to that part of the country that they should have no port. and, if the money asked for will provide the necessary shipping facilities, we ought to give them the opportunity of borrowing the money. Knowing, as I do, so much of this district -- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 having so frequently passed through all parts of that country -- knowing its great productive power, and knowing the great desire of the gentlemen who compose the Harbour Board http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero there. I was glad to hear the remarks of the Premier, who has offered in the most generous manner to support the passing of the Bill. I am sorry I have not with me the particulars I received from a friend whose interests are bound up in the Patea district. I unfor- tunately left his letters at home, not expecting that the Bill would come up this afternoon. Sir, I have great pleasure in supporting the motion for the second reading of the Bill, and I hope in the interests of the Patea district it will become law this session. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - When I rose just now I was under the impression that accord- ing to the original Act of 1878, or the general Harbours Act. a plan of the proposed work was required to be deposited with the Government ! gentleman who is in charge of the Bill, and who three months beforehand. That plan has not been deposited. It was taken, of course, on the main plan laid before the Local Bills Committee. The section of the Act of 1833 allows the plan to be deposited by order of the Governor in Council. . But I think the difficulty has been got over : and, as for the plan going before the Committee, there was a plan before the Local Bills Committee, and therefore it has done its duty so far as it was concerned ; but the plan that I ing, when he said that local Bills were allowed Mr. Seddon mittee it was plainly pointed out that the measure did not authorise the construction of the works, and therefore the objection that it was not deposited three months prior to the session practically falls to the ground. Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui) .- I should not like few words. I have known the Harbour of Patea for the last thirty or forty years, and I am quite satisfied that the improvements suggested will be of great benefit to that district. 1 am also satisfied that the money expended there already has been well spent, and it only requires the outlay of some further money to make it a good harbour. I only wish, myself, that it was a question of our own harbour improvement that was in contemplation. Although we re- quire money for our own harbour, still 1 can give my support to other harbours, and, although I naturally regard things from our own standpoint, I would be very pleased in- deed to see Patea afforded the opportunity of sending away the produce of the surrounding district from that port. There is another thing I should like to say. I think a great part of the prosperity of the colony is due to the large number of harbours we have, by means of which our exports may be carried away profitably, instead of our having to go to a large expendi- ture for the purpose of conveying them to the large centres. I know there has been a feeling often in Wellington that it is the natural centre, and that everything should drift to and be distributed from Wellington. But. friendly as we are, and much as we would wish to see Wellington prosper, I think it is quite right. that we should push forward the improvement. of our own local harbours, by means of which our produce can be carried away most profit- ably, to the advantage of our farmers and our- selves. Mr. TANNER (Avon) .- Sir, I was 7.30. about to remark at half-past five, when the House adjourned, that the honour- able member for Wanganui had apparently not finished his remarks, but was under a misap- prehension when he sat down, and I was pro- posing to give way that he might conclude anything he might desire to add, but I find that on reassembling he is not present. What has struck me during the few words that have been said with regard to this local Bill this afternoon is the small amount of information that has been vouchsafed to the House. It is a most unfortunate matter that the honourable introduced it, should have been, I suppose, un- wittingly absent at the time it was called on, so that the measure fell into the hands of a new colleague, who probably may or may not be acquainted with the position, and who has apparently been taken unawares in moving the second reading. No one, of course, wishes to criticize the honourable gentleman, but it struck me that the words of the Premier this morn- 