but he did think he was unfortunate in not having the support and advocacy of some per- son of earnestness and persistence. He did not propose to make a speech upon the subject, be- cause that was not allowed, nor was it neces- sary ; but he did propose to place on record one or two historie letters bearing upon the subject of Michael O'Connor's claims. The following letter had been written by Mr. Morpeth to Colonel Moule with reference to Victoria Cross pensioners, and which was attached to pension papers lying in the Native Office :- " COLONEL MOULE,- In Colonel McDonnell's letter of 15th July, 1868, recommending the defenders of Turuturu Mokai for the Victoria Cross, the names of the men were written on the margin, and among them were 'Stewart ' and . O'Connor.' According to these papers Stewart's claim to recognition appears to have been dropped, and O'Connor's admitted. Colonel MeDonnell might be able to afford some information as to the part, if any, Stewart took on the occasion referred to. " W. J. MORPETH. " 26th June, 1872." The reference to Lieut .- Colonel McDonnell produced this reply :- " Brougham Street, Wellington, 27th August, 1894. "The attack on Turuturu Mokai Redoubt took place on the morning of 12th July, 1868. Captain F. Ross was the only officer in com- mand. He was shot dead at the gate, and eleven other men were killed also. Some of the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 garrison, panic-stricken, leaped over the para- pet and so deserted, amongst whom were Serjeant Burrowes, Corporal Cobb, and Private Kirshaw. The latter O'Connor fired at and wounded for deserting before the enemy. O'Connor was the bugler, and now took com- mand of the half-dozen men left, some of whom were wounded. O'Connor closed with and shot one of the enemy who had entered the redoubt ; but the redoubt was now in their possession, except one of the angles, where O'Connor and his few were. The Maoris now rushed the angle to dislodge them, but were met by the two Beamish brothers, one of whom fell ; the other was wounded, and Stevens and O'Connor, who had emptied all the chambers of his revolver, not having time to reload, used it as a club, and with it brained the leader of the charge, who fell back in the ditch dead. The enemy now re- treated with some of their dead and their wounded. O'Connor was severely wounded in the thigh by a builet. Had it not been for the great courage displayed by Michael O'Connor and his comrades the redoubt would have been taken and a large quantity of arms and ammu- nition and stores lost. " I recommended O'Connor and another for the New Zealand Cross for this affair. I sin- cerely hope Michael O'Connor's case will meet with most favourable consideration, and that for his verv meritorious conduct on the occasion referred to he will have the decoration of the New Zealand Cross bestowed on him, as Her Majesty the Queen instituted the order for special ser- ledge I have known of many brave deeds done during the late Maori war which have earned for the doers the Victoria Cross and the New Zealand Cross, but I know of no act that better deserves similar recognition than that per- formed by Michael O'Connor, late bugler to the Colonial Forces, and late H.M. 57th Regiment. "THOS. MCDONNELL, Lieut .- Colonel, N.Z. Militia." Another testimony to the bravery 12.0. of O'Connor was written by H. W. Brewer. staff-captain. Captain Brewer said,- " As far as I recollect, Milmore, Johnstone, McLean, Gill, and Bugler O'Connor got into two angles of the redoubt and defended them- selves desperately. Some of the wounded also assisted by firing at the enemy. Bugler O'Con- nor being an old soldier of the 57th Regiment, and practically in the position of a non-com- missioned officer, did capital service by re- peatedly sounding the 'assembly,' so that it was heard at the Waihi Redoubt, a little over two miles away. He also kept up the spirits of the men, and did good service against the enemy until the relief force, under the late Major Von Tempsky, arrived at the redoubt. The enemy, finding they could not get into the angles, commenced to undermine one of them from the outside, and about half an hour after the force arrived this portion fell into the ditch. " By his coolness and promptitude I consider Bugler O'Connor, who was wounded, materially assisted in saving the lives of the small portion of the garrison who were left after the others were killed and wounded. "H. W. BREWER, Staff-Captain." Then, there was this further testimony of Lieut .- Colonel McDonnell :- " Wellington, 24th January, 1890. "I hereby certify that Michael O'Connor, bugler, was discharged from the Colonial Forces in consequence of wounds received at Turu- "T. MCDONNELL, turu Mokai. Lieut .- Colonel, N.Z.M." Then, there was the report of the Waste Lands Committee, dated 9th August, 1895, conveying the result of their investigations into the claim of Michael O'Connor. They re- ported that the petition should be referred to the Government for their favourable considera- tion. The claim of O'Connor, as he had said, was submitted to the Public Petitions M to Z Committee last session, and the report of the Chairman of that Committee was as follows : - " I am directed to report that the Committee recommends the petition be referred to the Government for favourable consideration." That was the case so far as the public records went. The claim had been established beyond any cavil. The only question that remained to be considered, as it seemed to him, was whether the claim was put in too late-whether there had been such a lapse of time as to prevent the Government recommending the New Zealand Cross to be given to Michael O'Connor now. He said, as he had said at the beginning of his 