represent, but I if were to allow his statements bodies had absolutely nothing personal to gain to go unchallenged, if I were to allow it to go -not even position, place, or power. What they did they did for the benefit of the whole on record that I had said that I was going to community, and with the full knowledge of the promote a Bill to give these people who had a people interested. And I say again that those grievance a right of appeal, I should not be doing justice to myself. I will repeat now what people who surreptitiously petitioned Parlia- I said. I said that, if it was proved a grave in- ment and got the recommendation of the Com- justice had been done to any person, Parliament mittee in a way-as the Chairman of the Com- is the high Court to which they have a right of mittee is not here I will not characterize it as I otherwise would have done, but I will content appeal, and I said you cannot take that right myself by saying this : All knowledge of their from them. Again, the honourable member misrepresented me, because he said, first of all, proceedings was carefully withheld from the Harbour Board. And, if I mistake not, it was that I had personal feeling in this matter. There has been no personal feeling on my part. not my colleague Mr. Fisher who asked that the Committee's report be read. My recollec- I simply say I did this as a matter of duty. Why should I have any personal feeling? I tion is that I happened to come in in the nick of look on the Wellington Harbour Board as one time, when the report was about to be smuggled on the table. and I asked that it be read. The of the best Harbour Boards in the colony, and honourable member for Palmerston has alluded I look upon its chief officer as superior to any one else in that position in the colony. Why to the poor persecuted man who only asked for #10 :00 for his little holding, and he got some should I have any personal feeling in the mat- $1.200 from the Compensation Court. ter? I have said, and I repeat, that the Bill He was brought in and passed, including the three refused an offer of 41,100 from the Harbour Board, and he would probably have received subsections of clause 11- $1.5 % if he had been amenable to reason and approached the matter in a spirit of equity and good faith. His interests at the Compensation honourable member has proved that this piece Court were most ably represented by Mr. of land is not wanted by the Harbour Board. Thomas Kennedy Macdonald, and from that The very statement that they must sell the tribunal he received a tenth part of his claim. land in nine years showed that they were taking Such is the class of people that the Premier has land that they did not want, and that the whole such a large and sympathetic heart for, and machinery has been used for borough purposes, for whose benefit he suggests introducing special and not for Harbour Board purposes. And the legislation. wind-up of the honourable gentleman was that An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. by this the Harbour Board lost $0,000. I say Mr. HUTCHESON .- Members will bear me https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 there are thirty thousand reasons why it should out that the Premier said that a small Bill never have been passed by Parliament. would be brought in. giving them the right of appeal against the decision of the Compensa- word in explanation. I understood the Premier tion Court. to say that a local Bill should be brought in Mr. SEDDON .- I put a prefix to it. enabling the petitioners to form a Court, in Mr. HUTCHERSON .- I will merely say in which, if unsuccessful, they would be required conclusion, that the Harbour Board is acting to pay the costs; he even elaborated the within the strict lines of its duty as a Harbour machinery of the Bill he said he proposed to Board in taking any portion of land required for bring in. harbour-works propor, and, should that necessi- tate a fresh subdivision of the remainder of the area. Task this House again, Is that any evidence I said distinctly that it was only in case of of bad faith or intention to deceive the House ? grave injustice being done to them the Bill I riterate that, instead of making money out should be passed ; 1 prefixed my remarks by of the transaction. they will in all probability that. ive a large sum by the transaction. In con- clasion. I ask again, Is the Premier going to charge of the Bill, to explain to the House that allow his feelings of hatred to Wellington and the honourable member for Wellington City her institutions to obscure his judgment and (Mr. Hutcheson) is in error in saying that the care him to say that which is not in accord- loss to the Board would be something like ance with fact ? I repeat that the Board has no other object than the promotion of the public made of possible loss is between $9,000 and weal. and to properly discharge its duties as a Beard. The members of the Board have no personal interests to serve; they are not of being accused of pohing my nose into things .. actuated by animus or personal bias; they are simply doing what they believe to be their duty. I trust that the Premier will do nothing thing of what I intended to say has been said rashly in gratification of personal revenge that will prevent them from discharging their duty (Mr. Hutcheson). I intend to remark on the flaw as efficiently as they have done in the past. in the arguments of the honourable member in Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I do not think charge of the Bill when he said he was a repre- An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. Mr. SEDDON .- There was the proof. The Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) .- One Mr. SEDDON .- Do you deny my statement ? Mr. WILFORD. - May I be allowed, being in $30,000. The largest estimate that could be $10.000. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) .- At the risk that do not concern me, I will venture to say a word or two in connection with this Bill. Some- by the honourable member for Wellington City 