tures of the contracting parties is completely altered by the Bill. I say, therefore, that it is necessary to get the opinion of a departmental officer upon it. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- The object of this Bill is, I presume, to enable persons who are small borrowers to get legal transactions com- pleted without excessive payment. That is the main object of the Bill. Of course, persons with means. when the transaction is large, can em- ploy a lawyer to do the work for them at a reasonable cost. Now, with regard to the lending departments of the Government-the Advances to Settlers, the Public Trust Office, and the lending department of the Post Office- the mortgages there are chiefly conducted by the departments-especially the Public Trust Office -and with safety to the department, and at a reasonable charge. But when lawyers are engaged in small mortgages the charges are excessive and recurring, because the money is lent for short periods. Why could not some means be devised, under this Bill or otherwise, by which the lender could be secured and the borrower get his money cheaply ? I think it could be done, and I think this Bill does not go far enough, and will not carry out the object in view. A great majority of the titles to land in New Zealand are good, and are easily traceable in the Survey Department and in the Registry Office; and if a duly qualified official to deal with these things were appointed to fill up the forms, having in- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 vestigated the title to secure the safety of the lender, and charged a reasonable fee, the whole difficulty would be got over. Perhaps the mort- gage has to be renewed every two or three years, and, to my mind, it is simply monstrous the amount that small borrowers have to pay. It is certainly in the interests of both parties that the thing should be done cheaply and well, and the only way out of the difficulty that I can see is for the Government to set aside an officer of the Land Transfer Department to do the work, provided the lender and borrower agree to that course being taken. The Hon. Colonel PITT .- What the honour- able gentleman in charge of the Bill has said is quite true-that it was before the Statutes Revision Committee last year ; but he did not tell the Council that when it came before the Statutes Revision Committee it was far different from what it is now. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I said it was formerly here. The Hon. Colonel PITT. . But you did not say it is now a different document from what went to the Committee. As a matter of fact, this is a Bill that a private member has had before Parliament for many years, and now through . the good offices of the Government it has reached this stage; and it was through the lawyer, on the Statutes Revision Committee that it has been made presentable, and it is not now perfect. The objection to the Bill is that it is absolutely unnecessary. It will complicate and increase the different forms of mortgage. The result must be confusion. There is at present I mortgage. Then, there is the mortgage under the present Land Transfer Act, and likewise under the Advances to Settlers Act; and an endeavour has been made to get a compound of : all three in this Bill. The Hon. the Minister says that the object of this form of mortgage is to enable any one to fill it up, so that it may be done cheaply ; but what is wanted is that per- sons who lend money should have security. Section 4 says that every such mortgage, if relating to land under "The Land Transfer Act, 1845," shall be deemed to be a mortgage under that Act, and, if relating to land under "The Deeds Registration Act, 1868," shall be deemed to be a mortgage under that Act. Well, Sir, under the Land Transfer Act the matter may be simple. There is the certificate of title showing the encumbrances, if any, upon the land ; but if the land be not under the Land Transfer Act who is to say whether the title is correct ? Before advancing his money the man in the street cannot say if the proposed mortgage would be safe. My objection to this Bill is that it is altogether unnecessary, and that it is an interference by a layman-not by the Hon. the Minister, but by the real author of the Bill -- with a subject that, with all due respect to him, I venture to say he does not understand, and if this Bill passes at all it will tend to the confusion of the law. What is required, and what would best serve the people of this colony, is that the Govern- ment should take some steps to bring all the land of the colony under the Land Transfer Act, and if that were done I think the mode of dealing with land would be sufficiently simple. There should then be no difficulty whatever. If this Bill be passed as it is, 1 venture the opinion that there will be extreme confusion in the administration of the Land Transfer Act as far as affected by transactions under this Bill. The suggestion made by the Hon. Mr. Stevens that the opinion of the Registrar-General of Land should be obtained is a good one. I cannot see my way to vote for the Bill. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- Sir, two objec- tions have been raised against this measure. The first was raised by the Hon. Mr. Stevens, and the second by the Hon. Colonel Pitt. The Hon. Mr. Stevens said it was all a matter of registration ; and the Hon. Colonel Pitt said the measure was unnecessary, because anything that could be done under it could be done under the present law. As regards the question of re- gistration, the Hon. Mr. Stevens said that some persons would neglect to register, with the re- sult that some one else would do so. I cannot see how this could be. The man could be in no worse position than persons holding an un- registered mortgage, and we know very well that there are many such documents in the country. When a man lends money on mortgage he gets two documents namdy, the deeds of the land-that is, the certi- ficate of title-and also the mortgage deed, and he retains both during the currency of the Now, how can any one register mortgage. 