rumour. An Hon. MEMBER. - It was said in reply to an interjection, by the Premier. Mr. HUTCHESON. - But he would have just as little trouble in denying such a thing as in asserting any other thing. The Premier always tells us to trust the people, and in trusting the people, according to the showing of the honour- able member for Auckland City, out of forty-five polls only three rejected the proposals for the new system of taxation. I again appeal to the judgment of the honouralle member, and ask him if it is not as true as it ever was that one volunteer is worth ten pressed men. And if this system is gaining its way throughout the local bodies of the colony, as I believe it is gain- ing its way, why, then, seek to raise all that is antagonistic and hostile in the nature of man by making it compulsory? If there is one local body convinced of its own judgment of the recti- tude of this change, that local body immediately sends out a whole army of proselytisers through- out the colony to advocate the doctrine, instead of brooding at home and nourishing a sense of resentment, as the Auckland ratepayers did on a recent occasion. Now, the Auckland ratepavers were not well advised, in my opinion, in reject- ing this proposal put before them, but they did it, I believe, out of a strong sense of resentment ; and here is one sufficient cause for just resent- ment. I have here an envelope that I am assured was issued from the body taking the most prominent part in the agitation in favour of rating on unimproved values in Auckland -- the Single-tax League. Mr. FOWLDS. - No. Mr. HUTCHESON .- Well, those who may have been in another capacity advocating taxa- tion on unimproved values; and I say that great reforms can only be got by pure means, and the very greatest reform in the world can only be brought about by straightforward and fair agencies. Now, this envelope purports to have been issued with the official imprimeur of the Auckland City Council. It has on the left-hand top corner, in large type, the word "Important," and underneath, in glaring red letters, " Poll Tuesday, 6th August." Then there is the address of the man to whom it is sent, and at the bottom it says, " If not claimed within ten days, return to the Rate Collector's Office, City Council." The City Council had absolutely nothing to do with the business. Mr. FOWLDS .- That is not true. They filled-in every slip that was sent out with those envelopes . the name of the ratepayer, the ad- dre-s of the property, and the amount of the rates paid by the person. Mr. HUTCHESON .- Only at the instance of an interested body of the ratepayers. But it had the desired effect, and it was regarded by those to whom it was sent as being an official document and emanating from the City Coun- cil, and conveying to the person to whom it was sent the idea that it received the approval, the official approval, of the local governing body. | I think this is essentially a land question, and I The result was disastrous to what might other- : consider that we should not waste the time of improved values. But the mistake that was made, I believe, lay largely in the fault of those over-zealous people who, believing that this was a just and equitable movement, adopted questionable means to influence their fellows. I have only to say that no charge of incon- sistency in this House has any dread for me. I am not one of those members who delve into Hausanis to find how they voted on a similar question five or six years ago. I have no care to turn resurrectionist in order to see how I voted on some other occasion years ago on the same question. If I vote apparently at variance with my former views, it only shows that I have moditied or altered my views as a re- sult of the larger experience I have gained in the meanwhile ; and I say now that I do thoroughly believe from conviction that the rating on unimproved values, as far as my experience of city life goes, will advantage the City of Wellington in many ways, and in other ways cause some little disadvantage. Taking it all in all, I believe it would be mainly for the ad- vantage of the city as a whole. Therefore, while supporting the principle, I will do all I can as a citizen to induce my fellow citizens to see the propriety of voting for the proposed new system of taxation. But im- mediately I am subjected to compuls on by Act of this House I am like the proverbial mule : I will kick as hard as I can, and I will vote against the Bill, because it is compulsory, and no amendment moved by the Premier can, .in my opinion, ma e it anything more than a grotesque fiasco. To say it is not compulsor", because you leave me and those who may objcet the right to test our strength of resistance against the power of the law is a paradox. Sir, I will oppose the Bill and for that one and only reason -- that it is to be compulsory ; whereas at present the system is working its way sweetly and convincingly from one end of the colony to the other. I believe that, in the interests of the principle of rating on the unimproved values, the House would do well to reject the present Bill. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland Citvi .- Sir, previous to the adjournment of the debate last Wednesday, I intimated to the Government that it was not my intention to support this Bill. Since then the constituency I represent has taken a poll, and my esteemed colleague Mr. Fowlds went north to give them a hand. My colleague, I may sav, is the greatest champion of the single-tax in the colony. The result, then, of the poll was that there was a majority of nine hundred against it. Therefore, after receiving from the Ma or of Auckland the result of the poll in Auckland, I do not feel that I can change my sentiments even if I wished to. I am not going to allow my constituents to be unrepresented while I am in Parliament, and when the majority of me people desire me to carry out a measure which I think is right I will do so ; but if I think it is detrimental to the in- terests of the colony I will not support it. Sir, 