qualitied for the work as are those nurses who are trained at the public institutions. This is proved by the fact that those nurses are in great demand amongst the medical faculty in the City of Christchurch. Then, of course, I know there are other well-conducted hospitals in the colony, but, in connection with this particular one, I would point out that for several vears the operatingroom in this institu- tution has been regarded as a model. I know that even in England operating rooms are being built and arranged on the model of that at Strathmore Hospital, in Christchurch. There is only one other matter to which 1 7.30. would like to refer, and it is the regis- tration-fee - the proposal that those who are entitled shall be registered upon the payment of a fec of £1. I feel that this is a matter of some importance, and I should like to see the fee abolished altogether; but, at any rate, the amount of the fee should surely be considerably reduced. I cannot for the life of me ima- gine why the Government should wish to make revenue from the registering of nurses. The number may be considerable, and, if so, the amount might be considerable; but this registration will put the Government to no expense, it will not require any additional staff of officers, and, while acceding to the demand of their own Inspector-General for a standard of training among our hospital nurses, and for those who act as nurses generally, I cannot understand why the Government should impose such a registration-fee as to make it appear. . although I do not know that it is so --- that the Government desire to make revenue by this Bill. I hope the Government will see their way very materially to reduce the amount of the regis- tration-fee: and if they will do that I feel quite sure the Bill itself will confer very great benefit not only on the nurses themselves, but upon the community which those nurses with so much benefit so ungrudgingly serve. I should like to say before I sit down that when the Bill gets into Committee I shall take the opportunity of moving such amendments as will give effect to the suggestions I have noted in my remarks. Mr. ARNOLD (Dunedin City) .- Sir. I wish in the first place to congratulate the Minister upon bringing down this Bill, which, I think, is in the right direction. It is well that we should encourage, especially in those who minister to the necessities of others, a spirit of emulation in that which tends to the welfare of the community; and I think if there is one calling more than another in which it is well that we should equal if not surpass other colonies and other countries it is in connection with the training of nurses. I think that the fact of nurses passing an examination and having registration certificates will cause them to study well, will cause them to practice well their noble calling, and will cause them to strive to rise higher and to excel to a greater degree than they would do otherwise. There- fore I am pleased that the Ministry has brought down this Bill, and I intend to vote for the second reading of it. Sir, it was VOL. CXVII .- 26. ment made by the honourable member for Waihemo, Mr. Mackenzie, this afternoon that 1 rose to speak at all. During the last two ses- sions that honourable gentleman has made one or two very strong and severe statements with regard to Dunedin and its surroundings. Last session we had what I call a very exaggerated statement with regard to the harbour, and I certainly expected that it would have been taken notice of by the Harbour Board before now ; and not many days ago, in this House, we had a severe statement made by him with re- gard to the Municipal Council in connection with their management of and the state of the Water of Leith. Such a statement should be treated with the contempt it deserves both by the Council and the members for the city. To- day we had, however, a statement which we cannot deny, because it is impossible for us to disprove it, and it seems to have been made in all good faith. It is, however, so serious that I cannot let it pass unnoticed. We were told that in an institution which I am proud of, and which is one of the largest hospitals in the colony-we are proud of all our hospitals-I say we were told that in the Dunedin Hospital a man suffer- ing very keenly was not only neglected by one of the trained nurses of that institution, but was also abused and punished by that nurse. Not only did the statement go that far, but we were told also that the doctor when spoken to upheld what had been done, and stated that an out- sider-that is, the honourable member - had no right to interfere. If the statement be correct I can hardly find words to express my feelings with regard to it. I say. if it be true, an inquiry should have been held and an ex- posure made publicly. On the other hand, if it is not true, the statement should be denied publicly. We have had Royal Commissions to inquire into charges made against our public institutions of less importance than this. The honourable member says that he makes the statement on the authority of the patient him- self. We know that there may be those in our hospitals who at times suffer keenly, and who imagine that the treatment they receive is not kind when it is the best they could receive under the circumstances. But the member him- self says he saw that which pointed to neglect- that is to say, certain appliances or conveniences were not there which he himself knew should be there for the patient. Sir, that is going farther than a mere statement of the patient ; but it seems to me that what is more serious still is the statement that, at the request of the patient, the honourable member promised that he would not mention the matter until the patient had passed away from this life, intend- ing to show to this House that the treatment would be even more unkind if it were known that he had spoken to any outsider about the matter. I refer to this matter now so that I may in the first place lay emphasis upon the statement made by the member for Waihemo. If it is found that it is not correct, the autho- rities in Dunedin can note it, and, I hope, cause the member to be more careful in the future. 