because the buildings and improvements are rated. It is the property-tax over again. I ask, why maintain the system of property-tax for local general rates and abolish it for General Government revenue? As for those who say we should trust the people: Do we go to the people and ask them what kind of taxation this Parliament shall impose on them ? If you are going to apply the principle of going to the people as to local rating, you should also apply it to colonial taxation. One of the principal arguments in favour of this Bill is that you have differential systems of levying rates all over the country. Is that wise, is that politic ? Is it wise that you should have on one side of a road one system of levying taxation, and on the opposite side of the same road another system ? You have in thirty-three or thirty-four local bodies of the country un- improved-value taxation levied ; and in all the others you have the old property-tax system of rates being levied. Is it right that you should have those different kinds of rating ? I think not. Then, again, there is the differ- ence between the local and the General Govern . ment system of rating lands. I contend that this should be done away with, and I hope the Government are determined to try and place this measure on the statute-book. I believe that the Premier is even giving way too much to those who are opposed to the principle of rating on unimproved values. He has even offered to agree that any locality which likes to have this Act suspended from operation may do so by taking a vote of the ratepayers. There are a number of localities where the majority of the people are in favour of the unim- proved value system of taxation; but these localities of local bodies would not go to the expense, and would not go to the trouble of voting to bring the Act into operation be- cause of that expense and that trouble. There- fore it is the duty of this Parliament, I take it, to lay down one system of taxation, and one only ; and to concede the offer the Premier made, in answer to the member for Franklin, is, I think, conceding more than should be con- ceded. There is another important provision that I fail to see in this measure, and I hope, when the Bill gets into Committee, the Premier will be prepared to bring down a clause so as to amend "The Rating on Unimproved Value Act, 1896," by making the whole of the rates collectable under this system, and not to have the general rates collected under this system and the separate rates under the old system of the property-tax. I shall not take up further time, but I shall cordially support the measure, and trust it will be placed on the statute-book. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) .- Mr. Speaker, this Bill contains in the main two provisions, both in- cluded in clause 2, subclause (1) of that clause, making rating on the unimproved value com- pulsory. That is the main clause of the Bill. Then, subclause (2) of clause 2 renders it optional on the part of a local body to have its water-rates, gas-rates, charitable-aid rates, and levied on the unimproved value. Now, Sir, I may say straight out that I agree with the principle of rating on the unimproved value, and I disagree entirely with the senior member for Wellington City and others who have spoken in the attitude they have taken up on this matter. They admit the principle of rating on unimproved values, but they are not prepared to admit that the Rating on Unimproved Value Act of 1896 is placed the wrong way on. I think, if we admit the principle, we should be logical, and say that rating on the unimproved value shall be the law; and that if any local body, for reasons affecting the district under its control, desires to exempt itself from that law it may do so by a vote of the rate- payers under a special section of the Bill. That is what I understand the Premier pro- poses to do, and it is on that understanding that I shall vote for the second reading of the Bill. If I studied my district only, and not the colony as a whole, I believe there is no member of the House who would have better reason for voting against the Bill than I have ; but taking the view that I do, that a tax on industry and thrift, speaking generally, is an undesirable one and therefore to be avoided, I conceive it to be my duty to support the measure, with the amendment which the Premier has promised. And on that principle I shall support the second reading of the Bill. It seems to me the Pre- mier should have gone further in subclause (2) of section 2, and placed these charitable-aid rates, water-rates, and other rates on the same level as the ordinary general rate. I can see no good reason for discriminating between them. A number of attempts have been made to lay down some general rule as to whether the rating on unimproved values system, if it be- comes law, will benefit the large owner or .the small owner. Now, I believe no such general rule can be laid down. If we are to discover what effect the Bill will have on any particular district we must look at the circumstances of that district, and we will find that what will be the result in one district will not be the result in another. The effect the system will have depends entirely on the relative values of the unimproved and the improved value in each particular district. I have taken out a few simple figures to illustrate what I have just said. Let us take, for example, districts containing property with a rateable value of $600,000, and the rate at present paid on the capital value is 1d. in the pound. That means an income of $2,500 for the local body. We will assume that the same sum is desired to be the income derived under the rating on the unimproved value. We will take two districts. The improved value in one of the two districts is, say, $400,000 : the unim- proved value, therefore, is $200,000-that is, the ratio of the improved to the unimproved value is as two to one. It necessarily follows that if that district were to obtain the same amount of revenue it must levy on the unimproved value three times what is levied on the 