less the Premier is prepared to move that the Standing Orders be suspended, and that the orders of the day be postponed. Mr. SEDDON .- If that is your ruling I move, That Standing Order No. 437 be suspended. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) .- Before you finally decide as to your ruling I would like to point out that the Standing Order says, " On the House resuming at half after seven o'clock, as the case may be, Mr. Speaker is to direct the Clerk at the table to read the orders of the day without any question being put"; From "is to direct ; " that is mandatory. that it seems to me to be perfectly clear that there is no alternative. Whether it is de- sirable or whether it may not be desirable, the Standing Order is perfectly clear that the Speaker is to order the Clerk to read the orders of the day without any question being put. And then the last part of Standing Order No. 53 says, " The debate on motions may be re- sumed after the orders of the day have been disposed of, on motion to that effect being put and carried." That evidently shows that you have to call on the orders of the day and proceed with them. Mr. SEDDON .- We have been in this posi- tion before. Captain RUSSELL. - No. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes ; the Speaker has ruled before that you can intercept the orders of the day by motion either to suspend the Standing Orders or to take other business. However, we can get over the difficulty, I think. Let us get https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 these reports done with. I simply ask that that particular Standing Order be postponed. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .-- My ruling is this: Standing Order No. 437 on this point reads as follows : - " Any Standing Order or Orders of the House may be suspended on motion made with or without notice : Provided that notice extending over two clear days, and specifying the hour at which such motion will be made, shall always be given when practicable ; and that a motion to suspend without notice shall not be enter- tained unless there be forty members present at the time such motion is made." The Premier having intimated to me that he intends to move the suspension of Standing Order No. 72, in order to allow the debate on the report of the Public Accounts Committee to be continued, it is my duty to count the House. There are forty-six members present ; the Premier, therefore, is in order in moving this motion. The House divided on the question, "That the Standing Orders be suspended, in order to allow the debate on the report of the Public Accounts Committee to be continued." AYES, 39. Fraser, A. L. D. Allen, E. G. Collins Gilfedder Colvin Arnold Duncan Barclay Graham Fisher Bennet Hall Hall-Jones Buddo Flatman Fowlds Hanan Carncross Mills Hogg Tanner Hornsby O'Meara Thompson, R. Parata Ward. Houston Laurenson Tellers. Seddon Smith, G. J. McNab Lawry Mckenzie, R. Stevens Palmer. Meredith NOES, 11. Russell, W. R. Lethbridge Atkinson Herries Mackenzie, T. Tellers. Monk Hutcheson Hardy Pirani Lang Massey. PAIRS. For. Against. Carroll Bollard Smith, E. M. McGuire Willis. Haselden. Majority for, 28. Motion agreed to and Standing Orders sus- pended. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) .- I must express my regret that nearly a quarter of an hour has been wasted this even- ing by the Opposition trying to shirk debate on 1 this question ; at any rate, it indicates they recognise the weakness of their case. An Hon. MEMBER .- How much time are you going to waste now ? Mr. HALL-JONES .- I am not going to waste time, and we will soon see if the honourable gentlemen are really as anxious to go on with the business on the Order Paper as they pro- fess to be. Now, Sir, when the House ad- journed at half-past five I was referring to the action of the Auditor-General in taking up the extraordinary attitude he did in re- fusing to allow a vote authorised by this House to cover the cost of the Government steamers, both in the colony and outside the colony, to be expended, and how this was made the subject of a tag on the Public Accounts of the year. Honourable members will realise the absurdity of the position he took up on that occasion when I iu- 1 form them that for a very similar service the Auditor-General passed the account, and that too was for a service outside the colony. Then, why the distinction? It has been said. Sir, that the reason why objection was take ! was because the services of these boats for all work were paid for by the various departments. I know something about this matter, and 1 say it is not correct that all the work of these steamers is paid for. It is well known that there are many occasions upon which the work cannot be set down to any particular depart- ment, because it is colonial work, affecting all departments and affecting the colony, and in these cases the charges are not made. In fact. the system of charging to departments only came into regular operation within the last few years. There is no doubt that members who paid attention to our estimates last year will recognise it was a vote for the steamers' services in the colony's service, whether it was in the colony or out of the colony. Those 