the people who had taken up that country, he was quite sure that the Government could do well with the estate, if acquired at a reasonable price, to secure successful settlement in that particular district. Personally, he was exceed- ingly anxious to see all the country acquired that was fit for occupation by the sons of settlers ; and there were a great number of settlers in that neighbourhood who, he was persuaded, would take up that country and become successful farmers. Of course, as he said at the beginning of his remarks, he agreed with the Committee that it was not all fit for close settlement ; but, taken at a price such as the Government would acquire it at under the Land for Settlements Act, he was quite satis- fied it would be taken up. Motion agreed to. MERRIVALE ESTATE. Mr. GIEFEDDER (Wallace) asked the Go- vernment, If they will favourably consider the advisability of acquiring the remaining portion of the Merrivale Estate for closer settlement ? Part of this estate was purchased some years ago by the Government under the Land for Settlements Act, and settlement in that locality had been fairly successful. Seeing that there was a demand for land in the neighbourhood, and the property was for the most part of fair quality for closer settlement, it was desirable that in the near future the Government would see their way clear to purchase the remainder of that estate. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said that 11.0. there were two blocks on the ori- ginal Merrivale Estate which might still be obtained : the homestead, of 6,290 acres, of which about 2,000 acres was birch forest, on poor land ; the remaining area of about 4,290 acres was considerably broken, and was generally poor fern land. About 1,500 acres had been cul- tivated ; the rest was in the natural state. This block was offered to the Government a few months ago, but the Land Purchase Board did not see its way to recommend the acquisition. There was another block of about 9,000 acres which contained some good river-flat land. It was all open grass country, some of it hilly, but fair soil, and would subdivide well into moderate-sized farms. It was adjacent to the block of 10,000 acres purchased from the same estate about six years ago, and which had since been gradually taken up, and was now a successful settlement. It would be worth while ascertaining if the 9,000 acres could be obtained at a reasonable price. The opening of the Ring- way Estate of 2,300 acres shortly in the Otautau district, about twelve miles from the 9,000 acres, would be a criterion as to what demand there was in the district for land. FIJI. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Premier, Whether he will lay on the table of the House a copy of the letter addressed by the Hon. Mr. Chamberlain to Sir George O'Brien, Governor of Fiji, dated Downing # VOL. OXVII .- 81. print a copy of the letter, and he thought it only right that it should be laid on the table of the House with the other correspondence that had already been placed on the table. The letter had an important bearing on the question which, he understood, was to be brought under the consideration of Parliament. He understood the right honourable gentleman to say a few days ago that a copy of the letter had been laid on the table of the House, but he had made inquiries from the Clerk, who told him that the letter had not been laid on the table. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, If the letter was not confidential it would be laid on the table. If it was the one from the Right Hon. Mr. Chamberlain to His Excellency Sir George O'Brien, Governor of Fiji, in which he inferred that there must be some mistake, misappre- hension, or misrepresentation, then there would be no objection, and if the honourable gentle- man could show him a copy of it he would let him know at once. [The honourable gentleman having done this, the Premier replied that the letter would be laid on the table of the House.] Captain RUSSELL .- What correspondence will be laid on the table ? Mr. SEDDON .- All letters from the Secretary of State except those that are confidential. Captain RUSSELL .- I am glad to hear that. Mr. FISHER said he had the letter. In it the Right Hon. Mr. Chamberlain said,- " Unfortunately, however, the language used by you on this occasion was open to miscon- struction, and has been garbled and distorted by Press summaries so as to give umbrage to the Government of New Zealand." Mr. SEDDON said he had already informed the House that all letters from the Secre- tary of State to the Government in respect to that matter, excepting those that were con- fidential, would be laid on the table of the House. MILITARY PENSIONS BOARD. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) asked the Minister of Defence, If any appointments have been made to the Pensions Board under the Military Pen- sions Act ; if so, will he state the duties to be performed, and give the names of appointees ? Since he had put the question on the Order Paper the Gazette had appeared, and the names asked for had been gazetted. He would like, however, to have the additional information. He noticed that the Boards were made up of medical men, some of whom did not belong to the Volunteer Force. Medical offi- cers had been passed over by the appointment of civilians to the Military Pensions Board. The result had been intense dissatisfaction amongst the medical officers, who had served in the various districts for over twenty years. They felt that a slight had been cast upon them, and serious harm would be done to the medical staff if those who had given their services for so long in the past were thus passed over. These 