man did not know the particulars of the case. He would tell him all about it. The facts were that there were about nine hundred acres of land taken up by the petitioner, and when he went to the Auckland Survey Office he asked some one in the office if the river was the boundary of the land, and he was told that it was the boundary. This officer was not the head of the department ; but upon this reply he took up this property, and went to work and cleared a piece of manuka scrub. He was told the land belonged to the Maoris, and was not Crown land. He, then, must have known it was not in the power of the Government to give him the land. That was the time he should either have thrown up his section or have demanded compensation. Mr. SYMES .- What about the plan it was sold by ? Mr. DUNCAN said he had taken the trouble to ride over the land in company with Mr. Old, who pointed out the ground, and that revealed to him that this portion in dispute-the land that belonged to the Maoris-was in a very short bend in the river, with a very nice portion of light bush, and the balance was manuka, light scrub. A small portion of this scrub was cut down, and that was all the improvements He was visible, that one could be certain of. prepared to do this : to take the value of both sections at the date he took them up, and deduct the 200 acres, and allow that to be the basis of settlement. That was the only way it could be done. The land was not the Govern- ment's to give ; it was Native land. He did not think it would be going too far to allow him the difference between the 200 and the 700 acres, and the Government were prepared to do that ; but if they gave him the amount he asked he would be getting the 700 acres for nothing. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) wished to say a few words, to indorse the remarks of the honourable member for Egmont and in reply to the Minister. Unfortunately he had not the advantage of being on the Waste Lands Committee, but he had had occasion to visit the Mahoenui district some time ago, and had heard the history of this matter not only from the petitioner but from other settlers in the district ; and he had come to the conclusion-in which he believed he was right-that it was an extremely hard case, and that the petitioner had suffered serious loss on account of a mistake made by the officers of the Survey Department, for which he thought the Government should be responsible. The history of the matter was briefly this: About 1892 the petitioner, Mr. Old, and some other settlers thought about taking up land in what was known as the Mahoenui Valley. They visited the district, and Mr. Old afterwards made application for a section, including what is known as the " Otaiao Bend." But before doing so they interviewed the Commissioner of Crown Lands on the matter, who, in answer to the following question put by one of the intending settlers : " Are we to understand that it is per- feetly clear that in selecting land here "-mean- ing the section in question-"we get a river Mr. Duncan frontage throughout, bend or no bend ?" replied " Yes." Mr. DUNCAN. - Mr Mueller was 3.0. never there at all. Mr. MASSEY said he was informed that it was the Acting Commissioner-at any rate it was the head of the department at the time. However, the petition of Mr. Old stated that he applied for the section to which he had referred, and he was successful in getting it, he being declared the lessee. After obtaining possession of the land, he put a number of men to work at clearing, sowing grass, and so forth. About that time he was invited to come down and sign his lease, and on doing so he discovered that the whole of his river frontage was cut off, and that the portion known as the Otaia Bend, which he had improved and which was far more valuable than the other part of the land, was not included. Of course he objected, and was informed by the Commissioner that he could choose one of two alternatives : he could either take up the land, sign the lease, and later on the Government would acquire the piece that had been cut off, and hand it over to him ; or he could surrender his lease and apply for compen- sation. Mr. Old decided to remain on his land if possible, in the hope that the Government would acquire the land in question, which included, as he had said, the whole river frontage and the greater part of his improvements, and river flats particularly suitable for agricultural purposes. The Government, however, had not acquired the land. On account of the loss of the frontage, Mr. Old had to buy some privately-owned land at a considerable advance in price ; then, feel- ing that he had been badly treated, he peti- tioned the House on three different occasions. The petitions were referred to the Waste Lands Committee, who, on each occasion, had gone thoroughly into the matter, and had reported that Mr. Old's claim ought to be considered, and that he ought to be compensated. Mr. Old did not want-as the Minister of Lands implied -anything unreasonable; he did not want to sit free for the remainder of the 999 years, but he asked that his case might be sub- mitted to arbitration. Mr. Old was a good settler ; he belonged to a family of good settlers, and who had done far more than their share of the work of pioneer settlement ; and he thought it was the duty of the Minister of Lands, who. in his (Mr. Massey's) opinion, was the one member of the Ministry who was amenable to reason, to see that justice was done to the peti- tioner. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, One would think from this discussion that the Govern- ment were blameable in respect to the matter, and that it had come up now for the first time and had not received from the Ministry that attention it demanded. The late Sir John Mckenzie, when Minister of Lands, had gone into the matter very fully, and he certainly was not a man of whom it could be said that he was not amenable to reason. He was not a man who would do an injustice to any settler. He had gone fully into this matter, and he was prepared to go the length the present Minister 