that members desire and that the constituents would like to see. I therefore think it is of the first importance that members should enjoy, by paying for it, the privilege of obtaining copies of their speeches and circulating them throughout the districts. I think the more their constituents know of the work of a member the better they are able to gauge him, whether he is doing right or whether he is doing wrong, and the report then is not liable to party newspaper colourings. A peculiar attempt is now being made in this country to create a feeling that Parliament is not the proper piace to air abuses -- that.a man must be prepared to go outside Parliament, and state outside Parliament what he considers necessary, when he exposes matters in the interests of the public. Now, that is contrary to all established precedent. 1 maintain that Parliament is the platform from which the grievances of the country should be made known, and unless we enjoy and preserve that privilege and fully exercise it, then, I say, good- bye to the liberty and freedom and advance- ment of the privileges of the people of the country. The honourable member for Welling. ton City states that he has threats of libel. Why, since I was returned to this House last year I have had threats of no less than six libel actions. But, Sir. the singular thing in con- nection with these is that there have been publications outside the House made by me precisely similar to what I made inside : but the people content themselves with threats. They want, by threatening, to give people the impression they are right, and thus they hope to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 satisfy the public in a measure : but they have no case to go on with, and they know it. But even assuming they had a case to go on with, because " the greater the truth the greater the libel," does it follow that if a member of this House, in his conscientious endeavours to serve the best interests of his country, makes a statement which may bring him within the scope of some moneyed institution, he should expose himself and his family and his means to an attack in this manner ? Is the object of his statement the injury of individuals or the benefit of the wider interests of the whole colony ? If it is for the benefit of the whole colony, and not for the injury of individuals- although individuals may be an incident in the situation, and may suffer, the latter is not his object -I say if his object is the welfare of the community. then the House of Parliament is the place to state the grievance. Sir, I wish now to refer to the trouble in connection with the Dunedin Hospital. We have the Trustees of that institution declaring that it is unbecoming of a member of Parliament, from his position in Parliament, to make a statement regarding the management of the Dunedin Hospital. Sir, I have just this moment received a letter from Dunedin thanking me for having had the courage to make the statement detailing the neglect. It is all very well for honourable members always to try and run smoothly with the tide, but, if an honourable member knows within his own experience that certain ill-treat- ment has occurred towards a poor patient in one Mr. T. Mackenzie of our hospitals, it is his duty to fearlessly make that statement on the floor of this House, in order that that institution may rectify the errors It does not necessarily that may have arisen. follow that the institution is badly managed. but these ills must be pointed out. And in con- nection with this, Sir, we have the Chairman and authorities of that Hospital declaring that he and they can give to the whole statement what he calls a circumstantial and direct denial. Why, how can the Chairman of that institu- tion give a direct denial to an incident he did not witness ? And, if he does give a direct denial, does he think that his word will be taken before mine by the people of Otago and the people of New Zealand ? He will find my public record is too well known for that. Can he show that I had any personal interest in making known the sufferings of my friend John Mackenzie, who was injured there through not being afforded on a certain occasion the conveniences which he ought to have had? The mere statement of denial will never alter the fact, and never delete from the public mind the statement that I say that man suffered there, and he had not that which he ought to have had within his reach. That is the point. And let me say too, I have been told that this is a matter which should have been brought before the Trustees themselves. I explained to this House that I promised this dying man that until after his death the matter would not be brought out. And. Sir, before he died I was on the Teachers' Commission. But let me say in this connection that there was under the same department in the North Island something very serious going on, and I did appeal to the department, and the department denied the existence of it ; and it was not until I brought this matter before this House that the depart- ment then acknowledged what I said was abo lutely true. And if matters are brought on the floor of this House as they ought to be they have got a marvellous effect. A deliverance from the Parliament of New Zealand matis Bumbledom sit up. It makes these men recognise that there is a voice which can te heard, and it reaches to every section of the community, and which cannot be resisted, and hence the fever of the Dunedin Hospital Tras- tees. They now demand what they call a Magisterial inquiry ; and then, as if fearing i: will not be granted, they at once say, if this Magisterial inquiry is refused by the Govern- ment. they shall themselves apply for a Com- mission to be set up, with men selected by themselves. I say, let them get a Magisterial inquiry, and I shall be only too glad to go and state what I said in connection with it. Suffi- cient has already been made clear that the staff nurses and Trustees will stand shoulder to shoulder for the institution against Thomas Mackenzie, but they will get exactly the same plain story told to them before the investigation that I told upon the floor of this House. I have no number of witnesses ; the circumstances are quite plain. I went there and I saw this man suffering, and certain things which ought to have been there were not there. The nurse came along 