the removal failed the old license still remained good ; but now he had to imperil his old license before he could secure the new one, and it meant that he must come to an improper understanding with the Licensing Committee on the quiet before he would imperil his license. In this respect he would suggest to the Premier that the provisions of this clause made the position with regard to removals worse than it was before, and some alteration was necessary if the licensing legislation of 1895 was to be given proper effect to. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) quite admitted that there was an evasion of the intention of the Legislature in passing the Act preventing the removal of licenses, and it implied that, though they might be as careful as they liked in their legislation, means would be found to evade the law. He admitted that the manner of doing it now was much more objectionable than when, as formerly, a license could be re- moved a limited distance. Now a license could be removed for any distance as long as it was in the same electoral district. But this question opened up the whole scope of licensing legislation. On the one hand there were objections to any amendment of the licens- ing regulations, and on the other hand he was asked to pass a clause remedying present de- fects. You could not do the two things ; but he thought that if it were only for the pur- pose of dealing with these two questions-the stopping of the granting of new licenses by the dropping-out of old ones, and the giving of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 the Magistrates power in regard to the indorse- ment of licenses-a Licensing Bill this session was necessary. If, however, he introduced a Licensing Bill remedying defects of a technical character, how far could he go before much larger questions would be introduced ? At all events, it would be his duty to endeavour to remedy as far as he could defects which now existed, and the Government had taken cog- nisance of the evasion of the law in respect to the dropping of licenses and the taking of them up again at another place ; and he had set his face against this, because he believed it to be an evasion of the law, and he did not think it was right. However, he thought. if the other busi- ness made satisfactory progress, they would have a Licensing Act Amendment Bill this session, and if members were moderate and would simply deal with what the Bill proposed they might get something through ; but a great deal would depend upon members themselves. BONUS FOR PRESERVED MILK. Mr. PIRANI ( Palmerston) asked the Colonial .Treasurer, Whether he is aware that the con- ditions attached to the bonus for preserved milk limit the award of such bonus to one firm, and whether he will alter those conditions so as to allow open competition for the bonus? He would like to point out to the Premier that on the 17th June last regulations for granting this bonns were made by Order in Council, and they were gazetted on the 20th June. There was a bonus promised of 3d. in the pound up to $1,000 Mr. Atkinson preserved milk. The period prescribed for the production of the milk was to date from the 1st July following the Gazette-that was, ten days after the bonus was gazetted-so that any manufacturer who wanted to start a factory and participate in the bonus had only ten days in which to make all his preparations and start the manufacture of the milk. At present there were two factories in the colony, owned, he un- derstood, by one man-one in Auckland and <!-- PageHeader=":" --> the other in Invercargill. He noticed from the statistics that in 1897 they exported 47,484 lb. of preserved milk : in 1808, 493.6561b. ; in 1899, 643,559 1b. : and last year, 560,508 1b. It was estimated that nearly the same amount was sold by the same factories for local con- sumption ; so that actually there was last year manufactured in the colony nearly sufficient te earn the bonus by this one manufacturer alone. Now, his point was that the conditions of the bonus absolutely precluded anybody but this one manufacturer from obtaining the bonus. He thought if the Government intended to grant a bonus of this sort, as well as the rebate of the full amount of the duty paid on the sugar used in the manufacture, they ought to open the bonus to everybody who wished to go into this industry, and not preclude everybody but this one manufacturer. By allowing only ten days to elapse from the declaration of the bonus to the commencing of the manufacture the bonus was practically limited to the fac- tories already in existence. He therefore asked the Premier whether the Government were aware of that fact ; and, also, if they were aware of it, would they extend the time for the commencement of the period to earn the bonus, say, to six months, so that anybody who desired to start a manufactory for pre- served milk and earn the bonus would have a chance to do so ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) might say it came <!-- PageHeader="\- -" --> to him as a surprise that only one factory was likely to avail itself of this bonus. It certainly <!-- PageHeader="1" --> was not the intention of the Government that should obtain. The first recommendation from the department was that the Government should only pay a bonus on the milk exported, but that was stopped for very good reasons. But what was really wanted was a bonus in order to en- courage the manufacture of preserved milk, and \- - to promote the establishment of factories. The point raised by the honourable member as to the short time between the notice and the claim for the bonus was such as to warrant the Govern- ment reconsidering the matter, and that would be done ; and so far as he could he would make the bonus open to all who wished to avail them- selves of it. DISTRESS FOR RENT BILL. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Premier, Whether he will this session intro- duce a Bill to amend the law relating to dis- He could not better express tress for rent ? what he had to say on this subject than by reading the few remarks he made on the same subject in this House last year, namely :- 