church, because honourable gentlemen are as familiar with it as I am ; but if the honourable gentleman will throw harsh terms across the floor of this House it is simply a matter of necessity to contradict him. Then, Sir, he went on to say that the Government had met with some snags lately which were difficult to get over, and he said that, watching the faces of the members of the Government, he noticed them go pale and red by turns. Well, I am sorry to say I think the honourable gentleman has got past that stage : I do not think he could blush ; but at the same time I believe there are a few political snags in this House, and the honour- able gentleman represents them very well. These are the only snags which trouble us, and it will not be for very long. The honour- able gentleman finally concluded by saying he supported the Bill. Well, if any one reading the speech of the honourable gentleman can say that it conveys consistent support of the advances - to- settlers policy I shall be more than astounded, because everything the honourable gentleman said has been practically against the measure and the office, or other- wise trying to kill the Bill with kindness. The honourable gentleman could do nothing but try and pull the Bill and balance-sheet to pieces, but without success. Then, to crown all, he wound up by saying he was always in favour of giving these advances to settlers. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - Sir, I wish to make a personal explanation. The honourable gentle- man is misquoting me. Mr. MILLS .- I he honourable gentleman can explain when I have finished. If that is the kind of assistance the honourable gentleman gives to policy measures of the Government he was elected to support, I am quite satisfied those who are true members of the Liberal party are far better without him. That is unquestion- able ; and therefore he and I will agree to differ in opinion ; but I should like to see in future a little more consistency on the part of the honourable member, and I hope that his future actions will confirm us in the belief that he has seen the error of his ways and intends after this to be more " consistent." Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton). - I have heard it said that if a man has got nothing to say he will take his full half-hour to say it ; that if he had perhaps something worth saying he will say it in twenty minutes ; but that if he has something that he has thought over and boiled down, so that it is really worth listening to, he can say it in five minutes. Well, I intend to endeavour to be one of the latter. We have heard a great deal of argument against sup- porting this Bill, and have had masses of figures put before us. We have been told of $500,000, and of $760,000, and of accrued interest and sinking fund $175,000 for two years, and of $500,000 borrowed, and so on-all to prove that there is no need for more than half a million of money to be granted to the Government to carry on the Advances to Settlers Office. Now, putting all these things on one side, what are the facts of the case? Some seven years ago Mr. Mills determined to advance money to settlers under a special Act passed for that purpose, and to take power to borrow $3,000,000 to enable them to carry on the functions of that office. That Act has now been in force something over six years, and during the last year the sum advanced amounted to between $500,000 and £600,000, and the applications are steadily increasing. and the Government now come to us and say, " We want power to borrow another million pounds." It is admitted, according to the Government's own statement, that on the 31st March they had $760,000 in hand, and now they ask power to borrow one million ; and they assure us that they will not put the loan on the London market until an opportune time arises. Now, if they are not to be trusted with that discre- tionary power they are not fit to sit on those benches, and so I can understand the attitude taken up by our friends of the Opposition, who say they will not allow more than half a mil- lion ; but, honestly, I do not understand the attitude taken up by so-called Government sup- porters such as the honourable member for Riccarton, who say they will not give power to borrow more than half a million. The Premier was very severe upon the honourable member for Riccarton, and the honourable member, in reply, called the Premier a "buoyant " man. Now, I do not know what he means by a "buoyant " man, but I think the honourable member for Riccarton might be best described by saying that he is an ambidextrous poli It is tician. We know what that means. a man who can use his right and his left hand with equal facility, and sometimes we really do not know which hand the honour- able member for Riccarton is using. Now. as far as the present question is concerned. I am going to support the Government's appli- cation to get another million pounds. The honourable member for Riccarton delivered a speech on the second reading of this Bill, and I could not help being struck with the emphatic force with which he said that the Government should get an assured finance, that an assured finance required a million ; and now, though he has seen no fresh figures, he comes and says that he will only grant them half a million. I cannot see the reason for such a lightning change. As far as I am concerned, I am going to vote for the whole million, because I believe the Government require it at this time. I can, however, hardly help saying that I think it is time we began to realise that the time has come when we should borrow money not outside but within our own borders. The honourable mem- ber for Hawke's Bay made a remark the other night that made me look up some facts and figures. He said it would be almost worth while to find out how much we have spent in the way of paying interest during the past quarter of a cen- tury. I have looked up the blue books for 12.30. the last twenty-six years, and I find we have paid in that time $40,238,701 : or, in other words, if we add to that sum interest and com- pound interest, we would have an amount equal to the whole of our national debt, with some 