supposed to get the Wednesday half-holiday, the same as the other employés. But it is the custom in at least one of them for the employer and others about the shop to come up into the tea-room on the Wednesday, sometimes as late as a quarter to two, for their lunch, and this cuts heavily into the half-holiday. Again, on the day of the Duke's reception the tea-room staff were kept in attendance to serve out tea, et cetera, to certain guests of the firm who occupied seats on the verandah, so that they got no holiday that week. I would suggest a few words in the Bill to stop this state of things, by providing that on holidays no customer shall be served after a certain time say, 12.45 p.m., and that otherwise the tea- room shall be closed when the shop is closed by law." I think the difficulty, or evil, mentioned in this communication is met by a provision in the Bill, but I thought I ought to read it to emphasize the necessity for such provision being made. As may be gleaned from what I have said, I am going to vote for this Bill to go into Committee, and when it gets into Committee I shall use my discretion and my best endeavours to make it a useful measure. The Hon. Colonel PITT. - The Hon. Mr. McLean, in his opening remarks in the speech which he made on this Bill, expressed in very able language his opinion as to the relations which should exist between employers and em- ployed. I do not suppose, Sir, that there is any one who will take any exception whatever to the sentiments which the honourable gentle- man expressed on this occasion. He went on to criticize the labour policy of the Govern- ment, and certain measures which were in existence and on the statute-book, and I was listening, Sir, with considerable attention to see how the honourable gentleman applied his remarks to the Bill before the Council, and what did I find ? That the honourable gentle- man said that he did not think there was much in this present Bill to object to. Sir, I agree with him, and I think that this ought to be the opinion of most honourable members of this Council. I have been very much surprised indeed at the tone of the present debate. I recollect what the debate was upon this Bill last session, when it passed ! into the Bill ? Why should they be excluded ? this Council for the second time, I believe. Most of our time was taken up then in reference to a class of people who have not been referred to at all in this debate, and who į there any one who has had any doubt whatever of all others, in my opinion, are entitled to more consideration than any of those who have been referred to by the members who have spoken. I refer to hotelkeepers. Now, if we accept the general principle that the State has the right to regulate hours of labour so that they shall be for the good of all, we ought to apply it fairly all round, and I would like to ask what right have we to interfere with the shop- keeper, with the hotelkeeper, and with others whom this Bill does interfere with, and leave the bankers and the wholesale warehousemen alone ? So far as my recollection carries me, ence to the Bill of last session ; but it is a very strange thing that-although we are quite pre- pared, or were prepared last year, to touch the small man, the small retail trader, the men in the small shops - immediately we begin to touch the large corporations and moneyed institutions we are flooded with petitions against the Bill. An Hon. MEMBER .- Quite right, too. The Hon. Colonel PITT .- Exactly; and I was very much surprised indeed, in listening to the remarks of many honourable members who supported this Bill strongly last year, to see how readily they are prepared to give way in the face of these petitions in favour of the bankers and in favour of the wholesale warehousemen. An Hon. MEMBER .- The whole class. The Hon. Colonel PITT .-- Well, we shall see presently. And, Sir, I should like to ask, How far is this Bill going to interfere with this class? It gives them an additional hour's time in which their offices may be kept open. They may be kept open another hour under this Bill ; but the one thing which has excited the whole of this opposition to the Bill, and which has drawn the attention of these institu- tions to it, is the fact that they have to pay overtime. And, Sir, the honourable gentleman who has just interjected- the Hon. Mr. Lee Smith - in his speech proved the case for the Bill by the remarks he addressed to this Council. He said he had been intrusted with some hundred and fifty petitions against the Bill. He told us that, as he had been intrusted with some hundred and fifty petitions again .t the Bill, he ought to express his opinion upon it ; and what did the honourable gentle- man tell us? He confessed that in times past there had been reason for interference, that there had been abuses in reference i to the employés in the banks, but that as soon as the matter had been talked about in this Council there had been a great reform in this respect. And, Sir, what did we hear in the debate this afternoon? The Hon. Mr. Mclean says, " Let us see what the extra-time book brings forth." The Hon. Mr. Twomey says, " Let us have an extra-time book to guard against abuses." Well, Sir, what I want to ask is, Why should we not bring these institutions Sir, I was surprised to hear the Hon. Mr. Jones say that he was prepared to leave banks alone because they asked to be left alone. Sir, is that if there is one class of the community ! who are overworked and underpaid it is these employés in the banks ? The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON. - Why do they not say so ? The Hon. Colonel PITT. - My honourable friend says, " Why do they not say so ? " Well, I think the honourable gentleman has sufficient common-sense and has lived long enough in the worl ! to know that persons very often are not in a position to speak their minds. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH. - There is a great difficulty in getting clerks now. 