another mortgage while he holds the certificate of title. The Hon. Colonel PITT .- Previous registra- tion. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY. - Then, that would be a swindle. However, there may be something in the point raised by the Hon. Mr Stevens, and perhaps it would be as well to adopt the course suggested by him. All I wish to say is that borrowers of money will welcome anything that will cheapen law for them; they have been looking for this for a long time, and will be glad if it passes. The effect of it, in my opinion, will be that lenders of money will still insist on employing lawyers, but that the fees of the lawyers will be much less if they prepare deeds under this Bill. Bill read the second time. The Council adjourned at half-past four o'clock p.m. # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Friday, 2nd August, 1901. First Reading-Second Reading-Cemetery Trustees Validation Bill-Counties Bill-Teachers' Sala- ries Commission - Mr. Speaker - Government Advances to Settlers Extension Bill-Rating on Unimproved Values Bill (No. 1). Mr. SPEAKER took the chair at half-past ten o'clock a.m. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Rhodes Trust Bill. SECOND READING. Factories Bill. # CEMETERY TRUSTEES VALIDATION BILL. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) moved, That the amendments made by the Legislative Council in this Bill be agreed to. He said there was only one small amendment made, and, as would be seen, it was really an improvement to the Bill. The amendment consisted in the addition of a new clause, which provided that Road Boards might be appointed trustees, not- withstanding the Cemeteries Act of 1892. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said he thought the Hon. the Minister was mistaken, and that this clause applied to where the Counties Act was in force. He did not object to the clause, but he did not think it was necessary, as it seemed to him to mean exactly the same thing as clause 2 of the Bill. Motion agreed to. # COUNTIES BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - I propose to take the second reading of this Bill, simply affirm- ing the necessity there is for amending the legislation dealing with the local government of the country. To have a protracted debate upon a subject we al! admit is a necessity would Hon. M .. Twomey be, to a great extent, a waste of time. It would be better to read the Bill a second time. An Hon. MEMBER. -- Pro forma ? Mr. SEDDON .- No, not pro forma ; send it to the Select Committee, and the real work in respect to amendments and suggestions will be all done in Committee. The second reading of the Bill is affirming the necessity for amended legislation as applied to local government. Certainly we admit that there is too much local government, far too many local bodies, at all events. An Hon. MEMBER .- They do not want any of the existing ones abolished. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, in that respect, much as I differ from the honourable member in the go-as-you-please policy, the measure as it now stands before us is full and complete, and a great improvement on existing legislation. My long experience proves to me that if you want pro- gress and reform it must first of all be optional, and then later on, when it is understood and is working satisfactorily, you may ask that it be made mandatory and compulsory. That has been my experience, and I have followed it in respect to this Bill. In agreeing to the second reading members may reserve to themselves the right when the Bill is in Committee to deal with the questions of representation and franchise. That is a point on which members will differ, and rightly so. Some will say, in respect to the franchise in the Bill, that we have not gone far enough, and others again will say we have gone too far. Well, I would say, agree to the second reading of the Bill with the reservation I have made in respect to this. It is not sufli- cient to warrant the members of the House refusing the Bill its second reading, or proceed- ing with the Bill in Committee. A difference of opinion on the franchise is, as I say, a legiti- mate one ; but the course I ask you to take is that we get this Bill read a second time, and then refer it to the Committee. The question will be threshed out there, and when it emerges from the Select Committee and goes into the Committee of the House we will be able to give effect to the wishes of the majority of the mem- bers of the House. An Hon. MEMBER. - Why not take it pro forma ? Mr. SEDDON .- It will not help at all to take the second reading of the Bill pro forma. Get the Bill along to the Committee, and then, when you have it in Committee, you will have the position better defined. I have had several Bills dealt with in the same 1 way, and the best course to adopt, where the difference was confined principally to a question of policy in respect to the franchise, is to pass the second reading. Let it go to the Committee, and, in Committee, the whole matter can be thoroughly settled, and it will be pretty well understood on the Select Committee where the majority of the members are and what their opinions are. I may say, in respect to counties, they are retained under the Bill. I notice also that some new counties are to be formed, and the proposals are before Parliament. The rea- son for this splitting-up and increasing the <!-- PageFooter="1" --> 