have to make an assertion on behalf of the country people that the labour legislation of the last few years has been continuously regardless of their interests, and the Premier is conscious of it, and is seeking to confuse the position. The country people do not wish to be in op- position to the city folks, nor in mere opposition to the unions of the city, they simply desire to have the privilege of forming themselves into a union for the management of their own in- terests, and nothing can be more just and equi- table. I should like the House to take notice of this : If unions are right in one class of the community, can it be wrong that similar privi- leges should be allowed to others? And that is all the farmers are asking. And if the farmers form themselves into associations and into unions they will not come to the Ministry for help ; they will simply take their own business into their hands, and they will regulate freights, appoint their agents, and manipulate all produce in the Old Country. They will not be a plague to the Government, but rather a moderate, though powerful, organization to in- struct and guide them. Mr. MORRISON .- It is time these things were changed. They have been in the habit of coming to the Government for everything they could get. Mr. MONK .- It is all very well for the honourable gentleman to make assertions, but assertions are not facts. Mr. MORRISON .- I will prove it. Mr. MONK .- I do not think the honourable https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 gentleman can prove it, when they have sup- plied over eleven out of the thirteen millions of our last year's exports. When the estimates come down it will be easy to point out to the House the large amount that has been paid by the country people. As an instance of hard- ship, have the Government forgotten the valua- tion-rolls, for which the local bodies are charged one-third ? And I do not think the Premier could furnish a single instance in which that return was satisfactory and could be used by the local body until they themselves had cor- rected it. And, Sir, so audacious were the charges made by the Valuation Department that the Government, for very shame's sake, were compelled to make large reductions. Mr. SEDDON .- The impression is that the Valuation Department is improving every day. Mr. MONK. - How can the department possibly improve when men put in responsible positions in it are inept at the work they have to do? There is a gentleman at the head of a department in the South --- I will not mention names-and the Government know that not only in that case, but in many others, instances of which members bring before the House, the men whom they have put in these positions are, some of them, known as failures, though they are, I admit, men who are very assiduous in their duties. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston). - Sir, I wish to say one word in reply to the Premier about Conciliation Boards. I am very glad indeed to find that the Premier has at last initiated a Unfortunately, he has chosen a time when we can only conceive his idea is to block this motion, though I do not think his remarks about Conciliation Boards ought to be allowed to pass without some comment. It is satisfac- tory to find he is not so enamoured of his political partisans on those Conciliation Boards as he used to be, because nearly all the trouble on the Conciliation Boards is caused by men who are his ardent political partisans-men who are not working for their living. Mr. SEDDON .- They are elected by the unions. Mr. PIRANI .--- The Premier knows why they are elected. He knows how the game is carried out, and the canvassing that goes on. He need only look at the personnel of the Boards, and he will see how the elections are worked. Sir, I say this: It would be well to allow the Con- ciliation Boards to deal only with disputes in which the employers and the employés agree to a reference to the Boards, and in cases in which one party or the other did not agree the case should go to the Arbitration Court. Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- Abolish the Concilia- tion Boards. Mr. PIRANI .- Yes, it is a question whether they should be abolished ; but, at any rate, I am satisfied there should be some alteration in the present system. What is the practice now ? If both parties are not satisfied they must go to the Arbitration Court ; and I would like to ask, who could be satisfied with the decision of a Conciliation Board constituted such as, for in- stance, the Wellington Conciliation Board is ? The Wellington Conciliation Board has never yet settled one dispute in the whole course of its existence. Every dispute that has come before it has gone on to the Arbitration Court. I have been told that the other day one mem- ber of a Board abused several members of a union because, as he said, they were taking a guinea a day out of the mouths of his wife and family. Hon. MEMBERS .- Oh ! Mr. PIRANI .- That is so. I can give you another instance-it happened in Christchurch -in which a question was put by a tanner as to how it would be possible for tanners to carry on their business if they gave the rate of wages asked for, and the answer was, " Well, reduce the price you give to the farmers for their wool- skins." Sir, it would be better, in the interests of arbitration, and also in the interests of con- ciliation, if the whole system were altered by which the temptation to these political parti- sans to live on conciliation were removed altogether. In the first place, let the fee be reduced to 10s. a day instead of a guinea. The Premier said the other day that 10s. a day was sufficient for a member of a Land Board ; and I am sure, if he only gave 10s. a day to members of Conciliation Boards, and at the same time allowed the parties to a dispute to elect their own representatives, and allowed them the option of going to the Arbitration Court direct, he would do away with a great deal of the objection to the system. I hope the House will 