after the papers as well as he can; but, as they are lying there from Friday till Monday, it is impossible, unless we have cupboards to lock up our papers, to prevent them from being seen by persons outside the Committee. Now, as to the remark of the honourable member for Wel- lington City (Mr. Fisher) that one of the wit- nesses got the whole of the evidence, that witness was Mr. Cook. Mr. Cook had complained that charges were made against him in Mr. Easton's evidence but which did not appear in the petition, and he asked that he might be allowed to have the evidence so that he might be able to answer the charges in detail. Well, we thought it was only fair that he should be placed in a position to defend himself. and accordingly we allowed him to have a copy of the evidence in detail, which he got. I do not think Mr. Cook disclosed that evidence, when Mr. Cook was the gentleman who complained to the Com- mittee about it having appeared in the Dunedin Evening Star. An Hon. MEMBER .- Did anybody else get the evidence ? Mr. PALMER .- No: Mr. Cook was the only one outside the Committee who got the full evidence. Mr. HALL -JONES (Minister for Public Works) .- I am sorry to hear from the honour- able member such a gloomy account of the room occupied by the Mines Committee, but I may say that the room I had set apart for that Committee was a very nice room, and the Go- vernment are not responsible for the alteration. The honourable gentleman referred to the want of accommodation for placing the documents of the Committee, and I can only say that if, as Chairman of the Committee, he had only men- tioned that matter before I would have seen that it was attended to; and I will see that proper provision is now made. I think the honourable member for Nelson City made re- flections-or what might be taken to be reflec- tions-on the Clerks of the Committee and the Government Printing Office Clerk. Mr. GRAHAM. - I did not intend to do it. Mr. HALL-JONES .- The honourable mem- ber's words were open to that construction. He said that these papers passed through a num- ber of hands, including the Clerk of the Com- mittee, and then through the hands of several others at the Government Printing Office ; and he stated he had known other cases where the evidence had leaked out. I say that the Clerks of the Committees, in my opinion, are officers who know their duty, and who are very careful to see that nothing leaks out. Then, as to the Government Printing Office, I may mention that the honourable gentleman was Chairman of the Banking Committee-one of the most important Committees which, I suppose, ever sat in this Parliament -and he will admit that not a whisper of what transpired in connection with the proceedings of that Committee ap- peared in the public journals. An Hon. MEMBER. - The report was published in Dunedin before it was laid on the table of this House. Mr. Palmer hope the honourable gentleman has no inten- tion of casting any reflection upon the Clerks of Committees or upon the Government Printing Office. But there is another question now before the House. I understand that Mr. Easton petitioned both Houses of Parliament. and I believe that a Committee of each House is dealing with the same subject, so that the same evidence may have been given before a Committee of another place. I understand that this evidence was given before the Committee of this House on Thursday, and that it appeared in the Dunedin Evening Star on Friday. Thus it must have been transcribed here and sent away on Thursday evening or early on Friday morn- ing, so that some one must have acted very promptly in the matter. I am glad, however. to hear the honourable member's assurance that he had no intention to cast any reflection upon the Clerks of Committees or upon the Govern- ment Printing Office. Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City). - I desire to make a personal explanation. The Minister for Public Works stated that I cast a reflection up- on the Clerks of Committees, or upon the Gio- vernment Printing Office. I did nothing of the kind. I did not intend to do so, and I certainly did not do what the Minister has unfairly sug- gested. I was replying to the Minister of Jus- tice, who said that these things would never be cured until members of this House were not al- lowed to attend the meetings of Committees of which they were not members ; and I pointed out that there were numbers of ways in which the evidence might get out, and that it often passed through numbers of other hands : but I did not cast any reflection upon Clerks of Com. mittees, nor upon the Government Printing Office, in any shape or form. Mr. HALL-JONES .- I think, if the honour- able member will peruse his Hansard proof, he will see that his words are open to that con- struction. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) .- If the repre- sentatives of the papers had any respect at all for our Standing Orders before this discussion this afternoon, they will have none now, after what they have heard from a number of honour- able members in this Chamber, because one after another has got up and commended the papers for over-riding and disobeying the Stand- ing Order, which expressly states that informa- tion which is given before a special Committee shall not be divulged and shall not be pub- lished. The only exception was the member for Riccarton, who is also a newspaper man. and he protested against it. I think that. if our Standing Orders are not of any use at all- if they are not to have any effect ; if any breach of privilege is to be simply laughed at as a matter of very trifling occurrence : and if the breach is to be ridiculed and laughed at, as it was by the Minister of Justice this afternoon- then I say that the sooner we abolish the Standing Orders the better. It is not a bit of good keeping them amongst us if they are to be treated lightly in the way they have been by honourable members this afternoon, and also by 