and who were not members of those Committees ; and, as the honourable member himself ex- plained, it is a fact that when these copies are printed, outside members get them. Mr. MILLS (Minister of Customs) .- Sir, I was about to remark that I thought the member for Nelson City had misunderstood the application of the words of the Minister of Justice. I think be placed a wrong interpretation on them. I was sitting close to the Minister of Justice and I heard what he said, and what he remarked was that, until members were prevented from attending meetings of Committees, one could not say whether it was a member of the Com- mittee or any other member of the House who divulged any information that might leak out. He was not finding fault with members attend- ing the meetings of Committees. I believe the honourable gentleman is a supporter of pub- licity in all matters. However, with reference to the matter now before the House, I do not take the same view of it as some members, who seem to treat the matter in a sense of levity, instead of upholding the dignity of this Cham- ber. My impression is that a great many mem- bers hardly realise the immense power of this House when it wishes to deal with a serious breach of privilege. This may or may not be a serious case, but there is no doubt the power of Parliament to deal with breaches of privilege is very considerable, and should not be treated lightly, as the result may be very serious to those who least expect it. I do not think it wise on the part of members to let it go forth to the world that any one who commits a breach of privilege by disobeying our Standing Orders need fear no punishment, which is a great mis- take. We must uphold them or repeal them, or, if not, we shall stultify ourselves. I also con- sider that there should be no disclosure of the proceedings of any of these Committees until the Chairman himself brings down the report. Mr. GRAHAM .-- That is provided for by the Standing Orders. Mr. MILLS .- We know that, without the honourable member telling us ; but some people seem to forget their responsibility. My opinion is that there should be no disclosure from the Committee until the Chairman brings down the report. I have known instances myself in Committee where a result has been arrived at on a certain day, but before the time had arrived to bring down the report, the Committee, in its wisdom, had considered it advisable to make some alteration. This shows the importance of not disclosing their deliberations before the proper time. I only wish to emphasize that, in my opinion, this matter ought not to be treated lightly. I am not casting any blame on the editor or the reporter of this paper. I have no idea as to how they got the evidence, but what we consider breaches of privilege should be treated by this House in a serious manner. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) .- It seems to me to be a funny thing that we should have in con- nection with newspapers what is practically a close corporation. The instant you touch one of them, the result is like holding out the that by publishing evidence taken before any Sessional Committee before a report is made to this House by the Chairman of such Com- mittee he is committing a breach of privilege. The breach of privilege was the publishing of evidence taken before the Committee, and, to my mind, it was done in defiance of our Stand- ing Orders. As to Committees divulging, I do not think such a thing ever takes place. I should not like to hear of members being charged with this. The Committee shorthand writers, I must admit, might do a great deal better than they do. On more than one occasion we have found our evidence so much hashed about that we could hardly recognise the transcript. The House is probably to blame for supplying such bad reporters for the Committees, and I have often thought it would be a wise thing to let the Hansard reporters do the Committee reporting. An Hon. MEMBER .- They could not do it at present. Increase the staff and they could. Mr. SYMES .- We should have men we can rely on to do this work, and not rush in any one from outside to take evidence at five minutes' notice. If necessary, increase the Hansard staff, and then let them do the whole of the Committee reporting. I say again, Sir, that it was well known to every member in the Press gallery that by publishing this evidence a breach of our Standing Orders was being com- mitted. We may talk for a month on this question without any good results if we do not insist on the maintenance of our Standing Orders ; and unless we do this we are simply advertising the newspapers. If we let the matter drop where it is, we have been wasting time and providing a cheap advertisement for the newspapers. I say, with several other members who have spoken, either abolish our Standing Orders or carry them out to the bitter end. Mr. PALMER (Ohinemuri) .- As regards our Committee reporters, Sir, I do not wish any misapprehension to go abroad in regard to the young gentleman who reported this evi- dence. We have found him a most capable, conscientious, and hardworking young man. His reports have been admirable, and we have had to make very few corrections. We called the reporter in and asked him if he knew any- thing about this evidence being made public, and he said he did not. We never believed he had anything to do with it. Now, as to these reports getting out, I to a great extent put the blame on the shoulders of the Government. Sir, they put us in the freezing-chamber of this House. We are obliged to sit in that chamber from nine o'clock in the morning until one o'clock, and, although there are two fires there, we can barely keep ourselves from being frozen to death. Then, we are not allowed to have a Committee-room to ourselves. Other Commit- tees sit in that room, and the cupboard accom- modation is so small that it is impossible to lock up the bundles of correspondence and documents that come before us from time 