of the labour portion of the community, that is a distinct reflection on my capabilities. I know perfectly well that on more than one occasion I have been the mediator between the wharf labourers and the Harbour Board in con- nection with certain grievances which they have had redressed. Why some other repre- sentative should be placed on the Harbour Board as directly representative of the in- terests of labour I am quite at a loss to understand. It may be that neither the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) nor myself are labourers in the same sense that the wharf labourers are. I say this, however : that if any man comes to me in con- nection with any breach of the law affecting labour, or in connection with any grievance under which he has been placed, whether he be a mechanic or labourer, I can realise what he desires, and be able to grasp with ordinary intelligence the facts of his par- ticular case; and I am prepared to represent his case -- and, perhaps, although it may seem egotistical-to represent it in the House just as well as if these men had a direct representa- tive of labour to plead their cause. Take the case of Wellington City : They have three par- liamentary representatives on the Harbour Board. We will take it that the Wharf Labourers' Union decide, if this power is granted them, to elect Mr. John Hutcheson as their member on the Board. I take it, if Mr. John Hutcheson be chosen by the workers to be their member on the Wellington Harbour Board, there will then be four parliamentary representatives. Mr. John Hutcheson has proved his capacity and capability for that posi- tion. I am not going to say anything against his work on that Board, and I never will. But I say, in regard to Mr. Hutcheson, what would http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero be the position suppose he were elected? We would have four members of Parliament there ; and is Mr. Hutcheson a more direct representa- tive of labour than I am? Mr. J. ALLEN .- Yes. Mr. WILFORD. - Mr. Hutcheson may have had in his experience to do certain kinds of labouring work, and all the more honour to him for it. I have not had that to do, but I have had to work just as hard as any man. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Not practically. Mr. WILFORD .- The honourable member is about the most theoretical member in this House. Mr. T. MACKENZIE. - That is the lawyer's view. Mr. WILFORD .- It is the correct one. But I shall ask honourable members to hesitate before recommitting this Bill for either of the purposes suggested by honourable members. I have to thank honourable members for the utmost consideration given in carrying this measure to its present stage. The second read- ing passed easily with the help and co-opera- tion of members, for without the co-operation of honourable members no member can hope to get anything through this House. I learned Mr. Wilford will give the same consideration to the passing of this Bill as they give to the other measure I have mentioned. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) .- Sir, I should just like to examine, in passing, for one moment the logic of my honourable friend the member for Wellington Suburbs. He claimed-and I do not dispute his claim-to be as good a representative of labour inte- rests on the Wellington Harbour Board as myself, or any one else; but those who are asking for this amendment of the constitution no doubt. in their wisdom, are looking at the future, when there may be one of those hide- \- bound Tory Governments in office who would not be likely to put a representative of labour like the honourable member for the Suburbs on the Board, but would put a hide-bound Tory on the Board ; and then where is his logic? While I altogether deprecate class representation, I am bound to admit that the present constitution of the Board does to a certain extent give re- presentation to class. If the question of what interests are to be represented on Harbour Boards is raised, I submit it should be gene- ral throughout the Boards of the colony, and not through the medium of a local Bill confined to one Board only. Now, as to what the Pre- mier said this afternoon in connection with the annual balance-sheet, I would ask him why he should single out the Wellington Harbour Board from all the other Harbour Boards in the colony. I refer to the honourable gentleman's argument as to the proposed alteration of the date of the balance-sheet. I will give the Premier a good reason why the date of the Wellington Harbour Board's balance-sheet should be different. The honourable gentleman asked why this Harbour Board, of all others, should have this privilege. The Wellington Harbour Board is unique in the matter of its operations. It is the only Harbour Board in the colony that does its stevedoring, storing, pressing, and holding wool-sales. The present time for the preparation of the balance- sheet occurs right in the height of the wool season. The time proposed in the Bill is much more suitable, more especially as it fits in with the date of the incorporation of the Welling- ton Harbour Board, and consecutive annual statistics can be prepared from the date of the initiation of the Board's operations. It thus suits the executive officers of the Board, as pointed out by the honourable member for Wellington Suburbs. Mr. SEDDON .- Why not make it the 31st March ? Mr. HUTCHESON .- For the simple reason that the officers of the Board and the Board itself can better ascertain the result of its work- ing when the end of the wool season comes. The Wellington Harbour Board is pressing wool for months after what is generally considered to be the end of the wool season. It is pressing, storing, and holding sales, and surely it ought to be allowed, provided it does not interfere with the operations of other Boards, to study its own convenience. I consider it is almost humiliat- 