proud that we have such wealthy resources, which only await the strong arm of the working- man for development, and the guiding hand of the Ministry. Sir, I think that we have now had quite sufficient of military glory, and I would like to see the Government making an effort to popularise industrial, agricultural, and mechanical glory. I would like to see something done in the direction of inspiring our young men to take off their coats and engage more in mechanical pursuits. And when any new industry is started I would like to see the Government go with a band, to inspire our young men, just as they did when they went to see our young men off to fight the Boers. Get them to make the young fellows feel de- lighted at having the patronage of the Govern- ment by feeling that attention is being directed to these pu suits. So much can, I think, be done by Parliament and the Government to popularise peaceful pursuits and to encourage our young men to get to work earnestly that I hope the matter will be given our most serious attention. Nowadays there is too much tendency to indulge in politics. There is too much de- sire for the glories of war, and too many of our young men want clerks' billets, so that they can keep their coats on. We want to get that de- sire out of the minds of our young men. They should feel as much pleasure in mining, agri- cultural, and mechanical pursuits. Mr. HUTCHESON .- Why do you not have a go at that kind of work yourself ? Mr. WITHEFORD. - I have done it myself, and I am just as proud of having done that kind of work as of any other. Now, in regard to land-settlement questions, I know that most http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero honourable members could teach me a good deal more upon that subject than I know myself, and I shall not refer to it further than to say, as a member for Auckland City, that I find there is nothing mentioned in the State- ment in connection with expenditure in that direction in the Auckland Province. We find that large sums have been expended in other parts of the colony in the purchase of lands. We were told some little time ago that a sum of £700,000 was spent in Canterbury upon close settlement. Now, I do not object to money being expended in the South, because I consider that the prosperity and progress of the South is intimately connected with the welfare of the North; but at the same time I say that the settlement of the enormous areas of waste lands in the North Island will ad- vance the interests of the whole colony. Those lands require to be surveyed and alternate lines of railroad run through them, and the sections should be cut up in accordance with their suitability for occupation in small or large areas, so that those who take up the smaller sections may, while improving their land, find work on the larger areas. A scheme of that sort would be something practical, and would be far better than continuing the experimental legislation that has taken up so much of our time during the last session or two. I know that the Government are capable of carrying is my duty to urge them to push this colony ahead, and that is not to be done by introducing the class of legislation we have had during the last few weeks in this House. It is. simply setting class against class. Let us have a few years' trial of the legislation already on the statute-book, because if we go on piling up legislation of a similar character it may only have the effect of undoing all the good we have already done. We require to give a few years' trial to existing legitimate legislation, and instead of breaking down industrial structures, to rear greater temples of industry in our midst, so that every one in the colony who wants work may get it. By a practical arrangement we ought to be able to take another 500,000 men in this country and find them work, be- cause our resources-our raw material-are so great and our climate is so favourable that there should be no difficulty whatever in making New Zealand the great manufacturing centre of the Pacific. But we cannot accomplish that by placing restrictions upon every little industry that has started, and making it difficult for the people to produce goods at a price that will pay and enable them to compete with the outside world. If the Government think people are going to put their money into industries and go on manufacturing goods at a loss they aro very much mistaken. And if the Government policy is right in connection with those restric- tions, let them prove it by showing that it is possible for people to produce goods at a price which will enable them to get some return and also pay their men the current rates of wages - let them show that that can be done while keeping within the four corners of the re- strictive measures they have passed. I regret very much that I did not hear the speech of the member for Hawke's Bay, because I have a very great regard for the other side of the House. As I have stated, I am very friendly with the members of the present Go- vernment, and yet, as Lord Salisbury said, "I am on friendly terms with foreign Powers." The Minister of Lands, I believe, is firm in his determination to remedy the gross neglect which has characterized the action of the Government during the past ten years. With regard to the treatment of the North of Auckland, I believe his intention is to rapidly open the Crown lands in the North Island and hasten the settlement of the country, and I believe if he does that he will save the position of the Government, espe- cially if he is backed up by his worthy col- leagues the Minister for Public Works and the Minister of Mines. There is any amount of pastoral land which is waiting to be occupied, and which if taken up will carry several million inore sheep and cattle than we have at present in the colony ; and that will mean employing men in fencing, and in other ways, and thus will greatly tend to increase the prosperity of the colony. Then, the Minister of Mines could also employ large numbers of men in digging for gold, in which case we shall not need to go to the London money-market ; but, on the other hand, we shall become lenders. 