for the other Committees, and there must be neglect somewhere. He agreed with what was now being done to protect their own interests, but they were short of a great number of mem- bers to attend other Committees. Motion agreed to. The Council adjourned at twenty-five minutes to five o'clock. # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Wednesday, 31st July, 1901. First Readings-Third Reading-Officers of Local Bodies - Rabbits and Rabbit-skins- Leases in Perpetuity - Supreme Court Returns - Govern- ment Advances to Settlers Act-Maheno Lime- kilns-Crown Tenants' Rebate -- Survey of Crown Lands-Public Debt of the Colony - Government Advertisements-Roads and Railways Expendi- ture, &c .- Conciliation and Arbitration Cases- Railway Department Revenue - Privilege-Re- turned Troopers' Fare from Sydney - New Zealand Ensign Bill - Arbitration Court-Go- vernor of Fiji's Speech -- Members of Returned Contingents -- Mangatoro Estate - Old Solniers' Claims - Rangiora Railway-station - McLean's Railway-station-Mail-delivery-Casual Railway- hands-Telephone at Kimbell -- Bulls Post-office -Single Railway Tickets-benny Postage for Newspapers-Rivers Commission - Royal Visit : Rewards to Police Force-Lake Ellesmere-Sly- grog Selling at Port Albert-Coal Commission- Awamioko Stream - Supreme Court Judges' Salaries - Duty on Glass-making Machinery- Advances to Settlers Office-Local Bodies' Valua- tions -- Compiction of Valuation rolls - Stone- crushing Machinery - Collingwood - Ferntown Bridge - Proposed Scale of Teachers' Sala- ries, &e. - Subsidising Public Libraries - Rail- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 way to Alexandra - Kawakawa-Whangamomona Railway -. Hansard Reprints - Kiourangi Point Lighthouse - Tadmor Bridge - Waimate High School Cadet Corps - Co-operative Workers - Wellington Customhouse- River-beds- Redcliff and Takitu Small Grazing-runs-Sir. A. H. Chap- man-Ostrich-farming-Maruia Hot Springs- Nine-mile Punt, Buller River - Inangahua River Bridge -- Veterinary Surgery-Dehorning of Cattle -Orepuki-Waiau-Longwood Road -- Wool Class- ing and Grading-Importation of Bones and Bonedust-Settlers' Fire Insurance Bill- Repre- sentation Bill- Divorce Bill-School Attendance Bill (No. 2). Mr. SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. # FIRST READINGS. Fire Brigades Bill, Kairanga County Bill, Rating on Unimproved Values Bill (No. 2), Cook Group and other Islands Extension Bill. THIRD READING. Ashburton County Council Empowering Bill. OFFICERS OF LOCAL BODIES. On the motion of Mr. HOGG (Masterton), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing the names, status, salaries, and allowances of all officers of Borough Councils, Town and Road Boards, and County Councils, together with their net revenue from rates. Hon. Mr. Shrimski House a return showing the quantity and value of the export of rabbit-skins, frozen rabbits, and preserved rabbits, and the various ports of the colony from which the same have been shipped, during the years 1894 to 1900. # LEASES IN PERPETUITY. On the motion of Mr. McNAB (Mataura), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing the number of leases in perpetuity which have been surrendered or forfeited, and the form of tenure under which the surrendered or forfeited sections have been selected. # SUPREME COURT RETURNS. On the motion of Mr. PIRANI ( Palmerston), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing the number of per- sons committed for trial from Foxton, Palmers- ton North, and Feilding districts at the Supreme Courts at Wellington and Wanganui, and the cost to the colony of such trials ; also, the num- ber of civil cases from the said districts heard at Wanganui and Wellington Supreme Courts : both returns to be for the year ending 31st March, 1901. # GOVERNMENT ADVANCES TO SETTLERS ACT. On the motion of Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing the amount of fees in each provincial district collected by solicitor» from borrowers, or intending borrowers, under the Government Advances to Settlers Act. # MAHENO LIME-KILNS. On the motion of Mr. MASSEY (Franklin). it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing, -(1) The cost of con- struction of the railway to the lime-kilns at Maheno ; (2) the revenue and working-expenses of the railway for the last twelve months; (3) the capital expenditure in constructing the lime-kilns and preparing for the production of lime ; (4) the cost of production per ton of lime: (5) the price at which lime is sold per ton ; and (6) the total production and sales to date, with total receipts and expenditure. # CROWN TENANTS' REBATE. On the motion of Mr. R. THOMPSON (Mars- den), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing the number of Crown tenants in each provincial district of the colony who have been allowed a rebate of 10 per cent. off their last two half-yearly pay- ments of rent, due in January and July, 1901. ## SURVEY OF CROWN LANDS. On the motion of Mr. WITHEFORD (Auck- land City), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing the number of surveyors employed last year surveying Crown lands in the North Island for the pur- pose of opening the same for settlement. 