gold-mining machinery and chemicals used in gold-saving, which were allowed to come in duty - free. The plushes and gold-saving cloths he referred to were manufactured in a particular manner especially for the gold- mining industry, and therefore were not suit- able for dress or other purposes. The first cost could not be said to be much, but when you added to the value a percentage on importation, and the 20 per cent. duty, it came very ex- pensive-especially when you remembered also that such a large quantity was used in saving gold, and the difference between profit and loss in saving fine gold was now cut so fine that this duty made just the difference in many cases between the claim paying or not. He hoped the honourable gentleman would give this matter his careful consideration, so that he should be able to communicate, not only to his own constituents, but to all those engaged in the gold-mining industry throughout New Zea- land, a favourable answer to this question. Mr. MILLS (Commissioner of Customs) said there was always a great difficulty in ascertain- ing that the articles the honourable member for the Grey referred to would only be used for the purposes he specified. The articles could be used in many other ways. That was the light in which the department viewed the question. Of course, the honourable gentleman had indi- cated by his question that it could not be done without some alteration in the tariff, as the article was clearly specified, and the amount of duty to be collected upon it. All that he could promise the honourable gentleman was this : that if at any time there should be a revision of the tariff he would bring this request before Cabinet for their consideration. MAKOHINE VIADUCT. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) moved, That there be laid before this House a return showing the expenditure incurred in connection with the construction of the Makohine Viaduct up to the 30th June last ; also the estimated cost of the viaduct when complete, and the date on which the Public Works Department expect it to be open for traffic. He would like to know if there was any objection to this, because, if not, he would move it formally. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) said he would have preferred the honourable member to have waited until the viaduct was completed. In regard to the latter part of the motion, he had already told the House that he not only hoped to have the viaduct completed this summer, but he hoped to have the trains running to Manga- weka. They were very near to the completion of this work. With some alterations, he did not object to the motion. For instance, the department had to buy a plant for the manu- facture of the ironwork, which would also be used in connection with some of the bridges ahead, and therefore it should not be charged against this one work. Then, he would like to point out that there were additions to the work, as carried out, that were not con- templated when tenders were invited. For instance, the tenders provided for sinking the concrete foundations to a certain depth, but it was found in carrying out the work that it was necessary to go several yards deeper to get a solid foundation. What the honourable gentle- man wanted to get at was a comparison between the cost of the work as done and the amount of the lowest tender received. He was quite prepared to give that if the honour- able member would agree to these additions to his motion, namely : After the words "30th June last," to add "allowing a fair proportion of the cost of machinery for the manufacture of ironwork, et cetera; also for extra work beyond that specified and provided for when tenders were invited ; the lowest tender re- ceived ; and." Mr. MASSEY said he had no objection to the addition of these words to his motion. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) said he hoped the Minister would give that proportion of the cost which referred to the special plant separately from the total cost of the viaduct to date, be- cause he thought we ought to know the cost of that proportion of the plant. If the cost was all lumped together it would be of no use. Mr. HALL-JONES said he would see that the return was so clear that every member could understand it. Mr. J. ALLEN asked, Would the Minister show that cost separately ? Mr. HALL-JONES said he had already stated that he would see that the return was quite clear. If the honourable member did not want to accept his assurance he need not. Mr. J. ALLEN said he had no doubt the return would be so clear that honourable mem- bers would understand it. He wanted to un- derstand what the proportion of cost of the special plant was, and also the cost of the work apart from this plant; and he rose to ask the Minister if the cost of the viaduct would be shown apart altogether from the cost of the plant. He desired, equally with the Minister, to see a return of the fair cost of the work. Mr. HALL-JONES said it would be pre- sented, and also the cost of the special plant. Mr. J. ALLEN asked, Would it be shown separately ? Mr. HALL-JONES said it would be shown. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) pointed out that in its present form the motion conveyed no information at all. What was wanted was a return showing the cost of the foundations, the cost of concrete in the viaduct, and the cost of all the material separately, so that they might be able to compare it with other works through- out the country, and also so that they might see whether reasonable progress had been made. The return the honourable member had moved for would give them no information. He would like very much to have it amended, or, failing that, to move for a separate return. Mr. HALL-JONES said the mover of the return was quite satisfied he would get what he wanted. He would get the cost of the work, and a certain proportion would be de- ducted for the cost of the machinery. That would give exactly what Mr. Allen was asking 