reference to it. I found that no plan had been deposited ; but it was apparent, when we investi- gated into the merits of the Bill, that it made no provision for giving effect to any particular work as defined on the plan that accompanied it, and no reference to any plan is made in the Bill. It is a borrowing Bill pure and simple. It is, in fact, in its operative clauses a fac- simile, word for word, of the borrowing Bill of 1890, under which the Patea Harbour Board borrowed $5,000 to continue the work they had previously being carrying on, and for which they had obtained $10,000 in 1878. On that occasion no plan was deposited, and no plan was re- quired, because it was a borrowing Bill. The Marine Engineer informed me that Mr. Leslie Reynolds's plan is absolutely a new work, and that it could not, under any circum- stances, be considered as a continuation of the work recommended by Sir John Coode. It could not even be called a modification of such work. It is absolutely a new work. Therefore, if this Bill is passed the people of Patea may borrow ±10,000 ; they may pay in- terest upon it, and keep it locked up in a chest or a bank, but they may not spend it on the work they propose until other public steps have been taken. If the $10,000 they ask for power to borrow now is for the purpose of continuing the work which was formerly authorised, then it may be proceeded with without the depositing of a new plan for three months, as provided in clause 148 of the principal Act. They may in that case proceed under clause 4 of the amend- ing Act of 1893. It is not a conflict of statutes, as the Premier stated. Clause 4 of the Act of 1883 is a modification of clause 148 of the original Act, and provides that after they have borrowed this #10,000, if they are in a position to show that it is in continuation of a. work previously authorised, then the Governor in Council may grant authority under certain con- ditions. Clause 4 of the 1883 Act says,- " Whenever any Harbour Board is desirous of executing or constructing any harbour-works upon lands vested in such Board or upon lands of the Crown of such a nature that the same could, under the said Act, only be carried out and executed under the authority of a special Act, the Board may apply to the Governor in Council for a special order, and, if the Governor in Council thinks fit, such order may be made and granted, subject to the terms and condi- tions hereinafter prescribed." Then follow eight or nine long subsections of the clause, which I need not read in full, but I will give the details of them : Before the works can be carried out the Board shall submit to the Minister a plan showing details of the proposed work. The Board shall deposit copies of such plan at the Customhouse or other public office in the locality where the work is to be carried out for public inspection. The Board shall give notice in writing to all persons whose lands may be injuriously affected by the construction of the proposed works. Such notice must state Mr. Graham local newspaper once in each of four consecu- tive weeks. Objections in writing may be lodged with the Minister against the carrying- out of the proposed works. After duly consider- ing all such objections, the Governor in Council may grant a special order authorising the con- struction of the works asked for in the manner prescribed by Act, and the works so authorised must be specially mentioned and described in the authority given. Now, all these things will have to be done before the money sought to be raised by the borrowing Bill can be expended. Therefore there is ample protection for every one concerned. If this Bill had been, as I have already said, anything more than a simple borrowing Bill, the Local Bills Committee would not have given instruc- tions to report it to the House as having com- plied with the Standing Orders. But there is nothing to show that the money has to be spent on any new work, and before that money can be spent, if they borrow it, they have got to do all the things I have just now stated. If the honourable member for Avon will accept my assurance, together with my explanation, he will, I think, feel satisfied that local Bills, when they are referred by the House to the Local Bills Committee, are really carefully considered. The honourable member for Palmerston says " Hear, hear," and he is in a position to speak from personal knowledge, because he was pre- sent when this Bill was under consideration by the Committee. He spoke a few words this afternoon. Of course, he knew the position, and he knows to some extent at least the trouble which was taken by the Local Bills Committee with reference to the Bill which is before the House. I am very glad that the honourable gentleman happened to be there to see how careful the Committee is with refer- ence to any recommendations they make to this House. I would not report to this House that the Standing Orders had been complied with unless I felt convinced in my own mind that they had been complied with. I hope, Sir, after this explanation, members will not think for one moment that local Bills are not dealt with effectively by the Committee to whom they are referred. I do not, as a rule, think it my business to take up the time of the House with discussing local Bills after they have been reported upon. The Committee in. vestigates and deals with them, and when I have, by direction of the Committee, reported that a Bill has complied with the Standing Orders, and, when necessary, on the merits of the Bill, I am satisfied without saying any more. The Premier this afternoon, in reference to the report of the Committee, without any know- ledge of the subject, took upon himself to say that the Standing Orders had not been com- plied with. I do hope the right honourable gentleman knows more about the many import- ant policy measures that he brings forward and expounds upon to the House than he knew about this Bill, otherwise he would not be in a 