common with others, I have heard a great deal talked for some years past of the referendum, but I could not believe it possible that any Government would have taken it up with any expectation that a Bill embodying the provisions of a referendum would have the slightest chance of passing this Parliament. When the honour- able gentleman who introduced the Bill stood up in his place the other day and said, or tried to say, all he could in its favour, I looked at him and said to myself, "I do not envy him." Sir, I thought I saw on the honourable gentle- man's countenance an expression as if he had been swallowing something very disagreeable, and I really cannot remember at this moment anything the honourable gentleman said which amounted to more than this : that he thought it ought to be referred to the people-that under certain circumstances, if the two Houses did not agree on a certain measure, the question ought to be put to the people whether such measure should or should not become law. That struck me as about the sum of all the honourable gentle- man said. Of course, Sir. I appreciate the diffi- culty he laboured under, and I very much doubt whether any honourable member of this Council in charge of such a Bill could have said more than he did on the subject. Of course, it was not his business to deal with the cons, but only with the pros. Sir, it certainly appears to me a most extraordinary thing, as one honourable gentleman has already pointed out, that if the two Houses-one elected directly by the people and the other indirectly - are unable to agree on a certain measure it should https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 be submitted to the people to say whether it should be adopted or not. Sir, the very name of referendum is strange to the majority of the people of New Zealand. I venture to say that more than 90 per cent. of the people would be inquiring of each other, " Referendum ! referen- dum ! What is the meaning of the word ? What sort of an animal is it ? I never heard of it before." I could not catch all the Hon. Mr. Twomey said about Switzerland, but I rather think he spoke somewhat disparagingly of the Swiss people, and of the success of the referendum there. Sir, there is no com- parison between the Swiss and ourselves. We are, no doubt, a greater people in some senses of the word ; but the Swiss are a very thoughtful and frugal people, and they expect a satisfactory account from their representa- tives of all the moneys expended in the public service. I cannot remember distinctly whether it prevails in every canton in Switzerland, I almost think it is general throughout Switzer- land, that no vote to the amount of 10,000 francs-$400 sterling-or upwards shall have the force of law until it has been submitted to the people. I sometimes wish there was a similar law in New Zealand. It would mean more control over our expenditure; but I am afraid it is hardly practicable. We are not like the Swiss. They are a frugal people, and we, I am sorry to say, are more like a race of gamblers and plungers of the neck-or-nothing style - reckless wasters of money. However, such as we are, we must make the best of our- Hon. Mr. Scotland selves. We cannot do impossibilities with the referendum, which, I am sure, would turn out a miserable failure. Could any one suppose for a moment that the people, in the event of a case being submitted to them for their consideration, would be allowed to judge of the matter quietly and by themselves ? Sir, it would not be the people but the Press who would decide whether a particular matter should become law or not. Yes, it would be the Press that would decide ; and possibly there would be some power behind the Press. All sorts of means would be resorted to to influence the people. Sir, the majority of the people are not fit to decide these questions for themselves which we are unable to decide for them. I will not go so far as to use the language of Carlyle, and say that they are mostly fools, but I will say that the majority of the people of this colony are not competent to decide abstract and difficult questions of law, or finance, or anything else. Sir, I listened with great plea- sure to what the Hon. Mr. Twomey said about the amount of liberty we enjoy in this colony. I heartily agree with all he said on that sub- ject, and I think that, considering we have representatives elected by the people, and that every member of this Council is supposed to individually represent the whole people, we should be content with the provisions of our \- - Constitution, and not call in a third party to decide anything for us. If the two Houses cannot agree about a Bill, what does common- sense point out ? That the measure should be dropped. " Who shall decide when doctors disagree," a certain poet inquires. Certainly if doctors disagree no sensible man would think of referring a question of medicine or anything else of a difficult nature to the first man they met in the street; and, since there can be no higher authority on political matters than Parliament, I think it would be the height of folly to refer any dispute which might arise between the two branches of the Legislature to the people-the hydra-headed monster, as the people have been termed. Sir, the opinion of the people is not always to be trusted. I have a certain amount of respect for the ror populi, but I can never forget the lines of Shakespeare, the greatest interpreter of nature, in which he sums up the average of mankind. He says,- 1 Who deserves greatness Deserves your hate ; He that depends Upon your favours swims with fins of lead And hews down oaks with rushes. Hang ye! Trust ye ? With every minute you do change a mind. And call him noble that was now your hate, Him vile that was your garland. I will say no more except this : I know that every Government has to meet Parliament with a certain box of what may be called figuratively fireworks. Some of these fireworks go up bril- liantly and make a fine display, others turn out to be mere squibs and crackers, and some hang fire altogether. This Bill appears to be one of the last-mentioned sort. I do not for a moment believe it was ever intended to be passed ; I trust it never will be passed, and I 