the power of the Government to transfer votes. If honourable members will look at the Appro- priation Account, page 6, under the heading " Public Works Department " -- Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - I cannot see how that point arises in the discussion which is now going on. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .-- The report of the Committee is that the action of the Auditor- General in one case was unnecessary, and in other cases the Committee recommends that no action be taken. The whole of the powers that are exercised, and that have been exercised, by the Government, and under which that report is brought down, are contained in the Public Revenues Act of last year. Honourable mem- bers have discussed the question of the .£40; I am proceeding to discuss one phase which comes under another clause of that Act. The DEPUTY - SPEAKER. - Honourable members have been discussing the question of a clause under which the Auditor-General acted. I cannot allow other clauses to be discussed. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I regret exceedingly that I am not allowed to proceed, because if I had been allowed to go on I would have been able to show that the Government have made very large transfers of votes indeed, and that these have been made under the Governor's order, exercised under the authority of this Act. In fact, without wishing in any way to contra. vene your ruling, I may point out that the dis- cussion so far has taken place under the power given to His Excellency the Governor in con- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 nection with clause 9, as to their being differ- ence of opinion. I proposed to show another case in which there has been a difference of opinion between the Auditor-General and the Colonial Treasurer, and that this transfer has been made under that very section. The DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- If that relates to papers which have been laid on the table the If it does not honourable member is in order. the honourable member is not in order. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I am quoting from B .- 2, Appropriation Account. The DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- That is not laid on the table by the Auditor-General under the Public Revenues Act, and is not connected with the report which is now being discussed. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Then, I presume I can only take another opportunity when I shall be in order in discussing these transfers of votes. However, I am very sorry to hear the Premier expressing so much pleasure at my mouth being closed on this occasion. The Premier has been "hear-hearing" in a manner quite delightful, coming from him, and it shows that he is glad I am prevented from saying what I have to say on this matter. Without wishing to weary the Houses I can only say, in connection with the $40 vote which has bulked so largely in this discussion, I am not going to say anything that ought not to be said ; but I think I shall be correct if I were to say that had the salaries of Ministers not been increased last session this £40 vote would not have been proposed. I am not expressing any opinion as Mr. G. W. Russell of members was too much, nor am I going to refer to what my own personal position was in connection with it. An Hon. MEMBER .- Did you take it ? Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I did; and I have no doubt my honourable friend did also ; and I think the honourable gentleman in taking the money was within his rights, as I also was. The money was voted by Parliament, and, although I cannot dispute the legality of the payment, because by the statute I have referred to the passing of the money to me and all honourable members was made legal-no one can say it was not legal. I see my friends on the Ministerial benches are passing Hansard along to the member for Masterton in connec- tion with what I did. I voted for the second reading of the Bill because, as I said, I con- sidered the Public Revenues Bill was necessary in the interests of the colony ; it was impossible to carry on the finances of the colony, so far as railways and other important matters were concerned, without it. I did not vote for the £40 vote. Mr. HOGG .- Why ? Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I will tell the I did not honourable gentleman straight. vote for it because I did not think that £40 should be voted to members in the way it was done. But I will tell the honourable gentle- man that there are two members who would bear me out were they present-I was person- ally waited on by two members, who asked me not to oppose it, and I promised them I would not do so. I kept my promise. Mr. HOGG .- Worse and worse; that was weakness. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- That may be. The honourable gentleman is not a pattern of strength as I usually take it. The honourable gentleman can say whatever he chooses. This is the first time I have spoken on the matter. and I say this: I shall not make any promise like that again, and those honourable gentle- men who came and asked me not to oppose the vote I shall put in a position when the extra vote for this session comes down of having to fight for it. Mr. FISHER .- Why not name them now ? Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I decline to bandy names across the floor of the House when the persons involved are not present. I can only say this : Regarding what has been said in con- nection with this vote of £40, and the circum- stances that arose for it, if I am to be abused I shall open my mouth a good deal wider than I have ever done as to the circumstances that led up to that £40 vote. Knowing public opinion regarding the matter, the Premier will not dure to do the thing in the same way this time. The Premier is not prepared this session to pro- pose a vote of £40. He knows he has either got to do one of two things-either to let his followers go without the $40 or bring it down by way of statute. I say the fact is recognised by the Government that they made a mistake last year in the way this was done. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) .- I am very sorry 