the House. I heard the Premier, in the early part of the afternoon, contradict the member for Wakatipu when that honourable gentle- man stated that clause 9 of the Public Reve- nues Act had not been law until last year. Perhaps the honourable member for Waka- tipu was not quite correct in his statement that it had never been the law, because sec- tion 9-and I am dealing with that part of it which refers to disputes between the Auditor- General and Treasurer, and which provides that such disputes shall be determined by the Trea- surer and then referred to Parliament-was the law from the year 1872 to the year 1878, and almost in the same words in which it is law at the present time. I want to quote both sections by way of comparison. I am quoting now the Act of 1872, which says,- " In case any difference of opinion shall arise between the Commissioners and the Treasury as to the vote or other authority to which any expenditure ought to be charged, the question shall be determined by the Colonial Treasurer ; but the objections made by the Commissioners shall be by them laid before Parliament within ten days thereafter, if Parliament be then in session, and if not, within ten days after the next meeting of Parliament." An Hon. MEMBER .- What is the present Act ? That was repealed in 1878. Mr. FISHER .- Finish that section in the Act of 1872. Mr. MASSEY .- I am not dealing with the question of law ; I am simply referring to questions which are determined by the Trea- surer and referred to Parliament. I will quote from the Act of last vear, which says,- "9. In case any difference of opinion arises between the Audit Office and the Treasury as to the vote, appropriation, fund, account, or other authority to which any expenditure ought to be charged, or as to the proper head of revenue, fund, or account, to which any receipt should be credited, the question shall be de- termined by the Treasurer, and his determina- tion shall be laid before Parliament as provided by section fifty three of the principal Act : " Provided that if in the opinion of the Audit Office the question involves matter of law, then it shall be determined by the Gover- nor. having before him the opinion of the Attorney-General thereon; and in such case the objection of the Audit Office, the opinion of the Attorney-General, and the determination of the Governor shall be laid before Parliament as provided by section fifty-three of the principal Act." Sir, the two clauses are the same thing in meaning and almost the same in words. Now, Sir, coming back to the section I have quoted from the Act of 1872, that was repealed in 1878, and by whom ? By the Grey Government, and when Mr. Ballance was Treasurer, and on the motion of Mr. Ballance. And what an extra- ordinary position it is that we find that clause re-enacted-by whom ? By the Government of which Mr. Seddon is the head-Mr. Seddon, the of Sir George Grey. Mr. SEDDON .-- That shows consistency. Mr. MASSEY .- It is the extreme of in- consistency. Mr. SEDDON .- He was Treasurer in 1872. Mr. MASSEY .- I know who was Treasurer in 1878: Mr. Ballance was Treasurer in 1878, and he moved the repeal of that clause I have just read. Now, Sir, I have only one more point to deal with. I heard the Premier say there was no one in this House who would dare to repeal the Public Revenues Act. Pro- bably the House as a whole would not repeal it, but I can speak for myself. I say I would be only too glad of the opportunity, and when the opportunity offers I shall be found voting for the repeal of what I consider to be probably the most iniquitous Act ever placed on the statute-book of this country. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) .- Last session, when the Public Revenues Bill came down, I voted against the second reading, and I voted against every division in connection with it. I did so, Sir, for this reason : I saw that certain extra powers were being placed in the hands of the Executive, and that it was placing them above this House. Too much power already is centred in the Executive. For the same reasons that I have voted against the Execu- tive having the power to put any vote they thought fit upon the estimates, and so over- ride the statute - law, I have for some years now fought for the right of this House to elect the Ministry, in order to have a stronger grip over them. It seems to me, Sir, that it is foolishness to talk about no extra power hav- ing been placed in the hands of the Executive in this Chamber with the passing of this Act, be- cause we have had, not only last session but this session, instances where, when a member has brought in a Bill that dealt with the revenue, even to such a small extent as happened last year -I refer to the Bill introduced by the member for Wellington Suburbs, which involved a loss of revenue of #168 odd-the Colonial Treasurer rose in his place and objected to the progress of that Bill because it infringed the functions of the Cabinet. Sir, do we want any more evidence that there is power above this House in the hands of the Cabinet by the fact of a member of the Government having that power, when even a Minister can get up and protest against a Bill going forward involving the paltry amount of #168 because it interferes with that amount of revenue ? That was the effect in regard to this Bill. Sir, it is all very well to say that these votes come before the House ; but before they come before the House how do they get on the estimates ? They have to be put there by some representative of the Crown, as they are always pleased to term it. We cannot put any vote on ; we cannot move any proposition to increase any vote by any amount. We can only vote to reduce. We cannot place any sum on the estimates with- out the consent of the Crown, and so, to my mind, it behoves this House to very jealously guard its rights and privileges. But, Sir, 