3.30. of all, to leave the old system alone entirely with its present disadvantages, so that the owners of land might still have the present inducements to come under the Land Transfer Act ; and, secondly, to amend the Schedule of the Land Transfer Act, so as to make the im- plied covenants under the Land Transfer system agree with those ordinarily inserted in mort- gages at the present time. If that were done, instead of adding a third system you would heighten the inducements to the owners of land to bring their land under the Land Transfer system as quickly as possible. With regard to clauses 5 and 6, I think they are distinctly an advantage. They provide for the amount of a mortgage being increased or re- duced by indorsement on the mortgage ; also for the renewal or extension of the currency of a mortgage. Clauses 5 and 6 are really very valuable alterations in the present law, because a mere indorsement will effect what might otherwise be required to be done by a new deed. An Hon. MEMBER. - The same thing is done now. Mr. ATKINSON .- Certainly the same thing is constantly done. But, speaking technically, greater security will be given to transactions of the kind by this clause than they enjoy at the present time. As to clause 7. 1 think that will only improve the position of a man who has not brought his property under the Land Trans- fer Act, and therefore, on the grounds I have before mentioned, I shall oppose that clause. As the honourable member for Mataura has pointed out, the risk undor the Workers' Compensation Act is certainly a risk which should be covered by the implied covenants in this Bill; but I think the better plan would be to abolish the risk altogether, and remove what seems to me to be the greatest blot on our statute-book of 1900 -- that is, the risk to which owners of land and the mortgagees of land are exposed under the Workers' Compensation for Accidents Act. However, until that is done it is desirable that we should guard against that risk, and that we should have some implied covenant with regard to that risk inserted in the Second Schedule, as well as the covenant for insurance against fire. Sir J. G. WARD .-- Sir, regarding the state- ment of the last speaker, that in introducing this Bill a detailed explanation was not given of the various clauses, I should like to say that when the honourable member has had a con- siderably larger experience of the House than he has at the present time he will find it is not a bad thing when introducing a Bill in this House to be as brief as you can. And, generally speaking, when a Bill has been circulated for a considerable time, and has been in the hands of honourable members, it is natural to suppose that each member has read the clauses of the Bill, and understands the intentions and pur- port of the measure just as well as the intro- ducer of the Bill himself. My object when introducing Bills in this House has always been, while explaining their main objects and Mr. Atkinson planations of the various clauses, and to, as far as possible, do this in Committee. Occa- sionally I have found it necessary to go fully into the details of each clause of a Bill, but my experience, when I have done that, has been that I have been met-more especially in the case of some honourable members opposite-by the statement that they found I was giving the details of clauses of a Bill which they already thoroughly understood, and that my explana- tions were altogether unnecessary and were more for Committee. This is a short Bill, and I can assure honourable members that it was not from any want of courtesy that I did not go more fully into it. On the contrary, I knew the House had already passed the Bill two or three times, and that it had been before the Statutes Revision Committee, and I contented myself with putting on record shortly and tersely what was intended to be brought about by this measure. I should like to say, generally speaking, I think the aim of honourable mem- bers ought to be to simplify as far as possible the system of mortgaging the land, and if the proposals in the Schedule of this Bill are not sufficiently full or clear to meet what is desired, I shall be quite prepared to accept any reason- able suggestions in Committee, with a view of having them made more explicit. Now, I do not believe if this Bill were placed on the statute- book it would clash with the ordinary Land Transfer system at all; and, in reply to the argument adduced by some honourable mem- bers that this being not compulsory it will not be much availed of, all I can say is that there is a great deal more competition now in the matter of lending money than there has been in former years. And those honourable mem- bers who think the mortgagor has to go on his bended knees in order to induce the mortgagee to make any terms the mortgagee thinks fit are mistaken. A mortgagor can now go to a great many people to obtain money. And if a system more inexpensive, and not so difficult as the old one, can be placed at the option of mortgagors and mortgagees, there surely can be no harm done in having a simple, but adequate, schedule placed upon the statute- book as suggested in the Bill. Regarding that portion alluded to by the honourable member for Mataura, I see the point clearly, and I quite recognise that under the Workers' Compensa- tion for Accidents Act there would be a clashing in the direction indicated by the honourable member ; but I think probably he would have heard the head of the Government state in this House that it never was intended that the clauses of the Workers' Compensation Act should apply to the farmers of this country. Mr. McNAB .- It might be a carpenter work- ing on a building. Sir J. G. WARD .- All I can say is that the clashing ought to be avoided so far as the Second Schedule of the Bill is concerned ; and when the Bill has passed its second reading I will have the matter looked into with a view of seeing in what way the difficulty, under ordinary circum- stances, can be overcome. I have no doubt. 