of this, and point out that the reason was that the same valuer was employed by the two de- partments. Undoubtedly it is so, and that is, to my mind, one of the worst features in the sys- tem-the placing of two departments, which ought to be separate and distinct, under one head. If they were separated, or if local bodies were allowed to make their own valuations, you would not find the machinery of the Ad- vances to Settlers Act used unfairly for the purpose of increasing the valuations upon pro- perties. Reference was also made to the charges of solicitors employed by the Government under the Advances to Settlers Act, and I will say- and I say it plainly-that it is an improper thing for any person employed by the Govern- ment in this capacity to be a member of Parlia- ment. No matter where he gets the remunera- tion from, his appointment is practically a matter in the hands of the Government, and it means that he is really in Government employ, and it seems to me to be an improper thing that any member should owe a position of pecuniary advantage in this respect to the Government. We have been told that some of those who are engaged by the Government as solicitors for the Advances to Settlers Department charge far more to their clients than the rates fixed by the Act. Unfortunately, there has been good reason to believe that sometimes that is the case. It is said that the charge is made in a way which entirely evades the Act, and I would like to ask the Minister if it is not possible to devise some amendment that would prevent that being done. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 I am told as much as $20 is charged for search- ing a title by solicitors who are engaged under the Advances to Settlers Department, and it will be easily seen how it is possible to mount up costs in this way, so as to make it almost prohibitive to the man who wants to borrow money from the Government. I think the only charges that should be allowed are those laid down under the Act; and if any further charges are to be incurred they should come under the review of the department, and not be a matter between the department's solicitor and the intending borrower. I think the Act has proved undoubtedly a very great benefit to the settlers of the colony, and if it is wisely administered, as it has been in the past, I have no doubt we will never have cause to regret having instituted this department of the State. Mr. MILLS (Commissioner of Trade and Customs). - Sir, when I was introducing the Bill we are now discussing to the House this morning, I used the expression "charitable construction " in my speech, and the Premier, who was in a playful mood, suddenly inter- rupted me, and it was quite evident that his objection could only have been raised because he did not hear the words with which I in- tended to conclude the sentence and that por- tion of my remarks. I would not have alluded to it again but that the honourable member for Bruce, in a bantering tone, endeavoured to make out afterwards and wished to construe a mean- ing from it which, if left unchallenged, might Mr. Pirani ferent from that which I intended. We know that some people claim the privilege of speak- ing twice, while others are allowed to speak until they are understood. When I used the remark referred to 1 contend it was perfectly right. I was alluding at that time not to the department, but to some of the younger valuers who had been engaged at an early stage of the work by the department, and I said, if it was true there had been any errors committed by them, we ought to place a charitable construc- tion on their action, because I was perfectly sure it was done with quite an innocent inten- tion. What is the meaning of "charitable"? Johnson's Dictionary says it means " kind, favourable, indulgent, generous," and last, but not least, " liberal." Surely under that inter- pretation there is no harm in such a phrase as " charitable construction." To pass now to the remarks of the honourable member for Bruce, Mr. James Allen, the first thing he had the audacity to state was this- An Hon. MEMBER .- Oh ! Mr. MILLS .- Well, Sir, it was audacious for the honourable gentleman to say in effect that the business of this Advances to Settlers Department was decreasing. Why, Sir, a Fourth Standard boy would draw a different conclusion after reading the printed balance-sheet and reports, which are in members' pigeon-holes ; and, after his making a statement of that kind I could not allow it to pass unchallenged. In fact, the honourable member for Masterton has already partially saved me the trouble of making a statement in contradiction, because he has shown us that there were no less than sixty mortgages from Crown tenants passed through the Land Board and sanctioned by them only yesterday or the day before, and out of these they were all, with the exception of nine, from the Advances to Settlers Office. Therefore that is direct and sufficient evidence of what our settlers and the Crown tenants think of this great policy measure. Why. Sir, I know not of one, but of hundreds of settlers in this colony who have been relieved from a miserable existence by this great policy measure being placed on the statute-book, since it gave them a chance of recovering from that hideous burden of from 10 to 15 per cent. interest they had laboured under for years. And, Sir, I state. as a fact, the interest in the colony had not lowered before Sir Joseph Ward went Home ; and I could, with very little trouble, put my hand upon letters and show this House where those engaged in money-lending in the colony stated that unless the scheme was successful there was no question that higher rates of in- terest must prevail, and that very soon. I think it was well understood by the general public that such was the case. The honourable mem- ber for Bruce went on to say something about the figures in the balance-sheet not being correct for the 31st March. If he recollects aright, he will remember that I explained all about these matters, and quoted some figures up to date. We all know that certain mortgages are paid in as they mature, and thus amounts 