That may not be a recommendation to some members, but I am sure it will be to others. In the case of a woman deserted by her husband, and left with children to support, her husband may turn up for a night or two after an absence of, say, two or three years, and commence to ill-treat her, and then again leave her, and there is no possibility of her getting a divorce until the expiration of the five years provided by the Act of 1888, computed from the date of his second desertion. Numberless cases have been brought before the Courts in which simple judi- cial separations have been asked for, because the actual period had not elapsed, although all the consituent elements of actual desertion -- such as the husband writing and saying that he was not coming back again - were there ; and no matter how great a brute the husband may have been, a divorce could not, under the circumstances, be granted. A Bill embodying the clause as to divorce on the ground of three years' desertion was introduced into this House in 1887. Ex- actly the same clause was incorporated in that Bill. The second reading of the Bill of 1887 was carried easily, and among the names of those voting for it I notice that of the Right Hon. the Premier. In 1895 he voted against the second reading of the Bill providing for divorce on the ground of desertion for four years ; but he voted in favour of the Bill of 1887, along with Messrs. Monk, Duncan, Steward, and R. Thompson. The second read- ing of the Bill of 1895 was carried by a tremen- dous majority, amongst whom were no less than twenty-four members of the present House. I may say that I believe the Judges of the Supreme Court would be in favour of the passing of this amending measure, and I my- self have personally spoken to one of the Judges of the colony, who authorised me to say that he favours it. Mr. SEDDON. - It is very unusual to mention that on the floor of the House. Mr. WILFORD .- The honourable gentle- inan has created the precedent for the remark. Knowing the Judge, I telephoned to him to make sure on the point, and he said that he had no objection. The 2nd clause of the Bill is to amend subsection (4) of section 3 by inserting the word "five" instead of the word "seven." The meaning of the amend- ment is this: Under subsection (4) of section 3 of the Act of 1898 a petitione: is allowed a divorce from a respondent, if the respondent has been convicted and sentenced to imprison- ment or penal servitude for seven years for attempting the life of petitioner. If under our present law a petitioner is allowed a divorce from a respondent on the grounds of five years' desertion, then, surely she ought to be allowed a divorce on the ground that the respondent has been in gaol for five years. Why should it be made seven years in regard to imprisonment, while five years is the period for desertion. A man who will leave his wife for five years can be proceeded against for divorce; while the man who has brutally ill-used his wife The last clause is almost similar to that embodied in the Act of 1887, and it provides for a divorce on the ground that the respondent has for a period of five years been continuously contined in a lunatic asylum. Now, I admit that that clause is open to some argument. because there are arguments which, in the presence of the ladies in the gallery, it is in- advisable to discuss. I do not desire to in any way infringe upon what I consider good taste in the discussion of a matter like this, but I am prepared to admit there are arguments on both sides as to this clause. I think an amendment to clause 4 might be added, which I should be prepared to accept in Committee - namely, that i divorce on the ground of five years' continuous confinement in an asylum should not be granted unless the Medical Superintendent of the asylum should certify to the party who seeks the divorce that there is no likelihood of the patient in the asylum recovering. These are the three points upon which I am attempting to amend the Divorce Act of 1898. I shall content myself by putting the matter generally in this way, and propose deferring further argument until | honourable members have spoken, when I shall have my right of reply. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Mr. Speaker, the honourable gentleman evidently is prepared for my objecting to this proposed amendment of the divorce law of the colony, and he quotes my having voted in 1887 for one of the proposed amendments -- namely, that seven years' wilful desertion should be a ground of divorce. An Hon. MEMBER .- And incarceration in an asylum also. Mr. SEDDON .-- I have not seen the voting on the Bill to which he refers, and I will take it for granted that what he says is correct ; but, Sir, if the honourable member will note, it appears that I was paired ; and, further, from that time forward he will find that with ripe years came wisdom, and a desire, as far as possible, to have it so that marriage should not be easily set aside, because the nation where that obtains must of a certainty, so far as its social structure is concerned, be weakened. That, Sir, is my contention. I say we must look upon marriage as being something beyond a simple contract, and if we do not we shall find our- selves drifting into a position which all well- wishers of our colony must regret. If you read about the divorce laws in America -- and we are following closely upon the marriage laws of that country-you will see what every earnest thinker and writer says upon the social conditions there. You have a lesson here. Only recently we have had cases in our own colony, where people have simply left New Zea- land and gone to America, and the next thing you find is that proceedings have been instituted for divorce, that those proceedings have been successful, and then that another marriage has taken place. Well, all I can say is that I do not think that is desirable in the interests of the rising generation, and that we must look ahead. Now, when the present Act was 