lease in perpetuity than by purchasing for cash. Under the latter there were certain disabilities which operated to the disadvantage of the appli- cant who was not possessed of capital. The re- sult was that this class of applicants, when free to choose the tenure, preferred the lease in perpetuity, as the rent was lower than the freehold tenure. Those applicants, however, who were able to pay for the land preferred to secure a freehold tenure, although the interest charged was higher than under the lease in perpetuity. His experience on the Land Board was that the bulk of the people applied for land under the lease-in-perpetuity system. Applica- tions to get the right of purchase had not been very large in the past, but they were increasing. There was a very strong feeling in favour of the freehold by those who were able to pro- vide the cash. What he was most afraid of in connection with the land - for -settlements policy was that if the Government bought land at high rates, even if they were the market rates, in certain cases the result would be a loss to the colony. On certain classes of land it was almost impossible to pay 5 per cent , in addi- tion to making the necessary improvements to conduct farming operations. It appeared to him that it was no consolation to a man who was a tenant of the Crown, who was crushed by a high rent, if the Crown pressed him, to be told it was for the public good. The sense of oppression would remain. If he was pressed by a private individual he was in no worse position ; but if the Crown pressed him by fixing a high https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 rent it would soon become a question of public policy whether the rent of Crown tenants so situated should not be reduced, and necessarily lower the credit account of this fund. Then this difficulty arose : If the land had been let at, say, 10s. per acre, and the tenant could only pay 6s., who was to pay the difference ? It must come out of the Consolidated Fund in order to balance accounts. Unless care was taken in purchasing land great danger would ensue, because it was very certain that if men could not pay their rent and live-get a living-wage out of the land, so to speak -- there would be wholesale applications to Parliament for reductions of rent. That was inevitable. But if the freehold was given there would not be applications to reduce the price of the free- hold. That involved the colony in no respon- sibilities in regard to the future ; but in lands purchased from private persons by the State there was this danger : that, unless great care was taken, the fund under which the system was operated might sustain heavy loss. Those were the only observations he wished to make. This was only a return, and there was no occa- sion to go into the general policy of the subject. He, however, availed himself of the opportunity to lay before the Council his views in regard to the buying of land for settlement, and to urge that care should be taken in the purchase of such land, and that it was fit for the purpose of close settlement, and could be let at such rents as the tenant could afford to pay. The Hon. Mr. JONES said he had listened to the Hon. Mr. Ormond's jeremiad on this Hon. Mr. T. Kelly question with a certain amount of surprise. He began to wonder how many more times the honourable gentleman was to be shown that the land - for - settlements scheme had been a pronounced success. The honourable gentle- man felt somewhat annoyed because the infor- mation which he asked for in his return had not been supplied by the Government. It was fortunate, however, for the honourable gentle- man that he had not that information before him, because he was enabled to talk with greater freedom on the subject. He was not hampered by facts which would have been inconvenient to him in view of the tone of his speech. He said he approved of the Land for Settlements Act. He approved, that is to say, of the land-resumption policy ; and he also told us that he took part in making the measure a workable one. Then, he went on to condemn its most indispensable features, and he said that under the Act it was intended to take only agricultural land. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND .- I said mainly. The Hon. Mr. JONES said, Very well, he would accept the honourable gentleman's cor- rection. Now, the Act did not make any such restriction. The Act gave three classes of land which it was proposed to take. According to the interpretation clause, first-class land was agri- cultural land, second-class land was agricultural and pastoral land, and third-class land was land suitable for pastoral purposes only. As these lands were mentioned in the Act, they might assume that it was intended to take, as oppor- tunity offered, lands of these three classes. This was the measure which the honourable gentleman endeavoured to make workable. This was the measure which was passed, and which he said was workable. Yet he tells the Council and the country that it was never intended to take pastoral land, which the Act said was to be taken if necessary. But he would like to ask any honourable gentleman why the operations of the Act should be restricted purely to agricultural land. Why should we not take pastoral land, if necessity required that we should, as well as agricultural land ? Large estates usually contain land of several quali- ties, and it simply meant, if you did not take pastoral land, and took only the agricultural land, that you would take the eyes out of the properties, and that was what the honourable gentleman in 1894 denounced as unfair, and, he (Mr. Jones) thought, with very good reason too. He approved of the taking of the whole of an estate, unless the proprietor desired otherwise, so as not to leave a portion which might be useless to the owner. The Waikakahi Settle- ment, which was admitted to be one of the most satisfactory settlements yet made under the Act-not only by the honourable gentleman who spoke in moving the motion, but by people generally throughout the colony - consisted largely of pastoral land. The downs were all pastoral land. There were fourteen small grazing - runs on the Waikakahi Estate, and the settlers on these runs were some of the most prosperous settlers on the estate and in the colony; and yet, if the honourable 