months of the year. They stated that by an increased expenditure of £13,580, in providing considerable additions to the staffs, the time on duty might be reduced to eight hours per day : and they suggested that five Superintendents who are now in receipt of about $6,000 a year might have their services dispensed with, and Boards of Control might be instituted in their place. In the opinion of some of the attendants the Boards of Control would be a very good substitute. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) said that the last remark-that there were five Superintendents, costing €6,000-was entirely new to him. The salaries of the Super- intendents of the large asylums did not exceed $600, and that would not make up the amount mentioned. Mr. HOGG might explain that he had made a slight mistake : the representation was that about ₺6,000 a year was spent in the salaries and upkeep of five Superintendents. Mr. HALL-JONES said he supposed that also included the Inspector-General. He had replied a short time ago to a question put by the honour- able member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) on this subject, but he must confess the honour- able member who had put the question had not been so candid as the honourable member for Wellington City, for he had stated that the atten- dants had few holidays during eleven months of the year. Well, the honourable member must know that the twelfth month, which he had not taken into account, was the holiday month, and there were not many officials in the public "service, or employés in private service, who got a full month of holidays in the year. Then, in addition to this, the attendants had a day every fortnight, and they had certain Sundays, and also several evenings each week from six o'clock, or very shortly after, until ten o'clock. So far as holidays were concerned, he thought they were about as liberally treated as any one in the employ of the State. As to salaries, he was inclined to think there were some cases where an adjustment might be made. How- ever, female attendants received $40 and rising to #50, with board, lodging, and washing : male attendants received #70 increasing to €80, and as most of them were artizans and had a know- ledge of some trade, perhaps that was too little, especially for those who were married. With regard to the hours, they were not so long as had been stated by the honourable member. The hours in summer were from six in the morning till six in the evening, and there, of course, were intervals for meals, and every alter- nate day he believed they put in an hour or two longer. It was all a question of pounds, shillings, and pence - of providing an extra number of attendants and the additional ac- commodation for them, so as to enable an eight- hours day to be adopted. At any rate, he did consider that the hours at present worked were too long, and that they should be altered. He believed it would give far greater satisfaction to the attendants if the hours were lessened instead of the salary being increased. This partment. KAIKOURA FISH INDUSTRY. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) asked the Minis- ter of Marine, Whether, in the event of the steam-trawler " Doto," or any other trawler, being employed by the Government to ascer- tain the haunts of fish off the coast, he will arrange that the coast from the Amuri Bluff to the mouth of the Clarence River be tested, and thereby assist the development of the fish in- dustry at Kaikoura? Several of his constitu- ents in the Kaikoura district were interested in the fish industry. A fish-curing industry had been established there for the last fifteen or twenty years, and he had been desired to bring under the notice of the Minister of Marine the fact that when the trawler "Doto " was upon the coast examining the haunts of fish, that part of the district somehow or other seemed to have been overlooked. He asked the Minister, in the event of this trawler being again em- ployed, or any other vessel of a similar nature being called into this service, he would be good enough to see to it, that from Amuri Bluff to the mouth of the Clarence River should be tested. The distance was about forty miles, and such testing was likely to prove beneficial to those engaged in this industry at Kaikoura. He hoped the Hon. the Minister would, in reply, state that he was willing to make pro- vision to have this done. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister of Marine) said that when the trawling operations were com- menced, the Inspector of Fisheries had recom- mended certain places on the coast which he considered should be tested first, as there was some evidence that the fishing-grounds in the neighbourhood were good ; and in accordance with his recommendation these parts of the coast-line had been tested, and, taken all round, the results had been fairly satisfactory. The Government had at that time no information as to the fishing-ground off Kaikoura, until the matter had been brought under his notice by the honourable member. If circumstances had admitted of extending the charter of the " Doto " a few months ago it would have been done, but he was advised that, with the bad weather coming on, and the master being un- fortunately taken ill, it would be inadvisable to extend the charter. In the event of any further operations the ground alluded to would be tested. Mr. MEREDITH asked if there was any likelihood of any further tests being made. Mr. HALL-JONES said he could not say till the estimates were brought down; it was a matter for Cabinet to decide. A large sum had been spent in this direction within the last two years. If it could be done by either of their own steamers he was prepared to have the ground tested. AUCKLAND PUBLIC OFFICES. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) asked the Minister for Public Works, If he will this ses- sion place a sum on the estimates for the erec- tion of suitable public service offices in Auck- 