General was $500, and there was on last year's estimates a further sum of £331 also for the same thing; and I presume there will be a further sum this year in the supplementary estimates. Like the honourable member who spoke last, the honourable member for Christ- church City (Mr. Collins), I was astonished at the speech made by the member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier). I had always considered him to be a Liberal, because when on the plat- form he has always declared himself a Liberal ; but in his speech to-night he certainly gave utter- ance to the most ill-liberal ideas that I ever heard come from a member of the Liberal party, and that is saying a great deal, because I find some of the Liberal members of this House make the most Tory speeches it is possible to find-of a quite out-of-date Tory kind. I understood the honourable member for Auckland City to say that he supported the Premier's Bill because it would allow a vote of this House to have pre- dominance, and that this House ought to be supreme over all the laws of the land. I understood him to say that. The honourable gentleman prides himself on being a great authority on constitutional history, and if he looks back to the past he will find there have been many conflicts between Parliament and the statute law, as interpreted by the Judges of the land ; and Parliament has always come off second best, and the statute law has been shown to be above Parliament. I presume, from the honourable gentleman's utterances, that in the old days he would have been with Grenville and North in the perse- cution of John Wilkes. He would have been on the side of the iniquitous general warrants ; he would have been against the liberty of the Press ; he would have been for prosecuting the six printers in that memorable case which established the liberty of the Press ; he would have been with Castlereagh passing the famous six Acts ; and, in fact, the honourable gentleman would have been found supporting all the vio- lent votes and deeds of Parliaments, overriding statute laws, and against the liberty of the subject. There is no doubt that under the vicious principle the honourable gentleman has set forth, and which he upholds, more injustice and iniquity has been done than under any other system in the world. The idea that this House has power to override the statute law is one of the narrowest type of ideas it is possible to obtain. Look at past history and see the gentlemen who held those ideas and acted on them. Let him look at Grenville and North, who lost the American Colonies ; let him look at Liverpool and Castlereagh, and he will admit, with me, they were Tories of the narrowest type. One could hardly expect ideas of that kind coming from such a member as the honourable member for Auckland City. One would expect him, as a lawyer, to take the bold idea of Chief Justice Holt, who, in the case of Ashby versus White, proclaimed that the privilege of Parlia- ment could not override the statute law of the land, and that the statute law of the land was every man's palladium of liberty, and the privi- One would have expected an honest Liberal to take that idea. I consider myself a Liberal, and I say that the privilege or vote of this Parliament ought not to override the statute law of the colony, but that the statute law of the colony is what every man has to guide him, and is passed for that very object, so that the liberty of the subject should not be subject to the whims of a popular Assembly. Mr. SEDDON .- You should not have taken the money then. Mr. HERRIES .- I took the money because it was voted to me, and I do not think we can gain anything by this bandying of words, whether we took the money or whether we did not. I did my duty in this House. I voted strongly against it, and I would again, and as for the Public Revenues Act I should certainly vote to have it repealed, and I think the Pre- mier should have taken the chance to have it repealed this session. I think he will find that the will of the people is against him on this. The honourable member for Auckland City may say that Parliament is above the will of the people - that was his argument, I believe, that the vote of the House is superior to everything else-but he will find that the will of the country will make itself felt in aftertimes, especially in regard to this Public Revenues Act. Now, with regard to the actual question that is before the House, this report, which has been lost sight of. It seems to me that the Auditor-General, in regard to the "Tutanekai," was perfectly within his rights in putting the tag he did. The "Tutanekai" was used to take certain members of the Volunteers over to New South Wales. That is not a service for which the steamer is usually used ; and I say that the Auditor-General, as custodian of the public purse and the watcher for the public -- he is appointed to watch things for the public, and to see that nothing wrong takes place-it is his duty to call the attention of the House whenever he sees anything he considers wrong taking place. Well, I say that using the "Tutanekai" for that purpose was not one of the things for which the "Tutanekai" was bought, and the Ministry recognised that them- selves. They put on the Treasury vote an amount for expenses with regard to this visit to New South Wales. If they put on that vote, why not make it a larger one ? Why not make it a vote to cover the expenses of the "Tutane- kai." They put the sum of $500 in the miscel- laneous votes of the Treasury Department for these particular expenses that the "Tutanekai" was used for. If they wanted to do right to the country they would have put the whole sum that was estimated for the "Tutanekai " in that vote, and we would then have known what the total expenditure would come to. But instead of that they hung it up in the Marine vote, where no member would have thought of looking for it. If we had seen the sum of £2,000 on the estimates for the expenses of people going to Sydney we would have had a discussion and inquiry into the matter. But instead of that #1,600 was put away in the Marine vote. 