informed that the operation of the Bill will be to prevent mortgaging within a period of five years. I read the Bill wrongly myself yester- day, and I am informed that is the effect of the Bill, and it is the intention of the framer. The Hon. Colonel PITT .- That being so, I shall move, by way of amendment, That the Bill be recommitted for the purpose of re- considering clause 11. It was quite evident to me yesterday that what the Minister has now stated was the effect of clause 11, and I can see no other construction which can be put upon it. Then, section 60 of the original Act pro- vides that a person who has a lease under the Act is not allowed to transfer it, or deal with it in any way, within a period of five years, unless upon the recommendation of the Land Board and with the consent of the Minister. Now, it appears to me that is quite a sufficient restriction upon alienation, and quite a suffi- cient protection to prevent any improper aliena- tion of the lease. As I said yesterday upon the second reading, I ask members to con- sider whether they cannot conceive that very great injustice indeed may be done to small settlers by their being prevented from raising money by way of a mortgage upon their lease-holdings. A man may have enough money to stock his land, and to fence it, but he may not have sufficient money to put a house upon it. Very well ; a judicious loan at that time upon the security of his property may make all the difference whether that man is to be a successful man in life or not. Of course, I quite understand that the object of this clause is to prevent dummyism; but, if the Land Board or the Minister thinks there is anything of that nature in the proposed alienation of the lease, it is perfectly competent for the Board or the Minister to say that the lessee shall not be allowed to deal with it. I submit that is ample protection, and I now ask the Council, before they agree to this clause being passed in the form it now stands in, to consider whether they are not attempting to protect the system at the expense of the small settlers. I shall test the feeling of the Council upon the matter, because I think it is a mistake in the policy of the Bill. I move, That the Bill be recommitted for the purpose of reconsidering clause 11. The Hon. Mr. REEVES .- I would point out - and I think I am not mistaken in what I say - that it is provided by the Advances to Settlers Act that any man who has been on his farm for three or four years can get an advance under that Act. That being the case, why should we demand that a man should be five years on his farm before he is capable of getting a loan ? The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI .- It is my inten- tion to vote against the amendment, for the reason that it seems to me, if carried, it would be the means of opening the door again to dummyism. If the power is given for money to be advanced upon a man's property as soon as he gets possession of it, it will be opening the door for dummyism, which is the very thing this Bill seeks to prevent. The honour- able gentleman who moved the amendment VOL. CXVII .- 24. have the power of raising money from some source, and it follows that the money-lender, or whoever advances the money, would come into possession of the property shortly afterwards. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- Sir, the Hon. Mr. Shrimski is quite right in what he has stated. The idea of this Act has all along been that those who go on the land should remain there, if they are capable of doing so with benefit to themselves and the colony ; but, unfortunately, there are always evil influences at work. When a man gets on the land he is surrounded by all sorts of counsellors, by money-lenders, and other people of that kind, who exercise every effort to get from him what little he possesses. We should remember that this land is purchased at very great cost by the State, and often the money which was paid for it is, in my opinion, greatly in advance of what should be paid for it, and the settler therefore has to pay a very high rent for his holding. When a person comes before the Board and applies for a section under the Land for Settlements Act he is asked what his financial position is, what prospects he has, what is his capacity to engage in the industry, and what is his knowledge of the cultivation of the soil ; and if he cannot show that there is a reason- able prospect of his succeeding he is rejected as an applicant, or is supposed to be rejected, by the Board. I admit that there are some- times cases in which a man may have but little money ; but he may have knowledge of the industry, and indomitable courage to make up for his lack in this respect. I have even known men who have had no money go on land and pull through successfully, with advantage to themselves and the colony ; but, Sir, these cases are few and far between, and we are not legislating now for isolated cases, but we are legislating, I take it, in order that on broad principles we may really help those who desire to become settlers in this country. There is one thing, however, I should like to see done, and that is: where a man finds, after he has made certain improvements, that he has not quite sufficient money to enable him to remain on his section with advantage to himself and the country, he should be able to go to the Government and ask them for a little help. An Hon. MEMBER. - He can do so. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- The honourable gentleman says, " He can do so " ; but his only recourse is to the Advances to Settlers Department, and, Sir, that department is not under Government control at all. It is worked on strictly business principles. The administrators of the department have no hearts, and they are not supposed to exercise their judgment, save with regard to the financial position. Now, if the Government had power- if the Land Board or the Minister had power -- to make advances to struggling settlers who are deserving of such advances, and who are really in such a position that they can pay the interest and the capital when due, I think it would be a very good thing indeed ; and I believe the time is coming when the Government will make 