adjunct (which I have for years fought for here, and not yet got) -viz .. a small square-rigged brig or schooner - would regularly visit all your fine ports in turn. Let me have reasonable freedom in framing and starting your system, and I will not only guarantee its success by promise, but I will lodge $1,000, to be forfeited towards expense incurred, if I fail at the end of, sav, three years to satisfy an impartially con- structed committee. "I have not spent twenty-five years in daily hard work, living for but one object - that of elevating the condition applying to neglected youngsters -- without knowing my subject thoroughly. I like the work and know its value. If your people, after satisfying them- selves of my ability to help them, care to avail themselves of my services. I am not only will- ing to serve them, but, as I stated before, will, as far as my limited means permit, give tangible evidence of my confidence in my undertaking. "W. H. MASON." It makes one's heart glad to read how these thousands of waifs and strays have been enabled by this humanising agency to attain to pro- sperous and honourable positions in the world. Now, as to the question of the admissibility of boys to the Royal navy, will any reasonable honourable member of this Council for one moment say that there are boys who have been at one time in their life in a reformatory training-ship, not a criminal reformatory ship, precluded from getting into the Royal navy ? An Hon. MEMBER. - I do not think so. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS. - I have it on the authority of a naval officer, who, I may say with all deference, is quite as good an authority on such matters as the honourable gentleman. " Why," he said, " in times of war do you think if a young man came along with all the necessary physical powers and good health, and proved qualifications as a seaman, he would be excluded because he had been in one of those institutions which are not criminal ? It would be absurd. Some of the best men I have seen were men who have been in a little bit. of trouble in their younger days." And, Sir, the history of every regiment will tell you that there are men in those regiments-some of the best men in the army- who at one time or another. if their career was searched, would possibly have come under the ban of excom- munication that is set up by some honourable members in this Council, and would not have been able to get in either the army or navy. In regard to this marine reformatory vessel, if honourable gentlemen had closely followed me yesterday they would have learned that I would not put in any boys who were criminally tainted. Those who are found to be badly tainted with crime, perhaps through heredity, should be kept in an industrial home on shore. But as to a boy who merely for refractory con- duct, for a little bit of larrikinism, or for not following his duties as an apprentice, or being a neglected child without any taint of criminality -those are the boys I would put on a training ship, and they could be drafted from the larger and discipline. I would then transfer them to the auxiliary schooner, which would go about our ports from time to time, and they would thereby learn practical seamanship. I have come across men in the Taranaki Province who have been trained as seamen. They have this advantage over the shore-trained youngster : they soon become very handy men ; they can do anything on a farm. Hon. MEMBERS. NO. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- Well, then, they can do a lot on a farm ; they are handier than a great many in my own trade, for instance. Our products, such as butter, cheese, wool, and frozen meat, will always be in demand in the Mother-land ; we have more than we can con- sume, and our surplusage we are willing to sell to those beyond our was. Sir, we are twelve hundred miles from any other point of land ; we have all the natural advantages to make our people attached to the sea for transporting our great products. It is unwise on our part, with these advantages, not to endeavour to train our boys in the direction indicated by my motion. If carried out, the historian of the future may be able to say that New Zealand forms the maritime Power of Australasia. 1 thank honour- able members for the very kind manner in which they have accepted and supported my motion, and I trust, sooner or later, success will attend the efforts of those who believe like myself, that a training-ship should be established in New Zealand. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN .- With the permis- sion of the Council, I should like to explain a little matter that has been referred to once or twice during this debate. I do not want honour- able members to run away with the idea that Captain Cook, of whom we are all so proud, went to sea because he got into any trouble ashore. I have just turned up a notice of his life in the National Biographical Dictionary, and it will be seen that not only this was not the case, but that he did not run away to sea. I quote the words of this authority :- "He was, at the age of twelve, bound ap- prentice to the shopkeeper at Staithes, a fishing village about ten miles north of Whitby. After some disagreement with his master his inden- tures were cancelled, and he was bound anew to Messrs. Walker, shipowners, of Whitby, with whom he served for several years in the New- castle, Norway, and Baltic trades." Motion agreed to. # REFERENDUM BILL. ADJOURNED DEBATE. The Hon. the SPEAKER was understood to say that the honourable gentleman who moved the adjournment (the Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker) had forfeited his right of reply. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- My reading of the Standing Orders is that I can speak either now or later on. I am, of course, not so familiar with the Standing Orders as you, Sir, because as a rule we are not contentious in the Council. I can only state from my experience in another place, if an honourable member 