Mr. MILLAR .- The San Francisco service | port being late. It is only reasonable that the is mentioned in the Statement. Mr. SEDDON .- There is no proposal in the Statement ; we said that we would bring down separate proposais. Mr. MILLAR .- Will the return be presented before these proposals come down ? Mr. SEDDON .- Most decidedly. Mr. MILLAR .- If the service is for the good of the colony, by all means let us have the information. As for the return B .- 1, it enables us to ascertain whether the Government has been spending moneys in the way authorised, and, in the absence of it, I do not feel inclined myself to speak on the Financial Statement at ali. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- The proper time to debate this matter would have been when the next motion to go into Supply was on ; but, to prevent debate when Supply comes on, I would now like to say in reference to B .- 1, about which so much has been said, that the par- ticulars contained in that paper are already before honourable members, but not in the same concise form. It would save them a little trouble if B .- 1 were available- that is all. That being the case, I think a complete answer has been given to the statements made with regard to this return. We have been told that honourable members cannot debate the Financial Statement unless they have B .- 1. If that is so, then there has never been a Financial Statement, excepting one, properly debated in this colony, because it is on record that only on one occasion was B .- 1 on the table of the House before the Financial State- ment. Therefore all financial debates in the past have been failures and farces, because B .- 1 was not available to honourable members. / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero So much for the contention on that head. Then, as to the Railway returns, my worthy colleague has said that the visit of their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York was to some extent responsible for the delay in presenting it, and there was no doubt that the Midland Railway Commission was more respon- sible for the delay than anything else. The reason for that is that Mr. Hudson. the man who had more to do with the preparing that statement than any one else, was, up to within a few days of the session, with the Commission. After that he left the colony, and a new man had to take up his work. That is the cause of the delay, and I say that is a reasonable explanation, which no member can gainsay. After all, it is only a week later in being pre- sented than last year's. There is no wish on the part of the Government to withhold it, but we cannot do impossibilities ; the Railways Depart- ment is one of the best-managed departments that we have. The General Manager and the whole of the department are most desirous of giving the fullest information possible, but, owing to the circumstances of Mr. Hudson being with the Midland Railway Commission, some little delay had to take place. His services with that Commission will be ad- mitted to be of good value to the colony, which will more than compensate for that re- incoming Assistant Manager would require some little time to make himself acquainted with his new work before he could complete the return. As regards the Railways Report, it will be on the table of the House before the Railway estimates come up for discussion, and I think that is only fair; but it does not affect finance much, for railway expenditure is practically under classi- fication. The honourable member for Riccar- ton is always finding mares' nests. He now brings up " A.O.L. -. additions to open lines- $500,000," and wants information about it. Sir, I say that he will have that in the Public Works Statement. It has nothing whatever to do with the question of the general estimates. As regards the Mines return, I can only say, to show the ignorance of some honourable mem- bers again, that the report of the Rivers Com- mission has been lying on the table for weeks. They show great carelessness when they com- plain about not getting returns which are in their pigeon-holes all the time. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- It is the Mines Re- port we want. Mr. SEDDON .- The Mines Report itself has nothing whatever to do with finance, and the honourable member knows that. It contains reports from the Wardens, showing how the mines are being worked, the returns, and the mining prospects, but from a financial aspect that report is not worth a cup of cold water. Then, as regards the Lands return : As far as it is concerned, there is a very large vote connected with lands, but the principal one will be in the public works estimates, where provision is made for roading. The departmental expenditure in the Lands Department is cut down, because the critical items have gone to the Roads Account and to the Roads Department, so that all that this has got to do with the Financial Statement is to the extent of a few pounds for payments to officers in the Lands Department. That is all that can interest members as far as that is concerned. I was somewhat surprised to hear from the honourable member for R.c- carton-and here I would like to say that I am not going to pay much attention to his statements in the future-I say I was astomided to find a labour representative finding fanit with the Government because they have not got the linotype and other up-to-date labour- saving appliances. He argued that if we had these machines returns would be available much sooner than they are at present. I was very much surprised to hear a statement like that coming from a gentleman who profeses sympathy with the working-classes. He wants us to get these labour-saving appliances. and thus put many members of the Typographical Society out of work. Coming from that source. the statement has surprised me very much. It is quite true that the Government have not go: the linotype in the Government Printing Office. We get along there very well without them. and I prefer to go as we are going, and delay a few days the impatience of honourable mom- bers, and find work for men who deserve it. and who do their work well. I am not one of these 