designed and it was suggested in order to over- come the difficulties that had arisen between the Audit Office and the Government with re- gard to moneys voted in cases where the ex- penditure had been fixed by statute. There were difficulties in connection with certain ex- penditure at Government House, for instance- necessary expenditure as it seemed to be to the Responsible Administration. There were diffi- culties in regard to increasing the pay of rail- way servants, because, their pay having been fixed by a Classification Act, it was contended that their wages could not be increased by vote of this House; and in many other ways the Audit Office raised objections which were not tenable, and which would practically whittle away the liberties of this House almost to vanishing-point so far as the administration of public moneys is concerned. I therefore say that the Act of last year was essential to restore to this House its proper power and the proper exercise of its functions. For over twenty years a (General Appropriation Act was held to cover the votes passed in the estimates. "The Public Revenues Acts Amendment Act, 1900," it seems to me, practically assures the supremacy of this House over the country's finance ; and in the final result do we not all agree that that must be so? What is to be law in this colony ? Is it not to be the voice of this House ? Personally, I have certain views in regard to another branch of the Legislature, but I do not wish to obtrude these views at this juncture, as they probably would not be relevant. But I do strongly contend that the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 people of this colony are the sovereign power. They elect their representatives to this House to decide what moneys shall be collected from the people, and how those money shall be ex- pended. The representatives of the people, by the means known to the Constitution, vest their confidence in a certain number of members as the Executive for the time being, and if the Executive pay money improperly the proper constitutional remedy is to put them out of office. The provision in this law for the laying of differences between the Auditor-General and the Treasurer before Parliament is perfectly ample. Nothing can be done secretly, and the power of control by Parliament is absolutely assured. I therefore maintain that there is really nothing in the objection raised against this measure by honourable gentlemen on the other side, and that the constant attempt to belittle it and besmirch the character and re- putation of members who voted for it, and the suggestion that it originated in a bribe, and was passed at a price, is one of the most infamous calumnies ever disseminated in the country. Mr. SEDDON. - The honourable member for Palmerston challenged the statement I made that twenty years ago this was the law. I was speaking from memory, and I could not for the moment recall the Act. But I sent out to have my statement verified, and I find, on looking at "The Public Revenues Act, 1878," the following :- Mr. Napier issue or credit requisition on the ground that the charges therein are not according to law, the matter in dispute shall be determined by the (Governor in Council, having before him the opinion of the Attorney-General thereon ; but the objections of the Audit Office shall, together with the opinion of the Attorney-General, be laid before Parliament." Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston). - The Premier might have supplemented his statement by saying that the first part of section 9 of the Public Revenues Act of 1900 was law in 1872, and was repealed and not re-enacted until 1891. Now, you actually have the Premier trying to thrust a misleading statement down the throats of members of the House, and nobody knows better than he that, with the exception of the present Ministry, after the Grey Ministry re- pealed the first part of the section in 1878, such a clause was scouted by every Ministry this colony has seen. Mr. SEDDON .- It was the law in 1978, and even prior to that date. Mr. PIRANI .- No; in 1872; but it was re- pealed, and the Premier did not say so. Now, the most extraordinary thing in this debate has been the dissertation on constitutional govern- ment by the honourable member for Auckland City, Mr. Napier-the honourable member who after last session of Parliament, with this Public Revenues Act tingling in his ears, told the people of Auckland that constitutional govern- ment did not exist in this colony-that consti- tutional government was a myth. Mr. NAPIER .- I did not say that. Mr. PIRANI .- I have the honourable mem- ber's own speech here, and it has been read twice also in this House this session. It was published in the Auckland papers, and the honourable gentleman has not risen in his seat here or written to a single paper to contradict it. Mr. NAPIER .- I did not say it. There was no such statement in any newspaper. Mr. PIRANI .- I will read it,- "The first thing that struck him during his first few weeks in Parliament was that, according to the ideas he had formed of parliamentary government, and according to what was laid down by constitutional writers. parliamentary government did not exist in New Zealand. According to the Constitu- tion of New Zealand, the people of New Zealand were supposed to be supreme in the government of the country. The Ministry was supposed to be a committee of the repre- sentatives of the people, to obey the represen- tatives of the people and carry out their desires. The measures were concocted and devised by the Ministry, and members were supposed to accept them unintelligently. Constitutional govern- ment was a complete myth." Yet we have the honourable gentleman talk. ing the utter nonsense he supplied us with in his discussion. The honourable member knows as well as the rest of us what was the alteration in regard to the Order in Council made by the House last year, and he knows as well as I do, 