cipal Corporations Act, 1900,' section 404, gives the local authorities power to pass by-laws for the regulation of these billiard-rooms, nothing has yet, so far as I am aware, been done." Now, he would give the Minister of Justice some particulars with which perhaps he had not been supplied by the Commissioner of Police. There were three private billiard- rooms in Wellington-one in Willis street, one in the high building opposite the Corporation Chambers, and one belonging to Mr. Patterson. It was really Mr. Patterson's room that Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge wanted to get at. Now, why did not Mr. Commissioner Tun- bridge institute his inquiries in a legitimate way? As a private speculation, Mr. Patterson had spent £800 in the purchase of land and the erection of a private billiard-room. There was no drink, no accessories of any kind attached to this private billiard-room. Mr. Patterson was enabled, by reason of his small expenses, to allow persons to play billiards at half the usual hotel or billiard-room price, and that returned Mr. Patterson a very fair interest on his outlay. He paid the Corporation altogether £24 a year as rates, and was a respectable citizen. Although Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge and his A.D.C., to whom he had made allusion the other day in speaking of the Police administration, said gambling was carried on in Mr. Patterson's pri- vate billiard-room, he (Mr. Fisher) and others were in a position to give that statement a distinct and deliberate denial. He went further than that : he would make this offer to the honourable gentleman and to Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge : So little was Mr. Patterson afraid of Mr. Com- missioner Tunbridge that he would hand over to him the key of his private billiard-room, and allow him to take sole charge, provided he did not make use of the key to shut up the room. Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge could then see whether any gambling took place. Then, following upon the report of the Commissioner of Police, the A.D.C. had taken to writing letters to the Evening Post, and if the Minister of Justice would read the Evening Post of the 6th August, on page 2, he would find a letter signed " Sufferer," written by the A.D.C., calling attention to this particular billiard- room, and the way the young pigeons were fleeced there. Mr. PIRANI rose to a point of order. Was the honourable member not prolix in his expla- nation of the question ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the question was a long one, and he did not wish to stop the honourable member, but he was watching what he was saying. Mr. FISHER said it was impossible to do justice to the subject in a few words. Mr. Patterson, as he had said, was willing to give up his key, aud all he asked was that Mr. Com- missioner Tunbridge should not close up the premises. There was no justification for the paragraph in the Commissioner's report. The municipal authorities were quite competent to attend to the affairs of the city, and the matter should be left to them and not to the police. I those who were known to be addicted to gam- VOL. CXVII .- 34. in future the Commissioner of Police confined himself to his legitimate duties. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said the explanation of the honourable gentleman's question had no connection with the question itself. The honourable member had simply taken another opportunity of reflecting on what he considered the improper statement of a public officer, and in doing so he had made some statements that were not in accordance with fact. The Commissioner of Police, in his report, said, -- "I now find the telephone is largely resorted to by the betting-men in carrying on their illegal calling; and many of the so-called pri- vate billiard-rooms are little else than gambling- places. Although ' The Municipal Corporations Act, 1900,' section 404, gives the local authori- ties power to pass by-laws for the regulation of these billiard-rooms, nothing has yet, so far as I am aware, been done in that direction ; conse- quently these places are still under no restric- tions whatever as to closing, &c., with the result that many young men, much to their detriment, are inveigled into these rooms, and kept there until the small hours of the morning, associating with spielers and other undesirable habitués, who subsist on following race-meetings during the daytime and frequenting billiard- rooms at night." That was the statement on which the honour- able gentleman had framed his question, and in explanation of the question the honourable member had referred to a Mr. Patterson. No Mr. Patterson was mentioned in the report, which report was general in its application. Then, with reference to billiard-rooms, the honourable gentleman asked how did Mr. Com- missioner Tunbridge know of the matter. Well, he (Mr. McGowan) knew of it. The parents of boys had come to him on this very subject. As was known, the local bodies had power to deal with the matter, but it was also known that the local bodies had not cared to exercise their powers. As to the proper hours of closing these billiard-rooms, he might say that, of his own knowledge, he knew they were the resort of people who were known to gamble. He was prepared to verify every word he was stating. Mr. Commissioner Tunbridge was entirely justified in referring to this matter as he did in his report ; and, for the benefit of the public, it would be well for Parliament itself to make some law in reference to these billiard-rooms, because, as he had said, the local bodies would not avail themselves of their powers. The local bodies, as members would understand, had a close connection with the owners of these billiard-tables, as ratepayers, and that was perhaps the reason why they were unwilling to make laws that might press hard on them. At any rate, the fact remained that they passed no by-law to regulate the keeping of these tables under proper control. As a consequence, young men were often found in these rooms at late hours, associating with 