and what has the colony got for that ? And, Sir, in connection with that Commission, what do we hear? We hear that the Government, outside of the Disqualification Act, have pledged themselves to increase the pay of members of that Commission over and above the money that is allowed by law; and when the ques- tion was asked a few weeks ago in the House the Premier did not deny it, and said it was intended to bring down an amendment of the Disqualification Act. Then, Sir, there was the question of teachers' salaries, and what did the Government do regarding that? "There was a matter of £8,000 voted by this House last session for teachers' salaries, and the Government kept that expenditure dang- ling in the air, and the Minister of Educa- tion was writing letters to every Education Board in the colony and putting them off, until at last, about the 5th April, when the finan- cial year had closed, the Premier stepped in and settled the whole question, and the money was started to be paid over. What is the posi- tion regarding that? I venture to say that it did not suit the Government to pay that $8,000 over during the financial year -- they wanted it to increase their surplus-and there- fore that expenditure was kept dangling before the eyes of the Education Board until a few days after the close of the financial year, and then it was paid. And what happened ? Why, another Commission was set up. The Government ap- pear to be so absolutely destitute of adminis- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 trative initiative and capacity that they refer almost every question of importance to a Royal Commission, and so they set up a Royal Com- mission regarding teachers' salaries. I venture http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero to say that that Commission was set up largely in order that the member for Masterton might be appointed Chairman of it. Everybody in this House knows the restive attitude of that honourable member during last session. Every- body knows that when the Government brought down a Bill dealing with teachers' salaries it was he who called a caucus and led the attack, and went and warned the Government that their proposals would be thrown out. And then, shortly after the session is over, my honourable friend is appointed Chairman of the Commission, and look at the effect. There is no restiveness now ; he is as mild as milk-he has come to heel-and he provides his best style of attack on every man who chooses to open his mouth against the Ministry. The honourable gentleman has been whipped into line, and it has been done by a Royal Commission. Then, Sir, we have had another Commission, and on . that there was my honourable friend the mem- ber for Motueka, who is not here this evening. That I should describe as a Commission long .drawn out. I believe it took some five months to inquire into matters relating to the Midland Railway. Now, Sir, what is the position of that question ? Does any member of this House mean to tell me that New Zealand or England will be satisfied with the report of that Commission, which will cost probably a thou- ture-holders of the Midland Railway is such that I hardly like to characterize it in this House. I feel, as a New Zealand colonist, that the idea of a number of men spending, as we ourselves have shown, between £600,000 and £700,000 in making railways in New Zealand, and then bringing it in that they have no interest in that expenditure and that all their money has been swallowed up, is such that I feel ashamed of it. I venture to say, Sir, that though we may not suppose the London money-market, which is an exceedingly sensi- tive thing, would be likely to boycott our loans and do us an injury, I believe it will be better for this colony to do the righteous thing in connection with the Midland Railway, and to find out not from such a Commission as was set up, consisting of two Government supporters and two or three officials, but from men who have a large world-wide experience, and who are able to judge on such a matter, what the fair value is that New Zealand has got from the expenditure of those people, and do the honest thing. Sir, I am of opinion that the words of a book that some of us may have read more when we were younger than we do now, that "Righteousness exalteth a nation," are distinctly applicable in such a matter as this, and I feel as ashamed of this country taking over the Midland Railway and not paying a fair value for what it has taken over as I would be if I had had a house built and the unfortunate contractor had put him- self within the penal clauses of the contract, and I found myself sitting in a house for which I had not paid a sixpence. That is a fair state- ment of the position of the colony towards the Midland Railway debenture-holders, and I sub- mit that, whatever may be the sentiments of the Government, especially of the Right Hon. the Premier, public opinion in this country will rise to the occasion and compel the Go- vernment to bring down sooner or later some plan by which we can say with a clear con- science that we have not taken one sixpence from the debenture-holders of the Midland Railway for which they have not received full value. I do not say anything on behalf of the company, because the company went into the matter as a business speculation with their eyes wide open, and they lost. But I do say that the debenture - holders who went into the matter understood as business-men that the guarantee of this colony stood behind them, and it was only at a certain point in the history of that great undertaking that they discovered that they and their lawyers and everybody connected with them had been mistaken, and that the overriding power of the Crown in seizing the line wiped out their sup- posed security for their advances. I say that under those circumstances this country can afford to be honest ; and I believe the time will come when, whether this Government do it or not, the people of New Zealand will insist on an honest course being taken in connection with that great undertaking. Now, Sir, I would ask 