for primary education, as specified in Paper No. 65, of 1901, being permanently set aside as endowments for primary education. INVERCARGILL RESERVE LEASING BILL. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK, in moving the second reading of this Bill, said it had for its purpose the utilisation of a piece of land that was now lying absolutely useless. As would be seen from the preamble, the land had been vested in the Mayor, Councillors, and Burgesses of Invercargill by an Order in Council for the purposes of a public pound. How it came to be so vested was somewhat of a mystery, seeing that the borough already possessed a pound on a suitable site elsewhere, and this site was utterly useless for the purpose. It would be much better for the town if the land was utilised in the manner indicated. The Bill had gone through the Local Bills Committee, and every- thing connected with it was in order. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN would like the honourable gentleman to say in what way it was proposed to utilise this land. He knew there was a tendency on the part of munici- palities to lease lands for the sake of getting revenue out of them, although open spaces became more necessary as towns grew larger. His honourable friend had referred to this reserve as low, swampy land, and, if so, that was not the place for dwellinghouses. Of course, he himself knew nothing about it, but https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 he desired to know whether it was proposed that the land should be leased for dwelling- houses or for business purposes, or if it could be utilised as a public garden. A very beautiful garden might be made out of low swampy land by drainage. Of course, he was speaking in ignorance of the exact locality, but thought the honourable gentleman would see that it was advisable to let the Council know exactly what the circumstances were. He spoke with some little feeling, not about this case, but because he knew of so many cases in which open spaces provided in the early days as reserves for the benefit of a future population had been sacrificed. These spaces might now be of very great value for recreation purposes. It was to get information on these points that he raised the question. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK, in reply, stated that as regards lungs the Town of Invercargill was more favourably situated than any other town in the colony. It had a park, and it had reserves, not merely a 2-chain street, such as there was in Christchurch, but a belt of re- serves, ranging from 5 to 7 chains in width, right round the town, and also through its centre. There was no need whatever for any more recreation-ground there, and if more were added they could not have justice done to them for a great many years, as it would be beyond the means of the borough to utilise them pro- perly. It was intended, as would be seen from the Bill, to add this particular piece of land to the endowment of the Town of Invercargill. There was no part of Invercargill that could not be rendered fit to build upon, and he had other parts of the town endowment, on " Glas- gow leases." The land was perfectly useless as it was-of no use either to the borough or the neighbourhood, and by no means could it become of any use to the Government. Bill read the second time. LAND FOR SETTLEMENTS BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, in moving the committal of this Bill, I do not think I need say more than is needful to explain simply what has been done in the Select Committee. The Bill has not been altered in any shape or form as regards its intention ; but on the third page honourable gentlemen will notice that clause 8 now contains what was in the former reprint covered also by clause 9. The intention is exactly the same, though the wording has been altered so as to make perfectly plain what is intended ; and I think the Council will find that its intention is not only quite plain, but also the operation will be as specific as is de- sirable always in Bills of this kind. The object of this clause is to eliminate as far as possible the element of chance from dealings in these sections of estates which have been acquired for closer settlement. The element of chance, which now prevails to a very large extent, has been the cause of disappointment and delay to intending settlers, and it is desirable to take away that element from these dealings, because, unfortunately, the minds of many people are so affected by the fact of there being a mere element of chance in any matter that they come to regard it as if it were an ordinary lottery ; and in that way many persons go in for these transactions who perhaps are not pro. perly qualified. But the hardship to the bond fide settler - the hardship to the man who desires to get a home for himself and his family-is, that he is handicapped at the pre- sent time by the law as it operates, because there are, of course, differences between section and section, as some sections are more desir- able than others, and the larger number of names go down for the best sections, and there is undue competition for some of them. The proposal in this Bill to minimise the evil as far as possible, is that the sections of land should be grouped in classes, and that in the first instance no applicant shall put his name down for more than one section in that group of sections. But he can apply in more than one group if he likes ; so that the chances are really just as wide as they ought to be ; but instead of having to select his section the proposal now is that the applicant should select his group, and the subsequent balloting will decide which section he gets. I trust the Council will ap- prove of the proposals, and will consider that the Bill is a Bill which is to remove a real evil, and to place the settlement of the land on a more satisfactory basis than perhaps it has been under this principle in the past. As regards the amendment of the Bill in Committee, I do not consider there is any difference to which I need refer. It might appear that a change has taken place as regards clause 8. There is some differ- 