sown or otherwise. He was on the land himself with Mr. Old, and saw the class of bush on it, and every word he had said about it was correct. One man could do all the work that had been done on it. He was sixty years of age himself, but he guaranteed he would have been able to do it all in ten or twelve weeks. He had offered to go into the matter with Mr. Old, and had given him the difference between the value of the class of land that belonged to the Maoris and the portion that was outside, about nine hundred acres, that he still held. He purchased it at about 7s. per acre all over ; but the com- pensation that he asked was nearly the sum paid for the whole property, so that he would have about seven hundred acres for nothing. He thought that was a little too much to expect him to do. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) said, No doubt good would result from the debate that had taken place on the petition. He desired to say it was unjust to accuse the Government of neglecting many of the questions that were brought under their notice every year. As members were aware, a measure had been brought down for years known as the " Wash- ing-up Bill "-a Bill that was intended to do justice to individuals who laboured under disa- bilities. But who had prevented that measure from passing? It was not the Government, surely : it was the obstruction of honourable members. Last year, members met on Com- mittees day after day, with the object of inquir- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 ing into certain petitions, and when the various matters had been looked into they were referred to the Government for consideration. Many of them were viewed favourably by the Govern- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero ment, and, as a consequence, a Bill was drafted and introduced to the House, with the view to giving effect to these recommendations. The measure, however, as he had stated, was not passed. He would like to suggest to the Government that it would be advisable to have the "Washing-up Bill" brought in much carlier every session, instead of leaving it to the dying hours of a session, when every- body was anxious to leave Wellington and return to their homes. Last session some most important public matters were involved in the Bill. Injustice had been done to individuals, to corporations, and to other bodies of people in different parts of the colony, and without the necessary legislation no relief could be given to them. He would like to mention that on one Committee, of which he was a member, the most difficult matters of law and fact were in- troduced and considered by the Committee. This Committee sat day after day last session, and, although they brought down certain re- commendations to the Government, the measure which was intended to give effect to those resolutions was not carried by the House. In that Bill, too, there were petitions referred to that had been before the House for years. He would like to see the Governmont introduce the measure on the following day. The House would gladly deal with it. It would be much better in the interests of the country than if and Offices Bill, or some other retrograde mea- sure which would only result in injury to the colony. If the Government intended to do justice to Mr. Old, whose petition had been favourably reported on for three years, a clause should be inserted saying that the matter in dispute would be referred to two parties for decision, one to be nominated by Mr. Old, and the other by the Government. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) would not have said anything in this debate if it had not been for the remarks of the last speaker. The state- ment the honourable member had made in defence of the Government was altogether in- correct. He had accused members, especially members on the Opposition side of the House, with blocking what he had been pleased to call the "Washing-up Bill" of last session. Now, as a matter of fact, the Government never brought that Bill down for second reading. The mea- sure was simply introduced ; it was carried no further, and the honourable member ought to have known that. For himself, he hoped the Bill would be introduced this session and put through. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) wished to make a personal explanation. He did not say that the members of the Opposition obstructed the Bill last session. Indeed, he would admit at once that stonewalling was altogether un- known in the parliamentary experience of those honourable members; it was foreign to their He trusted the member for Eden nature. would accept the explanation. Mr. HOGG ( Masterton) said he agreed with the member for Napier in his remarks on the "Washing-up Bill." It was very desirable that the Bill should be brought doan earlier every session than it was. As for the Bill of last session, he believed it was something like charity: it covered a multitude of sins. and it was his intention to keenly scrutinise every Bill of that kind that was brought before the House in the future. It was, perhaps, a good thing for the country that last year's Bill was not allowed to pass into law. From some dis- closures that had since come to light, he re- garded it as a measure that would not bear inspection. With regard to Mr. Old s petition, he wished to say it had received a great deal of attention from the Waste Lands Committee on more than one occasion, and he thought if the applicant would only meet the Minister of Lands in a fair way, and endeavour to arrive at a reasonable compromise and not open his mouth too wide, the matter would cease to trouble the Committee or the House. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) said he had been brought to his feet by the remarks of the honourable member for Napier. The honour- able gentlemen had suggested that the " Wash- ing-up Bill " of last session should be again introduced this session. Well, if it was intro- duced, he (Mr. Millar) intended to give it very close attention, because under the measure of last year an attempt was made to over-ride the statute law of the colony. He referred to a Bill that had this year been brought up as 