the question, but I do not think the colony | would be the loser by employing experienced miners in the development of our mineral wealth ; and we could establish a New Zealand mint and coin our own sovereigns, because all the money which would have to be expended in producing gold would have to go in the neces- saries of life, all of which can be produced in the colony; and there is no better internal market for settlers' produce than a prosperous goldfield. Therefore to keep on perpetuating the system of going on the English money- market to borrow money and paying interest is, I think, a mistake, particularly when we have in the bowels of the earth here more gold than England, Scotland, and Ireland has. If there was that great wealth to be developed in those countries it would soon be unlocked by the strong arm of the working-man ; and in this country, particularly with a Government which is a labour Government, something should be done to produce gold, and no better avenue for labour could be created for those miners who are out of work than to put them on to extract gold from reefs that would be payable, in the richest known gold-mines, which are being abandoned for want of capital. Let us turn our Geological Department into practical ac- count, and let them go to work and thoroughly test some of these partially developed mines, and point out the best method of treating certain reefs, like as in the case of the Waihi Mine. I believe that for a long time the reefs in that mine were unpayable by the ordinary https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 process, and the mine was open for sale for $60. A young man named Russell experi- mented with it, and proved that by adopting a different treatment the ore would pay-just as the Geological Department should experi- ment upon other reefs, and find out, as he found out, the right way to treat the quartz- and the result is that that mine has turned out over a million and a half pounds' worth of gold in the last ten years. I mention that as an instance that we should apply our Geological Department to promote goldfield success ; and we should make the best use of the unemployed working-men within the colony, and produce more wealth than we do at the present time. I do not think there is any necessity to go to the English money-market for these loans. There are millions on deposit in the savings- banks and other institutions in the colony, and I do not think it is impossible to arrange that all future money for the Government should be raised in some shape or form in the colony, and so keep the interest in the colony instead of allowing this enormous stream of money to be sent out of the country every year. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) .- Sir, I do not think it would be for the good of the colony to raise this money within our own borders. I take it that the intention of the original Act was to introduce cheap money into New Zealand, and if the effect of the Govern- ment going to the Home market and raising money there has been to reduce the rate of interest, then it seems to me it would be absolute folly for the Government now to at- tempt to raise a two-million loan in the colony. The inevitable result would be that those who had to borrow money privately, outside the Government institutions, would have to pay a higher rate of interest for it. If the money is to be borrowed, the Government will take the right step by raising it at the lowest possible rate on the London market, and leaving avail- able the money in the colony to supply all needs outside the Government Advances to Settlers Office. Now, the honourable member for Auck- land City (Mr. Witheford), referred to the ad- visability of the Government going in for quartz- mining and gold-producing. Well, Sir, in one district in this colony I would like to tell the honourable gentleman that there is gold pro- duced at a cost of $5 per ounce, and it is only worth £3 14s. The honourable gentleman mentioned the Waihi Mine ; will he mention any other that has had a like career ? The Hartley and Riley Dredging Company of New Zealand has been phenomenal in its return ; but I say it is pure chance as to whether you strike good quartz or whether you get on to a good lead for dredging purposes. And for the honourable gentleman to suggest that the Go- vernment of New Zealand should go into quartz-mining, and take the risk of finding a rich deposit, it would be the maddest thing the Government had done for some considerable time. Now, Sir, so far as this Bill is con- cerned, it is in continuation of the principle laid down by the original Act ; and it appears to me that the only question for the House to consider is whether at the present juncture we require to raise an extra two millions or not. About #620,000 is available for this current year, and that plus the repayments that will come in will probably bring the amount up to £800,000. Now, if the regular advance goes on this year as it has done in the past, probably between $500,000 and ±600,000 of that amount will be taken up, and the result will be, if this sum of money is not raised this year, that the department will have to get its authority next year. Before the amount is raised several loans will have lapsed; and the consequence will be that the department will be embarrassed so far as its future operations are concerned. I confess that when this system was first brought down I had grave doubts as to whether the department would be such as to make the scheme prove successful. The scheme itself has proved successful, and it will be bad policy on the part of this House to embarrass the department by refusing to allow it to raise a certain amount of money. Sup- posing the amount of the loan is reduced, as suggested, by a million, that would give- if the Government raised that million, with the amount now available and the repayments that will come in-an average of $600,000 or $700,000 for three years; and I think that ought to be quite sufficient to satisfy the de- partment that the House is willing to treat it generously and to enable it to carry on its business operations. I do not know that it is necessary to go into the whole question of the Government Advances to Settlers Department. 