to the examinations to be held after the passing of the Act and for the coming year. Any rea- sonable suggestions made in Committee which will improve the Bill and make it a more useful measure I shall be only too pleased to consider. 1 beg to move the second reading. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - Will the 8.0. Minister explain what he proposes to do in regard to the point I raised as to allowing nurses who have not been in hospitals, but who are qualified, presenting themselves for examina- tion, so as to obtain certificates and registra- tion ? Mr. HALL-JONES .- That is a large ques- tion, because one might pass the necessary examination and not have had any experience. If they could show experience, and also pass the examination, that would solve the question of private nurses as well as that of nurses in private hospitals. Bill read a second time. PROMISSORY OATHS BILL. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice). - Sir, this is a very short Bill, and a few words will enable me to show the reason for its being introduced. The object of this Bill is to remedy a defect which has been found to exist. As honourable gentlemen know, there is a large number of gentlemen in country places occupy- ing the position of Justice of the Peace. The Commissions are regazetted with additions and alterations every two or three years, and this Bill is to provide that it shall not be necessary https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 that these gentlemen should be resworn - that, having taken the oath once, it shall not be necessary to have to go a good many miles to a Stipendiary Magistrate to do so again. Clause 2 enables us to get over that particular difficulty. Mr. MASSEY .- Is it necessary now ? Mr. McGOWAN .-- It is considered necessary now. There has been a difference of opinion about that very subject, but the Government has been advised that it is necessary. Some of the highest legal authorities have considered it necessary, while I believe some other authori- ties do not consider it so necessary. However, I believe it is much better to set the matter at rest by having the position properly defined in the statute law of the colony, so as to obviate any difficulty or trouble. There are in the colony, I suppose, some 2,600 Justices of the Peace, and it is a very serious matter to re- swear all those gentlemen, as well as those who are ex-officio Justices of the Peace, such as Mayors of cities and boroughs, and so on. We find it would be necessary for them to be re- sworn ; and when they have filled the position for a certain term I think it is unnecessary that they should be put to the trouble of being re- sworn, once having taken the cath. There is another difficulty-that is, under "The Justices of the Peace Act, 1882," a Justice cannot act unless he has taken the prescribed oaths, and it might lead to a good deal of trouble if, on the issue of a new Commission, no one whose name appeared thereon could legally act Mr. Hall-Jones might lead to some very serious conscanences ; and, in order to put the question beyond doubt, I think it will be wise to pass this Bill. Mom- bers will see that in clause 3 we are simply bringing into law what has hitherto beon the practice. It will be remembered that at the opening of the present session members were resworn, although some were of opinion that it was not necessary. Now, this simply makes what has hitherto been the practice the law : and the proviso says it shall not be necessary to call a special meeting of Parliament on the demise of the Crown. I think the Bill is ex- cecdingly simple, and, as it is asserted to be necessary, I move the second reading. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .-- The Minis- ter nas given very good reasons for the introduc- tion of this Bill. It is quite conceivable, no doubt, that it is the advice of the honourable gentleman's legal advisers that the gentlemen holding Commissions of the Peace require to be resworn when a fresh Commission is issued. Apparently he is right, thon, in bringing in this Bill, but I hope a fresh clause will be added by which all the acts of these Justices who have not been sworn when they ought to have been sworn should be validated. Because if the Minister is advised that they ought to have been sworn before they can act-and we all know that a fresh Commission was issued lately on account of the demise of the Crown-it follows if they ought to have been resworn and they have not been resworn, and it is necessary to bring in an Act to rectify the omission, that there will have to be a clause put in validating all the acts of those Justices of the Peace who have not been sworn. I only call attention to this, because probably the very fact of this Bill being passed will create doubts in people's minds, and may give rise to legal actions as to the validity of the acts of these Justices. I hope the Minister will take the advice of the Law Officers on the matter, and see whether a validation clause is not necessary. I think, if you admit the principle that they ought to have been resworn, by bringing in a Bill, it will be quite arguable that they were never properly Justices of the Peace, and all acts done by them are illegal. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton). - Sir, I think the point raised by the honourable mem- ber for the Bay of Plenty is a very important one; but there is one other matter I wish to comment upon, and that is as to the constitu- tion of the Commission of the Peace itself. I cannot help thinking that the preparation from time to time of the Commission of the Peace lists must be done in a most slipshod manner. I noticed it was stated in the Wanganui papers at the time the last Commission was issued that a number of persons who had been dead for years were reappointed to the Commission of the Peace. The same thing happened in the Province of Canterbury. A number of persons in that part of the colony who were appointed had been dead for a number of years when the last appointments were made. It does seem a surprising thing that when a Commission is 