given. We ought to have the track completed | land has been a terra incognita to southern right through the Waimarino Forest, on the southern side of the Wanganui River, before the termination of next summer. That, I trust, will be done. I do not anticipate that there will be any difficulty this session in placing on the list of authorised railways the Whanga- momona-Kawakawa Railway, as it is the Strat- ford route connecting Taranaki with Auckland. I trust that the work of constructing this line from the Stratford end towards Whanga- momona will be expedited, because it is a most important arterial line. An immense terri- tory of a fertile character will be opened up by it : the opening of that railway and the roads to feed it will practically add another province to New Zealand. The land - for - settlements policy has made vigorous progress during the year ; but I note with some surprise and with mixed feelings that, though 70,833 acres were purchased during the year, at a total cost of $350,193, not a single acre was purchased in the Province of Auckland. It is true that during the previous year the Government had purchased estates there, and I am not disposed to censure them now, as the work of settlement in other provinces was very urgent. I would, however, again direct attention to the enormous properties that the Assets Board hold in the Waikato, which ought to be resumed as speedily as possible and settled. Sir, in this connection I learnt a most astonishing thing https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1. 32106019788246 within the last few days-that this Assets Board, so far from wishing to divest itself of its functions and to commit "the happy despatch " as early as possible, is actually negotiating for http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero renewals of leases of lands from the Natives for forty-two years at Whakatane, on the East Coast. Do the members of that Board suppose that they are going to be allowed to exist for another forty-two years- that the country will for long tolerate such a scandal as the con- tinued existence of that Board ? I trust, Sir, they will be stopped. Some of the settlers have written indignantly to me that their efforts to get leases from the Natives there are hampered by this Board, which is endea- vouring to get renewals of the existing leases, which are about to expire. Sir, the settle- ment of the Assets Board estates in the Wai- kato will not interfere with the settlement of the King-country. Married men with large families could not go out into the wilderness to act as pioneers ; let that be done by young men. But lands nearer schools, roads, and rail- ways ought to be settled by married men with families. and numbers of these are ready to take them up if the lands are cut up into small farms. There are also large areas in North Auckland which could be settled for growing not only ordinary farm produce, but a large number of sub - tropical products. Canning - factories for fruit and schools for the teaching of sub- tropical agriculture are essential for the de- velopment of that part of the country. I trust also that the Northern Railway, for the com- pletion of which scores of petitions have been presented to the House this session, will not be neglected. The northernmost part of New Zea- members, but it is a valuable province in area and in the extent of its fertile valleys. The Minister of Lands during the year has done good work in visiting the North and making a detailed inspection of the various districts, and I was pleased to notice the great interest that he took in the struggling settlers of the North, and I feel satisfied from the knowledge he has gained that good work will result to the colony in future years. Sir, the honourable gentleman, in his concluding remarks, referred to the Government as harassing every industry. The sentence was somewhat similar to that with which Lord Beaconsfield once went to the country. The concluding sentence of Lord Beaconsfield's letter to the Duke of Marl- borough, I think, was almost in the exact words used by the honourable member to-night. Captain RUSSELL .- He won the election, too. Mr. NAPIER .- Why, Sir, the election of 1880 is a red-letter day in the history of Liberalism in Great Britain. The Liberals established the Eighty Club to commemorate the victory, when they secured a majority of 130. The honourable gentleman termed the Government socialists. Well, I will give him the opinion of a pronounced Tory. a gentle- man who was allied with an ancient and noble family, a man of science, a man who had little sympathy with the Liberal party in the Old Country, but for whose opinions and scientific writings I have the greatest respect. I refer to Professor Huxley. This is what he says, and I think it will be a reply to remarks in the strain to which I have referred. He says,- " I am unable to see that civil society is any- thing but a corporation established for a moral object-namely, the good of its members-and therefore that it may take such measures as seem fitting for the attainment of that which the general voice decides to be for the general good." Now, Sir, the honourable gentleman, with his extreme individualism, which, as Carlyle tells us, is simply "Anarchy plus a policeman." would have us abandon all the policy for the general good that has been introduced during the last ten years and run the country on the lines of a joint-stock company, and make the largest dividends possible out of the public ser- vices in order to relieve the large landholders from taxation. Sir, I desire to make one or two remarks with regard to the Justice Depart- ment. The Justice Department is carefully and capably administered at present by the Hon. the Minister in charge of the depart- ment ; but he is, of course, not an expert, and what I regret to say is, that in the successive Liberal Administrations since 1890 there has been a lack of initiative in the Justice Depart- ment. Our laws-that is to say, referring more particularly to procedure and to other branches of the law-are not as advanced as they ought to be. Our Courts -- the doors of our Courts are not as widely open as they should be. According to Magna Charta, justice should be speedy, and 