the position you will find many of the small boroughs in. Sir, the honourable member for Geraldine suggested a short time ago that the second reading of this Bill should be carried, and then a clause should be inserted giving power within a certain time to vote against it. Why, the people now have the power to vote the other way, and why should we pass this Bill and put a clause in giving the people power to vote against it ? Leave the people as they are, and they themselves will decide whether they want the Bill or not. Then, if you bring this Bill into force, how is it going to affect the outlying districts where new settlement is going on? I venture to say, if you pass this Bill making it compulsory all over the colony, every Crown tenant who has gone on the land during the past ten years, and who may go on the land under our present system during the next ten years, will pay at least three times the taxation they are paying at the present time. The old-established settlers who have farms highly improved will be relieved to a large extent from their taxation, and every penny you take off the old-established settlers must go on to the new settlers. I say that nothing more damaging to the new settlers of this colony could be done than was proposed in this Bill. I feel certain that if honourable members will look at the matter seriously they will hesitate before bring- ing such a Bill into operation. I cannot myself understand how the Premier has been led to in- troduce it, and I feel sure that if he had given the matter careful and due consideration he would never have brought the Bill in, seeing that the people themselves have the power to introduce the system in their own districts already. So far as I am concerned, I must vote against the second reading, although I have no objection whatever to the rating on unimproved value. Before we pass a Bill like this, however, we must reorganize the whole of the Valuation Department-we must provide the machinery for proper valuations and define what is the unimproved value of farming pro- perty. Take, for instance, a bush farm. A man fells the bush, grubs and grasses the land, and lives, perhaps, for ten or twelve years upon it. As soon as he thinks the stumps are rotten ho commences building and clearing and putting the land down in grass. I know several in- stances myself where the unimproved values of farms which have been grubbed and ploughed is higher than on the farms where the stumps are still standing. It happens in this way : The valuer, who in nine cases out of ten knows nothing whatever about the cost of farming, comes along and sees a farm with paddocks beautifully grassed and fenced, and the farm, he knows, would, if placed on the market, probably sell at so-many pounds per acre. He allows so much for grassing and fencing, and the balance he calls the unimproved value. Therefore the more a farmer improves his land the more he is taxed. An Hon. MEMBER. - Under the present system. volcanic land which are covered with stones. It is quite a common thing for persons in the Province of Auckland, on a small area near a township, to spend $100 an acre in clearing stony land. The land is little better than a quarry, but year after year they carry the stones off it, and perhaps after half a lifetime they are able to put in a plough. A few years later on a valuer comes in, who knows nothing of the cost of clearing, and he values the grass and the stone walls and fences, and puts down the remaining value as unimproved value. That is the system that is going on throughout the colony. And hitherto I find the farmers -- especially the small farmers-have not troubled themselves in the least about how the valuer allocates the unimproved value and the capital value, for the reason that so long as the unimproved value does not exceed $500 he does not care. But if this Bill is passed, and the whole taxes levied on unimproved value, I venture to say we shall hear a howl amongst the farmers from one end of the colony to the other. Unless the Government are prepared to remodel the whole Valuation Department it will not be wise to pass such a measure as this, and I feel sure, after the Premier has heard the opinions of honourable members, he will see it is in the best interests of the Government and of the colony not to force such a Bill on the ratepayers, but to allow them to bring the Bill in operation if they desire. If they do so they must take the full responsibility. Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui) .- For many years I have held the opinion that rating should be on unimproved value. The time I had the honour of speaking on this measure I urged it very strongly indeed, and I believe I was one of the first in advocating it on the floor of the House something like nine years ago. At that time Government taxation on the unimproved value had only just come into operation in regard to the land-tax. I have never altered my opinion since that time. I am not a single- taxer ; 1 do not go to extremes as many do ; but I think, looking at it from every point of view, rating on the unimproved value is the best and fairest system that can possibly be adopted. Instances have been given of individual hard- ships, and I have no doubt that the institution of every change will show cases of unfairness. But when any system is first introduced you can always pick out cases that can be brought forward on either side to suit different speakers. I instanced then-and it was a strong point, I think-the case of a man with thirty acres of land. He went to large expense ; ploughed, and fenced, and laid out a valuable orchard. As year after year went on, however, he received no return, but his taxation increased as his improvements increased, and it was five or six years before he got any return whatever for the money he spent. This I con- sider a very hard case. But under the system of rating on unimproved values such a case would not occur. What I attach more import- ance to than anything else is that it will do 