Well, Sir, I began then to appreciate at its proper value what was stated in the newspapers. Quite lately they have prophesied again-at least, they have made exactly similar statements lately and prophesied great disaster in the future. I can only say that any political can- didate can have the Press of the colony so long as I have the people ; and I think I may say that the majority of the newspapers do not represent the political views, at all events, of the mass of the people. I imagine that honourable mem bers are probably quite tired of hearing the personal experiences of various members with their newspapers ; and, seriously speaking, I think the best thing would be for the Govern- ment to take the whole question of libel into their consideration and formulate some legisla- tion on the matter. As it seems to have been lately decided that the law of criminal libel is not in force in this colony, it is necessary that the Government should do something in this matter. Probably the best thing would be to have a Bill on the subject of libel prepared, and deal with the whole question. I shall, however, vote for the second reading of the honourable gentleman's Bill, as being a Bill that is necessary, though no doubt incomplete. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City). - Sir, the honourable member for Waihemo is one of those driettante politicians who enjoy what is called a newspaper - made reputation. Once upon a time there was another politician in this House of the same type -Mr. Scobie Mac- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 kenzie-who also enjoyed a newspaper - made reputation. Mr. Scobie Mackenzie was a singu- lar compound. He was always a "coming" Minister of the Crown, with a newspaper-made reputation. He was always "coming," and would have been "coming" still if he had been here to-day on the strength of his news- paper-made reputation ; but he never became a Minister of the Crown, to the great disappoint- ment of the newspaper gentlemen who assisted in the making of the newspaper-made reputa- tion. So he became soured with politics, and politics became soured with him. Now, why did Mr. Scobie Mackenzie not become a Minis ter of the Crown ? He deluged this House year after year with his flippant persiflage. He was the most pawky and painful wit that ever ad- dressed this House, skilful in the use of seur- rilous and abusive language, and the scurrilous language used by Mr. Scobie Mackenzie, strange to say, was always allowed to pass muster, whereas the same language used by any other person was invariably objected to as being un- parliamentary. I have frequently remarked upon this in this House. I have heard this gentleman with his newspaper-made reputation use language with regard to gentlemen sitting on the Government benches which would dis- grace any public assemblage in this or any other country. Next we had another curled darling of the Press in the person of the member for Waihemo. When the member for Waihemo arrived from London in one of those bran-new stylish London tailor-made suits, we were as- sured by the Press that it was necessary imme- to be placed on the electoral roll with a view to his election to the House, so that he might place before the people of this country a statement of the iniquities that were perpetrated in the Lon- don market in regard to the sale of New Zea- land produce. In fact, it was hinted in the most confident and confidential way that if Mr. Thomas Mackenzie did not get into Parliament the heavens would probably fall. New Zealand produce would come down with a run ; the whole business would tumble about our ears. Still, we did not pass that amendment of the Electoral Act, and still the country went pro- sperously on. The sun rose every morning as usual ; the stars shone at night ; the tides ebbed and flowed ; the rivers ran to the sea ; and the world revolved on its own axis. And so it was with Mr. Scobie Mackenzie - that eminent gentleman -- that great litterateur-who dabbled in the belles lettres. He wished to come back to this Parliament : and why is he not here now ? He once prophesied, at the end of the last Parliament, and before the last general election. He said to a friend of my own that he was going back to his electorate to seek re-election. He said his seat was a certainty ; but he said to my friend, " I am sorry for poor Fisher, his chance is gone, he has no hope, ho is politically dead." Then came the result of the election. Fisher, the hopeless, is elected, and Scobie, the confident, is rejected! The man of newspaper-made reputation is left out as a dreary " has been." He is , on est. And the newspapers weep. They deplore the fas- tidious taste of the electors in electing Fisher and rejecting Scobie. But then the honourable member for Waihemo and those who vote and think as he votes, and thinks -- Mr. LAWRY .- He does not think. Mr. FISHER .- He thinks and votes in sup- port of the newspapers, who, in turn, so much support him. In that respect he is not singular. One goed turn deserves another. His whole political career reminds me of a famous epitaph -- " He spent his life in going to the rescue of the strongest." And so it is with the news- papers. Certainly it is true of the two news- papers published in Wellington. They spend their lives "in going to the rescue of the strongest." They proceed upon the plan of a noted satirist who well understood the principle upon which a certain class of newspapers is conducted. Phil Fudge, in his celebrated letter to his brother, says :- ### God knows I love, to ev'n excess, The sacred freedom of the Press ; My only aim's-to crush the writers. What is the true art of journalism ?- to crush the writers. Write to order. That is the art. You will find that to be the case in the conduct of most of the newspapers of this country. Especially is it the case in regard to the two newspapers in this town. They are subject to monetary and social influence, and any person who has not wealth behind him, any person <!-- PageNumber="=" --> who has not strong social relationships in this city, finds no space in the newspapers. I would 