3.0. matter, and whose duty it was to de- vote the necessary time to do so, and who was paid for it, was the Stipendiary Magis- trate ; and if honourable members, with that explanation before them, wanted to continue to have the Registrars, many of whom, as he had said, were in receipt of £5 a year, to do this class of work, which they never expected to have to do, then the Government would require to make independent provision for the Regis- trars throughout the length and breadth of the colony. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about the exemp- tion of parents who have conscientious ob- jections ? Sir J. G. WARD said that according to the Act an application for exemption had to be "supported by a statutory declaration, and by such other evidence as the Magistrate or Regis- trar in each case thinks reasonable, and no fee shall be payable in respect of either the applica- tion or the certificate." If the Registrar or the Magistrate were not satisfied, supposing a case of small-pox was reported in a particular dis- trict, it was then their duty to take other evi- dence in that particular district to ascertain the wishes of the people who desired to be exempt from vaccination. An Hon. MEMBER .-- That is the duty of the Health Department. Sir J. G. WARD said no doubt it was; but the law as it now stood imposed duties on the Registrars, and it would mean the appoint- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 ment of persons for this purpose all over the country. He admitted the force of the objec- tions that were raised, and he would be glad to know of any better way of doing it. If it was the wish of the House to have a Conference on the subject with the other Chamber, in order to suggest that other persons should be set up and paid for this duty, well and good. He thought, himself, that to impose the duty on the Regis- trars, as at present paid, was not fair or practi- cable. Mr. R. THOMPSON said the Stipendiary Magistrates were not accessible in many places. Sir J. G. WARD said the declaration might be made, and sent to a Magistrate. It might be . and he ventured to suggest to the honourable made. and sent on to a Magistrate; and then, if he required evidence, it could be brought before ! in New Zealand who had to deal with so many him. An Hon. MEMBER .- And possibly they might have to travel a hundred miles. Sir J. G. WARD said, if small-pox were re- ported in a district a hundred miles away it : had to administer the old-age pensions, he was would be the duty of the Magistrate to find out whether it was desirable to have evidence taken, and whether it was desirable to allow any i he (Mr. Fraser) came from the Magistrate had exemptions during the time of a visitation of small-pox. Mr. FOWLDS said it was so rarely these emergencies arose that the Magistrates might . attend to the matter without any trouble. Sir J. G. WARD said, personally he had no feeling in the matter. He would like to ex- plain, regarding clause 2, which had been re- ferred to by the honourable member for Frank- lin - that was the clause giving power to prohibit ! tions of this kind, surely it was not too great Sir J. G. Ward fectious diseases -- that at present, if the Health Department should have it reported to them that there was likely to be any infectious disease brought into the colony in any particular class of goods that was being imported, they had to go to the Customs Department and get that department to put into operation the power they had to prevent the landing of such goods, and, if necessary, to see to the destruction of them. As a matter of departmental conveni- ence, it was desirable that this power should be under the control of, and be administered by, the Public Health Department. There was no change in the power itself ; the clause in the Bill was simply for the purpose of enabling this power to be exercised by the Health De- partment. However, upon this matter of the Registrar he was quite prepared to take the feeling of the House. If members thought it was desirable to continue the Registrars, and wished to have a Conference set up in order to meet the gentlemen from another place, he had no objection. He simply put before them what the position was, and if they considered that public convenience would be better consulted in the way he had indicated. he was quite pre- pared to agree to it. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) said the only exception he would take to the alterations was with regard to the prohibition of the im- portation of goods which in the opinion of the Governor in Council were likely to introduce infectious diseases. He thought there was a tendency to place too much power in the hands 1 of the Governor in Council. He was inclined to think that, instead of leaving the power en- tirely in the hands of the Governor in Council, the local bodies ought to have some power in the matter. He thought it was unduly limit- ing the measure of local control to leave it entirely to the Wellington people to decide whether in Auckland there were infectious goods that should not be landed there. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) said the Minister in charge of the Bill seemed to wish to put on the shoulders of the Magistrates a | great deal more work than they had at present, gentleman that there was no Government officer responsible duties as the Magistrates of the towns and country districts. The Magistrate had not only to deal with all civil and criminal matters coming under his jurisdiction, but he Chairman of the Licensing Bench, and he was the local Coroner. He knew that in the district to travel many hundreds of miles. It was the same on the East Coast, in the Hon. Mr. Car- roll's district. The Minister had pointed out, as an objection to leaving these duties to the Registrars of Births, Deaths, and Marriages, that they were not over well paid, and that therefore it was too much to ask them to undertake the extra duty. Well, if a Registrar at $5 a year were capable of investigating ques- 