other steamers as well, and no tenders were | called for the conveyance of the mails. If that is not a bribe in view of the election that was coming off, then I do not know what a bribe is. And then. Sir, I was interested in the remark the honourable member made that wool is not a staple industry. I am sure the honour- able gentleman has not been looking at the statistics of the colony ; or if he has, he has not been using his legal acumen and the ability which a lawyer generally uses- Mr. NAPIER .- I said "not the chief staple industry." Mr. J. ALLEN .- The honourable member said, no longer a staple industry. Then he ! went on to say that shortly butter and meat ! have been taken out of the revenue, as they are would be the staple industry. I thought of meat, and I realised that meat meant to a very large extent "sheep." I wondered what became of the wool on the back of these sheep, and I realised that the honourable gentleman was actually only playing with language. And then, Sir, he introduced to us the new doctrine of the American railways. The American rail- ways, so he says, according to the very latest authorities - which are the books out of the library -are not to be run in the interests of the pockets of those who own them, but in the interests of the community generally. And I thought of all these railway kings, and I wondered how they got their pockets so lined with millions in the interests of the com- munity. And shortly afterwards the honour- able gentleman answered the statement him- self, when he quoted Jay Gould. When Jay Gould was asked if he would run these rail- ways in the interests of the community Jay Gould answered, " What, run the railways in the interests of the people? I have contempt for the people, and respect only the lining of my own pocket "; or words to that effect, and I think that is the very principle on which the American railways are run. I do not say it is a principle which we ought to encourage in New Zealand. I believe the railways belong- ing to the State should be run in the interests of the State, and of those who live here. And then, Sir, the honourable gentleman had a few words to say about the surplus. Well, of course, I think here, too, he did not use that care which he ought to have used. He quoted the surplus as given in the Financial Statement, and I presume he is acquainted with the manner of keeping books ; and, if he is, one would have expected him to put before the House a fair statement of what the surplus really was. Does the honourable gentleman include the liabilities, or the excess of liabilities, of this year over the last, or has he left them out altogether? He is a lawyer and book-keeper, and he knows perfectly well that the balance of liabilities now remaining over last year's liability ought to have been taken off the surplus, and he did not do it. He says the honourable member for Hawke's Bay misquotes ; but the honour- able member himself misquoted the surplus, and also the quotation made by the honour- able member for Hawke's Bay. Sir, the surplus is not what the honourable member represents Mr. J. Allen it to be, not by an ordinary means of <!-- PageHeader="i" --> 10.0. book-keeping ; and he should have taken off that surplus the sum of $70,000, the excess of liabilities of this year over last year, in order to have made a fair approximation of the sur- plus. He ought to have told the colony too- it ought to be told, time and time again-that on the revenue side of our accounts we include. and have included year after year-wrongfuliy. I say-our capital. We have been getting rid of our lands for cash and for deferred payment. and have been raising loans to pay the sinking fund, and all the moneys have gone to the revenue side of the account, and in any honest system of book-keeping those things ought to simply loan-moneys or capital that is gradually dwindling away. The honourable gentleman also says the land-values have gone up. We know they have. Times have been fairly good for the last few years. But why have the values gone up to the extent we see? The honourable gentleman knows, because he is interested in the Valuation Department as connected with the Advances to Settlers Department. He is interested as a lawyer. He knows, no doubt, the instructions that were sent round to the land valuers to run up the value of the land in every district where they possibly could to the highest point. The valuers carried out the instructions, and there is no doubt that was mainly the reason why values of land have gone up as much as they have. It is an easy matter to simply add a hundred or two to the valuation of any property in your books. That, however, is not a fair way to estimate the increase of the value of the land. Then, the honourable gentleman had a few words to say about the Cook Islands and, I think, Rarotonga, and he was objecting to the fact that Customs duties were charged on New Zealand imports into these islands that have lately been annexed to New Zealand. Customs duties are, I believe, charged-some- where about 10 per cent. against New Zealand. whilst the Australian Colonies have to pay the ordinary Customs duties. But, Sir. I had hoped, when he was touching on the Cook Islands and New Zealand, he would have given us his opinion about New Zealand's manage- It is interesting to ment of these groups. notice, for instance, in this evening's paper that in Rarotonga the Government officials have embezzled $800 or $900 of the money, one of them being the nephew of the gentleman who is in charge at Rarotonga, and this gentle- man has had to pay $500 out of his own pocke: to clear the man, who is reported to have been drunk and to have cleared out with the money. That is a curious instance of how New Zealand is managing these islands. Mr. HALL-JONES .- That was before the annexation. Mr. J. ALLEN .- The honourable gentleman is quite wrong. This was done quite recent ... Then, Sir, the honourable gentleman went or to speak about the settlement of the land. Hr says that great progress was made during the year. Perhaps great progress has been made 