honourable gentlemen. An Hon. MEMBER .- This Bill does not deal with that at all. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- I beg pardon, what does clause 8 mean ? Does it not deal with the applications, and balloting for land ? The whole of the subclauses also deal with the mode of procedure when there are more than one applicant for allotments suitable for farm- ing purposes. Let the honourable member read carefully clause 8, and particularly sub- clause (5). An Hon. MEMBER .- This deals with land for settlements. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- I can draw the distinction between the two as well as the honour- able member. It appears to me that too much power is given to the Board under subsection (4) of clause 8: "The Board shall make in- quiry, as provided by the principal Act, as to each applicant's bona fides and suitability." The Hon. Mr. Kelly has stated that the Land Board would make inquiries as to whether an applicant had land or not. If the person who put in the application was found by the Board to have land, they probably would give it to the landless applicant. Now, that seems all very well, and very nice; but I ask my honourable friend, who is a farmer, how many instances could he relate of the failure of many who were put on the various settlements, and who were totally unacquainted with the working of land, or the care that should be given to stock. My contention is that it is better to let those people get the land who can utilise it and work it to the best advantage, than to give it to people who will make failures in their attempts at settlement. I know of a great number of instances of failure, which re- sulted from putting people on land who were ignorant of agricultural work. The amend- ments in the Bill are in the direction of making the land for settlements policy that has been adopted by Parliament more effective, and to tend more to bona fide settlement than hereto- fore, and therefore I approve of them. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- Sir, the Bill was only circulated just when I sat down here, and consequently I have not studied it very closely, nor have I been able to compare it with the principal Act ; but there is one thing I wish to say, and it is this : that I think the discussion this afternoon is extremely satisfactory. After all that has been said about this question of land for settlements, all the objections are narrowed down to one small one now, and that is, whether the schedule of the land taken by compulsion shall be submitted to Parlia- ment, or whether the land shall continue to be taken under the present system. Now, I think that, after all has been said concerning land-settlement, it is extremely satisfactory that the question is now narrowed down to that one point ; and, for my part, I think that this objection might as well be thrown overboard with the rest, so that we should all accept unanimously the fact that this land-for- settlements scheme is proving extremely bene- Hon. Mr. Jennings the system of submitting to Parliament a sche- dule of the lands to be taken, what would be the result ? Honourable gentlemen have heard that too many cooks spoil the broth, and that is exactly what would happen if you had these schedules submitted year after year to Parliament. It would be a sort of referendum with which you would never do any good at all, and never get any land for settlements at all. It is not necessary to discuss the compulsory phase of the question now, for even the Hon. Mr. Bowen admits that it is correct ; conse- quently it is not necessary to point out why it was expedient to adopt it. I will simply say, before the compulsory clauses were put in the Land Act land could not be bought for these settlement purposes. The Minister found that there must be a compulsory power placed in his hands. And here now the honourable gentle- man makes a great virtue of the fact that very few estates have been taken by compulsion. But what does it mean ? It means this : that this power which the Minister has had has been used very sparingly and with the greatest caution. That is the meaning of it. And seeing this, where is the reason for being afraid ? This taking by compulsion is only an administrative act; and is every administra- tive act to be first submitted to Parliament before the Minister can act ? I do not like to use any harsh words by which to characterize such a suggestion. Some honourable gentle- man said that the present Minister is to be trusted because he is honest. That is not the question at all. You should not consider the honesty or dishonesty of a Minister. That is not the question. Although you have an honest Minister to-day, such a thing as a dishonest Minister may crop up to-morrow. Consequently, we must not rely on the honesty of Ministers individually or collectively. What we want to know is: Are our laws such that dishonest men cannot do dishonest things ? Is our law honest ? I say our law is honest, and I say our law is such that it is impossible for any Minister, no matter how dishonest he may be, to do a dishonest thing under the Land for Settlements law. In the first place, when the negotiations come on, there is the Land Purchase Board. If they fail in their negotiations, then the case comes publicly before the Court, and then it is handed over for administrative purposes to the Waste Lands Board. Then it is disposed of by means of the ballot, and, under the circumstances, how can a Minister or any man living use a system like that for favouritism ? It is impossible. The law has been made so that every man must be honest under it, and consequently there is no necessity at all to raise this question of sub- mitting the schedules of lands to be purchased to Parliament. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN. - It is not the question of valuation ; this is the question of the necessity of taking. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- The very idea I have dealt with. It is not necessary to go over the same ground again. As I said before, 