clusion, I would like to ask what would be the | position of the Government under such a refer- endum as this : Supposing one of their policy measures -- one which they regarded as of very great importance-supposing that was intro- duced by them, say, in the House of Represen- tatives and passed by that House, and then rejected twice by the Legislative Council, and was referred to the electors under this Bill, and the electors rejected it. What is to be the position of the Government then ? Are they going to accept it as a vote of want of confidence and resign ? Because it appears to me that is what ought to be done ; and that is the position the Government would possibly land themselves in by appealing from a well- informed tribunal on a matter to a misinformed or uninformed tribunal such as the electors might be. The only other matter I wish to refer to is this : The Minister of Education yesterday spoke of a similar provision to this existing under the Commonwealth Act. I think the honourable gentleman overlooked clause 57 of the Commonwealth Act. That is the clause which refers to disagreements between the Houses, in precisely a similar way in which dis- agreements are referred to under this Bill ; but the course provided for there is this : that the Governor-General under that section dissolves both Houses, and then, after a general election, if the deadlock continues, the matter is dis- posed of by both Houses sitting together, and a majority of both then rules. Of course, there https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 is not a strict analogy between the two cases, because under the Commonwealth Act both Houses are elected. The referendum in that Act, to which the honourable gentleman referred, has reference only to amendments of the Constitution, and in order to secure that there must be a majority of the electors in a majority of the States, and those majorities must constitute a majority of the whole of the electors voting; therefore the analogy would not be complete until those con ditions were fulfilled under this Bill, by provid- ing that there should be upon a referendum a majority of electors in a majority of the con- stituencies in this colony, and that such majorities should be a majority of all the electors voting. I have not the slightest doubt as to what the fate of this Bill will be, and I am sure it must be unpleasant to many of those gentlemen who usually support the Government to have to vote against the Minister upon this occasion as we shall have to do. The Hon. Mr. Twomey, in addressing the Council, built up a very in- genious argument as to the result of the referendum in Switzerland. He contended that the result there showed it to be a Conservative measure. It remains to be seen whether there is any special reason why those who are not always in accord with the policy of the Govern- ment should not have spoken on this Bill - whether they regard it as a Conservative mea- sure, or whether they regard it as an injurious piece of legislation. However, I myself feel compelled to vote for the amendment. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND. - When the motion for the adjournment of the debate on this Bill was carried the other afternoon I almost felt regret that the discussion had not come to an end then and there, but, after listening to the words which have fallen from the Hon. Colonel Pitt, I congratulate myself and I congratulate the Council on the Bill not having been disposed of yesterday. Colonel Pitt has put in a very neat and concise form the whole question of the referendum. I think the Minister of Education was hardly justified yesterday in calling upon us to bow to the opinion of the Commonwealth of Australia. It does not necessarily follow that there must be more wisdom in the Commonwealth of Aus- tralia than in the Parliament of New Zealand. I believe that in proportion to size and popula- tion there are just as many educated men and sound thinkers in New Zealand as there are in Australia. Why, then, should we bow down and worship the Commonwealth of Australia because it has been just set up with a great flourish of trumpets? I do not see any reason for that at all. We are perfectly competent, I believe, to manage our own affairs, and to decide, after deliberation, whether the re- ferendum should be introduced here or not. There is one provision in the Constitution of the Commonwealth which I approve of, and which was mentioned by the Hon. Colonel Pitt just now. It is that, in the case of a difference of opinion between the two Houses the matter can be referred to the collective wisdom of Par- liament. I also say, let the two Houses sit together, let them compare opinions, let them listen to each other patiently and with all de- ference, and then let the vote of the majority de- cide whether the Bill in dispute shall be passed or not. This idea was broached years ago, and, in my opinion, it would be the wisest solution of the difficulty. Why it has not already been adopted in New Zealand is to me incompre- hensible, and, old man as I am, I hope I shall not cease to be a member of this House before such a thing comes to pass. The Council divided on the question, "That the Bill be read the second time." AYE, 1. Walker, W. C. NOES, 29. Baillie Kelly, T. Scotland Shrimski Kelly, W. Barnicoat Smith, A. L. Kerr Bolt Louisson Stevens Bowen Feldwick McLean Swanson Taiaroa Montgomery Gourley Pinkerton Twomey Harris Walker, L. Pitt Jenkinson Reeves Williams. Jennings Rigg Johnston PAIR. For. Against. Jones. Arkwright. Majority against, 28. Motion negatived, and amendment agreed to, and Bill ordered to be read this day six months. 