who went to Sydney will also recognise that it was a colonial work. It did not refer to any one department. It was an advantage to the colony to have our men represented in New South Wales, and it was also an advantage to the colony to send them across in the Go- vernment steamer. Hence, I must express surprise that any sane man should have taken up the position that was taken up by the Auditor-General. There was no doubt in the mind of the department as to how the money should be charged ; there appears to have been no doubt in the minds of the Public Accounts Committee as to how the money should be charged ; there was no doubt in the mind of the Solicitor-General as to how the money should be charged : and, when the question comes on for decision in this House I think there will be no doubt in the minds of honourable members. The whole thing was done strictly in accord- ance with law, and with the wishes of honour- able members. The member for Palmerston made reference to the interest on the Bank of New Zealand shares, and to the action of the Public Trustee, and used terms that, I think, all members of the House will regret ; and, if the honourable member for Palmerston does not regret having used the words he did, all I can say is that he should do so. The Public Trustee is an officer who holds a peculiarly responsible position. He is the custodian of the affairs of hundreds of families, and yet the honourable gentleman said that officer came to the Committee determined to back up the Go- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1. 32106019788246 vernment at any price. What did the honour- able gentleman bring forward in support of such a statement? The only remark he made to back up his statement was that he came to the Committee armed with a large number of legal opinions, which supported him in the course he had taken, and which said that this money should be paid into the public funds. If he wanted to prove the position he took up was legal, was sound, and on business lines, why should he not produce to the Public Accounts Committee the legal opinions upon which he had acted ? He had been challenged by no less a person than the Auditor-General, and there are the opinions of his legal adviser, which bear out the action of the Public Trustee with regard to the Bank of New Zealand shares ; and they supported the position taken np by the Ministry, by the Solicitor-General, and now by the Public Accounts Committee, and again I venture to say that that opinion will also be supported by members of the House. Sir, when we hear a member of the House occupying a responsible position - especially responsible when he makes reference to officers of the public service-making statements such as the member for Palmerston has made, I say it is painful, and every member of the House, in his own mind, must regret it extremely. That the Public Trustee took the course any man would have taken was borne out by those who supported him, or who gave evidence, or by the legal opinions. The Solicitor-General, the Public Trustee, the lawyers referred to, and the Public Accounts Committee all say in so Public Trustee was right, and that the course taken by the Auditor-General was wrong. The one was founded on law and common-sense, but for the other there was no reasonable explana- tion. Sir, while he has reflected on the attitude of the Public Trustee, he also made reflections upon the members of the Public Accounts Com. mittee, and I would ask on what grounds those reflections were made? It was said the ma- jority of the members of the Committee were Government supporters. Well, there are mem- bers of this House who are Government sup- porters, and upon that Committee, who would compare in honour and integrity with any men in the colony ; and does the honourable mem- ber think that men of that stamp on this Com- mittee would bring down a report that was not in accordance with their opinion? No, Sir; I am sure they would not do so. If the honour- able member thinks they would he holds a very low estimate of the character of members of this Chamber, and if he holds such an opinion it is an opinion that no one but the honourable member holds. Then, the honourable mem- ber says the Government altered the law, and that they did so in consequence of the Auditor-General having been found to be right and the Solicitor-General to be wrong. Sir, it was a similar statement that he made with reference to the Act of 1878, when he endea- voured to lead this House to believe that the law had been repealed within a short time of its enactment, and when we afterwards heard that that had been the law for twenty years. And so with respect to the alteration of the law ; there is nothing in the honourable gentleman's statement. If it showed anything, it showed there was an earnest desire on the part of tho administrators of the affairs of this colony to remove any doubt there might be with the Auditor-General in reference to the Public Accounts. There have been thirteen tags ap- pended by that officer to the Public Accounts. The honourable member knows all the circum- stances in connection with these tags as well as the Auditor-General himself, and he knows in his own mind how harassing they must be ; but he holds a brief for the Auditor-General, and he feels it to be his duty in this House on every occasion to rise not only in his de- fence, but to place the Auditor- General's views and position before Parliament. The honour- able member for Wakatipu said that in the old days the Auditor-General was su- preme. If he had only consulted the Acts of 1878 and 1892 he would not have made that statement as to the Auditor-General being supreme. There has for nearly thirty years been provision in the law to meet any doubt that might exist between the Government of the day and the Auditor General. It has always been provided that some authority should de- cide as between the two parties, so that the machinery of the State might move along with- out being clogged or hampered. I agree with the member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) in his statement that Parliament should be supreme. And, if these attempts to interfere 