NOES, 4. Jennings Reeves. Barnicoat Jenkinson Majority for, 17. Subsection (1) retained. The Hon. Mr. BOLT moved, That subsec- tion (2) be struck out, namely :- " (2.) Every person who is employed during such extended hours under paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of the last preceding subsection shall be paid therefor at half as much again as the ordinary rate, but the overtime rate shall not be less than one shilling per hour, and shall be paid at the first regular pay-day thereafter." The Committee divided on the question, "That the words proposed to be struck out stand part of the clause." AYES, 11. Scotland Kelly, W. Arkwright Swanson Feldwick Pinkerton Walker, W. C. Reeves Jenkinson Rigg Kelly, T. NOES, 15. Ormond Johnston Barnicoat Shrimski Jones Bolt Smith, A. L. Louisson Gourley McLean Taiaroa Harris Williams. Montgomery Jennings Majority against, 4. Amendment agreed to. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 Clause 25 .- " (1.) The occupier of an office shall at all times keep a record-book, called the ' Extra-time Book,' wherein shall be entered a correct record showing, in the case of each office- assistant who is employed under the last pre- ceding section, the name of the assistant, and the respective dates, periods, and purposes of such employment. "(2.) The extra-time book shall at all times be open to the inspection of the office-assistants and of the Inspector. " (3.) The Inspector may at any time require the occupier to verify the entries in the extra- time book by statutory declaration in such form as may be prescribed by regulations." The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON moved, That subsection (3) be struck out. The Committee divided on the question, " That the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the clause." AYES, 12. Kelly, T. Smith, A. L. Arkwright Louisson Swanson Bolt Harris Tomoana Reeves Walker, W. C. Rigg Jenkinson NOES, 12. Barnicoat Kelly, W. Scotland Montgomery Shrimski Feldwick Ormond Jennings Taiaroa Williams. Pinkerton Jones The CHAIRMAN gave his casting vote with the " Noes." Amendment agreed to. Clause 26 .- "(1.) Every wholesale warehouse shall be closed not later than one of the clock in the afternoon on Saturday, and six of the clock in the afternoon on every other working- day, and shall continue closed for the remainder of the day. " (2.) A wholesale warehouse shall be deemed not to be closed within the meaning of this Act unless it is locked or otherwise effectually closed against the admission of the public. "(3.) In the event of any other day than Saturday being appointed as the closing-day for shops in any district, the occupier of a whole- sale warehouse in such district shall be entitled to close his warehouse on that day in lieu of Saturday : Provided that he lodges with the Inspector during the month of January in each year, or within one month after a wholesale warehouse is first opened for business. as the case may be, a notice of his desire so to do. "(4.) The wages or salary for the half-holiday hereby provided of every person employed in a wholesale warehouse shall be at the same rate as for ordinary working-days, and shall be paid at the first regular pay - day after the half- holiday. " (5.) A person employed in a wholesale ware- house shall not be employed in or about the warehouse or its business after the expiration of half an hour after the hour when by this Act the warehouse is required to be closed for the day. " It shall not be deemed to be a breach of the last preceding subsection if, whilst a wholesale warehouse is by this Act required to be closed. a person is employed therein for the purposes of stock-taking : " Provided that he shall in no case be em- ployed under this subsection for more than three hours in any one day, nor for more than four weeks at each stock-taking, nor unless at least two weeks' previous written notice of the date of the stock-taking has been given by the occupier of the wholesale warehouse to the Inspector. "(7.) Every person who is employed during such extended hours under the last preceding subsection shall be paid therefor at half as much again as the ordinary rate, but the over- time rate shall not be less than one shilling per hour, and shall be paid at the first regular pay-day thereafter." The Hon. Mr. BOLT moved, That the clause be struck out. The Committee divided on the question. "That subsection (1) be a subsection of the Bill." AYES, 7. Tomoana Feldwick Rigg Walker, W. C. Harris Swanson Kelly, T. NOES, 9. Shrimski Louisson Barnicoat Smith, A. L. Ormond Bolt Pinkerton Williams. Jenkinson 