voured to strangle the Bill and prevent any money being voted at all? Is that consistent conduct ? Mr. SEDDON .- It proves the inconsistency of the member. Mr. HOGG .- Of course it does. I am now referring to the Advances to Settlers Extension Bill. I refer to the attitude of the member for I am Riccarton, and not Captain Russell. satisfied the honourable member for Hawke s Bay would never be caught in such a trap. He is too consistent ; he has too good a memory ; he is not a member who oscillates from side to side ; he has that manliness in his composition that compels him to stick true to his colleagues, and not to be con- tinually travelling from one side of the House to the other, denouncing this and that, and casting imputations against every one with whom he comes into contact. That . has been the attitude of the 9.30. honourable member. You never find him stable in regard to any matter he takes up. He is as unstable as water. He is a persistent rail-sitter, and that is the reason why he has lost his influence in this House. The honour- able member gets up on every possible occasion and deprecates the measures of the present Government. Why? Because the Government refuses to take him by the hand, and because Ministers and members have discovered that he is one of those self-styled independent repre- sentatives on whom no one can depend for a moment. I think time enough has been taken up over this debate. I would have been very pleased if a discussion of this kind could have been avoided altogether. I do not think it is elevating or profitable to indulge in the acri- mony that has been displayed this evening. I think we ought to pass on to more important business, and leave debates of this kind severely alone. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- I think, Sir, if the Premier would only admit it, he is sorry now that he did not take my advice, tendered early in the evening, to follow the usual custom of going on with the orders of the day at half- past seven. A great deal of time has been occupied with this debate, and a great many things have been said that would perhaps have been better left unsaid. The debate has taken an unexpected and somewhat acrimonious turn ; but in saying what I have to say, particularly with regard to the £40 bonus, I wish it to be distinctly understood that I do not reflect in the slightest degree on any member or members of this House. Every man, Sir, is the keeper of his own conscience, and the matter of the $40 bonus is, first of all, a matter between the man and his conscience, and, in the second place, a matter between the member and his constituents. So far as I am personally con- corned-and this is what I want to say-I was not present in the House last session when the Public Revenues Bill came before the House, and when the supplementary estimates came on. Had I been here I should have voted both against the Public Revenues Bill and against the #40 bonus. Mr. Hogg statement which has just been made by the honourable member for Masterton, that 1 de- clined to take the money. But it has been stated by several members to-day that the payment of the £40 bonus would have been possible without the passing of the Public Revenues Act last year. Surely such honour- able members have not read clause 3 of that Act. I will quote it. Clause 3 says, -- " In any case where any payment of an item is provided for in the estimates as passed by the House of Representatives, and is included in the total of a vote in the Appropriation Act, such payment of the said item may be lawfully made, anything in any Act to the contrary notwithstanding, and the said payment shall be deemed to be irrespective of any appropria- tion or limit contained in any such last- mentioned Act : Provided that in no case shall the amount so paid exceed the total sum of the item voted : " Provided further that this section shall apply only to payments which could not law- fully be made if this section were not in operation." That is to say that the section which I have just quoted applies to payments which are fixed by Act of Parliament-to such payments as the salaries of members of Parliament, the salaries of statutory officers, and the salaries of Judges of the Supreme Court. Now, Sir, the salary of members of the House of Repre- sentatives is fixed at $240 a year, and of the Legislative Council at $150 a year, and with- out passing the clause I have just quoted it would not have been possible to have paid the £40 bonus, because it would have been the duty of the Auditor-General to have disallowed it : but with the clause I have just quoted the Controller and Auditor-General, a gentleman with whom I am not acquainted personally, but whom I believe to be a thoroughly conscientious man and a good officer, is powerless to prevent abuses. The Auditor-General is a statutory officer, appointed by Parliament to be the guardian of the rights of Parliament, and to see that payments are legally made ; but with the Public Revenues Act of last year the Auditor- General is almost completely at the mercy of the Treasurer for the day. Then, we have heard from a member who ought to know better-a member who poses as a legal au- thority in this House - that an item when passed by this House is equal to a law. Sir, there is no analogy between an item so passed and a law. An item which has been passed by this House becomes part of a vote in the Appropriation Act, and is not again considered by itself; but a law requires the consent of the three branches of the Legislature-that is, the consent of the Lower House, of the Legislative Council, and the Governor -- and without the consent of all three the law cannot go on the statute-book. An item of the estimates is con- sidered by this House, but is not again con- sidered by the Legislative Council. It simpiv becomes a part of the Appropriation Bill, which is considered as a whole. But, Sir, that is only 