some small mistakes which I have referred to on the part of the valuers. But there have been very few errors indeed ; and I will also say at this moment, that, at any rate, the Superintendent of the Advances to Settlers Office and his officers have done their very best to keep clear of anything of the kind ; and I am satisfied that those who look into the system of working will acknowledge that the office has done its work in a first-class business way, and that it is an office which has come to stay. The number of applicants asking for advances from the office proves clearly what a satisfactory Government measure it is, and how well it has been appreciated in the country districts since its introduction. The number of ad- vances declined up to the 22nd July of this vear is 1,260, and they have been declined for various reasons which I need not go into. The Board have a discretionary power which The they are bound by statute to exercise. amount authorised and accepted by applicants was 9,991 applications, representing a sum of no less than $2,253,778; so that members will see the advances have reached a very large sum indeed, and that it has, generally speaking, given great satisfaction throughout the country. Now, referring to the measure I have brought forward, if members will look at it they will find in clause 2 that we are asking for power to raise an additional loan of two millions sterling. The present position of the office is this : there is a balance to be raised under the last statute of $760,000, but there is a sum of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 $200,000 already pledged against that amount, and the annual working of the office repre- sents in round numbers about $500,000. As this power, which was formerly given by Par- http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero liament, will expire in October next, it is necessary for the House to make provision as suggested here in the Bill. If the matter were deferred the balance we should have in hand would certainly be insufficient to carry on until Parliament meets next year, as the amount I have referred to - about $500,000 - is required annually for invest- Inents. Clause 3 repeals certain parts of the various Acts now in force. In effect, the clauses which are sought to be repealed are those which bind the Government to a stated period for raising the balance of $760,000, as authorised by the principal Act. If members will refer to the Government Advances to Settlers Act of 1894 they will see that subsec- tion (4) of clause 28 refers to the time in which the Government may raise the amount, and also to the amount that may be raised. That clause is dealt with again in the Act of 1895. Clause 7 states that the Aets " shall continue in force and may be exercised until but not later than the expiration of three years from the coming into operation of the Act." There- fore it is necessary that these clauses should be repealed. The other section alluded to is in the Act of 1898. Clause 2 of that Act says that the Act shall " continue in force and inay be exercised until but not later than the thirty-first day of October, one thousand Mr. Milis Act or any amendment thereof to the contrary not withstanding." Therefore, honourabie mem- bers will see the reason for bringing in this Bill, and for increasing the amount we can borrow, is simply to meet the exigencies of the case. A great number of settlers in all parts of the colony have taken advantage of the means by which they can acquire loans or transfer their mortgages, and it is necessary that Parliament should be in a position to provide accordingly. I therefore have much pleasure, Sir, in moving the second reading of the Bill. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Will the honourable gentleman state what the cash balance to the credit of the account was on the 31st March ? Captain RUSSELL .- $29,872. Mr. MILLS .-- I cannot give the exact figures at present, as I have not got the last balance- sheet before me, but I think it is less than that amount. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- I do not propose to discuss the principle of the original Act. I Want to say a few words with regard to this amending Bill ; and I am sorry that the honour- able member who moved the second reading of the Bill has had to apologise for the legislation, and to ask us to treat it in a charitable manner. I have no doubt we shall be charitable. Mr. SEDDON .- He withdrew it. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Yes, but he withdrew it on instruction from the Premier. The Premier's instructions, however, came a little too late. He ought to have schooled his child a little carlier in the day before he came down to make his speech on the second reading. Sir, we will be charitable as to the Act, and charitable to the honourable gentleman. We have no desire in this House to be otherwise than charitable to him. I desire to say a few words with regard to the amending Bill. It proposes to give power to the Government to raise another two millions under the Government Advances to Settlers Act. It goes further than that, and does away with the restriction which has always been placed in our legislation up till now. The legislation providing for the raising of money under the Government Ad- vances to Settlers Act has hitherto always pro. vided a limit of time. That limit of time now is to be done away with, and it will be competent for the Government to raise an extra two millions and the balance of the loan which has already been authorised at any time-even ten years hence -- if it is not raised within the period that the ten years expires. I do not know that there is any serious objection to that, so long as the policy contained in the original mea- sure remains a safe one. We cannot tell yet -- and I do not suppose we shall be able to tell for a certain number of years -- how safe or unsafe this policy has been, and I feel that it was wise that Parliament should have placed a restriction upon the time during which these loans might be raised -- a restriction which was really a pre- caution -- so that if it was discovered later on that there was any likelihood of the legislation being injurious to the colony, or was likely to 