have to serape up the "seum " from the outer world, from any port where you can get them ; for when they were employed ships every now and again were stopped, and you had to hunt everywhere for your firemen in order to get tham on board. Now, what I plead of every one is: to open the gates of our industries to our on young people, train them up to our own industries, and do not let us rely on the outside world for people to do what we can train up our own young people to do for us. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON. . I am very gli indeed to be able to give my hearty sup- port to the motion of the honourable gentle- man. Like some other honourable members, I. too, had the privilege and satisfaction of visit- ing the "Sobraon " in the Sydney Harbour, and I must say that, although I was before con- vineed of the urgent need we had in New Zealand of a training-ship, I came away from that vessel more fully determined to give my strongest support to the Hon. Mr. Jennings, who has taken a prominent part in this matter, whenever the question came up, to get it pushed further on. I hope that this time, at any rate, his efforts will be successful, though I am very much afraid not. The Council, I think. from the remarks of approval that we have heard going round, is fairly convinced that a training-ship is a necessity in New Zealand, and that honourable members will lend the honourable gentleman every support, as I shall do myself. Now, Sir, I was talking to two or three of the leading lights in the engineering world regarding the boy question : it was more in reference to the question of / https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1. 32106019788246 apprentices, and the number of applications from boys who are willing to be apprenticed to the different trades, and my information from them was that the number of boys who wished to enter the engineering trade in prefer- ence to any other trade simply arises from the fact that when engineers have served their time they have a better chance of going to sea, and they state that the boys are anxious to go to sea, and that they drift into engineering as a means of getting there. As the Hon. Mr. Mbean has pointed out just now, I believe there is no other means of their getting there tx. pt, perhaps, as firemen; but then they must be beyond a certain age, at any rate not boys. I think that most of the ships already have the number of boys allowed by law, so that there is no way of their getting to sea until they have served their time as engineers, and then they can get a job in the engine- room. Regarding the institution of a vessel on the same lines as the "Sobraon." I do not know that it would altogether suit the views even of the Hon. Mr. Jennings. It is, I think, too much on the lines of a reformatory. As far as I can remember, every boy on the "Sbraon " is committed to that ship by a Magistrate, and is kept there for a number of wears he is committed for-two, three, four, or An Hon. MEMBER .- The Superintendent can 't his discharge when he is fit to go. at a very young age, very young indeed ; and we were surprised to find the oldest boy on board was not over the age of fifteen or sixteen. I do not think that would meet exactly our views with regard to a training-ship. As the Hon. Mr. MeLean has said, for a training-ship to be of any benefit to us, we must have a sailing ship, for use in conjunction with the training-ship, in which the boys can gain some practical knowledge of navigation and seaman- ship. I should like to see the Government steamers now made more use of for training lads in seamanship. Now, they do not get that on board the " Sobraon," and I do not think it is intended they should get it. They are kept there just as they would be in- well. a prison ; but it occurred to me that I had never seen a happier looking lot of lads. They did not seem to have any fear of the officers who were above them, and they seemed to do their drill with pleasure, and, as the Hon. Colonel Pitt has stated, one could not see better drilling anywhere. Of course, discipline reigns su- preme ; that is one of the strong points of the school, and so it ought to be. I do not : think the honourable member intends that we should have no industrial schools in the colony. I am in favour of having both a training-ship and industrial schools ; and I think the indus- i trial schools should be for a different class of boys to those we put on board a training-ship. As to the matter of the expenditure, the Hon. the Minister has said that he did not consider that at all. Well, I am glad to hear that, and I wonder why the Government have not taken the matter in hand, when the expense is so trivial. It is only the question of getting a ship or a couple of ships to start with ; and we know-for it has been proved to us beyond \- doubt by the success of the training-ship in Sydney - that the outcome will be beneficial. I cannot understand why the Government \-- has not obtained a training-ship before. They could get one easily, I am sure, from the Admiralty, and it would not cost much to put it in working order and to place the boys on it. I am quite sure that, if the Bill we have before us were on the statute-book-the Re- ferendum Bill-and the question was submitted to the people, a very large majority would vote in favour of having a training-ship at once. I only hope the Government will take some prac- tical action in this matter. It is all very well for the Minister to say he is in favour of it to a certain extent. I would hope that all the Ministers in the Cabinet are in favour of a training-ship. If all the members of the Cabi- net would pay a visit to the " Sobraon," I believe they would come away fully convinced of the excellence of such an institution, and be unani- mously in favour of it, and then we should have a training-ship at once. I hope the honourable gentleman who moved the motion will go on, and, although I have my doubts that he is going to be successful this time, I am willing to give him every aid I can in the matter, because from what I saw of the training-ship over there -the very excellent way it is managed and 