local bodies to come to Parliament and get legislation to clear off individuals from their land, and then lease or sell the same land to other persons at a big pront ? Mr. HUTCHESON said they simply lost £30,000. That was what it meant. ## WORKERS' COMPENSATION FOR ACCIDENTS. Mr. HANAN (Invercargill) asked the Minis- ter of Labour, If he will introduce legislation" in the direction of amending "The Workers' Compensation for Accidents Act, 1900," so as to enable the Magistrate's Court to have juris- diction in respect of such claims as shall not exceed in amount the sum or sums for which Stipendiary Magistrates have now jurisdiction under " The Magistrates' Courts Act, 1893 "? He would like to point out that, as the law stood at present, if an accident happened to a man, say, working at Orepuki, in Southland, and if such injured person or his representa- tives wished to claim redress or to have the benefit of his rights under the Act, he had to wait until the Compensation Court came down to Invercargill to hear the claim. The Court might be sitting at Auckland, and, consequently, securing a sitting of the Court in Invercargill would involve considerable de- lay - perhaps of months-besides occasioning heavy expense. It was obvious, further, that a man might be prejudiced in his case, not only by reason of the delay, but also by reason of the difficulty of securing the attendance of his wit- nesses when the case was heard. Witnesses might leave the colony before the Court sat. Now, if the amendment were made it would enable the injured man to have ready redress, and obtain promptly the money he might be very much in need of. It would be a step, he submitted, which would be greatly in the in- terests of the working-classes themselves if jurisdiction were given, as he suggested, to the Magistrates to deal with small claims under the Act, so that a poor man who might be injured could recover his money without loss of time and without incurring much expense. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Labour) said he would look into this matter and let the honour- able member have a reply later on. ## PASSAGES TO GREAT BRITAIN FOR NEW ZEALAND TROOPERS. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) asked the Govern- ment, Whether any direct monetary assistance or reduction in passage-money to returned troopers who are desirous of visiting Great Britain will be granted, as he believed it was understood a promise was made to them that they would have the option of visiting the Old Country previous to returning to their homes ? He understood that a promise was made to those who had left these shores to fight for the Empire that they would be given an oppor- tunity to visit the Old Country before return- ing to this colony ; and, as a number of these men had been sadly disappointed at that pro- mise not having been given effect to, he asked indicated in his question could not be given to those returned troopers who were anxious to visit the Old Country. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said it was not the intention of the Government to find the money to enable troopers to go Home. What had been done was this : The Imperial Government agreed to pay the passages from Capetown to New Zealand ; and if the difference between going to England and then back to New Zea- land was paid either by the Imperial Govern- ment or the returning soldiers, well and good ; but it was not a fair charge on the colony. We do not see our way to do that. If the Imperial authorities desired that a section of our men should go Home he would raise no objection to that, but if it was simply the case of a single individual wanting to take a trip to the Old Country, with the chance that he might not return to the colony, the Govern- ment did not see their way to find the money for that. Mr. O'MEARA asked if the Government would communicate with the Imperial authori- ties and ask them to assist the troopers to visit the Old Country. Mr. SEDDON said, anything that would please our troopers and reward them for what they had done he would be most happy to do, but he did not believe in asking the public to put their hands in their pockets to do it. ## WELLINGTON HARBOUR BOARD ACT 1879 AMENDMENT BILL. On the question, That the Bill be 2.30. read a third time, Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) said,- I think it must be generally conceded by this House that any legislation that has emanated from the Wellington Harbour Board during the last five or six years has not only been carefully drafted, but it has had for its general provisions the practical giving effect to the policy of the Harbour Board. We had the astounding state- ment made here this afternoon that a former Bill introduced by the Wellington Harbour Board was intended to and did enact- Mr. SPEAKER .- Are you referring to some- thing that took place on this Bill, as you can- not refer to what was said on another Bill ? Mr. HUTCHESON .- I am speaking on the Wellington Harbour Board Act 1879 Amend- ment Bill. Mr. SPEAKER. - You cannot refer to some- thing that was said in debate on another Bill. Mr. HUTCHESON .- There are these who look upon emanations from that body or from any other local body as Greek gifts, more or less, and it is thought that every Bill coming from that Harbour Board should be closely examined for evidence of ulterior motives. There are those who charge the Board with motives. Some three years ago the Wellington Harbour Board had under consideration the question of enlarging the representation on the Board, in order to give representation to the population that has fast been accumulating in the Wel- lington Provincial District, and this Bill has 