cannot understand that honourable gentleman saying, as he did to-day, that the Government in bringing in this great measure were attack- ing private interests, and doing that which was not proper, right, just, or equitable. My own opinion is that this scheme has been of enor- mous benefit to that class of the community who especially needed it; and I think, after the tribute by the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty, Mr. Herries, to the success of the scheme in the way of benefiting the settlers of the colony, the honourable member for Waitemata was certainly ill-advised in making the long-standing and repeated attack he did to-day, and which members of the House have been accustomed to from. him on this question year after year. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) .- I will not detain the House at any length. I only want to draw the attention of the Minister in charge to one thing, and that thing is this: I should like to see a larger sum allowed by law to be advanced to people in village settlements. At present the maximum is a sum of $50, and one can understand that when a person builds a house for $50, with perhaps $30 or $40 of his own added, he cannot have much decency or comfort in a house costing $80 or $90. I have had that represented to me from quarters that I think can hardly be questioned, and my atten- tion has been drawn to reports from the Go- vernment officers, which speak of substantial dwellinghouses valued at $30-a substantial dwellinghouse valued at $30, for a man, his wife, and family ! I think the Government ought to introduce a provision which would enable a larger advance than $50 to be made upon a dwellinghouse. I think, too, that the time has now come when the people of the towns as well as those of the country should derive some benefit from the Advances to Settlers Act. I think it ought not only to be advances to the settlers in the country, but advances to the people of the whole country ; and, when the Government can get sufficient security and get a surplus from the working of the department, it means no loss to the State and incalculable benefit to the people. The people would benefit greatly by the extension of the provisions of this measure. I heard the remarks-what the honourable member for Riccarton calls " the pessimistic remarks "-of the honourable member for Waitemata. Well, I think all we need say is that the honour- able gentleman can hardly help himself, "'tis his nature to." He looks at things from a Jeremiah's standpoint, and he thinks that everything is going to the dogs, that every- thing is black and dreary and bad, while all the time we can see progress and advancement everywhere. I think surely we can trust the Government. Mr. MONK .- I want to trust Nature, and the people. Mr. LAURENSON .- Sir, the honourable member for Waitemata wishes us to trust Nature; but he is too true a student of nature and too deep a thinker not to we should have nothing to eat-that what we have to do is to help nature, and that if we did not we should soon relapse into barbarism. It is those people who trust altogether to nature who go down in life, and, that being so, I trust the honour- able member for Waitemata will rouse him- self, and realise that we are progressing in these days. Allusion has been made to the rate of interest. The most reputable writers on political economy point out that as science and machinery are at the present time, the rate of interest is bound to go down, because, after all, capital does not consist so much of money as of the products of human skill and human labour. I have not the slightest doubt but that within the next ten years we will see money ad- vanced in this colony at 3 per cent. I do not think that is at all an exaggerated estimate. At the present moment we know there is a tightness in the money-market, but any one who reads and studies knows the cause of that. The cause is simply this : The English Govern- ment have put on the market during the past twelve months bonds for some hundred million pounds. That has caused the tightness in the money-market ; but as invention progresses money is sure to come down, and within twelve months, unless a big war intervenes, 1 have no doubt the Government will be able to raise the money at a reasonable price. I cannot sit down without, like other members of the House, ex- pressing my satisfaction at the very able manner in which this department is administered. I know there is a good deal of dissatisfaction some- times at loans being refused, and the member for Waitemata has pointed out that the Govern- ment have refused advances of money upon good security upon which afterwards a larger sum was advanced. Now, the Government have a very difficult path to walk on. If. on the one hand, they advance money recklessly, no one would condemn them more furiously than the member for Waitemata ; and, on the other hand, if they are chary about making advances they are apt to get into very ill-favour with the people who want the advances made to them. What I say is this : if they err on any side, let them err on the side of caution. I can only express my satisfaction with the department ; but at the same time I trust that the Minister in charge will see his way to have this alteration made : that a larger advance may be given to the people in the village settlements, and that the Cabinet will take into consideration the advisa- bility of introducing a clause which will enable the Government, under certain provisions and safeguards, to make advances to the people in the towns as well as to the people in the country. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) .- Last session I stated that so long as I was in this House I would seize every available opportunity of bringing under the notice of honourable mem- bers the danger that is looming up in constantly piling upon the shoulders of the taxpayers in- terest charges. I was surprised to hear the Premier deprecate the time that had been taken up by honourable members in discuss- 