being had ever been able to define to him what the unearned increment is. I will venture to detine what the unearned increment is. We will assume that a man buys a piece of bush land at #2 an acre, and he spends #4 an acre in clearing it and making it fit for cultivation. The value of that land would be $2, plus £4, plus interest on its cost until it begins to return the owner some income. If he sells that land at, sav, $12 an acre, the difference between what he spent on it, plus interest while waiting for a return from it-the differ- ence between that and what he gets for it is the unearned increment. An Hon. MEMBER .- Not at all. Mr. LAURENSON .- That is the unearned increment as defined by every political econo- mist in the world. And it is the unearned increment which the country should get at by way of taxation. We say that this increase in the value does not belong to the owner of the land, but to the State. Then, the honourable member went on to say that the only way to tax land was to tax it on the selling value-in other words, he advocated the principle of the old property-tax. I thought that had been disposed of years ago. The honourable member for Bruce was very severe on my honourable friend the member for Christchurch City (Mr. Ell), because the instances he gave were not concrete cases, but were supposititious cases. say these supposititious cases are just as valuable as concrete cases, because they illustrate the working of the system. However, I am going to lay before the House some half-dozen actual cases in support of my contention with respect to this Bill. I was struck also by what fell from the member for Waitaki. He gave us an illustration of the evil effects of this taxation. He said that the Waimate Jockey Club, which now pays $2 per annum, will under this system pay $20. Sir, what are the facts of the case ? They have got a racecourse practically in the Town of Waimate, and I say that if the Jockey Club choose to establish a racecourse there- An Hon. MEMBER. -- It is not in the town. Mr. LAURENSON -Well, it is alongside the town, and if they demand to have it practi- cally in the town, they are worthy of taxation, and I would tax them up to the hilt, and so would everybody else who has the interest of his fellow beings at heart. I have been struck by one or two arguments of those opposed to this measure. One of the strongest -and it is not a very serious one-was that of the honourable member for Wakatipu, Mr. W. Fraser, who took the exceptional case of the unimprovable land. I admit that this is most difficult to deal with in this connection, be- cause improvements cannot be put on it, and therefore taxation would fall upon land that might not be able to pay it. It is, however, impossible to legislate for exceptional cases like that. My honourable friend, the member for Avon, also instanced the zones of land that lie between the closely populated towns and the country - the places where market-gardeners and others are at work. That also appears to Mr. Laurenson we come to deal with actual instances they are found to be no worse than others. In fact, under this system they are better off. First, 1 will instance the case of a market-gardener in Sydenham. He has three acres and a half of ground, on which he grows cabbages and pota- toes, and for which he paid $125 per acre. Imagine paying £125 per acre for land on which to grow vegetables ! But that was not his ulto- rior motive for buying it. He bought it for speculative purposes. He is now prepared to sell it for $200 an acre ; but until a purchaser comes along, he grows potatoes and cabbages on it to give him some return in the meantime. Then, when taxation on the unimproved value strikes him, he whines about the poor market. gardener, whom you are trying to tread under- foot. Mr. TANNER .- He is the owner; I spoke only of tenants. Mr. LAURENSON .- I admit that he is the owner. Men who hold land like that are not holding it for the purpose of growing vegetables. The end they have in view is to receive a large price from people who want to settle in the zone that lies outside the more populated parts of the towns. A number of honourable mem- bers have dwelt upon the so-called brutality of the idea of making this system of taxation compulsory. I would ask those honourable members if they can tell me of any taxation I system that is not compulsory. The present system is compulsory, but it levies taxation on the fruits of a man's toil. What we want is a system that will put taxation not upon the fruits of a man's toil, but upon the unimproved value of the land he holds. I think I shall be able to prove, by the instances which I am about to give, that the proposed system will inflict hardship upon no one, excepting upon the speculator who is holding the land with the object of making a rise out of the man who wants to buy a home for himself. I know a man who holds large blocks of land near Caversham. Now, in Caversham there are streets only about 30 ft. wide, and in these streets there are a whole lot of poor people living in unhealthy surroundings, while all around them there are these huge blocks of land which specu- lators are holding with the object of some day reaping the unearned increment. I hope, Sir, that some day or other this House will say that those people shall never touch that unearned increment. Sir, I have heard a great deal of talk about the rich man who puts a valuable house upon his section. Now, I have an illus- tration in my mind's eye. There is a gentle- man whom honourable members of this House have heard about, who has just erected a private residence in the immediate neighbourhood of Christchurch. It is said to be the most valuable and expensive private residence in the colony, and it has been estimated to have cost the sum of £18,000. I went into that matter to a certain extent about a month ago, and I found that that man had paid already to the country, through the Customs, on some of the material used in erecting that house, over #1,200 by way 