there are already cadet corps. I have had some acquaintance with most of them when they have been under my command in various camps, and I can say that generally the boys of these cadet corps are the best drilled in the camp. I have seen them at Wanganui, Nelson, Christchurch, Wellington, Taranaki, and other places. The boys are well set up, and capable of doing any amount of physical work. The last camp I attended at Nelson I saw physical drill performed by the cadets, and also by the men, that was quite a treat to witness, and the instructors deserve every credit for their work. It is almost impossible not to sympathize with my honourable friend who has introduced this Bill, but the honourable member does not seem to see the difficulty. The Education Boards have not the funds to provide the necessary instruction, and, therefore, I think the Bill, if placed on the statute-book, will be only so much waste-paper. The Hon. Colonel PITT .- Sir, if I thought the Bill before us was only so much waste-paper I should vote against it, because, as honourable members know, I am one of those who hold a strong opinion against an unnecessary number of statutes being passed by Parliament. But, with all respect, I think the Hon. the Minister of Education did not quite state the whole case when he referred to this Bill being unnecessary, because he said the same provision was made in section 85 of the Education Act of 1877. If the honourable member refers to that section he will see that it only mentions military training for boys. This Bill provides for physical train- ing for boys and girls. Now, I think the phy- sical training of young girls is quite as import- ant as the physical training of boys. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- That is covered by section 85. The Hon. Colonel PITT .- I am not so sure of that. I think if section 85 is correctly in- terpreted, it will be found that girls are not included in it, and that it is confined to the boys. At all events, this Bill makes it per- fectly clear that the girls are to be instructed in physical drill as well as the boys ; and I am one of those who think that it is a very good thing indeed. These girls are to be the mothers of the future, and it is important that their physique should be developed quite as well as that of the boys. Now, as to the expense, which my honourable and gallant friend Colonel Baillie says would be incurred by the employment of hosts of drill-sergeants: That is quite unnecessary. My honourable friend knows that the present Volunteer regulations provide for that. The Commanding Officer of the district is required to allow the services of his staff sergeants to be available for the in- struction of boys attending the public schools, when it does not interfere with the other military duties of these sergeants. These in structors could teach at least one of the teachers at each school, and then the teacher in turn would be able to impart physical drill to the scholars. But, Sir, the physi- cal drill is so very simple that any teacher Hon. Captain Baillie without instruction from a drill - sergeant at all, and therefore I think that this Bill should, at all events, be read a second time, so that we may affirm the principle that physical drill is necessary. Let us emphasize it. I see that this Bill also provides for physical drill being imparted to children over eight years of age attending the Maori schools. Well, I do not think that provision is contained in the principal Act, though it is a provision of which we all can approve. But there is one provision in this Bill-the last one - of which I most decidedly approve. It says this Act shall not come into operation until the first day of January, 1902. A similar provision to that used to be contained in most of our statutes- that is to say, they did not come into operation until some months after they had passed. We have now got into the habit of making statutes come into operation on the day they pass, and the consequence is that very few people know anything about them. I think the Go- vernment might take a hint from this provi- sion, and, in the case of most of our important statutes, unless there is something which makes it inadvisable, postpone the date of their coming into operation for a few months. I shall sup- port the second reading of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND. - Sir, I have listened to the honourable gentleman who has just spoken, advocating the passing of this Bill, and from his speech and the speeches of other honourable members in its favour one would imagine that there is no provision already ex- isting for developing the bodies of boys and girls attending the public schools of the colony. I hold, Sir, that the proper physical drill is to be found in the play-ground ; and I believe that the boys and girls of this colony will compare favourably with the boys and girls at the Go- vernment schools in any other part of the world. I have myself two boys at school, and I think I am not egotistical in saying you will not find boys better set-up in the colony. They are a great deal straighter in the back than I am, or ever was, for the simple reason that I had not their opportunities, when I was at a public school, of going into a play-ground and of strengthening my body at out-door games. I think the play-ground affords the very best of physical drill ; but if we introduce the system of quasi-military drill that this Bill provides for in our schools, in addition to the ordinary time passed in the play-ground, I think too much time will be taken from the schoolroom and from the studies of the boys and girls. I can- not help thinking, if I may be allowed to say so of a Bill which comes to us from another place, that this Bill ought not to have been introduced by a private member. It should have been left to the Government to determine whether such a measure was actually necessary for the physi- cal development of the boys and girls of the colony. I think it is not. The Hon. Mr. KERR .- I would like to say a few words in reply before the question is put. I scarcely think the Minister of Education has rightly read section 85 of the principal Act. If 