which it is proposed to cure by this clause, or that the evil cannot be cured satisfactorily by this clause, with the necessary amendments, and for that reason I shall vote for the second read- ing of the Bill. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) .- Sir, I shall support the second reading of this Bill, although I shall reserve to myself the right to oppose clauses 2 and 3 when the Bill is in Committee. I am opposed to both of those clauses, but I am much in favour of clause 4. As an illustration to show how clause 4 would work, I know of the case of a man in my own electorate whose wife has been in an asylum for fifteen years, and yet who cannot get relief from the marriage tie. I would suppor this clause to allow divorce to be granted after one of the parties has been in an asylum for five years, because I am of the opinion that it is bad for the com. munity to allow people to resume marital re- lations after one of the parties has been in an asylum. I will therefore vote for the second reading of the Bill, reserving the right to oppose clauses 2 and 3 in Committee. As re- gards clause 3, which alters the word "seven " to "five," and gives the wife of a man who has been imprisoned for five years the right to a divorce, and vice versa, I would like to give the honourable member who introduced the Bill an instance that came under my notice. I remem- ber the case of a man who, after being sentenced to eight years' penal servitude, resumed his posi- tion as head of the family after his release, and who has ever since been a most exemplary father and husband. Nothing whatever has https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 been said against him since. Under this clause his wife would have been entitled to a divorce, and if she, in a fit of spleen, had applied for a divorce the peace of that family would have been destroyed for all time. But, as I have already said, I am in favour of clause 4, which provides that a man or a woman who has been confined in an asylum shall not be entitled to resume the marital relations. As to the Pre- mier's remarks, I am partly in favour of and partly against them. I believe, where a man and a woman are happily united, that, if the door of the Divorce Court was as wide as the prairies, they would not walk through it. On the other hand, in the case of a man who is united to an uncongenial partner, or a woman who is married to a human brute, it does not matter how strong you make the divorce laws you will have domestic misery, and have all sorts of evils arising from such unions. You may have legal union, but you will have moral and mental divorce. That being so, I shall vote for the second reading of the Bill, reserving to myself the right to have clauses 2 and 3 altered. Mr. MONAB (Mataura) .- It was not my in- tention to speak on this Bill, nor would I have done so had it not been for the interjection I made to the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson). I believe that the time- honoured custom that one connected with the Mr. Atkinson be departed from. The honourable gentleman said to-night that it would be better if there had been inserted in this Bill a clause providing that it should not come into force until the King had first given his assent, and I inter- jected that that was not necessary. In answer to something else, I further interjected that it was not done in the case of previous legislation on this subject. I understood the honourable gentleman to say that it had been done, and he referred to the Divorce Act of 1898 as a proof of his contention ; and the honourable member for Palmerston, sitting behind him, interjected that I had something to do with that, suggesting that I ought to have known that it was contained in the Bill. Under section 57 of the Constitution Act, His Excel- lency the Governor has to reserve for the Royal assent such Bills as he shall be ordered to reserve by Royal instructions. On the 26th March, 1892, Royal instructions directed all Bills dealing with divorce to be reserved for the Royal assent. The Constitution Act provides that, on the Royal assent being given, the Divorce Bill becomes law. Now, the Act of 1898 did not provide that on the Royal assent being given the Divorce Bill of that year was to become law. It provided that the Bill should not become law until the Governor's proclamation was issued in this colony after the Royal assent had been given, and it did not provide that the Bill should be reserved for the Royal assent before it became law. An Hon. MEMBER .- Read the section. Mr. McNAB .- The section I refer to is this, " This Act shall come into operation on a day to be fixed by the Governor by Proclamation in the Gazette ; such day to be not less than one month from the day upon which notice of Her Majesty's approval of the same shall be pub- lished in the Gazette." The Constitution Act and the Royal instruc tion provide for the Royal assent to be given, and it it had not been for this clause 2 the Act of 1898 would have been brought into operation on the day on which it received the Royal assent, but that date was postponed for one month by this section 2. There is no case that I have come across, certainly not in the Act of 1898, reserving a Divorce Bill for the Royal assent. Mr. ATKINSON .- As a matter of personal explanation, the honourable member for Ma- taura seems to have misunderstood me, or else to have misunderstood his own Act of 18.8. Of course, I was not suggesting that the honour- able member for the Suburbs would properly have included in his Bill a clause that reserved it in express terms for the Roval assent. I would not dream of suggesting that in fact, I had the Bill of last session before me as I spoke, and I simply summarised the fact that the 2nd clause in the Bill dealt with the question of reservation, and that matter had been omitted here. The 2nd clause of Mr. Wil- \- \-- 