reported against, as it was not, in their opinion a local Bill. When the measure was before the House last session he accepted a lawyer's word on a certain matter that had reference to a block of land, the title of which had been granted under the New Zealand Company's charter. The land grant was issued in 1851. or thereabouts, to the person who was entitled to it, and in 1892 a Bill was passed through the House, which practically killed the whole of those old titles. It gave a certain 3.30. limited time in which all applications had to be made for this land, and if these claims were not made within that time, that land should revert back to the Crown. In 1894 the Bill was further amended- Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER could not allow this discussion to go on. The honourable member must confine himself to the subject before the House, and not discuss the provi- sions of another Bill. Mr. MILLAR said, All he had to observe was that if there was any attempt to bring in clauses of that description again it would not be successful, if he could help it. In regard to this particular case which had come from the Committee, he would want fuller information regarding it before he would support it. There was no doubt there was a deliberate attempt on the part of a large number of people in this colony to simply rob the Government, by forcing these matters to arbitration. When any of these cases arose and the matter was forced to arbitration, the tendency was to look on the Government as an individual with a very long purse, and in nine cases out of ten the arbitration went against the Government. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about the Midland http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero Railway ? Mr MILLAR said the case of the Midland Railway was fortunately an exception, in which the arbitration went in favour of the Govern- ment ; but it could not go in any other way, because the evidence was so overwhelmingly in favour of the Government that no arbitrator could have come to any other conclusion than that which was arrived at. Of course, the honourable gentleman was now raising a ques- tion that he could not debate at the present time, in connection with the debenture-holders and shareholders of that company, but no doubt at another time they would have the opportunity of discussing that question. On the particular matter just now engaging the attention of the House, whether or not a ques- tion of compensation should be referred to arbitration, he himself believed the Government would not do an injustice to any one in a ques- tion about land. The advantage had been on the other side altogether. There had been any amount of these cases in the House since he had been a member of it where, over and over again, it had been shown that the Government had been "had " in connection with the land where the matter had gone to arbitration. An Hon. MEMBER .- Not in the North. Mr. MILLAR said, Yes, in the North Island as well as in the South Island. He sincerely Mr. Millar selves to be put in that position again. He regretted that Mr. Deputy-Speaker had ruled that he could not deal with the other matter to which he had referred, because it was a very important one ; but, no doubt, an opportunity would be presented in the financial debate to bring the matter before the House, because he thought if the Government by a side-wind like that attempted to over-ride the statute law, the House should know it. What was more, if any further " Washing-up Bill " came before them, he would require the fullest explanation before he would be an assenting party to its going through ; and he might say, if there was any- thing doubtful about it, and there were half a dozen members of his way of thinking, it would not go through that session. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) said, Coming back again to the petition of John Old, he would like to say a few words This petition had been before the Waste Lands Committee for three successive sessions, and the Committee had recommended that the petitioner should be paid fair and reasonable compensation. He (Mr. Thompson) believed that if it had not been for the action of some of Mr. Old's friends in this House the whole matter would have been settled before now. Correspondence was laid before the Committee this year which showed, to his mind, plainly, that Mr. Old's friends in this House had done him a deal of harm. An Hon. MEMBER. - Whom do you refer to ? Mr. R. THOMPSON said, No one in particu- lar. Mr. Old had been foolish enough, owing to the encouragement he got from some members of the House, to place himself in the hands of a solicitor, and that solicitor had made demand, on the Government which he (Mr Thompson) said the Government would not be justified in agreeing to. If Mr. Old had been left to him- self, and been allowed to deal directly with the Minister of Lands, who went up and visited the place when he was in the district, he believed the matter would have been settled : but, to judge by the letters read this year before the Committee from the solicitor, he said the Go- vernment would not be justified in agreeing to his demands and submitting the case to arbi- tration. He had no hesitation in saving, from what he knew of the case, if Mr. Old had not been led away by the advice tendered by some of his friends in this House, but had kept away from the solicitors and had dealt directly with the Minister of Lands, there was no doubt whatever that justice would have been done to him, and he would have got fair and reason- able compensation. Motion agreed to. # WORKERS' COMPENSATION FOR ACCIDENTS ACT. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) asked the Pre- mier, If he will consider the advisability of amending " The Workers' Compensation for Accidents Act, 1900," with the object of making it clear as to whether all workers within the colony come under the provisions of and are in- cluded in that Act? This was an important 