with power to confer with any similar Commit- tee that may be appointed by the Legislative Council, to inquire into and report on the mat- ter of the publication in the Daily Tribune newspaper of certain evidence taken before the Joint Committee of both Houses on the Ward- Chapman inquiry, and which evidence has not yet been reported to the House: three to be a quorum, with power to call for persons and papers. Committee to consist of Mr. Speaker, the Hon. Mr. O'Rorke, Mr. Rolleston, Sir Cra- croft Wilson, C.B., and Mr. Andrew." That was a case almost exactly parallel with this one. The Commission was set up, in- quired into the matter and reported, and the delinquents were called to the bar of the House and punished in the usual way. An Hon. MEMBER. - What is the usual way ? Mr. MASSEY .- They were called upon for an explanation and an apology, and I venture to say that the publicity was sufficient punish- ment. But if we are not going to thoroughly inquire into this matter, if it is not going to be sifted to the bottom, we ought to stop where we are. I would, however, sooner see the Press admitted to Select Committees, than that the present state of things should continue. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) .- We have heard a good deal about this question from different points of view, and there seems to be in the minds of most of those who https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 have spoken a feeling to commend the news- paper that has had the enterprise to obtain this information, and, so far as I am concerned, I am quite prepared to do the same thing myself. But I say we have the right to go to the root of the matter and find out where the fault lies. I do not think the fault was with the reporter or even with the members of the Committee. The fault is with ourselves. Select Commit- tees are appointed, and the result is that these Committees are virtually public rooms; and members who have no connection with the matter themselves-they may have an interest in it, but they have no connection with it .-- may attend regularly, and even when the Com- mittee is deliberating, unless a stand is taken up, as I understand has been taken up by my friend the Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee - that is, to decide that those not connected with the Committee, and who are not witnesses, are not to be present. Until such a rule is adopted by all Com- mittees you will have evidence taken before the Committees leaking out. If only those who are connected with the Committees, and the witnesses under examination, are present, then if any evidence leaks out the Committee will be responsible for the source whence the information has come. As things at present are, no one can say where the information comes from. We know that information ap- pears in the papers, and that it is a breach of privilege ; but you cannot blame any one in particular, and the reason is that the Standing Orders are not complete enough in regard to those who attend the Committees of the House. the Committee's shorthand writer. They are not impressions gathered from various members of the Committee. I think the State ought to pay the shorthand writer's fee. Mr. McGOWAN .- Quite so, so far as I am concerned. I am a member of the Committee, and I believe there has not been due care taken in regard to the evidence given before it, in regard to secrecy. Though technically a breach of privilege has been committed, I do not see how we can do anything ; till we amend our own course with regard to the position of Com- mittees we have little reason to complain of any enterprising newspaper obtaining news al- most at first hand. These typewritten copies of evidence should be under the hand and seal of some one responsible, and not left lying about loosely, so that any one who chooses to come into the room can get hold of the informa- tion contained in them for newspaper purposes. Mr. WILLIS (Wanganui) .- There seems to me to be something very singular in the way such a mass of evidence as this has leaked out. It has been suggested that what took place was divulged by members; but two columns of evi- dence would be a very difficult thing to divulge, and it is quite evident a shorthand report must have been made use of. Surely some one must be aware of the manner in which the report was obtained from the person who was taking the evidence. Mr. FISHER .- It was the Goldfields and Mines Committee's report. Mr. WILLIS .- If it was the Committee's report from which it was obtained, that makes it so much worse. I regard it as a very serious matter indeed that a report of this kind should be allowed to leak out ; and if this sort of thing is to go on there will be no security whatever of evidence being kept secret till it is laid on the table of the House. The matter ought not to be treated lightly. There is a feeling that there is no use our proceeding further in the matter, and I must say, from my own experi- ence, the results are very small indeed when breaches of privilege have taken place. But we ought not to go on like this always. I think, myself, we have a very poor chance of punish- ing the paper, nor do I believe that from a newspaper point of view it has done anything wrong. The one who ought to be punished is the one who furnished the report; and the matter ought to be inquired into. It is not the editor or printer, who was only doing his business in obtaining the report, who ought to be dealt with so much as he who furnished the report. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- I am a member of the Goldfields Committee, but I can assure the House that I am not the one who divulged this information. The informa- tion was evidently taken from a typewritten copy of the evidence, taken on the first day on which evidence in Easton's petition was considered ; and, if honourable members do nothing in the matter, I suppose the whole of the evidence taken by the Committee will 