of the law given by the Magistrate who decided the question some three years ago. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) said the position was as follows: In 1898 the Grey- mouth Borough Council, being dissatisfied with the valuation made by the Grey District Hos- pital and Charitable Aid Board, appealed against the levy of the Board on the ground that the Board had excluded mining property from such valuation. An inquiry was held as provided by the Act, and the Commissioners disallowed the appeal on the ground that mining property was exempt from rating for hospital and charitable aid purposes. The Borough Council had again appealed against the levy made by the Board, on the ground that it was unjust ; and the (io- vernment had decided that an inquiry was un- necessary, as the question was decided in the former appeal, and the decision then given was final under the Act. That was why the Govern- ment was unable to grant a further appeal. The matter had been before the Cabinet, and that was the decision which had been arrived at. Mr. GUINNESS desired to call the honour- able gentleman's attention to sections 26 and 44 of "The Hospitals and Charitable Institu- tions Act, 1885," under which an absolute right of appeal was given. Sir J. G. WARD said they had appealed. Mr. GUINNESS said, Not this year, but against the decision given three years ago. If the honourable gentleman would refer this question to the Law Officers of the Crown he ventured to say that they would inform the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 Government that the Colonial Secretary had no right to refuse the appeal-that it was an absolute appeal given by the Act against every levy that was made. That was a point, accord- / http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero ing to the honourable gentleman's own state- ment, that evidently had not been considered. Sir J. G. WARD said the honourable gentle- man was asking them to reconsider a former decision. Mr. GUINNESS said, Yes, because that de- cision had evidently been made erroneously, according to the two sections he had quoted. He asked whether the honourable gentleman would obtain the opinion of the Law Officers, so as to avoid the necessity of the Council going to the Supreme Court for a decision. Sir J. G. WARD said he would be very glad to look into the matter. He could only tell the honourable gentleman that the answer was that the decision formerly given was final under the Act, but, as he had said, he would be very glad to further consider the matter. SANATORIUM FOR CONSUMPTIVES. Mr. STEVENS (Manawatu) asked the Co- lonial Secretary, Whether it is the intention of the Government to establish a sanatorium for consumptive patients in the colony ; if so, will he have a report made as to the suitability of the locality of Levin for the purpose : should the report be favourable, will he consider the question of erecting the establishment in that locality ? He did not profess to have any Mr. Guinness informed by a high medical authority that it was thoroughly suitable for the purpose sug- gested. Although his question did not neces- sarily imply that the sanatorium should per- force be located at Levin, one great advantage, if the climatic conditions were favourable, would be, that it was within easy reach of the chief city of the colony, and of the centre where the de- partment was managed from, it also had the advantage of railway communication, enabling patients to be taken to the doors of the esta- blishment without difficulty. Another advan- tage would be that there would be no necessity for the Government to purchase land at a high price, as there were large blocks of Government land in the locality, and also plenty of suitable timber. In fact, all the circumstances pointed to the assumption that Levin would be a very suitable locality for the purpose indicated. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) in reply, said that the question of a site for a sanatorium was a very important one, and when a site was being selected the question would have to be gone into with the view to having the establishment placed in a part of the colony where the climate was considered the best for the treatment of consumptives, and without any other consideration for any par- ticular locality or district. If the climatic conditions at Levin and Otaki were considered superior to those of any other place, then when the time arrived to establish such an institu- tion, that place, he took it, would be selected. He knew it was a very healthy locality, and that a great deal could be said in its favour ; but, as he had stated, in the selection of a site for consumptives, the climatic conditions would be placed before everything. In addition, the site would require to be close to a railway to enable the patients to be taken to and fro with- out difficulty. All parts of the colony would be reported on before a final decision was arrived at. Mr. STEVENS asked if the Minister was in favour of having an inspection made of the locality in question. Sir J. G. WARD said, Yes. He would be very pleased to have an inspection made of that locality, with others. COOK ISLANDS AUXILIARY STEAMER. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) asked the Minister of Marine, -- (1) Whether the en- gineer appointed to the Cook Islands auxiliary steamer, " Countess of Ranfurly," is a properly qualified person ; (2) what grade of certificate does he hold ; and (3) what rate of wages is he being paid ? Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister of Marine) said the reply to the first part of the question was, Yes. The engineer appointed to this vessel was a properly qualified person. He held a license issued prior to the passing of the legis- lation of 1899 dealing with oil-engine vessels, and under the regulations issued under that Act there were only two classes of certificates for such service-the one was for deep water, 