of this now famous estate, and call attention to the action of another branch of the Legis- lature in regard to it. After all our efforts in this House to prevent the passing of the Bill of 1897, the measure went to the Upper House, and there the iniquitous character of the pro- posal was discovered and made plain to the members of that Chamber. The part of the Bill relating to the purchase of Miramar was expunged. But the promoters of this scheme-I must not use the word " swindle "-are unceas- ing in their efforts ; the passing-away of years does not discourage them. It rears its head, and flaunts itself as boldly as ever. Now, I ask, with the member for Wellington Suburbs, Is the Wellington Corporation composed of men fit to be intrusted with the management of such a large estate, in addition to the management of our ordinary municipal affairs ? Those honourable members who profess to know all about this Bill surely know something of the condition of our streets and footpaths. I have heard many of them express themselves very freely upon this subject when there is no proposal to purchase Miramar on the board. And a Corporation which so sadly neglects its primary duty, and makes plain the fact that it is incapable of carrying out the ordinary duties of a City Council, quite gaily proposes to take over the management of an estate comprising nearly fifteen hundred acres. I am now going to refer to what may be called a trifling matter, but it is a matter to which the New Zealand Times has frequently called attention-namely, that it is never possible to get the annual balance-sheet of the Corporation in anything like decent or reasonable time. I applied to- http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero day at the offices of the Corporation for a copy of the annual balance-sheet, and the latest copy I could get is dated the 31st March, 1900. What would happen at our Public Accounts Committee if the annual accounts of the colony were produced a year and a half after their due date? I wonder what the member for Bruce and the member for Wakitupu would say at the meetings of the Public Accounts Com- mittee if the accounts of the colony were so de- layed. Accusations would be made against the Government that they were endeavouring to conceal the state of the finances of the country. Now, I wish to show from this balance-sheet how the City of Wellington is already indebted, and how it is proposed to still further burden the already over burdened ratepavers. This is the "Statement of the Public Debt of the City of Wellington," as published in this balance- sheet :- 8\. 1\. Consolidated Loan . . 200,000 0 2\. City Improvements Loan . . 100,000 0 3\. Wainni Waterworks Loan 130,000 0 4\. Sanitation Loan No. 1 165,000 0 .. 5\. Sanitation Loan No. 2 33,000 0 . . 6\. Private Drains Loan 8,600 0 . . 7\. Te Aro Reclamation Loan 25,000 0 8\. Loan under clause 189 of the Municipal Corpora- tions Act .. 9,500 0 0 .. 9\. Cemetery Loan 0 0 7,500 .. Mr. Fisher £ s. d. 10\. Pahiatua Loan 324 17 0 11\. Loan for urgent works and payment of overdraft under "The City Em- powering Act, 1897 " 51,000 0 0 . 12\. Fire Brigade Station Loan 0 0 5,000 £734,924 17 0 Then, we have to add- 13\. Electric-tram service 300,000 0 0 14\. Wood-blocks for tram-road 50,000 0 0 15\. Town Hall 0 0 50,000 16\. Sanitation (authorised by Acts of 1892 and 1894) 50,000 0 0 .. 17. Miramar 75,000 0 0 . . €1,259,924 17 0 Now, contrast that enormous indebtedness and the rates of the city with the indebtedness and the rates of the other large cities of the colony. These are the latest figures I have been able to obtain, for the House has refused to allow time for inquiry and verification :- Rates in Public Debt. the Pound B. d. £ Auckland 449,900 2 10} .. Christchurch 66,000 2 4 Dunedin 603,300 2 8} Wellington .. 670,000 3 6 Our present rates amount to 3s. 6d. in 5.0. the pound, with an indebtedness of £734,924. Will those members of this House who profess to know so much about our muni- cipal affairs kindly tell us what our rates will be when our indebtedness is raised to £1,259,924 ? Do they wish us, as in the case of Oamaru, to be driven out of the city by burdensome and exces- sive rates ? When all these loans are raised, at the very least one-fourth of the property of every person in this city will belong to the Corporation . one-fourth of the income of every man or woman who has invested in city pro- perty will have to be paid to the Corporation in the shape of rates every year. No sum is set down in the Bill for the purchase of Miramar, but we must assume-for we have not this secret contract before us-that it will be $75,000, the original price asked. When the city was first asked $75,000 for this pro- perty the seaside part was attached to it, but all this seaside portion has been sold by the proprietors for seaside residences and summer resorts, but all that part of the estate is gone, and the Corporation is now asked to pay $75,000 for what is really the refuse of the estate, the outer fringe or more valuable part having been turned into cash. Parliamentary d. usage, Sir, would not allow me to characterize 0) this proposed purchase as a swindle; I am 0 therefore debarred from using the word. I 0) must therefore leave my opinion entirely to the imagination. What, now, in reality, is 0 the object for which the city is asked to 0) purchase the remainder of this estate? It 0 is this : The agitation to purchase the Miramar Estate comes not from the citizens of Wel- lington, but from the owners of the estate, who bring to their aid and assistance the influence 