for, but that honourable member was so very suspicious that he (Mr. Hall-Jones) would not agree to put the return in the form that he desired to stipulate it should be. From the return that would be presented any member "could make a comparison between the amount that the work was tendered for and the cost of the work as done. Mr. J. ALLEN said the return they wanted was a very valuable one, and one that they should have. The work ought to have been started five years ago by tender, and, according to the contract, the work would have been com- pleted in two years and a half. He did not say whether the work could or could not have been done in that time, but the men accepted such conditions when tendering. Double the time had been occupied already that the contractor would have taken. What they wanted, and what he claimed the country had a right to have, was a comparison as between the cost of this viaduct erected as it had been under Go- vernment control, and by a particular class of labour, and the probable cost of the viaduct to the colony if it had been erected by contract. This return which was now proposed to be laid on the table would give them no infor mation at all that would be of any value in making that comparison ; and the fact that the Minister refused time after time to answer a plain question he put to him regarding the way the return was to be placed on the table was evidence to him that it was done delibe- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 rately. He hoped the Minister would recede from that position, and let them know the full particulars. There was no harm in the colony knowing the cost of the viaduct apart alto- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero gether from the cost of the plant. If the Minis- ter desired to place a proportion of the cost of the plant against the cost of the construc- tion, let him put it in a separate item. He would not gainsay that, and no one would object to it ; but he maintained that the two things should be shown separately. In the Minister's own interests, he ought not to put the whole cost in one lump sum, because that would make it appear to the outside world that this viaduct had cost a great deal more than it actually had cost. Mr. HALL-JONES. - I will give a return that will satisfy the honourable member for Franklin. Mr. J. ALLEN said Mr. Massey appeared to him to be very easily satisfied in this matter. If the return was put in as amended, and if, in addition to the cost of the work, a proportion of the cost of the plant was added, it would show a much larger sum expended on this viaduct than was necessary. He had no objection to a proportion of the cost of the plant being shown, but separately. They only wanted a plain statement of plain facts, and he did not know why the Minister did not want to give it to them. Evidently his desire was to so concoct the return that it would not give the information that some members of the House thought that they and the country ought to have. He did not wish to block the return or waste time, but the return as pro- Mr Hall-Jones posed to be laid on the table would be of little service to them. Mr. WARD (Minister for Railways) said it appeared to him to be very difficult to please the honourable member. The Minister in charge had stated that he would have a return prepared to place the matter fairly before the House, so that every member could understand it. The honourable member for Franklin had accepted the assurance of the Minister that the return would be of such a nature as to satisfy him; and yet the honourable member for Bruce, in his fastidious exactitude about the return the <!-- PageHeader=":" --> Minister proposed to place before the House, found fault with the Government for not hav- <!-- PageHeader="1" --> ing accepted the original tender. The reason it was declined was that it was too high, and the honourable member on that built up a theory that it was going to take five years to do the work, as against two years and a half, the time originally fixed for the contract. Nothing of the kind. From the date of the commence- ment of the manufacture, the Makohine Via- duct was not going to take more than three years and a half-from the beginning to the end of the whole business. Honourable mem- bers, after hearing the criticisms of the honour- able member for Bruce, would allow him, on behalf of the Government, to say that after the Government decided that the original tenders were too high, and had made up their minds to build the viaduct under the Public Works Department - after that, there was a British engineering strike, and material went up considerably. It was all very well for honourable members to say what would have been done had the original tender been ac- cepted. There was a well-known saying on the English Stock Exchange that it was the easiest thing in the world to job backwards ; and that was what the honourable member was trying to do. With the knowledge of after- events, which neither he nor any one else could foresee, he wished them to believe that it would have been very much easier for the Govern- ment to have done the work as originally pro- posed. The honourable member was one who doubtless could make water run uphill. He had found fault with the return actually before it had been laid upon the table of the House. Surely the proper course would be to await the production of the return, and then, if the infor- mation contained therein was considered insuffi- cient, it would be for any honourable member to ask for an extension of the return, contain- 1 ing such further information as was desired. Honourable members knew that great efforts were being made to push on the North Island Trunk Railway and bring it to a finish ; and, as the completion of the Makohine Viaduct was essential before the line could be utilised, he thought to complete the viaduct within three years and a half of its start by the Public Works Department was highly creditable ; and when a return was offered by the Minister for Public Works, and assented to by the honour- able member for Franklin-the mover for the return - upon the lines indicated, it was a great pity that such remarks should have been made 