one in New Zealand. I will support the motion. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN .-- The Hon. Mr. Scotland asked whether boys could not be as well trained on shore as on ships. Well, that is really the whole question. There is a certain class of boys who have been found unmanage- able in existing institutions, and we have had a very large experience of all sorts of industrial schools on shore. Discipline is better managed at sea than on shore, and it is easier. The boys recognise that there must be discipline at sea, whereas on shore they seem to have the notion that it is a tyranny-that every kind of discip- line is tyranny ; and so they become mutinous and run away, or get out of control one way or another. At any rate, it has been found that as yet no industrial school in New Zealand has been managed satisfactorily, or in such a way as the ship " Sobraon " is managed. But even there a serious shortcoming was pointed out by the honourable gentleman who introduced this motion. He informed us that the " So- braon " is only a stationary ship, and that provision should be made besides for a sea- going ship. I have no doubt that that would very greatly increase the value of the system. Again, it was suggested -- I think it was by my honourable friend the Minister - that if you put boys into a uniform on shore they would be just as well pleased as with the uni- forms at sea. I think it would be quite a dif- ferent thing. They would feel that the uniform on shore was only a sham -that they were not, and were not intended to be, soldiers. But they do believe they are being made sailors on sea, and have a right to the dress of sailors. They begin to feel that they are learning the busi- hess that may be their occupation for life, and are proud of their profession. Although a good many of them do not stick to it afterwards, the influence of the training in the ship is good. This system of training is not confined to Aus- tralia. There are training-ships in England, and they have been the greatest success pos- sible. As far as the navy goes, I have heard naval officers repeatedly bear testimony to the worth of the men from the training-ships. They say that the British Navy never was better manned than it is now, and that these young men are as good fighting material as any of the old salts who fought our battles a century ago, and far more steady. Training-ships have turned out a great success as far as the navy goes. The only fault is that there are not enough of them, but it is intended to establish them on a much larger scale. Then there are also the training-ships for the mercantile ser- vice. There are two distinct sorts of training- ships-in fact, there are three. There are ships for those who are being trained for the rougher work of the service; there are ships for the training of those who hope to get into the higher ranks of the service; and there are also the penal training.ships. The penal ships are not just such as we have known in this hemi- sphere, even the "Sobraon " and others. That Hon. Mr. Jenkinson No one ever believed for a moment that it was being carried on on a system that would make decent sailors. There was not even good discipline, and the whole thing was an absolute failure. But I have known of no case where boys were put into a ship to be trained as seamen, and disciplined accord- ingly, that they have not turned out better men than they would have done under any other system. We can only judge from what we have seen, and I think every honourable gentleman will admit who has seen it -- and I had some opportunity of seeing it in England - that, in every case where a fair sea-training has been given and the boys have been put under sea discipline, they have improved immensely, and that there were very few relapses ; whereas Goodness knows how many relapses have taken place in the reformatory schools we have had ashore. As here, so in England : such training schools on shore have not succeeded as well as those at sea. Therefore I do hope that the Government will make further inquiry into the matter, and I trust that my honourable friend who has brought the matter up will bring it forward again and again, until a fair trial is given to training-ships. The Hon. Mr. MONTGOMERY .-- I think the Hon. Mr. Jennings deserves great credit for his perseverance, and the knowledge he has brought to bear on this subject. I have lis- tened to what honourable members have said about this country being a maritime country. Well, Sir, I am not so sure of that, for the present generation at all events. I am going to vote for my honourable friend's motion : but what we want to consider especially in regard to these training-ships is what kind of boys are going on them. Are they boys who are merel; guilty of what my honourable friend calls truancy, or is it for those convicted of petty larcency, because I earnestly hope that they will not make our sailors from those guilty of petty larceny. It should be an honoured pro- fession, and if we are going to send those con- victed of petty larceny to be sailors, I say that those who go from that training-ship will not be regarded with much favour. If you expect boys to go to these ships you must say what are the inducements for them to go, and what are the inducements for them to remain at sea. Boys get from 12s. 6d. to 15s. a week on farms, and they are engaged as fast as they offer. What inducement is there, as far as wag's are concerned, for those boys who go to wea. and what is the inducement for fathers and mothers to send a boy away out of their own ken to go aboard a ship? I point this out in- cause I do not think a training-ship will indnet boys to go voluntarily aboard that vessel. I come back to the point, and I will ask the Government to consider, if this proposal is car- ried, that they are not going to mix up truant boys with those guilty of petty larceny. If it is those boys who have been neglected b. their fathers and mothers -- who are, strictly speaking. orphans dependant upon the care of the State- 