very great thing to encourage. We may depend upon it that people will put up buildings just as there is a demand for them, and it is much better to trust to that principle than to put up buildings that may not be required. The second argument is that this Bill would tend to prevent speculation in land. People figure to themselves two properties, the one in- habited by a rich man, or a " fat man "-that is the classical term nowadays-and the other a poor man, or a " lean man," as he may be called. This "fat man," it is said, seeing beside him a small property on which there are no improvements, buys it and waits until it becomes valuable. This Bill, it is said, would prevent such a thing. But it appears to me that it will to some extent encourage speculation. One effect of this Bill will be to deteriorate the value of property. The poor man with a small unimproved property may not be able to pay the rates on it. His rich neighbour will buy it at a reduced price, and wait till it increases in value. Is not this speculation? It also ap- pears to me that this proposal is scarcely a fair one. Just let us walk through the City of Wellington in almost any direction, and we shall find very fine houses alongside very poor houses. These poor houses may have been put up in the early days; but they are quite sufficient for the people that they belong to, and I do not see that we should interfere with them. The effect of the Bill will be to make the "fat man " pay less and the "lean man " pay more. We hear a good deal about justice, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 but it does not appear to me that there is much justice in that. And then there are the lessees of property. These lessees have almost invari- ably come under obligations to pay the rates. The rates may be so heavy that some tenants may not be able to pay them, but having as tenants come under obligations to pay rates as well as rents they will be forced to do so. I could go on and give other arguments, but as I rose specially to refer to the remark made upon me I shall say no more at present. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, I think, not- withstanding the protracted nature of the debate, that good will result therefrom. It has been to some extent educational, although I do not think that this was the opportunity for going into the question as to whether the rating on unimproved value was the correct method of raising local revenue. That has been decided by Parliament years ago. If the question before the House had been to repeal that law, with a view of introducing the old property-tax, or to insist that there should be only one system-namely, that of rating on the capital value-then I could have under- stood a good deal of what has been said in the speeches made by honourable members. But, Sir, right along the line-there have been but few exceptions - members, one after another, who oppose this Bill stand up in their places and say, " I am in favour of rating on the unim- proved value ; I believe it is the correct system of rating ; but I am opposed to this Bill." Then, I say, if they are sincere in their statement that they believe in rating on the unimproved value as the correct and proper way of raising local revenue, why do they oppose a Bill having for its object the carrying-out of that which they say they are in favour of ? To me, this position is unintelligible. Either they have not the strength of mind to carry out their own convic- tions, or they are afraid of the consequences. It is one of those two things. For my own part, time after time I have decided that whenever you endeavour to make progress you must risk unpopularity, and leave time to decide whether or not what you propose is for good. If you are satisfied that that which you propose will prove beneficial, you must not hesitate because of the immediate consequences. I ask, Sir, what answer can honourable mem- bers give who insist upon the general taxation being levied by means of a land-tax on unim- proved values ? And, in this House, I take it, if members vote as they have spoken-though we were somewhat evenly divided for a time- if an attempt were now made to bring back for general taxation purposes the property-tax, or the taxing of land on its capital value, there are not ten members who would vote for it. I cannot understand, therefore, the inconsis- tency of those members who stand upon the platform, and stand up in this House, and say they are in favour of general taxation being levied on the unimproved value of land, and then fear to adopt the same principle of raising rates for local purposes. It is to me incomprehensible. However, Sir, members have taken that view. I am astonished most, I may say, at the attitude of many honourable members in respect to this Bill. I say, then, there are some members who are glaringly inconsistent. I first come to the professed Radical member who represents Riccarton. I am sorry to see he is not here, and therefore probably I shall not say as much as I had other- wise intended. But it will be found, on refer- ence to Hansard for 1895, Volume 90, page 146, that the honourable gentleman spoke on the second reading, and notified his intention of voting therefor. I am alluding to the Rating Bill, maintaining the unimproved condition. In 1895, Volume 90, page 158, I find he voted for the second reading of that Bill. In Hansard for 1896, Volume 92, page 636-that is, the following year-he voted for the second reading of the Bill. In Hansard for 1896, Volume 93, page 139, he voted for the third reading of the Bill. In Hansard for 1900, Volume 112, page 454, he voted for Mr. Fowlds's amendment. Therefore, as I have said, when listening to the speech delivered by the honourable gentleman the other night, I was astonished to find that he was entirely opposed to rating on the unim- proved value. He gave, according to his lights, good and sufficient ground for the repeal alto- gether of such a law. Then, I want to know how it came about that, holding these views, he could have voted for the second and the third reading of those Bills which subsequently became law, and in those Bills was contained this very principle to which he now so strongly 1 objects. I say it is glaringly inconsistent. care not what measure was passed making 