place on earth for the English-speaking races to inhabit. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) .- Sir, I do not intend to follow the example of my worthy friend who has just sat down-traverse the whole of the land policy of the colony on the second reading of this Bill. Sir, I think that this Bill, to begin with, is going in a practical manner. Now. I can speak with some authority of a district which has carried the rating on the unim- proved value, and I say that we have more work than people there to do it. We could give labour to a number of people, but we cannot get them when wanted. The honourable mem- ber for Auckland City deplored the fact that the Government was not finding work for the young men who have returned from South Africa ; and I think that their first duty should have been to have seen that the young men who have done so well should get away back to their old employment, and not loaf about the towns. It would be much more to their in- terest and to the advantage of the country. Mr. WITHEFORD .- Many had not got em- ployment to go to. Mr. SYMES .-- Some of them had, and could have gone back to it had they liked. I look on this so-called rating on the unimproved value system as a misnomer. There is no such thing as an unimproved value. Since the day that Captain Cook landed from his ship on the shore of this colony there has been an improved value in the colony. At any rate, since the first shipload of people landed in this colony there has been an unimproved value placed on every acre of land in the colony. But it is wrong to say there is an unimproved value. Call it a " prairie " value, and you get the right thing. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Some people have very strange ideas on the subject of the single-tax. We have seen single- taxers -- theoretical single-taxers -- practical. Now, I am a single-taxer, and I own land, and I am quite as staunch a single-taxer as my honour- able friend the member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds), but the single-tax is in the dim and distant future ; but it will come in the end. This is not the time nor the place to discuss the single-tax. The Bill that we have before us is for rating on unimproved value. I think the member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson) tried very hard just now to put a wrong con- struction upon an envelope, or circular, as show- ing that some one had tried to "pull the legs " of the electors of Auckland, and he "fell into the soup." That is really what he is trying to get at, whereas nothing of the sort had occurred. Now, Sir, like Mr. Hutcheson, I never look inside Hansard, for I get enough of its contents in the House. I do not care a scrap about ancient history-I do not care how a man voted last year or the year before. He may alter his opinion ten times a year for all I care. We know that the honourable member for Welling- ton City (Mr. Hutcheson) had not been long in this House before he found occasion to alter his opinion. The question of rating as at present amounts to this : Is it just and fair that a man should have a tax placed upon his thrift and to rate on unimproved or prairie value ? I say, Yes, it is; no man should be taxed for putting improvements on his land. One honourable gentleman said the other night, " But a man might put up a stable with a marble floor." I say, more power to him. He has been taxed for the improvement, then why tax him again? And we have heard of "the fat man " who builds a mansion. I will give another case of "the fat man " -- the man who owns thousands of acres of land, on which he has only a whare. He may run nothing but cattle on it, or thousands of sheep, which he takes to his neighbour to be shorn. He pays the lowest rate possible, and does his level best to get his neighbours to be taxed to make roads for him. I will give a particular instance from my own district. A gentleman from Christchurch bought a section of land near to my own pro- perty, for which he paid £1 an acre. He never did a stroke of work upon it, and did not even put a fence around it. After he had kept it some four or five years I worked out the in- terest and rates he paid on it, and found they amounted to about 15s. or 16s. When a purchaser offered to buy it he refused $4 an acre. We made gravel roads for him, and were taxed on £4 and £5 an acre, and some higher even than that, while he was paying at the rate of #1 only. A small portion of land was wanted in that locality for a cemetery, and it was thought that a portion of this man's land could be got for the purpose. The local body was thinking of taking it under the Public Works Act ; but before doing so he was written to. His reply was that he would sell five acres, but that he would want 420 an acre. That is how the present system of taxation works out. I will show honourable members how the poll for rating on the unimproved value was rejected in Stratford on the first occasion. At the time we had two large holders of land on the County Council, who made it their business to go round the district advising people to stay away from voting in order that the poll should be lost. But it is quite immaterial, so far as I am per- sonally concerned, whether this Bill is carried or not, because we have carried the rating on unimproved value. But it is a question of whether it is just or unjust, and I say rating on the prairie value is the only just and equi- table mode of taxation. I hate taxes myself, and if there is any man who says he likes taxes- well, I have my own opinion as to his truthful- ness or otherwise. But, if we must have taxes, the only fair thing we can tax is that which none of us have produced. That is the land. The men who build mansions are the men we want in this country, because they employ every description of labour under the sun. Then, why should they be taxed for ever on that employment ? They are taxed heavily enough in the first instance when they build the mansions. I say the taxing of a man's improvements on his land is legalised robbery. That is my opinion. Now, it has been asked by some honourable members, "What is the use of building more houses in the cities when 