favourable report on one's-self, as can easily be seen in this case, but I do not mind that, as vast good will be done by it. I have never, either inside or outside of the House, been afraid to state the truth in connection with any matter, and I venture to say that this Parlia- ment will bear me out in saying that I have always fearlessly exposed any evil, irrespective of what the consequences might be, and will always do so. Bill read a third time. On the question of the title, Mr. HALL-JONES .- Sir, I wish to move to strike out the word "Hospital" in the Short Title, and also in the main title. The reason is, that in clause 4A we make provision for other nurses than those who have had hospital train- ing. Motion agreed to, and Bill passed. ROTORUA TOWN COUNCIL VALIDATION AND EXTENSION BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the next order of the day was a Bill to validate the Rotorua Town Council's position. At present the Coun- cil was not lawfully constituted, and payments were overdue for some time. It was purely a local Bill, and it would not take more than a few minutes to put it through all its stages. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said that he would like this Bill to be put through all its stages now, as it was a matter of urgency, as the salaries of the staff for the last month were https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 not paid. There was nothing but the legalisa- tion of the acts done by the Town Council, with the exception of the proposal to give power to extend the borough, which had been in contemplation. As it was found that the Council had not been lawfully constituted, the Bill also contained validating powers. The Bill was a short one, and he would ask the House to pass it through all its stages before the Finan- cial debate came on. He moved the second reading. Bill read a second and a third time. # FINANCIAL STATEMENT. On the motion for going into Committee of Supply, Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay). - Mr. Speaker,-Sir, I suppose there will be no dis- pute upon one point-that is, that when Parlia- ment is asked to discuss the financial position of the colony without any of the returns neces- sary to a careful examination of those finances, that all those honourable members who, un- fortunately, have not the advantage of getting facilities from Ministers in getting knowledge as to the finances of the colony, stand at a very great disadvantage. I am dreadfully con- scious myself of the difficulties that I, at any rate, labour under owing to these circum- stances. Sir, it is true that the larger amounts connected with the expenditure of the colony are placed before us in the Financial State- ment in outline, but we have no opportunity of verifying these figures, and, without doing so, it is difficult to know whether they are VOL. CXVII .- 40. accurate or not. Departmental returns, we all realise, are accurate. The statements of Ministers anxious to make the very best of a bad job are not nearly so reliable as figures which are put before us by departments. We have not the Post Office returns, we have not that financial paper known as B .- 1, nor the Lands Report, and, beyond all, we have not the report of the working railways, so that we are, in connection with the most material points of the administration of the Government, practi- cally in the dark as to what has taken place during the past year. But examining the State- ment as I find it, it is difficult to know exactly what importance to attach to it. There is through the whole of it a subdued tone of irony and a very noticeable tone of insincerity. One scarcely can understand what the object of the Premier has been in putting many of the figures and statements into the Budget before us, un- less it has been with almost deliberate intent to mislead. Sir, it has been a theory of the Right Hon. the Premier's for many years that we should "trust the people." But, if one reads his Statement from one end to the other, it will be seen that he has departed very materially from that theory. He has trusted the people very little ; but his practice has been on almost every occasion, and in almost every department, to "bribe the people." That is the key-note of the Statement placed before us. The enormous increase of the public debt, and of the liabilities both of the Consolidated Fund and of the Public Works Fund have caused, and do cause, the very gravest alarm throughout the whole colony. It is true that the Right Hon. the Premier in the Financial Statement says that there is no cause for alarm whatsoever ; that the re- venue will balance the expenditure during the coming year, and that there will be a surplus on 31st March. But it is a fact, and I am sorry to say that I believe that it is a necessary fact, that thinking people are greatly alarmed as to the position of the revenue of the colony during the ensuing year ; and if there is one man more than another in the whole colony to whom is due that alarm, which has pervaded the whole of the community, it is the Right. Hon. the Premier himself. In his Financial Statement, in the third paragraph, I think it is, he makes fun of those persons who have been alarmed. He says in the Statement that they have made "financial hotch - potch " of the ac- counts; and he describes those gentlemen of the Press who have commented upon his own statements as mere " penny-a.liners," and then he continues to make a poor joke at the expense of those merchants of whom he tells us in his own Financial Statement. His words are :- "The credence given to the imagination of the ' penny-a-liner ' should not be found fault with by me, for, with a patriotism that does them infinite credit-which as Colonial Trea- surer I very much appreciate-merchants have risen to the occasion, cleared kerosene, sugar, and tea, with the result that the Customs revenue this month is buoyant in the extreme, and contrasts very favourably with the same month of last year." 