taking of this property in this compulsory way is justified in order to make things pleasing to the eye. Now, I want to ask the honourable member in charge of the Bill whether any representation has been made to him in regard to the inclusion in the Bill of a provision for the representation of the wharf labourers-the working-classes-upon this Board. Mr. WILFORD .- I will reply presently. Mr. FISHER .- I should like the honourable gentleman to answer that now. Mr. WILFORD .- Yes. Mr. FISHER. - Such representation has been made to him. Was an amendment to that effect moved when the Bill was in Com. mittee ? Mr. WILFORD .- No. I will explain that presently. Mr. FISHER .- Well, I shall move that the Bill be recommitted for the purpose of recon- sidering clause 5, to enable me to propose a new clause, giving special representation to the wharf labourers. Labour should have special representation on the Board, as well as the special representation for the payers of dues and the special representation for the Chamber of Commerce. I am compelled to take thisstep now because I was detained in town by a violent rain- and hail storm, which kept me standing for five minutes under a verandah, and conse- quently I arrived in the House five minutes late, to discover that the Bill had been put through Committee in three minutes. An Hon. MEMBER .- Less than that. Mr. FISHER .- Well, I suppose I am in https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 fault for not being here ; but there were two other members in the House who were present at a deputation at which we were requested to move this clause. Had I been here, I would have moved that the wharf labourers, who are as much concerned as any one in the affairs of the Harbour Board, should have the right to elect one member to that Board. If it be answered that this is class representation, then the rejoinder is this : that the City already has three members on that Board, who represent the whole city-namely, the Mayor and the two elected members. Then there is a representa- tive for the payers of dues. That is distinctly class representation. Then, there is a repre- sentative for the Chamber of Commerce. That, again, is distinctly ciass representation. I say, then, that there ought to be one member on that Board representing the purely labour in- terest. That is class representation, of course, but the precedents to which I have referred should remove all argument against the work. ing-men having their own representative. I therefore move, That the Bill be recommitted, for the purpose of reconsidering clause 5. Mr. SEDDON .- That clause about changing the financial year, I think, should be recom- mitted. Mr. FISHER .- I propose that the Bill be recommitted. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston). - I merely second the amendment for the purpose of saying a few words on this matter, and I believe it will Mr. Fisher that the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) was a supporter of the Bill under which this land was taken when it was brought down in 1898. Contra:y to his usual practice. he seconded the second reading of the Bill after Mr. Hutcheson, and he gave this Bill his ap- proval, including as it did the purchase of the very land that he has to-day condemned up hill and down dale. Then, the honourable member reflects on the rest of us as ignorant members who do not live in the city, and who supported the Bill in our ignorance. The honourable mem- ber does not know everything that goes on in the Legislature. It will be news for him, per- haps, to hear that the Bill as it passed this House had no provision at all for the widening of the streets. Perhaps he does not know that the Wellington Harbour Board, of which he is a member, had nothing to do with the clauses regarding the widening of the streets, but they were put into the measure by the Legislative Council, and a very good provision too, I think. But the beginning and the end of this trouble, although the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) would make you think so, did not originate with this Harbour Board Bill at all. It originated with the fact that a person who wanted an extortionate price for his property entrusted him with a petition to get money by using the power of Parliament which he could The honouraide not get by legal means. member presented a petition from one of these men who were dispossessed of their lands. who valued his property at €10,800, and was getting an annual revenue of #173 from it. I ask any of you what sort of an investment of that sum of money in this City of Wellington it would be that only realised #173 a year? And yet he asks us to believe that this request for £10,800 compensation was a fair request, and that, by not giving it, the man was robbed by the Harbour Board. A Compensation Court was set up under the Act, consisting of a Supreme Court Judge and two Assessors-Mr. Kennedy Macdonald and Mr. Muir-and this man, Sir, who had been offered by the Harbour Board $1,100, and had asked $10,800, was awarded £19,300 $1,200. Other claimants claimed for their property. The Board offered them $5,097, and the Court awarded them $5,350. Why, if the Premier had taken the same action under the Land for Settlements Act and any one had attempted to father a petition through this House as the honourable member for Welling- ton City (Mr. Fisher) had done, the Premier would be the first man to condemn him and say that the land was taken under the laws of the land, and that the value given was a fair one. But, besides this, the Harbour Board offered to find the claimants a similar investment in the City of Wellington which would realise as much money as they were getting out of the invest- ments. Surely it is time the Premier looked at these matters from a business point of view, and if the present method of taking land under the Public Works Act is not satisfactory he should bring in an amending Act. Then, the Premier tells us that this land 