pared to say that five of them were paying. The articles of association were prepared by Mr. Allan Holmes, solicitor. In every one of the twelve companies he (Mr. Cook) held at least five hundred contributing shares, and Mrs. Cook had a like number. All calls had been paid on them. The statement that his wife owed £50 on the shares in the Tucker Flat Company was a surprise to him. If there was such a liability it was one call of 2s. per share. He paid up 20s. in the pound on the Ross Day Dawn shares on the 2nd May. He held 900 contributing shares, and had paid £900 on them. On the 19th April, the date of his alleged liability, he had been away from Dun- edin for some months. Mrs. Cook and himself had to date paid £600 on contributing shares in the No Town No. 2 Company. Both Mr. Jack- son and Mr. John Don had reported favourably as to the No Town claim. The adjoining mile of creek had been visited by Mr. Cutten, whose report appeared in the prospectus. In regard to all the other companies Mr. Don was sent to prospect and report, half of them he con- demned, the prospectus disclosing a favourable report as to others. His report was printed without comment, and companies were floated thereon. He (Mr. Cook) had never sold a vendors' share, though several went up to a premium, and now stood to lose more than any one connected with the companies in question. He ridiculed the statement as to the directors being his own nominees; the articles of association were signed by seven shareholders, who nominated and elected the directors during his absence from Dun- edin. After being elected a director on most of the companies, he was asked to look after their interests on the West Coast. He did not / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero know that his fees had been paid : they were paid into the office and receipts given by the clerks. His services, for which the directors had made him an allowance, were inspecting matters on the Coast. Mr. Gray's evidence about misrepresentation was probably the out- come of pique-a forced dissolution. When this evidence was given in Court the Magistrate declined to hear the witness, holding that there was no misrepresentation. The Dunedin Stock Exchange meeting was a one-sided affair. The Auckland Beach Back Lead Company went into liquidation before shares were allotted, owing to Chester's report. Mrs. Cook and himself each held five hundred shares in that com- pany, but they never had a vendors' share. To that company he paid $50 in calls, and Mrs. Cook paid $50. There were not more than five hundred shares sold outside of Hokitika-the Hokitika people. Mrs. Cook, and witness bought the lot. Witness proceeded : What Mr. Easton had said about himself coming out here to look into dredging was absolutely untrue. On this point the witness said that he came out here on family affairs. I may say that he is, unfortunately, a connection of mine by marriage. He came to me and thrust himself upon me, saying that he wanted to go into the dredging industry, and asking me to advise him. This I refused to do, but after some pressure he went to the Coast, saw the claims there, and wanted me to sell him an interest in the companies-the Tucker Flat Company and others. I declined to do so, but told him that I knew a man who was carrying more shares than he wanted, and I would try to get these from him at par. Mr. Easton said, "If I can get in, and the Grey River turns up trumps, the others will jump." The Grey River Claim did not turn up trumps, as we anticipated, and Mr. Easton was left with his shares, the same as other people. No money has been spent in building dredges for any of the companies, and if they are wound up we shall lose our 2s. a share, or something like that. Any misrepresentation on my part, or any mal- practices in any respect whatever, I deny; there may have been mistakes made, the same as in everything else, but to all of these charges I am sure that I can give a good reply. The witness denied that the auditors were ever employed at his office. The existing companies, whose legal office was at his place, were working satis- factorily, the shares were generally at premiums. and dividends were being paid. He urged that documentary evidence should be ordered to be produced, and that Messrs. Howes and Holsted and Mr. Allan Holmes be called. Were that done, he ventured to say that the whole aspect of these very grave charges which had been made against him would be altered. "In answer to members of the Committee. Mr. Cook explained that he paid Mr. Howard Jackson $50 for his report on the No Town claim. Mr. Don also reported, both being favourable reports. There was no misrepresen- tation concerning the adjoining mile (which was to have been floated), as the prospectus would show. No one had voted without pay- ing the application-money. During his alence the office was managed by Mr. Holsted, the se- cretary to the Cook and Grav group. If a mis- representation had been made by another man. he objected to being saddled with the respon-i- bility, though he was liable for any pecuniary loss. A slump had been struck, a lot of people had been disappointed, and to get out of their liabilities they were making misstatements and distorting the facts. Cook and Gray had float. 1 some fifteen or sixteen companies in all. Dred:" had been built for five of the companies, and were now working. Four more were being built. The Dobson No. 2 was an unfortunate claim, the dredge having been built with a short ladder. The various companies resolved that they would not build a dredge until they saw how the Grey River dredge worked, thus getting the benefit of their experience. The dredge did not start working till September or October. Then Mr. Easton started his agita- tion, and the whole thing had been hung up since. If the companies went into liquida- tion, or were not successful, he stood to lose double as much as any other man in the place. He had not dealt with any of his shares, either contributing or vendors'. "Asked for an explanation of the serious allegations regarding brokerage charges, the witness said, ' We got 2} per cent. brokerage on 