man will not sell unless he gets a high price. An Hon. MEMBER .- Will he pay the same amount if he puts up a building on the pro- perty ? Mr. ELL .- Yes. I would not penalise the man who spends his money on improvements. He is a good colonist, a good citizen. I will now take a case of seven or eight shops bringing in a handsome rental. In this case under the present system that property pays £129 4s. 9d. ; under the new system it would pay £146 12s. 6d. You see there is an increase of the rates in that illustration, which goes to show where we will get the loss of revenue made up by taking the rates off the big buildings. I will now take a few illustrations from Conference Street. The honourable member will know where Con- ference Street is. The houses are occupied by clerks, artisans, and people in a poor condition of life. Well, now, Conference Street sections are 31 ft. by 112 ft., and are valued at £90. The rates on the land-value amount to £1 11s. On the other hand they are paying on the annual value £2 4s. 7d., $2 9s. 7d. £2 12s., and £8 9s. 5d. It will be seen again that the poor man is not going to be injured under the proposed system of rating. I will now take the richest bank in Christchurch, and show how the new system will operate. The unimproved value is $15,000, and the rates on the annual value €178 4s. 10d. The rates on the land-value would be #258 15s. That is the richest bank in Christchurch, and that shows where we are going to get the rates from, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 Now, with and not out of the poor man. regard to what the people think of it, it is in operation in nine counties, six Road Board districts, one town district; and seventeen / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero boroughs-thirty-three in all; and at the poll it has only been rejected in three boroughs- the boroughs of Picton, Timaru, and Woolston. Only three out of the forty-six polls which have been taken have rejected it. Now, what is the voting in the districts where it has been accepted ? This bears out the Premier's state- ment that it has been accepted by ten to one. In the districts where it has been carried and is in operation, the voting was 6,000 in favour and 1,605 against. This shows that the feeling was very strong in favour of it, and I think we are perfectly justified in taking this as an inti- mation that the people desire to have it put into general operation without putting them to the expense and trouble of taking a poll in every district. We have had a fair indication from the people where these polls have been taken that they desire to have the Act in operation, and I am sure we are perfectly justified in put- ting it in operation by this Act, and so saving them the trouble of taking the votes. With my honourable friend the member for Palmers- ton, I quite agree that clause 20 should come out ; this system should apply to all rates. because the benefits I have shown with regard to Christchurch as affecting the poorer class of people would only be half secured if clause 20 of the principal Act remains in force, as in that case only one-half of the rates would be affected. Mr. Ell given by the honourable gentleman is extremely interesting, and I could place more value upon it if I had been satisfied with the answer the honourable gentleman gave to my interjection. I asked if he was quoting from actual experience of rating on the unimproved values, or whether they were estimates. His answer to me was that they were taken from the rate-book, and I assumed for the moment he meant by that that he was quoting from actual experience after the Act had been brought into operation. But I soon gathered from subsequent remarks that that was not so, and that they were all, or most of them, estimates. I came to that con- clusion because he went on to speak of cases in Halswell and the Borough of Christchurch, and in neither of these places has rating on the unimproved value been brought in. Therefore the instances the honourable gentleman has been putting before the House are estimates, and not actual facts. Now, I do not mean to say for one moment that there is not a great deal to be said for the rating on unimproved value. There are cases, and the honourable gentleman quoted one, where the rating on un- improved value is fair : I mean where you have an unoccupied and unimproved piece of land alongside other land that has been improved, the former being held for speculative purposes. In such a case, I say the rating on unimproved value is fair ; but there are other instances, and I will quote some of them later on, where rating on unimproved value is manifestly unfair. Just one instance, however, in favour of that. I will not adduce one of my own, but I will take an instance from the honourable member's speech itself. The honourable member said that there were fourteen large buildings in a borough -I do not know which borough. Mr. ELL-Sydenham. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Sydenham ; but the rating on unimproved value has not been carried in Sydenham. Mr. ELL .-- No. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Then, this is another esti- mate. What is the value of his numerous estimates? They may be correct or they may be incorrect. If the honourable member, after the coming into operation of the Act, had collected instances, they would have been valu- able, but we must take estimates for what they are worth ; and in face of the fact that the honourable member could have quoted actual experiences his estimates are not worth any- thing. An. Hon. MEMBER .- The experience of Inver- cargill is favourable. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I have not heard of that. The honourable member for Invercargill made a speech, but he did not give us a single in- stance. I shall come to the Borough of Inver- cargill presently, but I wish, before time is up, to make one other remark with regard to the honourable member's speech in respect to the statistics given in a return which he quoted. He is wrong in his figures, I am sorry to say. The poll has not been taken in forty-six dis- tricts. 