very object for which it was intended is lost. And, not only that, but a great number of boat- owners have already built sheds in different parts of the harbour, and they themselves are totally against the boat-sheds being placed on this wall, being of the opinion that it is unsuitable. It is not as though they were cramped for space in Wellington Harbour; there are numerous other places and better positions for boat-sheds. This particular complaint may not be quite analogous to the Bill now before the Council, but it points to the fact that Bills as introduced by, at least, Wellington public bodies, and passed by the House, sometimes have ulterior objects which the members of the House do not see, not being acquainted with the circumstances of the case ; and the plans showing the ultimate alterations that are to be made are not put before the House. There is one great saving clause in the matter of these boat-sheds, inas- much as this Harbour Board, or any Harbour Board, is not empowered to build without permission from the Minister of Marine .. understand that permission has not yet been given by the Minister of Marine in this case, and, I trust, will not be given. I also under- stand that numerous petitions are being got up asking the Minister to withhold his consent to allow the Wellington Harbour Board to put up these sheds. Sir, I called attention to the fact that this Bill amends two Acts. It deals with and purports by its title to amend " The Wellington Harbour Board Act, 1879," but it also deals with "The Harbours Act, 1878." The latter is not a very important amendment, I admit, but it is these little things connected with these local Bills which, as I said before, arouse suspicion and cause reports to go about http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero that Bills dealing with Wellington in any way whatever have to be watched very closely by the Houses of the Legislature. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- Sir, I move the adjournment of the debate on this Bill. I have just seen the Bill for the first time, having been absent from Wellington, and it seems to me it requires a little inquiry on my part to satisfy myself that the Bill is a fair one and does no injury in any way. It deals with the con- stitution of the Board, I understand, very materially, and I should like to know if the local bodies who are interested have had their opinions asked in regard to the alteration. I know that the public bodies as a rule have no conscience; if they want a thing they strive to get it, without regard to the public interest generally ; and therefore it is the duty of the Council to protect the public interest. The remarks made by my honourable friend who has just sat down throw some suspicion over the dealings of the Wellington Harbour Board in other matters. Of course, the interests of the public at large are supposed to be guarded by the Government under the general Har- bours Act of 1878. No Harbour Board can infringe the public rights on the foreshore with- out the consent of the Governor in Council. That power ought to be ample, but sometimes we find that local importunity and local repre- Hon. Mr. Jenkinson things that he ought not to do. The Governor in Council is sometimes so weak as to submit to local pressure, and then the public interests are sacrificed. I think the best thing to do with the Bill is to adjourn the debate until members have had time to look over it and satisfy their minds that the Bill is a right one and in the public interests. The Hon. Mr. W. C. SMITH .- I do not think it is necessary to adjourn this debate. The Council must remember that this Bill has been before the Local Bills Committee, and that there it must have been carefully looked into. It has also been before another Chamber, and no doubt fairly dealt with there. I have looked into the Bill and can see nothing unfair in it. It is an ordinary Bill, dealing with the matter of the constitution of the Board, and a Bill which has been brought in by a number of otber Harbour Boards. I think the second reading can be taken now, and there will be sufficient time to make further inquiries before the Bill goes into Committee. The Hon. Mr. JOHNSTON. - I hope the Hon. Mr. T. Kelly will not press his motion. There is really no need to adjourn the debate. The Bill simply proposes to increase the repre- sentation of the country districts on the Board, a step which I think the honourable gentleman entirely approves of. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- When do you propose to commit the Bill ? The Hon. Mr. JOHNSTON .- There is no hurry, and I will move for its committal to-morrow week. The Hon.' Mr. T. KELLY .- Then, Sir, I would like to withdraw my motion. Motion for adjournment, by leave, with- drawn. Bill read the second time. # ELECTION OF CHAIRMAN OF COM- MITTEES. ADJOURNED DEBATE. The Hon. Mr. W. C. SMITH .- I would just like to say that I do not think there is any neces- sity for this resolution. A certain procedure has taken place in this Chamber and in another place ever since the Constitution was drawn up, and I do not see what advantage would be gained by making an alteration. If we do make an alteration, and if we go to the ballot, let us put it on a fair and reasonable basis. The present position, if we go to a ballot. is the worst possible. We have to vote for three per- sons, and that means that members of the Council have to vote for two persons who they do not wish to vote for. I know of no place where, when a ballot is taken, persons are made to vote for persons they do not want to vote for. The result is that in nearly every case the lowest one voted for on the first ballot will, in the end, have a majority, and will be elected to the position. One member of the Council gets, say, fourteen votes, another mem- ber twelve votes, and another member four or five votes in the first ballot. There would then bo three names that would be voted for. 