intention to amend the Act, so that the ques- tion perhaps had lost some of its force ; but he trusted the Minister could tell them for what reason this Act had been hung up for so long, and for what reason the eulogistic remarks had been made in the Governor's Speech referring to the question. Those remarks were as fol- lows : - " I am pleased to inform you that the con- stitution of the Councils and Boards under the Maori Councils Act and the Maori Lands Ad- ministration Act has been proceeded with, and, with the exception of one part, the colony has been subdivided into districts. The outlook is very promising, and there is reasonable expecta- tion of waste lands owned by those of the Native race being thrown open ere long for settle- ment." He would ask the Minister whether the reason for the Act being hung up was because one part of the colony had not been cut up into districts, as mentioned in His Excellency's Speech, and why that part had not been cut up; and why, though one part had not been gazetted, the rest of the colony, when the dis- tricts had been gazetted and the elective mem- bers had been elected, was debarred from the benefits of the Act ? Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) said the honourable gentleman evidently, from the nature of his remarks, was aware of the causes of delay. The time lost was not so great after all, considering that the Act was only passed last year, and there was a very large amount of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 intricate and novel kind of work to get through in order to make the Act successfully operative. The colony had been divided into several dis- tricts, in most of which there had been no trouble in the way of electing representative Natives as members of the respective Councils as required by the Act. There was still much, however, for the Government to do in order to make those appointments and the constitution of the Councils complete. The Government had to elect their nominees before the Councils could be properly set up. This they were not able to do all at once, owing to the difficulty of getting specially suitable men. The honourable gentleman was aware that the success of the Act would depend largely on the persons ap- pointed to administer it. Their selection, therefore, required time and very careful con- sideration in order to secure the best results. The honourable member would see that that in itself offered a very fair reason for the delay. The chief delay, however, which pre- vented the earlier coming into operation of the Act was the fact that a dispute had arisen in regard to one of the districts proposed to be set apart. There were several tribal interests in- volved in the particular issue, and the represen- tatives of the various tribes interested claimed different district boundaries. One division of the people wanted all the lands in dispute in- cluded in one district, and the other held out for soparate districts. The matter was sub- mitted to the Government for settlement. The Government ordered a plebiscite to be taken, Government to the various Native villages and kaingas of the tribes interested in the proposed boundaries, to ascertain those who were in favour of one and those who were in favour of two districts. He was glad to announce that this had been done, and the result went to show that the proposition that there should be two districts instead of one had been carried. Now that that phase of the question was settled, the elections would be ordered to take place as early as possible. And, when the Natives had elected their members, he could assure the honourable gentleman that the Government would be ready to make their appointments, and if the House this session would pass the amending Bill he had given notice of, he could well hold out hopes of the Act coming into operation at an early period. He might say, in one or two words, that the purpose of the amending Act was to afford easier facilities for the better working of the Act. One or two pro- visions were inserted in the Act of last session which did not improve the prospects of its successful administration, as they would have wished, and it was necessary to have those provisions modified, and in some instances dispensed with. But the general principle of the Act would not be departed from in any way ; and he had every reason to believe that immediately the Act, with the proposed amend- ments, came into operation in the various dis- tricts of the colony, they might look forward to very important results. He knew that in some districts there were several large blocks of Native land, the owners of which were very anxious they should be dealt with under this Act. In one instance he could name, there was a block of 80,000 acres of very valuable land in the Wanganui district ; the Native owners were all prepared to have it dealt with, and, in fact, they asked him the same ques- tion as the honourable gentleman had put on the Order Paper-namely, "When is this Act coming into force? We want our property dealt with, cut up, and let to settlers, so that we might get some revenue therefrom." In other parts of the colony he had had the same question put to him, showing that there was a strong tendency on the part of the Native race to turn to the Government, and, with the aid of the legislation passed last year, adopt the policy of putting their lands on the market as soon as possible, in order that settlement might be brought about, and an improved condition of affairs assured to them. He felt certain that, when the Bill he had given notice of was being dealt with, he would have the co-operation of the honourable gentleman and of other mem- bers, with the view to perfecting what they had passed last year. Mr. HERRIES asked, if the Hon. the Minis- ter would inform him if there was any reason, where Native members were elected, why the Act should not be at once put into force, by the appointment of the Government nominees ? Mr. CARROLL said the Government in- tended to make the appointments as soon as possible. As he had said before, the difficulty 