If the department were to initiate a system to- ¡ morrow of making valuations free they would At practically be deluged with applications. the same time I do not agree with solicitors i making undue charges. Sir, I know that the responsible officer of the department is doing his best in the interests of the department, and it is the wish, I believe, of the Valuer- General to reach what we may term the " bed-rock " valuation -- one that will stand good in all cases, and act as a guide in ! all operations. But if a valuation has been made for some time it would be necessary to get a revaluation when an application came in for a loan. In any case, the cardinal prin- ciple of the whole business is the safety of the State. That point has been reiterated time and again in the House : the business must be a safe investment, and then no loss, compara- tively speaking, will result. Now, passing on, I have a few words to say to the member for Waitemata, Mr. Monk. That honourable gentle- man was greatly exercised as to the rate of interest that is to be charged. In reply to him, all I have to say is that the Government intend to proceed on the lines on which they have hitherto proceeded. They intend to raise money as cheaply as it is possible to do so, and to give to the settlers the benefit of it. That is the position the Government intend to take up; and why the honourable gentle- man should object because somebody else had to pay 1d. in the pound under the Mortgages Act, and why he should want to penalise the poorer settlers, a number of whom live in his own district, I do not understand. Two wrongs do not make a right. The honourable gentleman laid down the law very strongly, as he generally does from his point of view, but sometimes he does not start from the right premises. At any rate, there was no reason-and there is no reason - why the hard- working settler who wishes to borrow money under the Act should pay a penny more than will leave a fair and reasonable margin of profit for the State. Then, the honourable member said, " Sir, we cannot tell the results of the advances that have been made." Why, Sir, how long does that honourable gentleman expect to live ? It seems to me he will have to live as long as Methuselah before he will really understand the working out of a simple business transac- tion such as I have brought before the House. Look at the statement that is before the House now. What more does he want? It there shows very clearly that, up to the present time, the office has made advances up to $2,675,920, and the security represents no less a sum than £5,859,039 ; and so, when he realises this state- ment that is made, and which cannot be ques- tioned in this House, because it is solid fact, he should acknowledge its truth ; and when he is told that the interest has been paid punctually he ought to be satisfied, for that does away with a number of the arguments which came from the honourable member for Waitemata a few years ago, and recently as well, when he stated that the system would in Mr. Mills rowed from the State would never pay their interest. That statement has long since fairly exploded, and I think it should be fairly and publicly stated, so that the settlers who have discharged their obligations so faithfully and so well. and who are in favour of the system, should not be stigmatized as defaulters. Sir, I advise the honourable member to own up like a man that he was mistaken. Well, Sir, then my friend the member for Franklin, Mr. Massey, had a word or two to say, and he said we were not justified in bringing in the Bill, while in the same breath he tells the country and his con- stituents that he believes in the measure. Mr. MASSEY .-- Who said so ? Mr. MILLS. - There is no doubt about it, because read the honourable gentleman's I speech. Mr. MASSEY. -. Have you got it there ? Mr. MILLS .-- I am referring to your speech į in your own electorate ; I know perfectly well that what some honourable gentlemen say on the platform and what they say in the House are two very different things. Therefore I say it has been clearly and conclusively shown that there is a necessity for this Bill. The Premier went into the matter in detail, and explained why and wherefore the Bill was necessary ; and if any one will be convinced by reasonable arguments and statements such as I have alluded to from the office itself, I think they will say, "I am in favour of this measure and will vote for the second reading and vote for every word of it in Committee." Then, Sir, I am sorry to say that my honourable friend has looked at the measure with suspicion. At times his better nature seems to sink into the depths of an abyss, and he becomes very suspicious, because he said this money was not to be raised for the department. I can assure the honour- able gentleman that so long as I am the respon- sible head of that department-and I say it without fear or favour-any of this money raised here under this measure will be for the use of the department. Mr. MASSEY .- What are you going to do with the money not wanted at present for loans to settlers ? Mr. MILLS .- My reply to that is that we are not bound to raise this large sum at once ; probably it will be raised in portions as re- quired. But, as the Premier explained in the afternoon, there are times when it would be judicious to float a large loan on the London market, and every sensible man must admit that, and there are times when it would be most injudicious; but the very fact of the Government having had power for so long to raise a very much larger sum of money than would be conferred by this statute proves that they have acted wisely and judiciously and that they only raised the money when it was prac- tically required. If they had something more than was actually wanted at the time for the advances to settlers, then they have shown good business acumen by reinvesting it. Mr. MASSEY .- Where ? Mr. MILLS .- In the proper place. There- 