sat down said, the question was one for a private member or the Government to take up. The most the Petitions Committee could do was perhaps to refer the question to the Govern- ment for consideration. They could not have gone further, as it was a question not only affecting Dunedin, but other parts of the colony ; and if the Committee brought in a report that the matter should be referred to the Government the effect, perhaps, would not be very different. He thought several other honourable gentlemen had said that in consequence of the 1894 Act being passed these petitioners had to close their business. He did not think that was the case. It was in consequence of the stringent by-law made in Dunedin that they closed up, and one question which the Committee con- sidered was who was to pay the compensation. The petitioners evidently thought the Govern- ment would take the matter up and pay the compensation. The feeling of the Committee was that it was a question for the local Munici- pality, because it was in consequence of the stringent by-law they made that these peti- tioners had to close their slaughterhouses up. But he was quite agreeable that more con- sideration should be given to the facts, and he would suggest to the honourable gentleman that he should amend his motion so that this petition might be referred to the Joint Stock Committee instead of to the Public Petitions Committee. He understood that a petition somewhat similar to this one had been pre- sented to the other Chamber and referred to the Joint Stock Committee. That Com- mittee had dealt with the principal Act of 1894, and the amending Act which fol- lowed, when those Bills were before the Legis- lature, and he thought, if it was necessary now to find out the true merits of the case, and see whether these petitioners were entitled to com- pensation, it was the Joint Stock Committee it should go to. Hence he suggested to the honourable gentleman the advisability of amending his motion so as to have the petition referred to this Committee. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND had always con- sidered that the referring-back of a petition to a Committee which had already dealt with it, for further consideration, was a very foolish thing, unless it could be shown that the Com- mittee had either not had time to consider the petition fully or else that there was not suffi- cient evidence available at the time, which might be forthcoming at some future time to guide it to a safe conclusion. What would be the result now if they referred back this petition ? Was the Committee to go over the same evi- dence again-to go over the old ground? Were the witnesses all to be recalled to repeat what they had said before? He really saw no sense in it at all. He would certainly vote against the motion. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON hoped this motion would be carried, although he sympa- thized with what had fallen from the Hon. Mr. Jenkinson. The petition ought to go to the Joint Stock Committee perhaps. However, the merits of the petition had been gone into seemed to take the form that the grievance complained of was the result of competition. Now, it was not a question of competition at all. It was a question of Samson and Sons and Blackwood Brothers having been compelled to shut up by Act of Parliament. It did not say so in so many words, but that was what it was. The Government afterwards saw that injustice was being done to several other persons in being compelled to shut up by Act of Parliament- for the existing private slaughtering-yards in Dun- edin were successfully closed by Act of Parlia- ment. Since that the Government had recog- nised a duty to compensate persons who were compelled to close by Act of Parliament-and these petitioners were as effectively compelled to close by Act of Parliament as were the persons who were compelled to close up by the Act of last year. All that they asked for was to be placed in the same position as those were in who were compelled to close up by the Act of last year. As he said, the Government recognised their responsibility to certain persons who had been compelled to close up their establishments through the pass- ing of the Act of last year ; and these petitioners said that they stand in the same position as those persons who had been thus compelled to close up, although in the case of the petitioners they actually closed before the Act of last year was passed. Reference had been made to the evidence which was given by the head of the Stock Department. In answer to a question put by himself (Mr. Pinkerton) that officer said he recognised that the petitioners had no legal claim, but had a claim in equity. They all re- cognised that, because if they had had a legal claim they had no right to be there. But they had a claim in equity. That was all they wanted ; and he therefore thought that claim in equity ought to be satisfied. True, there was an idea it was by competition they were compelled to close up. It was not by competi- tion. It was simply because the Act of 1894 gave the Municipal Council of Dunedin the power to make certain regulations which they had not the power to make before that Act was passed. Therefore the petitioners had no power to place their meat on the Dunedin market, and as a consequence they felt com- pelled to close up. Let them take a suppo- sititious case to illustrate the force of this petition. Say two newspapers established themselves in Wellington, and that the Go- vernment said the people of Wellington should not read one of them, and should read the other. Would the persons owning the first newspaper not be entitled to some compensation against the Government ? He thought they would. The Government had a right to consider them. Now, the Act they passed last year said this, in effect : " We are going to close certain abattoirs, and we recognise in doing that we shall have to give compensation to the owners of those places that we close." Now, the slaughtering-yards of these petitioners were quite as effectually closed as those premises that were closed through the Act that was passed last year, and all they 