to ? Mr. J. ALLEN said, to the Minister of Lands. It was not answered on the right day, and was passed over then and was not answered at all. Mr. SEDDON thought the honourable mem- ber was absent when it was called on. Mr. J. ALLEN said he was not absent. These questions were never reached, and there were other members in a similar position. Consequently, as they were there, and did not get their questions answered for two or three weeks, he submitted it was a breach of the privileges of the House. MAORI HISTORY AND ART. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) asked the Premier, If he will appoint a Select Committee, to sit with any similar Com- mittee which may be appointed by the Legislative Council, to inquire into the ad- visableness and probable cost of forming a national collection illustrating the history of the Maori race? He would be very glad to alter the question in any way to suit the Premier. But the question of providing such a collection had been thought of throughout the colony from one end to the other. He presumed honourable members had seen the charming publication called "Maori Art," which was brought out by Mr. Hamilton, of the Dunedin Museum, which was perpetuating by photogravure illustrations of specimens of Maori art. But he thought it was desirable, before it was too late, that the colony should agree to the establishment of a special central museum wherein specimens of Maori art could be preserved. He had suggested the scheme of a joint Committee, but if the Premier could suggest any better means of dealing with the question he would be happy to fall in with it. Seeing, however, that it would involve a certain amount -probably a considerable amount-of expenditure to get a really good selection, it would be a desirable thing that the two branches of the Legislature should meet and discuss the matter, and make some recom- mendation regarding a scheme, and they might be able to form some sort of idea what the cost of a good collection would be. He hoped the Premier would agree to the principle of his proposal, even if he did not fall in with the idea of a Committee. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he was pleased that the honourable gentleman had brought this matter directly under the notice of the House. It had not escaped the attention of the Govern- ment. For some considerable time past the Go- vernment had recognised that a large number of Maori art carvings and other works of Maori art, which could not possibly be replaced, were gradually being bought up and taken away from the colony ; and when residents of New Zealand wanted in the future to know any- thing about the colony, and Maori art and science, they would have to go to Germany. That was the position into which we were drifting at present. They thought, first of all, a law should be passed absolutely prohibiting should be the first thing. Secondly, they thought, in regard to Maori lore and art, material should be collated before it was lost. They had already engaged on that work the best man, he thought, in the colony - Nr. Stawell, of Hawera -- who had made it a life study, and who would be able to place the matter before the colony in a way which would reflect credit on himself and carry out fully what was intended. In addition to that, there was another very important matter. In Auckland there had been started a Maori girls' school. Now, he thought, as they would have the later generation of Maoris there, some of the old Maoris should be engaged to teach the younger generation. Going into the back country - the Crewera country, for instance- where civilisation has scarcely touched the Maori, it was found that these works were still being carried on. If, as suggested by the honourable gentleman, a Committee would help the Government, the best course would be to bring in a Bill dealing with the subject, and then that Bill might be referred to a joint Com- mittee of both Houses, and by that means they might help the Government in dealing with the question. He thought it was a duty owing by the colony to future generations that that should be done. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) suggested that the Premier should enlarge the scope of the ques- tion, and then submit it to the Committee. That would be a better way than by bringing in a Bill. He knew the work that Mr. Hamilton was doing, and he knew that a great many of the original records he was putting in his book -canoes, and such like-would very soon be lost altogether, and it would be a great pity if that was so. His work was a great work, and one that they ought to encourage, and he thought the House was in favour of something of the kind being done. He hoped the Premier would set up the Committee, and ask Mr. Hamilton to assist in the work. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) suggested that in setting up the Committee the scope should be so enlarged as to include the isles of Greater New Zealand -- the South Sea Islands lately annexed. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the Government had taken action in the matter, and they in- tended to proceed. It was not simply on Mr. Hamilton's action that this was being done, but long before Mr. Hamilton went into the matter at all the Government had been work- ing at it. Of course, in the first place, they had to thank the foresight of Sir George Grey. At the same time, he was quite willing to have any assistance they could get ; but Mr. Stawell was on work similar to that which Mr. Hamil- ton was doing, and Mr. Percy Smith was also doing it : and, in respect to the Greater New Zealand Islands, Mr. Percy Smith was going now to the island of Niue, without salary, for three months, for the purpose of becoming acquainted with the natives and all concerning them, and whilst there he would act as Resident Agent for the New Zealand Government. In 