of that kind, is it right that I should be able by republication to make the country liable for damages ? It may be in the public interest that the general privilege of having speeches reprinted should not be curtailed merely be- cause members may now and again abuse it. On the other hand, would it not be a very simple matter to allow the privileges to con- tinue, and at the same time to relieve the (Government Printer and the taxpayer of any liability ? It is a perfectly simple matter, but it cannot be done by a simple resolution. It could, however, be done by a Bill of a couple of clauses; and. although I will not vote against this resolution, because I would prefer to see the privilege continued than to see it taken away altogether ; yet after passing this resolution, removing the responsibility from a member's shoulder and putting it on to the House, I would suggest that it be followed up by a Bill relieving the Government Printer from any responsibility in any action for libel in connection with these reprints. The Printer would then be in the same position with regard to them as in the case of Hansard ; but members, while their remarks in Hansard would be privi- leged, would not be so protected if extracts were made and circulated. The junior member for Wellington City has stated that he was not anxious to avoid any responsibility in this con- nection, and it would follow that he has not the slightest wish to mulet the Government Printer or the taxpayer in the case of any action being brought against the Government Printer and the speaker for publication of such extracts. I think the Minister will therefore see that though we may pass his resolution unanimously he will not have settled the question which gave him such a scare last session, and there might be some hope of passing with the same unanimity a Bill to put the question beyond all doubt. and on a just and equitable footing. Amendment, That, in the opinion of this House, it is desirable that separate reprints of honourable members' speeches reported in Hansard may be printed at the Government Printing Office as hitherto. Agreed to. Motion to go into Committee agreed to, and the House went into Committee of Supply. The Bill was read a first and second 5.0. time. On the motion that the Bill be read a third time, Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) said, There is one item here that I would like an explanation about. It is in the Second Schedule of the Bill, the item $38,500. Will the Hon. the Minister in charge kindly explain what that amount is for ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, the figures are the same as in the last Imprest Supply Bill, but this $33,500 is to meet interest charges on advances to settlers which fall in towards the end of next month. That is the reason why the increase appears here as in the Second Schedule. I think it is only right that the information should be given to honourable members, otherwise they might think, after the schedule had passed through, that it had passed may say the debate on the Bill has been some- what protracted. An. Hon. MEMBER .- No ; very short. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, the debate on going into Supply so as to get at the Bill was very long, but I have no reason to complain. I do not think there has been anything said that is at all unnecessary, and I hope the position is now satisfactory to all concerned, and I be- lieve it is. The only unpleasant feature-a matter which was to be regretted very much- was a remark made by the honourable mem- ber for Riccarton, which I hope, on calm reflection, that honourable member wil iwith- draw. The expression was that those who were employed at the Printing Office were there simply out of charity. I do not think that deserving men, who are honestly earning a living, and who are being paid the ordinary rate of wages, should have such terms applied to them, and applied without the smallest provocation. I think that was entirely wrong. There was no necessity for any reflection of that kind, and the men will naturally feel it, though they are not responsible that the Government will not introduce the linotypes and other improved appliances. I, at all events. think that the State should not be the first to take the opportunity, when we have no competition to meet, of adopting this means of throwing out of work and upon the world a large body of men. As far as I can see, the finances of the colony do not warrant us in doing that. We have practically no competi- tion, and I say that a comparison of our work will show that it is done as well and as reason- ably as the work of any printing firm of the colony. As I have said, the Government de- cided not to introduce these appliances, and neither the country nor members of the House have called upon us to do so. Because, then, we have not decided to introduce these ap- pliances, is it right that these men should be charged with living upon charity? I hope the honourable member will withdraw the remark, which I think must have been made without due reflection. I move the third reading of the Bill. Bill read a third time. # HOSPITAL NURSES REGISTRATION BILL. On the question, That the amendments in this Bil. be agreed to, Mr. HALL-JONES .- When this Bill was in Committee I promised to move for the re- committal, for the purpose of striking out cer- tain words in clause 4, and I therefore move the recommittal of the Bill for the purpose of striking out the words " and unless the matron herself is a certificated nurse." Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- Sir, on the question of the recommittal of this Bill I want to make a few observations. When the Bill was being read a second time there were certain statements made. For instance, the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Arnold) made this statement regarding myself :- 