ments as low as they possibly can, and that they are to fix the unimproved values as high as they can. Well, the intimation -- An Hon. MEMBER .-- An intuition. Captain RUSSELL. - An intuition - what the precise and proper word is I really do not know. I hear the Right Hon. the Premier groaning; he recognises we are discovering his little tricks, but so it is. Mr. SEDDON .- You are doing a grave in- justice to good, honest, and upright public officers. Captain RUSSELL .- I am extremely sorry I should do a grave injustice to anybody, and I am not prepared to go so far as to say there is proof of this ; but I do go so far as to reiterate that it is universally believed that that in- timation or intuition has gone abroad amongst the valuers-and the valuers, at any rate, act upon that principle. Well, now, we find this also : that not only is the sum allowed for im- provements reduced to what is becoming-I was going to say an irreducible minimum ; they have unfortunately all but arrived at it-but continually we hear, "Oh, that is an exhausted improvement ": and the process of exhaustion is going on year by year and month by month, and I may almost say day by day. The im- provements being put upon country properties are, according to the valuers, daily becoming exhausted. I have in my mind's eye the case of country that has been under dense bush, where the timber has been felled, where in due course of time the land has been stumped, after https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 having been logged and burnt off, and that pro- perty, which was originally primeval forest, has been brought into what is called a highly im- proved condition, with the result that the cost http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero of bringing the land into that condition has been greater than the actual selling-value of the property so cleared. Then. I would ask, How in a case such as this is it possible to ascertain what is the unimproved value ? What unimproved value has the land if the money it has cost to bring it into the con- dition in which it is has been equal to or greater than the selling - value? I have in my mind's eye also another instance -- the case of a swamp which was almost bottomless, where drains were dug to a certain depth with spade and shovel when they first were cut, next, at almost incalculable expense, with the axe and adze through buried timber, and by degrees this land has been drained and has be- come dry. The swamp, which was a quaking bog, has become valuable paddocks, carrying great quantities of stock and growing good crops. And yet we are told that because some of the drains are no longer running drains-they have been so once, but only carry water now at certain seasons-on that account they are exhausted improvements, and no allowance is made for them. I have been told actually of a case of a man who drained by subsoil drains, and the valuer went over the country and said he could see nothing but grass, and good grass, and he could not allow for any improvements he could not see, and therefore the cost of pounds per Captain Russell as improvements at all, because, indeed, it was an improvement the valuer could not see. I can tell how plantations have been made, but which, being young, have no saleable value, so are not called improvements. I have been told that they could not be taken into account be- cause they were not saleable. I have known thousands of pounds in river - bank protection works - willows planted at great expense-and have been told that willows are an unsaleable commodity, and therefore river-protection works could not be charged as improvements. These illustrations are given to show how the system of rating on unimproved value works out in prac- tice. More and more the tendency is to reduce the country settler to the position of a man who has no improvements, because, under instruc- tions from the department, nothing will be allowed for improvements such as felling bush and grassing land after a certain period of time, because they are improvements that become ex- hausted. As an illustration of how injurious it will be, relatively speaking, for the country settler as against the man in the town, take the case of a man living in the suburbs who has a vegetable garden, from which he supplies the town with fresh vegetables. Alongside him is the mansion of a successful business-man or successful pro- fessional man. He has probably expended on this mansion £7,000 or $10,000, and there it towers up towards the sky, an untaxed improve- ment never to be "exhausted." The farmer, who has spent €10,000, and is causing two blades of grass to grow where one had been growing before, is penalised ; his £10,000 spent in im- provements is soon exhausted, while the man with the mansion is let off scot-free. Should that system of taxation meet with universal approbation ? The Hon. the Premier tells us that wherever the case has been submitted to the ratepayers ten to one have voted in favour of rating on unimproved values, and that there had been no recession from the view that the alteration has been desirable. Mr. SEDDON .- That is the position at pre- sent. Captain RUSSELL .- It may be so. I can- not deny the accuracy of the statement, for I do not know the cases in point; but I do not think the people have thought the matter out for themselves if they have agreed to this. The Premier referred to the case of the holders of small tenements in Molesworth Street, and he said it was absurd that they should pay less taxation than those who lived close by in large houses. I do not at all agree with that theory. Because people live in small tenements it does not follow that they are bad citizens. They may be very deserving persons, although they may not have sufficient capital to put up large houses. Take as an illustration the case of the owner of a small house and the Gear Company, which owns a large shop and meat-preserving works on Lambton Quay. Am I to be told that a concern that has twenty or thirty carts con- stantly running on the streets, and which does an enormous business, is to be taxed only on the same footing as regards taxation as the poor 