" So that the actual number of children not known to be attending any school is 26,258. But, in referring to this 26,258, care must be taken to guard against the assumption that 26,258 children remain neglected in the edu- cational sense, or that they have never received any education. In analysing this total, two elements come into play. First has to be con- sidered the number of children whose parents object to send them to school before they have reached the age of six or seven. It would be difficult to estimate the number of these child- ren. The number, of course, is an indetermi- nate number, but it should be understood that, whatever the number, they are included in the 26,258. Next has to be taken into account the very large number of children who, having passed the Third, Fourth, and Fifth Standards, leave the public schools from the age of eleven and upwards, having probably received all the school education they will ever receive. The number of these can be estimated. For in- stance, last year (vadie Education Report, 1887), out of a total of 12,302 children who were pre- paring for the Fourth Standard (12.5 being the average age at which the standard is passed), 3,523 either left the public schools finally, or continued in the class preparing for such stan- dard." I now come to the point at which I come into conflict with the honourable gentleman's views as expressed in clause 4 of his Bill :- " It is a fact that the great bulk of the child- ren of the working-classes leave school at about that age " -- that is to say, about the age of eleven and upwards -"themselves to go to work." My paper proceeds :-- "To a close observer, then, it will become http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero apparent that in the Registrar-General's figures the same 3,523 children who left school at the Fourth Standard, as just stated, v ill be made to do duty for possibly three, but certainly for at least two, succeeding years amongst the 'not accounted for ; "" The Registrar - General told me afterwards that in making up the statistical returns for the colony he experienced great difficulty in discovering the whereabouts of this residuum of the children who were not attending school ; but through these investigations, I found where these children were, for which I again say, as others say for me, ego. He thanked me. " - for, leaving school at twelve and a half years, they will be classed as 'not at school ' at thirteen, so at fourteen, and possibly so at fifteen, the fact being that they have finished their school-days although they are still within the range of school-age (five to fifteen). And the same process a ill take place in regard to a number of children of other standards who finish their education (all they will get) and leave school before they reach fifteen, and are consequently returned by the Registrar-General as being within the school-age, but are ' not accounted for' because they are not in actual attend. nee at school." Mr. Fisher Committee to decide upon whatever age-limit it pleases. The object of the Bill is, it seems, to compulsorily force parents to send their children to school from the age of seven until they are fifteen, and that, I hold, would be a hardship upon a large section of the working- classes of this colony who take their children from school at eleven or twelve, in order that they may assist in maintaining the family. From the opinion I have so strongly expressed in this paper it may be taken for granted that I will endeavour to prevail upon the Committee to reduce the age from fifteen to fourteen, and possibly to thirteen. As for the word " seven " I shall feel bound, in accordance with my con- viction of long standing, to vote with the honourable gentleman if he insists upon its retention, although it may to some extent cripple the resources of the Education Boards. I vote in that direction for the reason that I believe it will strengthen, instead of weaken, the mental powers of the children of this country. Now, Sir, I have a complaint to make, and I will endeavour to express it in the most impassioned way. That complaint is that I believe there will never be a complete remodelling of the Education Act, and conse- quently of the education system, until we have a Government in office-I ask the Government not to take this as a personal reflection upon themselves . I say we never can have a com- plete remodelling of the education system until we have on these benches a Government with sufficient courage to attack this question in the way in which it ought to be attacked. There is in the minds of the Government a dread of the Education Boards. An Hon. MEMBER. -- Why should there be ? Mr. FISHER .- The honourable gentleman need not put that question to me. I prepared and submitted to the House a Bill which would have sent the Education Boards to the right- about, and have put an end to their existence. But, as I have said before in this House. the Government does not exist which dare face that question in that way. I say the Education Boards are an exerescence upon the system, and until the educational affairs of the country are administered from one head we never shall have anything like a national system. Mr. MONK. - Centralisation. Mr. FISHER .- Call it what you will, I say that would strengthen, not weaken, the educa- tion system of the country. The existing sys- tem has no more ardent admirer, no stronger supporter than myself. Any person who has heard me speak upon the subject during the past decade must surely understand by this time what my feelings upon this question are, and I say there must be a virile, animate, and active feeling in the Government itself which will forge it ahead, with strength sufficient to break down any barrier that stands in the way of advancement and improvement. As I have said, I prepared a Bill, "The Public Schools Bill," which, while it proposed to abolish the 