sailing-vessel or steamer coming here ? Will you find all British sailors on board ? No; you will generally find that many of them are foreigners, and it behoves us as a young nation to look after ourselves in the future. I do not intend to detain the Council with any further re- marks on the subject, but I shall support, as far as I can, the honourable gentleman's motion. The Hon. Mr. BOLT .- Sir. this is a very important subject to my mind, and, I believe, to the minds generally of members of the Council. Now, the Hon. the Minister has asked, If you could get such good results from training on board a ship, why not get the same results on shore ? I think honourable members will see, as my honourable friend who preceded me pointed out, that the conditions are quite different. On board a ship a boy naturally takes to habits of order, cleanliness, industry, and a sense of freedom accompanies all his actions, which is not the case on shore. The life of a boy in such an institution on shore is rather monotonous ; but a boy on board a ship cultivates not only those feelings I have mentioned, but he cultivates a cheerful respect for those in authority over him. He feels he belongs to a seafaring race, and the traditions of that race have become established in him, and he unconsciously takes part in the history of the people of that race. That, I think, is perhaps the main thing which distinguishes this training from training on shore. Again, Sir, in regard to training on board a ship, we know very well that people who have been https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 inured to a seafaring life have the greatest en- joyment wherever there is a slight element of danger. One never has any real enjoyment unless there is some small element of danger. http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero and although one would scarcely say there was danger on a training-ship, vet when a boy is on anything afloat it brings that sense to his mind. He has a sense of freedom also, and if there is an element of danger it gives him a spirit of enterprise and initiative which cannot be brought out in shore life. Now, with regard to what has been said on the question of turning out sailors, I do not think this training will bring out good sailors -- I mean the sailor of the old school, such as the Hon. Mr. Scot- land alluded to vesterday. The truth is we shall never see that sailor again. He is an extinct species, belonging to a different class of seafaring life. The sailor of the present day does not live the same life that the old sailor did. He has not got to lie aloft furling clouds of flying canvas over his head. He has not the same resource. He relies purely upon the machinery in the engine- room, and that machinery to a great extent has undermined the character of the old sailor. But, while it is doing that, it is making a class of sailor which we can to a great extent improve by training of this sort. The training which now goes on in training-ships goes a long way, I contend, in the direction of making a sailor such as is required at the pre- Hon. Mr. Reeves was said yesterday : that the necessity for this kind of training-ship is the result of our past legislation, and that had it not been for our labour legislation we should not have required this training-ship at all. I do not think we should have this thrown in our faces, that in consequence of our past legislation contingencies like this have arisen. In every country where there is labour legislation, or where there is none, you must provide for contingencies such as this. The question is, Can we, if we have these training-ships, turn out stronger boys and more honourable and better men than we can by a shore training ? I think we can. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK .- I think there is one thing that requires to be alluded to before we come to a decision on this subject. A "red-herring " has been drawn across the scent, not -intentionally probably, but accident- ally. This is owing to the fact that, when the honourable gentleman who was the parent of the motion two years ago had a Committee set up, and evidence was taken from a captain in the Royal navy, his evidence was led in such a way that he was induced to believe that what we wanted to have was a ship to be a school for the navy. This created a great complication. A large section of the members of the Council merely wish to see the boys trained for the sea, and the navy is no con- sideration whatever. The captain informed us that if we had a training-ship, and if any of the boys among the inmates of that ship had any criminal taint upon them, no one trained on the ship would be admissible into the Royal navy - that is to say, that they would start with a bad mark for life. This com- plication ought to be got rid of. Let us have a training - ship for the mercantile marine, and leave the Royal navy entirely out of the question. This is the view I take on the subject. It is very awkward for Parliament to deal with a question where there is any kind of complication. We do not want a ship for training for the navy; we want a ship on which boys shall be trained as sailors, and we should prefer that, after their training, if possible, they should take to land pursuits -- ! be the "handy man " on shore. That is the case with the boys trained on the "Sobraon," of Sydney, of which we have heard so much. A ship like that would suit us, and attached to it a sea-going craft. on which, as the Hon. Mr. Bolt said, the hovs could now and then go and face "the dangers of the sea "-go on "active service." so to speak. I think it is most desir- able, and I really do think a resolution like this ought not to have been necessary at present. 1 believe such a ship ought to have been esta- blished many years ago. It has been a very mistaken policy that it was not done. The boys who are at present in our industrial schools -otherwise, "reformatories," for they are re- formatories in this country-take Caversham or Burnham for instance - are badly branded through some of them having been more or less mixed up with criminal children-children who 