brought before Parliament and was so success- ful in having placed on the statute-book. Suffice it to say that first in order we have the consolidation of the land laws of the colony in "The Land Act, 1892." Prior to that time our laws dealing with this question had been for some time fragmentary, and there was difficulty in dealing with the subject ; but he, by the passing of that measure, assisted Parliament and assisted the country in having a concise and consolidated law bearing upon land and land-administration. Then we had the Water-supply Act, and all will admit the very great benefits that have been derived from that legislation. Then, so far back as 1892, we had the Dairy Industry Act. When we look back on the position of affairs, at the dairy in- dustry at that time, and realise the magnitude of the industry to-day, and the great boon it has been to the people of our colony, one and all must admit that a great deal of the credit for the success must be given to the late Sir John Mckenzie. Sir, that credit will not now stintingly be given. Sometimes during life there are those who do not feel called upon or who hang back in paying due tribute to the merits of those who have helped to do good for their fellows, and to promote the well-being of the country. But in this respect I say he did noble work ; and, proceeding from the time of the passing of " The Dairy Industry Act, 1892," we have had in succession grading and cool-storing, and in each and every detail there was no better friend to those engaged in https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 this industry than the one who has passed away, and whose loss we so deeply deplore. Then we had also " The Stock Act, 1893," and "The Cheviot Disposition Act, 1893," and I can speak in respect to the latter with autho- rity, because I know what occurred at the time, and that any hesitancy in respect to the Cheviot Estate would have caused serious loss to this colony. I say that the name of our late friend will ever be connected with that action, which he fully supported, and which has led to the success of that settlement. Then, there is "The Land for Settlements Act, 1894." There were those who differed then, and who to-day conscien- tiously differ, more especially in respect to the details of that measure ; although I think I may say that, in respect to the policy of plac- ing people on the land, that policy is generally and universally indorsed. But there can be no doubt of this fact : that there are many now who enjoy homes, there have been many who have been lifted from anxiety and almost from want, who will ever respect the memory of him who helped in a great measure to give them their life's opportunity. I leave the question of the Land for Settlements Act, and I come to the Land Improvement and Native Land Ac- quisition Act. All these measures had the one object in view - namely, the desire to place the people upon the lands of our country ; and he lived to note and to see the success and the fruits of his labours. It will be, Sir, in connection with our land legislation, and the Mr. Seddon upon the land of our country that the name of our respected comrade, my friend and colleague, will be remembered. I, Sir, know that one and all present feel that we can never do full justice to his memory in this respect ; but I feel also sure, Sir, that one and all will endea- vour, even though he has passed away, to still further promote that great object which he had in view, and for which he made the greatest sacrifice that man can make-namely, the greatest of God's blessings, good health ; because there can be little doubt that his unstinted ser- vices to the country, his faithful discharge of duty, his leaving, as it were, and neglecting health for the carrying-out of the objects he had so much at heart, has shortened his days. Feeling that to be the case, one and all of us now will do all that lies in our power, and we can do something, to comfort those who have been left behind to mourn the loss of a loving husband and affectionate and kind father. Our minds to-day will be with the bereaved family group at Heathfield. His home and family life was perfect, and worthy of emulation, and bright in the extreme. I can only say, as a late colleague, that in counsel he was of incalculable assistance to me. He was a kind and true friend. He could always give good and sound reasons for his every action, and all will admit that to be the case. Although you might differ, you could only come to one conclusion - namely, that our comrade who has just passed away was sincere, that his honesty of purpose could never be questioned, and that he was upright in all his dealings, public or private. He was one of those men with a strong personality, and though you differed from him you would always respect him. He was respected in life, and in death his memory will ever be kept green in this country, and there are those thousands to-day and thousands to come hereafter who will bless the name of John Mckenzie. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay). - The House has listened to a description of the ser- vices which have been rendered to the colony by the late Sir John Mckenzie. It never was my good fortune to sit on the same side of the House that that honourable gentleman did; but I trust that, though many of us may have been in antagonism to him in political life, there is scarcely a man - - I think I may say there was no single man-who was other than a friend to him in a personal capacity. A great personality passed from life to history at the death of Sir John Mckenzie. Time will enable a truer esti- mate of his career to be drawn than his con- temporaries can sketch. His was a remark- able figure. Bold, though rugged in out - line, fashioned in grand proportions of the best Scotch granite. In a political world much deteriorated by a vigilant opportunism his uncompromising adherence to his con- victions was worthy of all admiration, even by those who sometimes doubted the wisdom of his methods. Those who may have thought his view was sometimes narrow admitted that his path was always straight. Concentration of 