bability was that the Board would be very fre- quently in conflict with the Chairman, who was Commissioner of Crown Lands and a Govern- ment official, and that members would miscon- strue what their powers were. At the present time members of the House who were members ot Land Boards did not always act in the inter- ests of settlers, but sometimes in accordance with their own political ideas regarding land administration rather than in accordance with the statutory provisions of the Land Act. Mr. HERRIES .- Is it the department that says this ? Mr. DUNCAN said, That was what the de- partment said. They did not understand the Land Act, and he thought it would be rather worse with elected Boards. Then, if the mem- bers were elected they would require to be elected on the same platform as members of the House. Men who had no land would re- quire to be represented on the Land Boards, just the same as those who had land, and what would be needed was a general election. This would necessitate rules and regulations being laid down, and heavy penalties would need to be imposed upon the members of the Board if they transgressed the law, or else there would be trouble. Mr. MASSEY. - We want men who know something about land. Mr. DUNCAN said that was the principal thing that was wanted, and he did not know that they would be more likely to get such men under the elective principle than in the present way. However, he did not think it would be wise to start a new system just at the present time, or until they had made further advancement. WELLINGTON CITY ABATTOIR. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked the Minister for Agriculture, Whether he has been officially notified of the selection of a site at Ngahau- ranga for the Wellington City abattoir ; and whether the Government will, before approv- ing of any site, take the opinion of the small butchers of the Wellington District on the sub- ject ? The question referred to the proposed site of the Wellington City Council abattoir. The Minister would fully realise that it was one of great importance ; and, further, that the dis- triet about Wellington was of such a nature that it would be a very hard thing indeed to select the site that would be most convenient to all the parties concerned. He understood a site had been provisionally selected at Ngahau- ranga, close to the Meat Company's works, but that this selection met with a large amount of opposition, particularly on the part of small butchers. The small butchers, he submitted, deserved every consideration in this matter. He noticed from a Wellington paper that there was a proposal from the Makara district to ask the Government to erect an abattoir there. This seemed to him a little out of the way for the present, though it had large advantages ; but he thought that every site suggested should receive the attention of the Minister. He was fully VOL. CXVII .- 21. select the site, but it was for him to say whether he approved or not of any site suggested by the City Council, and he trusted the Minister would express disapproval of every site until he was throughly satisfied that the best site had been chosen. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister for Agriculture) said this was a very difficult matter, and he had gone to some trouble over it already. With a deputation of the City Council and of butchers he had examined three sites. Any one of the three would suit him perfectly well, because the only stipulation that came within his jurisdic- tion was that he should be satisfied that on the site suggested all the appliances requisite to the carrying on of an abattoir in a proper manner were obtainable. Any one of the sites he had seen would do that. They were well supplied with clean water, or water that could easily be made clean, and all were reasonably convenient. He thought, if the small butchers would fall in with the proposal to establish an abattoir on the upper site of Ngahauranga, that would be most suitable, and they could utilise the ground at the other place as paddock-accommodation, as it would not be far away. By having the site on the Ngahauranga Flat they would have a good water-supply, could easily have the railway- siding run to the site, and would be saved a lot of town road-carriage. As he had said, he had no objection to any site the City Council had selected. If they requested to be allowed to carry on an abattoir on a site on which it could be carried on in a proper way, it was his duty to give them a permit to erect an abattoir on that site. He had done all he could to get the small butchers and the Corporation to come to some amicable arrangement, because he held it was for the benefit of the town as well as of the small butchers that the latter should be kept going ; and it was also for the benefit of the country, because if the butchering got into a ring, which it might do -- An Hon. MEMBER .- It has done. Mr. DUNCAN. Well, it was drifting that way. Of course, they knew what that would mean. It would mean dear meat, and that was not a good thing for the community. Not only that, it would mean low prices for the small farmers. He would like to see the small butchers still able to carry on their legitimate work, and hoped the local authorities would also see the advantage of this, and would fall into a scheme that would be suitable for all parties. # WORKMEN'S HOMES. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked the Government, Whether any further progress has been made in the purchase of land at Porirua for workmon's homes ? This question ought probably to have been addressed to the Right Hon. the Premier, inasmuch as he attended to that portion of the administration of the Land for Settlements Department so far as concerned the purchase of lands. Some time last year a request had been made by him that the Government should 