Dunedin in that respect. As a matter of fact, the question of gambling comes into all mining companies, whether dredging or any other, and my opinion is that the man who loses his money in a mining concern proves the saying, that "a fool and his money are pretty soon parted." If a man goes into a mining specu- lation he ought to know that the chances are about, say, ninety-nine to one whether he will get his money out of it again. But I do think the Government ought to take into its own hands, as the member for the Grey urged, the question of the audit of companies' balance-sheets. Of course, that would necessi- tate the employment of very many more au- ditors, but we should get a very much better system than obtains at present. What is the present system ? That practically the directors of a company appoint the auditor to audit the directors' accounts. Of course, theoretically the shareholders appoint the auditor ; but in the majority of instances the auditor is selected by the directors, and the auditor would be a very great fool indeed if he went out of his way to injure his prospects of re-election. But, to my mind, the best cure in connection with com- panies would be to put them all on the principle of those mining companies where there is no liability- An Hon. MEMBER .- Bring them under the Mining Companies Act. Mr. PIRANI .- I would go further, and say that a man's liability shall cease in regard to a public company when he thinks he has paid https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 enough. Yes ; it is all very well for the member for Wakatipu to smile at that. An Hon. MEMBER .- There is a class of com- panies. / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero Mr. PIRANI .- Yes, there is a class of com- panies in existence at present. But I want to place all on the same footing, because I say that you do not hear tales of swindling in con- nection with these no-liability companies that you hear in connection with the ordinary limited liability companies. I know it is not a popular thing to advocate. I mooted it in this House once before, and I have no doubt that at the present time it would not receive much support. But, Sir, I believe the time will come when the greatest check upon this misrepresentation and swindling in regard to public companies would be to put them in such a position that the directors of the company should be the persons who would be liable in the case of the failure of the company to carry out the expectations formed or set forth in the issue of the prospectus. An Hon. MEMBER. - Then we should get no directors. Mr. PIRANI .- Well, you will always find directors if it is a genuine concern, no matter what the liability is. But you will get no directors for a number of these speculative con- corns that are simply got up to sell shares and gull the public. I feel certain that if this prin- ciple were extended to the majority of companies they would be found to work very much better than at present; because, if the concern was Mr. Pirami those who take up shares, very good care will be taken that their shares will be paid up, so that if the affair does turn out all right they will be able to reap their reward. Then the directors would not enter into any liabilities beyond the cash that was in hand. There would be no prospective liabilities ; there would be no making large expenditure on the chance that they would in the future be able to call up further capital; and I am certain that would be one of the greatest benefits, at any rate in connection with dredging companies, that you could possibly have. I hope the Minister will give seine further attention in connection with the system of audit, because the present system is not working as satisfactorily as it ought ; and it is the duty of the House, while giving every encouragement to the formation of limited- liability companies, to offer every protection it can possibly afford to those who take up shares in these companies. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways). - Sir, as to the point raised by the honourable member for Mataura regarding the adjustment of brokerage, I think he is quite right there. It seems to me that the proper thing would be to eliminate subsection (3) altogether from the Bill, and then there would be what was originally intended as provided in subsection (2) of clause 10. Upon the question of keeping the mining companies entirely separate from the Companies Act I quite agree with the honour- able member. It seems to me it is desirable that the Mining Companies Act should not be mixed up with the general Companies Act, and that it would be necessary to have a special Act for mining alone, with certain provisions of a suitable character imposed regarding mining operations in the colony, which would not apply to companies generally. As to the point raised by the honourable member for Palmerston, I may say that, personally, I am in favour of Government audit. I think it would be a good thing to allow the shareholders to elect a Government auditor if they wished, and there is no reason why reputable private firms could not in some way be certificated Government auditors, and I should be quite prepared to take the sense of the House when this Bill is in Committee upon the question. I think a com- pany should have the right to elect private or Government auditors by vote of the shareholders as the shareholders thought proper. I look upon it that the best safeguard for the companies and the shareholders, as well as for the people who are doing business for those companies, is to have a reliable audit, and I should be quite prepared to consider such a proposal, although, as I say, shareholders should not be deprived of their right, if they so desire, to elect an auditor or auditors. I should support giving the power for the shareholders to have Govern- ment audit upon proper lines. I do not think there has been any point raised in connec- tion with the principles of the Bill itself to which I need reply. As I have said, it is in- tended to put the company law of the colony upon a better footing. The Bill is before the 