the very names of the electorates will not be kept up with the redistribution of seats. I should much prefer that he should carry out his design in this way-namely, by saying that the population, say, within a quarter of a mile of a borough or town district, or something like that, shall not have the 28 per cent. added to it. I think he should do that rather than leave the Bill as it stands, to apply only to particular electorates, which are fleeting objects, here to- We do not know day and gone to-morrow. that even their names will be retained next time. I do not think the Bill would attain the object desired, but the principle I am quite in accord with. I know cases in which the 28 per cent. has been added to and included even in the city electorates, and I think most honour- able members will agree with me that that was not what was intended, but that it was intended, in dealing with the country districts, that 25 per cent. should be added to the country and not to the urban districts, as is the fact now. I have much pleasure in seconding the measure, because I approve of the principle contained in the Bill as being beneficial to the country districts. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- Sir, I re- member that the discussion on the Representa- tion Bill which led to the fixing of the 28 per cent. concession to the country districts was the occasion of one of the most memorable " stone- walls " that ever took place in this House. And it was my pleasure on that occasion to be in complete agreement with my modest young https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 friend Mr. W. P. Reeves. The "stonewall " la-ted for three weeks, and was most earnestly, most honourably, and most patriotically kept up by the city members fighting steadily and http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero steadfastly against the encroachment of the country members. We were beaten in the end : but then, after all, we adopted the view that it was only just that the sparsely popu- lated country districts should have the 28 per cent. added to their quota, and I do not see any reason, distant as the time now is from the passing of that Act, for altering the decision come to by the Legislature on that occasion. The Boundary Commissioners will sit at no distant date to arrange the boundaries of the electorates of the colony, and it may well be left to them to decide what the future bound- aries should be. I take the proportion of the suburban population which goes to augment . the city constituencies to be, if not infinitesi- mally small, at least to be so small as not to demand any very serious attention. While the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty was speaking I asked him whether the Bill would affect the City of Wellington, and the honour- able member for Christchurch (Mr. Ell), who introduced this Bill, said that it did not affect the City of Wellington. I was not in the House during the delivery of the early part of the speech of the honourable gentleman, but during the last portion, which I did hear, the honour- able gentleman made no reference to the popu- lation of the city electorates, or to that portion that extent the argument of the honourable gentleman was, to my mind, defective. If the population of the cities has so increased that there is an overflow to the districts surround- ing the cities, which is especially the case in the City of Wellington, it is fair to assume that in our case, by reason of the increase in our population, we shall have one additional mem- ber. Mr. MONK .-- You have too many already in the cities. Mr. FISHER .- We have too many already ? Well, they are the best men in this House anyway. As to the Auckland members, there is room for very great improvement. Well, Sir, one cannot help admiring the industry of the member for Christchurch City, Mr. Ell. One cannot possibly entertain any feeling of hostility towards him. One sees his evident carnestness in every matter he brings before this House. Though not yet fully matured in opinion, it is no less the duty of the young as well as the old members to add to the power and the wisdom of Parliament. The honour- able gentleman is perfectly entitled to put forward his views of the question, but if the imperfection in the representation of the country amounts to such dimensions as he would have us believe, then it demands not only the attention of the Legislature, but of the Government, whose duty it will be to bring in a Bill to remove the imperfection. But at the present moment the duty of attend- ing to this disproportion of the electorates, and especially of dealing with the 28-per-cent. ac- cretion in the country districts, is a matter, I take it, that will be left to the consideration and decision of the Boundary Commissioners. Mr. ELL. - There was an increase by a nominal addition to the rural population in the City of Dunedin Electoral District. .Mr. FISHER .- Yes, of course; and a very good thing too. But it does not matter what is the increase in the population of Dunedin, or Wellington, or Christchurch, or Auckland. It will be the duty of the Commissioners to allocate the seats in this House according to population, and to alter the boundaries of the several electoral districts. It is for that particular duty they were constituted by Act of this Legislature. The Legislature itself did that ; and, as I have said, although I opposed it at the time, I opposed it solely in the interest of the city electorates. I opposed it at the time-being loyal to the representatives of the large centres of the colony with whom I voted as one of the City party-yet now, reflecting upon what has passed in recent years, I am bound to admit that the country districts are entitled to the concession then given to them. Sir, I do not want to see in this House a resumption of that feud between the country and the city members. It should be remem- bered that we are here as representatives of the interests of the colony as a whole, and not as the representatives of particular districts. That is the view every member of this House ought 