members to consider it before the Bill came on. The adjournment of the Council interfered with his motion coming on, and in the mean- time the Bill passed the other branch of the Legislature, and had since also passed the Council. He thought it was matter for regret that Parliament did not have full information as to the working of this very important Act before the measure was disposed of. He did not say there was anything in the return that would affect the measure very much ; but, at any rate, it would have enabled members to study the subject and see how the Land for Settlements Act was being administered and how it was working in the colony, and to bring to the consideration of the matter in- formation which at present was not in the hands of either members or the people of the colony. He thought that, although the Act was passed, it was necessary that the colony should have very full information as to the way in which this important Act was being administered. He might say, in passing, that Parliament ought to have had laid before it, within fourteen days days of opening, a full return as required by Act of the working of the Land for Settlements Act during the past year. Another return showing how the Crown lands had been disposed of should also have been pre- sented, but as yet neither of these returns was available for honourable members, although Parliament had been fifty days in session, and those returns were required fifteen days and twenty days respectively from the beginning of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1. 32106019788246 cach session. Parliament was at present with- out any information as to the working of these very important Acts during the past year ; and if in what he was about to say he was incorrect / http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero in any of his premises, it was only because he had not had an opportunity of availing himself of the information which those returns would have given as to what had been done during the past year. It was a matter for regret that these returns had not been laid on the table as required by law. It was a default that ought not to occur again. It was impossible to do justice to an important subject like this, unless they had full and com- plete information as to its working when Par- liament was dealing with it. The cost of the return, he thought, would not be great. The motion spoke for itself. He desired to have a return of all land purchased under authority of the Land for Settlements Act of 1894, and that such a return should show clearly the different classes of land acquired. He had followed the classification named in the Act, so as not to have a conflict in this respect in any return that might be furnished. That Act defined lands as: (1) Agricultural, (2) second-class, (3) third-class, grazing-runs, and so on ; and in a return it was desirable that that classification should be followed under which the lands had been acquired. When the Act of 1894 was passed many honourable members who were now in the Chamber were here, and others were in the other branch of the Legislature ; and he ven- tured to think that all would agree with him Hon. Mr. Ormond the debates when it was adopted, they would find that Parliament originally determined that the Act was necessary for the purpose of providing land for close settlement. That was the great justification for asking for an an approriation of large sums yearly under the Act, and, as he said, the principal object Parlia- ment had was close settlement of the land. He was entirely in favour of the Land for Settle- ments Act when it was passed, and with others in the Council had taken part in amending it from being, as it was when brought down, & crude, imperfect, and unworkable measure, and making it useful. His honourable friend who sat behind him, the Hon. Mr. McLean, was one of those who also took a very active part in that direction. The object of Parliament was, as he had said, to secure close settlement, and in 1996 Parliament went further. It had then become apparent that sufficient provision had not been made in the original Act for close settlement of another kind-namely, workmen's homes-and that was provided for in the Act of 1896. He asked the Council to follow him in agreeing that the objects of passing the Land for Settle- ments Act were close settlement : under the first Act, general settlement, which was in- tended to be largely agricultural ; and in the second place, the very important provision for workmen's homes in the neighbourhood of cities and towns. No one could deny these objects were such as did credit to the colony. And we knew now than in older countries, even in England, homes for workmen were being largely promoted, with benefit to a class of workmen-mechanics and artizans who were living in the neighbourhood of the towns. He had endeavoured, so far as he was able, to get from the returns which were at the service of honourable members how this Act had been working in New Zealand, and he was obliged to say that he was very much disappointed. The Act was not being worked as it ought to be, he thought, for the benefit of the persons for whom it was passed. It was very difficult for any one without studying these returns to get at what proportion of the lands, which had been purchased for settlement, were agricul- tural land to be used for agricultural purposes or for close settlement ; and the returns, so far as they had been given, of what had hitherto been done in respect to workmens' homes were exceedingly disappointing. Very little had been done in that very important direc- tion-that direction in which he thought there was very large scope in the colony, and to which Parliament, he thought, intended a considerable proportion of the moneys which had been duly appropriated for that pur- pose should be devoted, and that must be disappointing to those who wished to see this Act carried out for the benefit of the people of the colony. The result of his inquiry therefore was that, on the whole, quite a minor proportion of the settlement which had taken place under the Land for Settlements Act had been on that class of land which Parliament meant should be the chief object on which the money should be 