An Hon. MEMBER .- Under the existing law they must get a certificate of exemption. Mr. MEREDITH .- That is true, under the Act ; but there are many ways of evading the question and of getting out of the difficulty. It would not be wise to raise the school age from five to seven. I would leave the age at five. I have no objection to extending it to fourteen years. At the present time it is confined to thirteen years, and I would be prepared to extend it to fourteen years. I think there are good objections to the raising of the age to seven and extending it to fifteen. Our children who commence attending school at five years enter into the kindergarten department of our large schools, where they gather ideas during the first year or two of their school life, upon which foundation they raise a most useful superstructure in future years. Therefore I do not think we need interfere with that. I will support the second reading of the Bill. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo). - As a member of an Education Board, I wish to say a word in connection with this Bill. The honourable gentleman has suggested that the age should be retained at five. It appears to me that the first duty is to make the children physically strong, and if honourable members saw, as we saw when going round with the Teachers' Salaries Commission, the number of very small children congregating in the large schools, it would be evident to them that they were far too young to be confined for such long hours in a school-building. For my part, I think the mover of the Bill is wise in making it seven. I do not think that any real progress is made by placing children below that early age at school, and I think seven http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero is a quite early enough age to send them to school. It enables them to become physi- cally strong, and then afterwards they have greater power of acquiring and assimilating knowledge than if their school training started at an earlier age. The question of school at- tendance is a most important one, and I con- gratulate the honourable gentleman upon bring- ing in his Bill. The fact is that education is placed too easily within the reach of all, and the consequence is that many people quite fail to appreciate its blessings. If they had to pay something for it they would take much greater care to see that their children availed them- selves of all its advantages. Of course, I have not the slightest intention of suggesting that anything like a charge should be imposed, but I cannot help thinking that there are many parents who are not esteeming as they ought to the advantages that they possess in enjoying one of the greatest blessings that any country can have-the free education of its children. There is another point in connection with this matter, and that is this: that children should be required to go to the school in their own school district. It is a very serious matter in this colony. Teachers may in carrying out their work properly offend some very sensitive parents, and they have the power now to and sending them to other schools that may be a little further away. I think that in amending the Education Act the opportunity should be taken to make provision that child- ren should attend the schools in their own school district. Of course, there is the larger question of the driving to school opened up, and we should make a definite stand with re- spect to it. I shall support the second reading of the Bill. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) .-- Just as Christchurch initiated education, so Palmers- ton North has perfected the system, and, irre- spective of party sides, I am pleased to hear so many kind references to the member for Palmerston. As we are all interested in the passing of this Bill, I do not see the necessity of prolonging the discussion myself, and I hope, therefore, we shall proceed at once to agree to the second reading. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) .- Like the honourable gentleman who has just sat down, I intend to support this Bill ; but, in spite of the observations he has made, I think there are just one or two points in connection with the matter before the House that should be fought out. With the honourable member for Avon, I fully recognise the fact that there is nothing in the work done by Justices of the Peace which gives cause for greater pain or more bitter disappoint- ment in connection with our education system than these matters of truancy. But there is one point that has struck other members as it has struck me-and a painful point it is too -- and that is the gross ignorance which many, if not most, of the parents of the truant children themselves manifest when they are brought into Court. It is one of the most pitiable and painful facts that comes under one's notice that there should be such a large proportion of the parents of the colony who still fail to appreciate what is due to their children and what is due to the State in seeing that their children are taking advantage of the free education provided for them. The par- ticular point I wish to call attention to in con- nection with this matter is this: Where the parents come before the Court they very fre- quently display the grossest ignorance as to the provisions of the law itself, and I think the schedule which contains the form of notice to be served on the parent by the Truant Officer should be of the simplest possible character. It should simply set out, in plain terms, the parent's duty so far as the child's attendance at school is concerned, and draw unmistakable attention to the penalty imposed on the parent for failing to fulfil that duty. And if this is done in plain and unmistakable language, so that even the most ignorant person can under- stand, it would have the desired effect. As a rule, a sheet of blue paper is handed in by the Truant Officer, and I think, equally as a rule, that paper is not read, and, if read, is not understood. And I think, Sir, it would be infinitely better if a notice of a much simpler character was drawn up for the Truant Officer to serve on the parents 