"Last session we had what I call a very exaggerated statement with regard to the har- bour, and I certainly expected that it would have been taken notice of by the Harbour Board before now ; and not many days ago, in this House, we had a severe statement made by him with regard to the Municipal Council in connection with their management of and the state of the Water of Leith. Such a state- ment should be treated with the contempt it deserves both by the Council and the members for the city." Then, again, he says,- " I refer to this matter now so that I may in the first place lay emphasis upon the state- ment made by the member for Waihemo. If it is found that it is not correct, the authorities in Dunedin can note it, and, I hope, cause the member to be more careful in the future." Sir, first of all, in regard to my statements in connection with the Harbour Board : I ask the honourable member, Mr. Arnold, were my statements true ? He gives no reply. He says he hoped the Harbour Board would take notice of them, and then he continues that my state- ment with regard to the Water of Leith should be treated with the contempt it deserves by members of the House and Councillors. Sir, why should the Harbour Board take notice of my speech and not the City Councillors ? Will the honourable gentleman say that my state- ment with regard to the Water of Leith was in- correct ? I want the honourable gentleman to reply to that, because if he says that my state- ment was incorrect I have evidence here to show that the state of the Water of Leith was as I described it, and the Minister for Railways will also bear me ont in the statement that I wrote to him complaining that the Water of Leith was in a disgraceful condition, and that he communicated with the Dunedin authori- ties, and caused the filthy sewers containing offensive matter to be stopped. An Hon. MEMBER. - I should like to ask the honourable gentleman what this has to do with the amendment of the Hospital Nurses Registra- tion Bill ? Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- I am referring to a speech the honourable gentleman delivered on the second reading of the measure, and am replying to remarks delivered on a speech on this Bill. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I do not think that would be in order. The question now is the recommittal of two clauses for specific pur- poses, and the discussion must be confined to whether those amendments should be put in or not. Mr. T. MACKENZIE. - The reason why I have taken this opportunity is because I wished to reply at the earliest possible time to the honourable gentleman's remarks, but if you rule me out of order I must submit to your ruling. I would point out that the third reading might not come on for three weeks, owing to the financial debate, and that led me to take advan- tage of the earliest possible opportunity. Bill recommitted. Mr. T. Mackenzie IN COMMITTEE. Clause 4 .- " (1.) Every person who. on the coming into operation of this Act. holds a cer- tificate of three consecutive years' training as a nurse in a hospital, and proves to the satis- faction of the Registrar that during her train- ing she received systematic instruction in theoretical and practical nursing from the medical officer and matron (the matron her- self being a certificated nurse), is entitled to registration on payment of a fee of ten shillings. and on application to the Registrar on or before the thirtieth day of June, one thousand nine hundred and two." Mr. HALL-JONES moved to strike out the words " the matron herself being a certincate nurse." Amendment agreed to. Bill reported. On the question, That the Bill be read ! third time, Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- I was saving, when I was ruled out of order by the Deputy-Speaker, that I had communicated with the Minister for Railways in connection with the offensive drains in Dunedin whib poured into the Water of Leith, and he t. s the matter in hand and insisted that the mais- ance should cease. Mr. Arnold wished to convey the idea that my statements were wrent- and that they should be treated with the cut- tempt they deserved. I may say I have as great interests in Dunedin as the honourahh member for Dunedin City (Mr. Arnold : and I venture to say it is those who point out the weaknesses in a local body, and assist in ne forming them, who are the best friends of the community, so that by removing defects the: may improve the condition of the city and : health and beauty. During the passage of th. Tramways Bill, by insisting that the beauti !. resorts of Dunedin should not be destroyed. 1 assisted others in endeavouring to preserve the beauty of the place. I consider the man ! io most patriotic who endeavours to secure the health of the community and the beauty of its surroundings, and his remarks in that direct n should be taken in the right light. honourable gentleman said the Council she'd take steps to keep me from exaggerating; to- bably he meant the Council ought to have taken steps to prevent my speaking the truth. thus making things comfortable for then :. However, Mr. Arnold will have ample open- tunity when I sit down to defend his paris1. 3 if he wishes. Now, coming back to the gate- tion of the Hospital Nurses Bill, in connec- tion with what is now contemplated by the Hospital Board : The Chairman of the Board was interviewed by the representatives of the Otago Daily Times and Star. When he was approached he put on what was called a broad smile, and said " This is one of Mr. Thomas Mackenzie's sensations." But when they m: t to consider the matter smiles vanished, and it formed the subject of what they call a heated condemnation. They were visibly moved. and poured forth the vials of their wrath on my poor head. They then demanded an investi- 