late them to doing something practical in the interests of the workers. Anything I 8.0. say against the present Government in regard to the stagnation of trade that periodi- cally comes on the colony applies with equal force to my friends on the other side of the House. I will tell members why I say so : Some ten or twelve years ago, when a similar difficulty was faced in the colony, and the miners were leaving our goldfields, I came to Wellington and saw the late Sir Harry Atkin- son and some members of his Government, and pointed out to them that shipload after ship- load of experienced miners were leaving the northern goldfields for Australia and other parts of the world to develop the mineral resources. Sir Harry Atkinson promised to see that some- thing was done by means of which the ex- perienced miners whose knowledge and service were of such value in the development of the goldfields of the colony, should be retained in the country. I suggested to him that practi- cal use should be made in the first instance of the Geological Department, and that the men should be sent to investigate the position of the different auriferous districts of the colony. They should find out what mines had been partially developed, and see that proper treat- ment was being given to the ores of the district, and point out to people who were spending money whether they were spending it so as to obtain the best results from their work. As I mentioned the other day, one mine in Auck- land-the Waihi-was not being properly run at one time. They were not treating the ore in https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 a proper manner, with the result that it was returning only 3 dwt. to the ton; but we find that under a different treatment last month's return from the mine was valued at £38,000, and every month the average value of the mine is now over £30,000. That mine, as I have said, was much neglected at one time ; but on account of one young man with expert know- ledge going to the field the system of treat- ment was improved, and the mine has produced gold to the value of two millions sterling in the last ten or twelve years. There are a number of other properties in a similar position between Wellington and Auckland ; and I maintain that if the Government would take action to demon- trate the value of our mineral resources-let the honourable gentleman take up the mining industry first of all, and let other Ministers deal with other industries later on-the result would be similar to that achieved at Waihi. The goldfields of the colony would turn out large quantities of gold. Many mines that are nowy returning nothing at all would be made to produce handsomely, and in that way much good would be done to the colony, for every one knows how valuable a goldfield is to a country. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about the Royal Oak ? Mr. WITHEFORD .- It is said that mine is not being treated in a proper manner; but £50,000 has been spent to develop it, and, al- though it has turned out gold valued at £50,000, much good might yet be done for it by the Mr. Witheford also be done in other parts by instructing the people to use the right plant, and to so treat the ore that the best results would be obtained. Sir, I feel rather reluctant to take up the time of the House to-night ; I am not in proper form to address the House. I consider, however, it is the duty of members to point out to the Ministry that we should give more practical stimulus to industries, for pre-eminently the great question of the age is the profitable employment of the people ; yet it is probably the subject to which we give proportionately the least attention. We are all to blame, more so than the members of the Government, if we do not strengthen their hands as much as lies in our power. As far as I am concerned, I shall do what I can on behalf of the province I come from. In the North Island we have gold enough to pay off the national debt of the colony if the Government will only go to the trouble of devising some satis- factory scheme for getting it out of the ground. The colony has already produced gold to the value of $56,000,000, which is far in excess of its national debt. The English people could not turn that amount of gold out of England for the reason that they have not got it. L.et the world know that we have mineral wealth. which, if properly developed, could make us in- dependent of the foreign money-lender. In re- gard to gold production, I would like to say that I believe the Minister of Mines is a good, practi- cal man, and that if he set to work he could de- vise a system by which the unemployed miners of the colony could be made to produce gold ad- vantageously to the country. I say, Sir, that it would be far better to set them to work to de- velop these hidden treasures that we have all over the country than to allow them to leave our shores. Our miners have a far better know- ledge of the auriferous conditions of the districts in which they are located than any man im- ported from other countries can possibly have, and if we permit them to leave, we suffer an irreparable loss. In any one of these men we may be losing a Sir John Mckenzie, an R. J. Seddon, or a Minister of Mines like the Hon. Mr. McGowan. I believe the Hon. the Minis- ter will make a name for himself in this country if he will only rouse up and stimulate the goldfields industry. Apart from the wealth the miners would produce, every man would be valuable as a settler, and a taxpayer, and a contributor to the population. Is it right that the Government, who are talking about a de- creasing population, should sit quietly and see our able-bodied miners leaving the goldfields, simply because English capital is being with- drawn ? I say, Sir, that it is wrong to do so. There is no better market in the world for the sale of produce than on a successful goldfield. When we consider the immense amount of auriferous country between Wellington and Auckland, and the rich gold-mines already opened up in Auckland; when we take into consideration the Urewera-country and the Kaimanawa Ranges, I say it is a great pity that nothing has been done to develop that rich country. Instead of showing timidity in regard 