might be done without interfering with the provisions of the other Act. For instance, there is no reason why the amount of stamp duty which under ordinary circumstances would be paid in connection with this gift should not be placed on the estimates in the first instance and returned in the ordinary way. But, that there should be provision made of such a character as to insure that in all cases in future stamp duty should not be leviable, I think the House will agree. I desire, as a member of the House, to add my tribute to the praise the honourable member for Franklin bestowed upon the many citizens who have done so much to add to the prestige of the northern city of Auckland, and I wish that other towns in the colony had philanthropists who would act similarly. I should like, in connection with the gentleman to whom such eulogistic reference has been made, to say that there is no man in the country who deserved better recognition as an old and valued citizen, and by the munificence of his gift which he has conferred upon the colony ; because, although Auckland itself is the more immediate bene- ficiary, the colony as a whole derives incalcul- able benefit by such generous acts. It would be, I am sure, to the universal satisfaction of the people throughout the length and breadth of the colony if the services of Dr. Campbell were recognised in a way which would add to the lustre of his name, and which, so long as Auck- land exists, will live in the memory of its people. It would afford immense pleasure to the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 citizens of Auckland, as it would to the colony as a whole. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .- I cordially agree with the principle of the Bill. Every en- couragement ought to be given to benevolent and public-spirited persons who are in the possession of wealth to set it apart for the country's good, and all that has been said by the honourable gentleman who has just sat down and the member for Franklin I cordially agree with. One point raised by the member for Riccarton is worthy the attention of the honourable gentleman in charge of the Bill, and that is that the term "public institution " it appears to me is not sufficiently defined. think the clause should be amended by adding, after "educational purpose," "duly elected as a governing body." If public bodies having control of endowments were duly elected and in touch with the people, it would be a guarantee that the intention of the bequest would be car- ried into effect. I have only to remind the House that endowments in other countries-for example, Italy-immediately after the war of unification, in which the celebrated Gene- ral Garibaldi figured so conspicuously, the endowments in connection with religious insti- tutions were taken away to the extent of more than six millions and devoted to the benefit of the State under public control ; and just recently a Bill has passed the French Parliament disen- dowing certain institutions, and devoting their revenues and endowments to distinctly public purposes. I think the honourable gentleman in charge would be wise to remove all suspicion Sir J. G. Ward or doubt respecting the Bill by moving in the direction indicated. I hope the House will endeavour to bear in mind the point raised by the member for Riccarton, and which I have endeavoured to emphasize a little further. It is quite true that Auckland has reaped a rich harvest from public-spirited men who came in the early days to reside in that part of the. colony, and who have acquired wealth as the result of industry, application, and foresight. But public-spirited men are not confined to Auckland. We have had them in Canterbury, and Canterbury people are considerably in- debted to persons whose names I could mention -honourable names of those who have endeared themselves to the people on account of their public-spirited acts in placing property at the disposal of public bodies for the benefit of the- public. Mr. MILLS (Minister of Trade and Cus- toms) .- I cannot allow this opportunity to pass without testifying what I think of the generous and noble-hearted man who has given such a valuable gift to the residents of Auckland and the Colony of New Zealand. I think strangers are particularly impressed on visiting Auckland with what has been done for the place by so many other public-spirited men, because it is so much more than has been done in other parts of the colony ; and I am inclined to envy the town which has had that class of men residing there so long, and who have left such valuable records behind them for the benefit of posterity. 1 happened to be in Auckland when the gift was made, and was present when the key of that grand park was handed over, and I really felt that nothing could be more patriotic than the way in which that large area of land was dedicated to the public by that venerable old pioneer, Dr. Campbell. I am sure that he has the thanks of the whole of the people of New Zealand for his noble gift. I know that there have been men in other parts of the colony who have done their share in making dedications for the benefit of posterity. In my own electorate the late Mr. Carter conveved a piece of land to the governors, and handed it over to them for a new high school, and I have no doubt this measure will be the means of I inducing others to follow the good example set by Dr. Campbell and other generous old settlers with protit to the people of the colony. I have much pleasure in supporting the Bill. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) .-- I should like to say a few words before this Bill goes to its second reading. I feel, as an Auckland man. very much disappointed that this Bill does not refer especially to the Cornwall Park; but I have the assurance of the Minister that a sum would be placed on the estimates for the pur- pose of recouping the amount of duty paid in connection with the transference of that pro- perty. But this Bill is not such a simple measure as it appears at first sight. It is a Bill brought in for the express purpose of securing to the Government certain duties that may be paid and have to be paid in future. It is not so long ago since another Auckland gentleman made a large bequest to the people, 