although a member is within his rights in re- mining in a Committee-room. still I hope the custom of Parliament will prevail, and that when a member is properly reminded that it is advisable he should withdraw that he will comply. ## RETURNED TROOPERS' FARE FROM SYDNEY. Mr. MCLACHLAN (Ashburton) asked the Minister of Defence. If it is true that his office is deducting from the pay of returned troopers of the First Contingent who came home by way of Sydney the sum of $3 10s., being their pas- sar-money from Sydney to New Zealand ; and, if true, why so ? He had received his informa- tion on this matter from one of the troopers who had returned to the colony by way of Sydney. After returning to the colony he was ill in bed for a time, and when well again . he made what he considered was a reasonable re- quest for back pav. and was then informed that a sum of $3 10s. had to be deducted for passage- money from Sydney to New Zealand. It was certainly most extraordinary that the Govern- ment should take up such an attitude in the matter. The men were sent away with every mark of jubilation, and were warmly welcomed back, but when they were landed in Sydney they had to pay their own fare to Wellington. He hoped the Premier would see that this money was not deducted from the men at all. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said one story was good until another was told. The https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 position in this instance was this : The Im- perial Government arranged the passages of the men to Wellington, and when the men reached Sydney they left the transport of their own motion, and came over to New Zealand by another steamer. Consequently, they had to pay their own passage-money from Sydney to New Zealand. It was for their own con- venience that the men left the transport. They gave orders for their passage-money ; and, that being so, why should the Government be called on to pay their fare over to New Zealand? It was a responsibility the men took on them- selves. Mr. MCLACHLAN said the first steamer did not come to New Zealand-the " Harlech Castle." Mr. SEDDON said the "Harlech Castle " was to come to New Zealand, but the Govern- ment stopped her and made other arrange- ments. The departmental reply to the honour- able gentleman's question was as follows : - " A deduction of $3 10s. was made from the pay of certain men of the First Contingent for their passage from Sydney to Wellington by the s.s. ' Moana.' The men had guaranteed payment of their passages if allowed to return by that vessel." There was nothing more to add to that reply. It suited the mon not to stay in Sydney, and they left by another steamer. They gave orders Mr. Speaker NEW ZEALAND ENSIGN BILL. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) asked the 8.30. Premier, If he will reintroduce the New Zealand Ensign Bill for the purpose of altering the wording of section 4 into the phraseology which should be used, as directed by the Secretary of State for the Colonies, pro- viding that the Act shall not come into opera- tion unless and until the Governor notifies by Proclamation that it is His Majesty's pleasure not to disallow the same, and that thereafter it shall come into operation upon such a day as the Governor shall notify by the same or any other Proclamation ? At present the matter of the New Zealand flag was in abeyance, and nothing was being done to end the suspense that was at present existing. On reading the correspond- ence that had passed between the Premier and the Deputy Governor on the Ensign Bill the House passed last session, it seemed to him that they required clause 4 to be altered as shown in the question on the Order Paper, and there need be no delay in the passing of the necessary amendment this session. He hoped the Premier would put the matter in hand, because at present there was a great deal of doubt and confusion on the subject on the part of our public schools, municipalities, and the general public, and certainly the matter required a settlement, which would be effected by the alteration of clause 4. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the best way of answering the question would be to ask Mr. Speaker to allow him to give notice to intro- ' duce the New Zealand Ensign Bill. ARBITRATION COURT. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) asked the Premier, If he will have more satisfactory arrangements made for the sitting of the Arbitration Court, or, failing this, if he will reorganize the Court so that the present long delays may be done away with ? A similar question was asked in the House a year or two ago, and we were then told that the pressure of business on the Court was passing away, and that the proceedings of the Court would be more regular. He feared that the pressure of business had not passed away, and one of the difficulties in connection with the Court- and as it at present existed there would always be this difficulty- was in hearing cases as soon as they ought to be heard. Some of his constituents had made complaint to him about the difficulty of getting a case heard in the Arbitration Court. Already nine months had passed away without their case being dealt with. He thought it was a case of breach of award. It was obvious that if nine months passed away without time being found for the hearing of a breach of award the Court was useless. The second part of his question referred to some reorganization of the Court altogether, so that those working under this law might have some benefit from it, and not be deprived of the benefits of the legislation. 