inebriates' homes, increases to the railway | public works and conveniences has forced salaries over and above the classification-over and above the maximum classification by £21,000; increases in the Valuation Depart- ment-about which we were told a few years ago that it would only cost us this large sum for a few years, and then the cost would nearly disappear from off the estimates, and yet there is this further increase over last year. Then, Sir, there is this item : "Copies of Review of Reviews, £260." What in the world for ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - I am sorry to interrupt the honourable gentleman, but the rule is that in discussing the motion to go into Committee of Supply the separate items are not to be discussed. They are discussed in Com- mittee of Supply. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Your ruling is a curious one, but in deference to it I will not discuss the items. As I cannot discuss the items, I will come to what every honourable member must have noticed in the estimates, and that is the general increases allowed on the high salaries. I will defy any one to look through these esti- mates and find that the Premier has put into practice what he has preached about prudence and economy. I defy you to find any single item-of economy, prudence, or reduction of expenses. On the contrary, you will find almost every item increased, and notably increases of £25, £50, and in some cases £100 in the high salaries. Sir, that is the way they practise prudence. They talk about it, they preach about it, and they are the ones who years ago used to preach, and practise too, the cutting- down of the high salaries and the raising-up of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788246 the low ones. Now we find that they are the very ones who are increasing the high salaries. And now, Sir, when we come to examine the accounts of the June quarter, to see whether the prudence, and economy, and care which has been preached in one part of the Statement is being practised, we find that in the first quarter of the current year there is an increased expenditure over the similar quarter of the previous year on the permanent and annual appropriations of close upon £150,000 ; and yet we have preached to us that we ought to practise prudence and economy. Then, we find that in the quarter the excess of expenditure over receipts is no less than £362,936. I admit this quarter does often show an excess of ex- penditure over receipts, but never so much as this year. Last year the excess was £155,000 ; this year it is $362,000, an increase in the excess of expenditure over revenue of no less than £207,000, and this after preaching the necessity of prudence and economy.' And now I come to the Public Works Fund, and this, to my mind, is a more serious matter than the Consolidated Fund. The same preaching occurs all through the Statement as to the necessity for prudence, for cutting down expenditure, and for decreasing the borrowing. On page ii. we find that the Treasurer says, "The eager and pressing desire for the rapid construction of Mr. J. Allen borrowing up to a limit beyond which it would not be safe to go." On page iii., "The increased ratio of population is much below that of the increased ordinary expenditure. For every million borrowed and expended on non-revenue-producing works and objects an annual charge of about 10d. a head is entailed upon every European man, woman, and child in the colony." Then, on page xxiii., "The time is most inopportune for extensive borrow- ing." On the same page, "Certainly the greatest care and economy will require to be exercised by myself and my colleagues to keep the public-works expenditure within the ways and means." Then, on page xxiv., he says. "There should be a tapering off rather than an increased borrowing as compared with last year." And on page xxvi.," I advise, and that in good faith, that at the present time the good steamer "Finance" should be steadied, and that "Slow," and not " Full speed ahead," should be the order on the dial." And how does he pro- pose to go slow? On page xxiii. he says, " We estimate that there will be an expenditure of about £1,950,000 on public works." And that is the way he goes slow. During the last two or three years our expenditure on public works has increased very largely. From 1900 to 1901 the increased expenditure was £342,752, and the estimated increase in expenditure for 1901-2 is £642,489. And that is the way the Premier pro- poses to go slow, and to steady the good steamer "Finance." Sir, when we come to examine the account for the last quarter we find the ex- <!-- PageHeader="\---" --> penditure on public works to have been £417.213, as against £151,640 for the June quarter of the previous year-an increased expenditure of a very, very large amount, and that at a time when he is preaching to us prudence. economy, and going slow. We find that the balance available for public works on the 30th June last was only £686,000. And now, let me 1 come to this question-before, however, doing that I would like to point out the increased public debt during the last ten years -- the net debt has increased during the last ten years by £11,213,828. What have we to say now about the borrowing limit beyond which it is not safe to go ? The Premier preaches exceed- ingly well, but we find that the Premier very seldom practises what he preaches. This bor- rowing question is one the colony will have to face. We have come to rely now so much upon borrowed money that any check-either in the London market or here-in convenience of borrowing throws us upon our haunches at once. And we are being thrown very nearly on our haunches now, for we cannot face the London market at any reasonable price ; and the Premier talks about exploiting New Zealand and Aus- tralia. Before I come to the question of ex- ploiting New Zealand and Australia I should like to point out what the borrowing has been in the last ten years, and for that purpose I have prepared the following table :- 