case was brought against himself in the Magis- trate's Court. in which he succeeded in nonsuit- ing the plaintiff. And now, three years later, the Commercial Agency Company, having heard of the debt, purchased it for a bagatelle and sued him through the Stipendiary Magistrate's Court. But again, through his legal ingenuity, he de- feated the company, and put it in for $20 costs, so that he did not think the agency would bother him any more. The company, not content with punishing the poor of the city, had taken upon itself to express its opinion of the Act of last session, and had circulated that opinion through- out the city. It said this :- " Since the Legislature has provided the fullest temptation to fraud by the virtual abolition of the judgment summons, without substituting any procedure for the protection of creditors, the law of New Zealand has ceased to be a deterrent to dishonest debtors." Fancy that coming from a person like Mr. Henry Wright-" dishonest debtors !" He (Mr. Fisher) wondered what Mr. Wright would call himself. It was further stated,- " And it is now quite easy for any person, even with an income of €5,000 per annum, to defy his creditors and still preserve a legally untarnished reputation. This being so, the expert assistance of a reliable trade protection agency becomes more than ever indispensable as the only means of recovering doubtful trade debts." What was wanted was what was represented to the Right Hon. the Premier last year- namely, an Act to prevent trading companies, such as the Commercial Agency Company, from fleecing the poor of the city, because it was only the poor who were attacked by the greedy and grasping hawk who managed this company. If the honourable gentleman were sincere and honest in his desire to protect the poor of the city-indeed, the poor of the whole colony-he would bring in such a measure as he was asked last year to bring in. Instead, however, he had brought in the Act of 1900, which was to all in- tents and purposes a dead-letter. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he 12.30. would give the honourable gentleman an opportunity to try his hand at it and see how far he would get. It was as much as he (Mr. Seddon) could do to get the Bill through at all last session ; it took him all his time, and he had had some experience in getting Bills through It was not so complete as he would like it, but he would defy any one to get a Bill through that would not have some defects. He thought the statement of this Mr. Wright on the back of the poster was enough to show that he, at any rate, did not like the Act. The Government had had to put up with a great deal of abuse of a similar kind-that they had been passing legislation to encourage dishonesty. But, in his opinion, it was impossible to put a stop to it until you removed the machinery. He could never see why the State should keep on paying Magistrates high salaries to sit and If that were hear these kind of disputes. the evil, and the sooner that was done the better. REMOVAL OF LICENSES. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) asked the Premier, Whether, in view of the unanimous decision of the full Bench of the Supreme Court that the prohibition of the removal of licenses supposed to be contained in section 22, sub- section (4), of "The Alcoholic Liquors Sale Control Act Amendment Act, 1895," can be evaded by dropping an existing license and applying for a new license at any other place in the same licensing district, the Go- vernment will introduce a Bill to make such prohibition effective ? The subsection referred to was necessitated by the enlargement of the licensing districts by the Act of 1893, which under the old lawas to removal allowed licenses a range of fifty or even a hundred miles in the enlarged districts. The removal of a license in the Otaki district from Manakan to Levin called the attention of Parliament to the danger ; and the subsection was inserted in the Act of 1895 which purported to prohibit removals for a greater distance than a quarter of a mile. The decision of the Supreme Court in the New Ply- mouth case a fortnight ago rendered this part of the Act waste paper. To remove a license more than a quarter of a mile was still illegal ; but precisely the same result could be obtained by a very simple evasion. The process adopted now was this : Assuming a man had a license at A and wanted to get it transferred to B, fifty miles away, he put in an application for a renewal at A and an application for a new license at B, and when both came before the Committee he let A stand over and got a new license for B, and then allowed the A application. to lapse. The decision of the Supreme Court was that this procedure was good at law, though in substance and in effect it was nothing but the removal of a license. The procedure was adopted in the New Plymouth case to remove a license three or four miles, and across the boundary of a borough - a double violation of the expressed intention of the Legislature. In the Rangitikei district two such removals were allowed at the annual licensing meeting last month : Taihape was given two licenses, one license being dropped at Ohingaiti, and another at Colyton - the removal in the latter case being for more than fifty miles. He would point out that really the position was worse under the present procedure than it was under the old procedure with regard to removals. In the Wellington Suburbs district the Com- mittee had refused to renew a license at Kai- warra, but now any other no-license centre in that district, such as Khandallah. Wadestown. or Karori, was exposed to the peril of getting a license, not withstanding the unanimous decision of the people of those centres that the license was not required. They were now simply at the mercy of the Licensing Committee. The position under the present law was worse than. under the old one, because then there was no necessity for the publican to jeopardize his 