are lawyers who will not come under the Bill, for the reason that part of their business is law ; yet they are often very large money-lenders. Then, there are auctioneers, whose sole busi- ness is not that of money-lending, and yet they do it. There are merchants and storekeepers, and others whom I need not particularise, who also lend money as part of their busi- ness, and not one of them would, so far as I can see, come under the interpretation of money-lender in the Bill. Then, it exempts bankers, insurance companies, and others who do not charge more than 10 per cent. I suppose such persons as I have mentioned are contemplated here -- that they shall only be able to recover 10 per cent. That is, I take it, what we ought all to set our face to, and try to amend the interpretation so that people would understand what a money-lender is and what he is not. The Hon. Mr. Reeves complained of a certain money-lender having to shut up. Well, I suppose it is very hard on the money- lender, but I believe it is a great advantage to the colony at large. I remember the time when the rate of interest was crushing the colony ; but the Advances to Settlers Act has lowered the rate of money, and since that time we have had unexampled prosperity. Now, we always realise that the individual must give way to what is for the good of the people as a whole, and if the money-lenders have not been satisfied with the ruling rate of interest, and they have been able. to collect all the money they have advanced, I do not think we ought to take any cognisance of that fact. They were undoubtedly contributing largely to the terrible depression from which this colony. suffered some years ago. We shall never experience such depression again so long as the rate of interest remains as low as it is now. For these reasons I think we should on all oc- casions do everything in our power to keep the rate of interest reasonable. And, above all, we should protect the weak from the strong- that is, we should protect the needy who must borrow from the lender, who is strong. This Bill may effect a little in that direction. I am not at all sanguine about it; I do not think there is anybody sanguine about it ; but the very fact that such a law exists, and that power has been given to the Court to review trans- actions between borrower and lender, will, I think, have a steadying effect-an effect to bring both parties to understand their relative positions better than at present, and that it will do good so far. I, Sir, object to sending this Bill to a Committee. That means, at this late stage of the session, that it is very doubtful whether it would pass at all. There is nothing in it to amend which a Committee of this Council cannot deal with, and for this reason my vote shall be given against sending it to any Committee. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- Sir, the honourable gentleman who has just sat down has made one of the best speeches we have heard on the question so far-a good, practical, and sensible speech. But I myself differ from him with regard to the desirableness of borrowing. He Hon. Mr. Twomey said that a Cheviot settler had borrowed every penny with which he purchased land, and that he is worth his thousands to-day. Now, was it- the borrowing of the money or the Cheviot Estate he has to thank for that ? The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- He could not have gone on the Cheviot Estate if he had not borrowed the money. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- I can understand that a man does benefit through a combination of circumstances. It was his being able to get the money at a reasonable rate, and also good and cheap land. The two circumstances went together. But, for the honourable gentleman to say that borrowing is an excellent thing is an absurdity, because it is not the man who borrows who generally makes money ; it is the man who lends who makes money, and makes it out of-what ? An Hon. MEMBER. - What is the colony doing ? We are all living on " tick." The Hon. Mr. JONES .- Certainly ; and it is all the worse for us. I say it would be far better if we were to rely a little more on our own resources ; and we should be able to do that were it not that we are spending so much money on things which do us no good, and are undesirable in every respect. An Hon. MEMBER .- Whisky. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- Yes, whisky is one thing, and tobacco is another. But let me, first of all, say that I do not approve of the idea of sending this Bill to the Statutes Revi- sion Committee. If the Bill is to be dealt with it should be dealt with by the Council. If it is too difficult for us to deal with, then let us say so at once and make an end of it. The Statutes Revision Committee could not deal with the mat- ter, I think, in the way the honourable gentle- man who suggested it should be sent to them sup- poses. They could not touch the principle of the Bill, and it is the principle of the Bill we have to deal with, and the sooner we deal with it the better. Of course, if it once goes to the Statutes Revision Committee the probability is that it will never see the light of day again. Now, it has been said that this Bill is a replica of the English Act on the same subject, and I think it will be interesting, therefore, to read to the Council some of the evidence on which the Bill was passed, and which justified, or seemed in the mind of the Imperial Legislature to justify, such legislation. Mr. Farrow, who has instigated a crusade against usury, and is the author of a book on money-lending. as a wit- ness before the House of Commons Committee to inquire into the money - lending system, says :- " In scores of cases the preliminary fees and expenses were obtained by so-called money- lenders with no intention whatever of lending anything. He recommended reforms in re- spect to preliminary fees, bills of sale, war. rants of attorney, summary diligence, default penalties, the assumption by money-lenders of the title of 'bank,' the licensing of money- lenders, and the rate of interest. He gave instances in which individual money-lenders assumed a multiplicity of names, one gentleman 