what has been done in the legislative Chamber, and at the instance of the Minister, and, in many cases, much to the after disappointment of the Government. I only need refer to the Horo- whenua Block Act, where amendments proposed in the measure and refused by the Government were accepted in the other Chamber on the motion of the Government, which practically destroyed the original intention of the Act; and I could give other instances where the will of the representatives of the people has been balked by the Government through the medium of the other Chamber. Now, with regard to this question itself, there is no doubt about it that the feeling is very strong against the man- ner in which one, at least, of the Conciliation Boards has been worked. And that feeling has been voiced by the Premier himself. Why, who is the author of the term that the Conciliation Boards were " riding the Act to death "? The Premier is the author of that term ; and I say that in some respects he is right. A return which has been laid before the other Chamber proves that very conclusively in regard to one Board, through whose action these amendments in the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act have been effected. Here we have the return of the cost of administration during the last year of the six Boards of the colony : Auckland District, £366 3s. ; Westland, £17 6s. ; Canter- bury, £109 4s .; Otago, £220 14s. 2d. ; Tara- naki, £8 8s. ; and Wellington, £1,089 16s. 5d. The whole of the the rest of the colony cost a little under £800, while Wellington swal- lowed up nearly £1,100. Now, there is the strongest argument against retaining all, the Conciliation Boards as they exist at present, especially when we look at the result of the expenditure of the £1,100 in Wellington. Two http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero cases settled by the Board at a cost of £1,100 ! There was also one partly settled by the Board, one modification agreed to, and one withdrawn on the recommendation of the Board. Now, can any sane man say that the expenditure was justified with regard to the Wellington Board ? I say, if there is any part of the colony which is to blame for the alteration in the policy of conciliation it is Wellington, on account of what has been going on here for the last two years. I maintain that the very clause the Premier objects to so very strongly is not any alteration of the principle of the present Act at all-that the clause in- serted on the motion of the honourable mem- ber for Wanganui-clause 21-makes no altera- tion in the present law except this : that it saves the expense of the Conciliation Board. At the present time, if the employers do not wish their case to be finally decided by the Conciliation Board, they have simply to ignore the pro- ceedings of the Board and go to the Arbitra- tion Court. But under the amendment pro- posed by the honourable member for Wanganui the expense of one party taking the case before a Conciliation Board when the other is deter- mined to go to arbitration, no matter what is the result of the preliminary inquiry, is done away with, and the dispute is taken in the first instance to and settled by the Arbitration Court i he has paid to his employes, that then the boot, be done under some Conciliation Boards. It - is fortunate for us, for the policy of concilia- tion, that all the Boards are not like the Wellington Board. I notice with regard to the Dunedin Board that every endeavour there is made to conciliate before arbitration is brought in. In Dunedin the course taken by the Board before it commences to investigate a dispute is to ask the parties to the dispute to meet to- gether and see what agreement they can come to with regard to any portion of the claim. By doing that the ground is cleared very often of a very large portion of the dispute, and the work of the Conciliation Board is whittled down considerably. If any attempt of that sort had been made in Wellington we could not possibly have had the expenses piled up in the way they have been piled up by the Conciliation Board. An Hon. MEMBER .- And the expenses to the employers. Mr. PIRANI .- Of course, no consideration seems to be given by the Premier to the indi- vidual cost to the employer and the employés of these proceedings. One employer in Wel- lington told me some time ago that he had given up attending to his business, and was spending all his spare time at the Conciliation Board endeavouring todefend the cases brought against him. I believe that this is the case with a number of employers. Now, I say that the employers are just as anxious to conciliate as are the employés if they could get a tribunal that had their confidence; and if that tri- bunal is appointed, and is worked in a proper manner, it will be found as the re- sult of the amendments made to this Act -it is my sincere belief it will be found that a great many cases will be settled finally by special Conciliation Boards. In certain disputes expert Boards will be ap- pointed, and they will deal in an expert way with the disputes brought before them. It is all very well to argue that the probability is that if employés go on certain Boards and give decisions against the employers they will be liable to lose their positions; but we know that in almost every occupation in the colony you will find experts who are not employés in the trade, who have retired from the trade, and who by their large experience are much more suitable to decide disputes than those who are parties to the disputes. And I feel certain that in those cases they will be called in to settle dis- putes. The Premier has not only criticized the action of those members who were responsible for the alteration in this legislation in the House, but he has spared no opportunity out- side the House to denounce what has been done by them. We have only to go to what took place at the gathering on Labour Day to show how anxious the Premier is to pose as the only friend of the working-man-how anxious he is to point out, even when the members concerned are his own supporters, what enemies to labour they are in the House. I think, if the men the Premier is pointing at had their actions as em- ployers placed side by side with those of the Premier as an employer in regard to the wages 