empowered to rehear and determine who were the Natives, if any, in addition to those named in the original titles, who were entitled to the same land. Clause 8 empowered the Court to inquire into the circumstances under which the Native owners executed transfers of portion of Waitakaruru No. 2 Block, et cetera. None of the clauses, so far as he had read them in the Bill, were clauses which absolutely de- termined the position of any man's property or interest in anything. They were all in- tended to enable the proper tribunals to in- quire into purchases which had not been finally or satisfactorily settled. Therefore they were not in any way taking away private rights, as some people might seem to think. More than that, as he had said before, eighteen of the clauses the Council had decided two years ago and embodied in a Bill, which had passed the Council after going through careful investi- gation in the Native Affairs Committee. He therefore asked the Council to read the Bill a second time. Bill read the second and the third time. MANAWATU RAILWAY SALE AND PUR- CHASE EMPOWERING BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, I am quite certain that everybody who has studied the requirements of this part of the North Island must have come to the conclusion that the sooner the Manawatu Railway is pur- chased by the Government the better, and that this Bill provides for a possible solution of that matter is very much to be taken as an augury of better management. I do not blame the company in this respect, because they have had to study the question of ways and means ; but http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero I am quite certain that a great many things have happened in connection with this railway which would not have been permitted by the management of the Government lines. On the other hand, I believe there were many things that the Government railways might be im- proved by if the Government were to acquire that railway, and complete what, I think, should be the absolute policy of our colony- namely, that all the railways should be held by the State for the good of the people, and be worked in their interest. I beg to move the second reading of the Bill. Bill read the second and the third time. # PUBLIC WORKS BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 2. - Compensation on widening of street. The Hon. Mr. REEVES moved, That the proviso to this clause be struck out. The Committee divided on the question, " That the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the clause." AYES, 4. Bolt Jones Bowen Kelly, T. Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker Gourley Swanson Twomey Walker, W. C. Tomoana Reeves Rigg Majority against, 3. Proviso struck out. Bill reported, and read the third time. VICTORIA COLLEGE SITE BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir. I am sure the Council will be glad to know that an arrangement has been come to by which a very good site indeed has been secured for the Victoria College-a very much better site than that about which so much fuss was made some time ago, because the first thing that would have had to be done would be to go in for a lot of dynamite in order to blow the bricks up. It will be noted that if the trustees can possibly arrange for certain grounds for the Victoria College Council, they will only be required to pay whatever the land is assessed at. The other arrangements are perfectly equal, and there will be no difficulty about them if the two bodies are willing to exchange lands. The first thing is that the Wellington Hospital Trustees, who are, so to speak, interested in the exchange, have to be reimbursed out of the Consolidated Fund for the value of the land. I do not think there is anything else cf importance in the Bill that I need menti. except clause 4, which provides that the build- ings on the site of the land taken shall be com- menced within two years of the passing of the Act. I trust the passing of this Bill will mean that such a sum will be placed on the supple- mentary estimates passed to-night as will re 3 very good guarantee that the buildings will he commenced, and that all the conditions wil be fulfilled. I move the second reading of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. REEVES .- Sir, I wish to say a few words on this Bill. I had a notice of motion in connection with the same thing, but. in deference to the wishes of honourable mem- bers, I am not going to bring my motion for- ward at this late stage of the session. I wish to say this, however : that when we come back here again-if we are spared-we will be co further forward with this matter than we are now. I am perfectly certain about it : and I may say this : that Wellington is not a proper place for an institution of this kind. F.r a university you want to get a place away in m the turmoil and the influence of a commerci city like this. I say now, as I have said on que or two occasions before, that Wellington is cot the place for the Victoria College. There are other places in the university district that I- far more adapted to the purpose than Welling- ton ; and having the university on the top of a range will be neither ornamental nor useful. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN .- I hope that this Bill will lead to a settlement of the question. but I should have been very glad if my hon. ...:- able friend had been able to guarantee that there will not be another row over the site before it is finally settled. With regard to 