proposals contained in the amending Bill now before us. Personally, I should like to see every member of the House in his place listen- ing to every word of the debate on this measure. I look on this Bill as one of the most important measures we have as yet had before us. It materially and individually affects every Maori in the North Island of New Zealand. I think every member of the House is aware that when the Natives were in the occupation and posses- sion of New Zealand-as they were for gene- rations before the arrival of the first Europeans -they lived without a single statute to govern them. The Act passed last year is a measure that oppresses very severely the Maoris in the North Island. I will endeavour to explain what I mean. The Maori residents of this Island were justified in coming here and ask- ing that they should be given power by law to deal with their lands to the best advantage, and, at the time the Maori residents of this Island expressed that wish, it was the general wish of the whole of the North Island of New Zea- land-a wish emanating from the northern dis- triet, the western district, the eastern district, the central district, and the southern district. But, Sir, what they asked for, and what they hoped to get, was not what they actually did get under the Act passed last year. The Act passed last year did not receive our unanimous support. It was not thoroughly in accordance with all that we desired ; but what we hoped to gain under the Act was the establishment of the principle that we should have a Council to ad- minister our own affairs. Now that we have a https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Bill before us amending the Act of last year, I have to say that the Maoris throughout the district I represent will not have their burdens in the slightest degree relieved or lightened by it. And, Sir, I go further, and would like to point out that my district in particular will be oppressed by the provisions of this Bill-in fact, if it were not for my district and the land therein contained, this Bill and the Act of last year would have no effect at all. If I am not satisfied with the amendments contained in the Bill before us, why should I say I am satisfied with them ? Where is the land to which this Bill will be of any benefit ? I say that the only part of this North Island of New Zealand in which there is any considerable portion of Native land now remaining, where the Bill can possibly do any good-if it can do any good- is my district. My district, to which I specially refer, is, I may say, under all sorts of restric- tions and disabilities. The Maori residents there are unable to lease their lands or to deal with them in any way so as to derive any practical benefit from them whatsoever. That is the direct result of the legislation passed by this House from year to year. However, Sir. I am not going to directly accuse the Hon. the Native Minister of having been the immediate cause of the legislation against which I complain. I say the blame lies upon the members of this House, because it was this House that passed each and every one of these Acts that so un- justly oppress the Maori people. And, Sir, Mr. Kaihau the general wish of the European members of this House. Therefore I feel that I cannot lay the blame solely at the door of the Native Minister. But I can certainly say this: that the evils the Maoris have been called upon to bear as the result of the Government land-pur- chase system are solely due to the Government. The blame for that is to be laid solely at the door of the Government. We have a printed record of the transactions of the Government Land Purchase Department, and we find that Maori lands have been purchased at so low a sum as 2s. per acre, and 10s. per acre is about the extreme limit the Government has ever paid for Maori lands. Now, I would ask honourable members to tell me, whether they really consider that 2s. an acre is a fair price for any class of land, no matter where it may be situated. It seems to me it would be a poor price for a fowl, or, say, for a dozen eggs. That being the fact, the Government being solely responsible for this reprehensible practice, I say I am justly entitled in accusing them of being solely and alone blamable for the manner in which they have treated us in the matter of land-purchase. Now, I ask, as I have asked before, Why should not the Maori population of this country be given, as they have asked again and again, special power to administer their own affairs? I say that we, the Maori people of this colony, are not children ; that we know entirely what we want, and that we know how to manage our own affairs just as well as do the European inbabi- tants of the country. If the Maoris are to be debarred from exercising any right of ad- ministering their own affairs, how, then, are they to learn to farm their own lands to advantage, or to do anything else ? If they are not allowed to administer their own affairs, to lease their own lands, and so forth, how are they to find the means of dealing with their properties in such a way as to derive any benefit or support from them? I say there should not be any restriction put upon Maori lands, but the Natives should be given the sole control and disposal of their lands. They are entirely competent to administer their own affairs in connection with leases, whether they lease for one hundred years or for twenty years. We, the Maori inhabitants, and the European inhabitants of this Island have lived side by side for a very long time now, and dur- ing the whole of this period that we have been living together what have the Europeans been doing but taking advantage of us Maoris. I say that the most grievous injustice which the Maoris have been called upon to bear is the fact that the Europeans will not allow them the control and disposal of their own lands, coupled with the Government land-purchase system, which has deprived them of their lands for a mere nothing. That, Sir, as I have endeavoured to explain, being the position, I consider I am justified in telling the House that we do not look with any favour upon the amendments proposed in the measure now before the House. I say that the Maoris' wrongs 