degradations they are capable of humiliating themselves to the lowest depths. It cannot be thought that the best men in the community seek to follow a calling in which good charac- ter is either lost or besmirched. The represen- tation of the people, from being one of the . highest, has become one of the least desirable of avocations." Who of all men is entitled to a large share of that censure, and who least of all men might be expected to be found quoting sentiments such as these, but the right honourable gentle- man ? There are gems of truth, and gems that it would be well the Premier should pay full attention to, in this same article he refers to :- "Thus we see some of the worst evils of party government perpetuated in this country, although political parties have practically ceased to exist. Colonial political life is fast assuming the characteristics of the American system, and, although a few good men are still induced to enter public life, politics are largely left to men with nothing else to do." The last quotation I shall make to this House reads as follows :- " We can only hope that there may spring up a new generation of public men, who will live up to higher standards, and institute a system of ' purer manners, better laws."" And, now, I say that no more powerful in- dictment has ever been made of the right honourable gentleman than this said article that he has referred us to in his own particular paper. Now, in his speeches in reply on second https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 and third readings, the right honourable gentle- man is ruthless and remorseless in his use of abusive language. He knows full well that his is the last opportunity, and he is inspired even to the verge of personal hatred towards those who speak their minds plainly in this House. I only listened to one speech on the second reading of this Royal Visit Expenses Bill in worse taste than the Premier's opening speech, and that was the speech of the right honourable gentleman in reply. I will say very little about the execrable taste of his introductory speech, or how he pleaded with this House to remember the respect due to the exalted position of the Governor, and then gave us all the sordid de- tails of the blankets, bed-linen, glasses, and so forth. But he did not tell us a single word about two expensive sets of four-in-hand brown- russet silver-mounted harness which he himself ordered for the Royal equipage here without reference to any other authority, and which it was found His Excellency would not permit to be used in our crowded streets. And I suppose they have been cast on some rubbish-heap or another, together with many other evidences of his prodigality of the people's money. He told us nothing at all of the expensive liveries that were ordered, also unneeded and unused. The country will never know the prodigality, the absolute recklessness, of the expenditure of their money in connection with the Royal visit. Now, in addition to attacking myself in his closing speech, the right honour- able gentleman made unworthy aspersions on Mr. Hutcheson City (Mr. Atkinson). He put words in his mouth that he never uttered. He distorted other words, and put such a construction upon them as never was intended when they were delivered. Then, he urged that my colleague said that the Governor had been unsparing in the expenditure of the people's money, whereas my colleague said that he had been unsparing in his personal services, meaning thereby to convey to the House that the Governor had taken an active personal part in the arrange- ments, which my friend and I held was some- what derogatory to the high position of Governor. I did hold, and still hold, that he interfered in local concerns to an extent that was not needed ; and this inference of mine does not mean that the Governor lavishly or prodigally spent the people's money, knowing that he had a free hand. Now, Sir, even to this day the great aristo- democrat Premier impeaches members of this House on occasion of sedition, high treason, and disloyalty ; and there, again, he is not him- self of too loyal a character. If we take his recent public utterances we find that he said, à propos the refusal of the Transport Depart- ment of the Admiralty to send the " Tagus " to the Bluff, that "it was this kind of action that lost the American colonies to England." Will honourable members reflect for a moment what was the real suggestion in that public utter- ance ? It was this: "If there is much more of this kind of thing we will do the same as the American colonies did." That is the sugges- tion. Further than that, when it was found that the Imperial troops could not prolong their visit to this colony he said -- at least, he had the audacity to send a cable Home saying that such conduct was reprehensible -- yes, in- considerate and reprehensible. Why, I was astounded at the cool effronterv of the thing, for such a reason, to send to the British Cabi- net an assurance that this important colony thought their conduct was reprehensible. n- deed, it would have been more in keeping with the honourable gentleman's usual expression-to which we are so accustomed that it has become quite hackneyed-if he had said it was " repre- hensible in the highest degree." That is his usual phrase on the slightest provocation. But my reason for deprecating the use of such inflated language lies in the fact that it was absolutely uncalled-for and unwarranted. Now. if honourable members use heated language in rebutting unfounded charges, who is to blame ? If this House were turbulent, and if it did contain members with views hostile to or- ganized society. the right honourable gentleman would be largely responsible. But I deny the aspersion ; and I again say, as my colleague has recently said in a few dignified words, I look upon the Governor as the connecting.link be- tween this colony and the heart of the Empire. I believe also that our constitutional form of government is the best safeguard for the free- dom and well-being of the people, and I have never held any other views, nor have I expressed any other views. But because I rebel against 