This Bill was introduced by Governor's mes- sage, and read a first time. On the question that the Bill be read a second time, Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said he wished to take this opportunity of saying a few words with regard to the treatment of those troopers who had returned from South Africa, and more especially with regard to those who sup- plied their own horses. When arrangements were being made for sending away the Fourth Contingent one of the conditions was that each trooper should supply his own horse. Mr. SEDDON .- No. Mr. MASSEY said, Well, it was in Auckland, at all events. Mr. FOWLDS .- No, you are wrong. I was on the Committee. Mr. MASSEY said, It might not have been a condition in every case, but there was no doubt of the fact that a great many of the troopers did supply their own horses. The horses were supplied either by the troopers or their friends. It came to the same thing, so far as the Go- vernment were concerned. He would admit at once that each trooper went through the form of assigning his horse to the Sovereign, but he ventured to say the impression on the part of every trooper was that if his particular horse lived to the end of the campaign, or until the trooper's term of service had expired, that horse again became the property of the trooper, and he would be free to do what he liked with it. Time went on, and the Fourth Contingent being about to return to the colony, the point https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 was raised in South Africa. The commanding officer then, officially or unofficially, informed the troopers that the horses were being handed over to the Imperial Government as remounts, and that the Government of the colony would receive £28 for each horse, and that every trooper who had supplied his own horse would be paid for the animal. Well, leaving that point, he would come to another. The First and Second Contingents, in coming back to the colony, had been shipped in a vessel called the "Harlech Castle." This vessel went to Melbourne and then to Tas- mania, and then back to Sydney to be docked. This, of course, caused delay, entailing a resi- dence of five or six weeks in Australia. The men, after being in South Africa for over twelve months, were anxious to return to their homes and families. A good many objected to the delay. He would quote a letter from one of them,- " Only just think. Fellows who did not want to be hawked about Australia for five or six weeks, but were anxious to get home for the harvest and to their farms; after serving for more than twelve months, voyaging there and back - they had had enough of travelling and sight seeing to last for years. Besides they enlisted to fight in South Africa; they did not enlist to 'procesh ' the streets of Australian towns ; they wanted to get home." Sir J. G. WARD .- Will you lay that on the table ? objection to doing so, or to giving the name of his correspondent. Sir J. G. WARD .- You know you always ask that of us. Mr. MASSEY said, No, he did not. How- ever, there was the position. These men asked the commanding officer for leave to return to the colony, and he (Mr. Massey) believed that had been given after communicating with the Defence Minister in this colony. A number of the men wished to return and did so, but they might judge of their surprise when on being paid here they found the passage-money be- tween Australia and New Zealand deducted from their pay. When these men left the colony they left it amid the blare of trumpets, the beat of drum and the plaudits of an ad- miring populace. They had done good service not only to the colony they represented, but to the Empire, while in South Africa, and all were proud of them. But when they came back, how had they been treated? In the meanest and most contemptible manner. Of course, this might be an occasion when the Colonial Treasurer could tell them they ought to practise the strictest economy. That might be so, but he ventured to say that if it were put to the public, and the public had an op- portunity of expressing an opinion thercon, the public would say at once that these men ought. to be paid. He hoped the Right Hon. the Premier, in his reply on the second reading of the Bill, would inform the House that he in- tended to pay the men for the horses which they supplied, and also that he intended to return to the men who had come to Australia by the " Harlech Castle " the money deducted from their pay for their passages between Aus- tralia and New Zealand. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said he was not sorry, but was rather pleased that the honourable member had brought this matter up, because his doing so gave him an oppor- tunity of clearing the atmosphere and giving the facts to the country. The honourable member had mentioned the conditions under which the men had gone. The sixth condi- tion in their agreement was, "It is hereby agreed that the equipment of each Volunteer, and each horse and equipment thereof, shall become and is the property of the Queen in her Colony of New Zealand." The commit- tees formed for the purpose of equipping portions of the contingents, in many in- stances, found the horses and fully equipped the men in their respective districts. There were some cases in which there was some diffi- culty in accepting all who applied, and it was an inducement that if they found their own horses they would be selected. A very large number found their own horses, and were consequently selected, and went to South Africa. This was what had occurred in South Africa : Those in charge of Imperial matters there had actually bought some of those horses and paid for them. They had bought and paid for the property of the New Zealand Govern- ment. He was not going to raise the question 