pany are employing their men are very unfair as compared with the conditions under. which our seamen are working; and I say this: For the sake of a few thousand pounds, or for the sake of a few days faster service, I do not think we are justified in spending money for the bolstering-up of a company that does not act fairly towards those whom it is em- ploying. Further, our ships go to other coun- tries, and trade there frecly and are not in- terfered with, and the ships of other countries come to our country and trade here and are not interfered with; but we have in the shipping laws of America what we would term illiberal laws, and I do not feel justified in sup- porting the expenditure of the New Zealand taxpayers' money in giving a contract to a com- pany which is trading under such exclusive and illiberal shipping laws as are in operation in America. I am not going to detain the House any longer, but my vote will be cast against the proposals. Amendment negatived, and motion agreed to. # IN COMMITTEE. Clause 1 .- " (a.) This House authorises the Government to enter into a contract with the said company for a renewal of the present San Francisco mail-service for a term of three years, subject to the following conditions." Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) moved to strike out all the words down to "term of." Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) said it seemed to him that in 1888 he was more far-seeing than the honourable member for Bruce. If the honourable gentleman would look at the proposals for 1888, and would http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero review his (Sir J. G. Ward's) action on that occasion, it would be seen he then made a statement against the system of paying fixed subsidies to the San Francisco mail- service ; and, as a result of that debate, they succeeded in changing the system to one of payment on the basis of the weight carried ; and that has continued ever since. That had been a very good thing. He did not know what the honourable member's intention was in making that statement. If he wished to throw doubt on his (Sir J. G. Ward's) sincerity or bona fides now, he crossed swords with the honourable member at once, and would tell him that if he were now opposed to the con- tinuance of the service as a service no in- fluence or pressure from any quarter would deter him from taking his own course in opposing it. No member of the House had suggested a substitute that could be successfully established. They had talked of what might be done under certain con- ditions ; and those conditions, he would say at once, it was impossible to obtain at present. He wished to refer for a mo- ment to another matter. Several suggestions had been made during the debate, and it had been shown by himself that, even if they favoured the proposals, they could not be put into practical effect. It seemed to him that some members were more anxious in their more concern than they had about any mat- ter that had been brought before the House during this session. If the matter was one in- volving half a million, or a few millions, there could not have been more vigorous working carried on by certain members than had taken place for the last week or two on this question. He did not understand honourable members taking such strong exception to the proposals as had been made by some of them. The proposals were intended to give the colony the benefit of what was essentially a fast and efficient mail-service. The British steamer proposal contained in clause (c) was a sub- ject which he had touched upon before, and if the honourable member for Wellington Suburbs, Mr. Wilford, who had since criti- cized his statement, and who was not pre- sent at the time, had heard what he had stated he could not have jumped at the con- clusion he had ; and he (Sir J. G. Ward) might say he had already referred to the causes of the irregularities of the existing service, and had pointed out that the service, after twelve months of trial, would be put on a proper foot- ing in that respect and improved in others. He wished also to say that the Government were as much interested as any one in the colony in having regularity of service, and there was every reason to believe that there would be regularity. As for the new steamers, the fact that they had not kept time for the first six or twelve months was not unusual. An Hon. MEMBER .- They will never do it. Sir J. G. WARD was not so sure about that. Apart from the carriage of the mails, it was, of course, in the interests of the owners to carry on an efficient and regular service across the Pacific. If they did not do so, it would soon tell adversely on them, and there would be a withdrawal of the passenger traffic from the line. With regard to the remark of the honourable member for Wellington Suburbs, as to asking Mr. Spreckels to help to get & British steamer included, he would like to state that what he said was this-and any dis- passionate person would realise that it was a desirable thing to do : that, in the interests of the shipping trade of this country, the Govern- ment ought to make a strong effort to have the highway between Honolulu and San Francisco opened to British-owned steamers, and that it was the paramount duty of the British Go- vernment to assist New Zealand in making strong representations to the Government in Washington to make the change to enable that to be done, and that paragraph (c) was intended to enable Mr. Spreckels to help in the same direction. There was surely no harm in our trying. An Hon. MEMBER asked if there had been any correspondence. Sir J. G. WARD said that representations had been made to the Imperial Government, but so far they had not been successful. One would not succeed in anything, however, if, when a rebuff was received, one stopped 11.0. at that point. 