placed men in an invidious position. What surprised him was the Minister giving that reply in the face of the report of the Royal Commission. Let any man read that report and honestly say that the time had not arrived when some radical alteration should be made in the inspection. Amongst the whole of the coal- mines in the colony, with two or three excep- tions, there was not one in the condition it ought to be. Day by day men were working with their lives in their hands, both from want of proper supervision and the inability of the Inspector to enforce his demands. Here was one quotation :-- "The condition of the workings at the time of our visit in March last was not altogether satisfactory, but so much good work has been done by the present manager, Mr. Broome, that we believe that ere long the mine will be in a proper condition. The ventilation is the chief deficiency at present, and either the connection with the Castle Hill Mine or an upcast shaft must be made. The connection was begun under the former manager, Mr. Straw, and completion was promised in April, 1900; but it was never finished, and Mr. Broome preferred to put in a shaft, but so far that has not been done. The shaft is, in our opinion, preferable, as it would give air by the shortest way. The travelling-road for the men in case of accident was almost impassable, but immediate improvement was promised." What did that amount to ? It was a practical admission that, although the Crown appointed Inspectors in the interests of the men, the manager of the mine could do as he liked. Yet the Minister said they had complete inspection, and that there was no necessity to make any alteration. He would ask members to read the report for themselves and they would find sufficient to warrant the Government in taking further steps for proper supervision. They had had two or three serious instances in the past of what might happen. There were many cases he could point out where men were allowed to go day after day with naked lights. There was no proper supervision, and the report of the Com- mission proved it. The Minister stated he was bringing in a Bill to amend the Coal mines Act ; but what did he propose to do in that Bill ? Nothing but to permit pit-owners to go again and do that which had been prohibited before -namely, to mine under the sea or rivers. The profits of the mine-owner should not be considered before the safety of the lives of the men. Some of the best seams in the colony had been stopped working because they were under the sea, as in the case of Shag Point, where the best coal came from under the sea, and so little did they care for the miners' lives that they were allowed to work there until they could hear the throbbing of the propeller of a steamer over their heads, and it was only when that was shown that the Inspector stopped it and would not allow them to work any longer. He had any amount of evidence to show that the inspection was inadequate, and things were permitted which ought not to be, Mr. Millar mitted in any other part of the world. In cer- tain mines they worked out a certain portion of the mine, and gas was allowed to accumulate in the old workings. In the Old Country, on the contrary, the Inspector saw that these por- tions were bricked off at once, and this was necessary, as it prevented the accumulation of gas, and likewise gave more air to the miners. The honourable gentleman could not go to any district and make inquiries from the men work- ing in the mines without finding corroboration for the information he was giving him. Did he think that was right ? Yet he would not ask for a paltry sum of £1,000 to be voted for the protection of these men. The House would give it if the Minister asked for it. If any calamity occurred the blame would be on the heads of the Government. He asked honour- able members to take the report of the Royal Commission, and they would find that the Go- vernment inspection of coal-mines was not worth a straw. There was the opinion of two practical men, with a Chairman who had a knowledge of mines. If they were men who did not know their work he could understand members saying the report was not worth any- thing, but that was not so. One had occupied the position of a manager in the Old Country. Mr. Lomas was a coal-miner of about twenty- five or thirty years' experience, and always had the reputation of being an honourable and straightforward man. And these two practical men had gone through every mine, and appended their names to the report. Mr. J. ALLEN. - No; they did not go through every mine. Mr. MILLAR said, Well, he would qualify the statement; they had gone through every real mine. Mr. J. ALLEN said they had not gone through every mine. Mr. MILLAR said he could not find a mine they had not been through. Mr. J. ALLEN said they had not been through them all, though they had reported on them. Mr. MILLAR .- All he had to say, then, was, if they did not go through the whole of the mines, it made it all the worse, because if they were to judge of those they had not been through by those that they had been through it made the case still worse. They had gone through the largest mines in the colony -- the coal-mines that were known throughout the colony-and he challenged any honour- able gentleman to take the report and say that there was an absolutely clean mine in the whole lot. It was a state of affairs that had gone on in spite of the inspection-inspection, they had been told, that had been increased of late. In one mine it was said the ventilation was insufficient. An air-shaft was promised to be finished in April, 1900, and in 1901 it was not completed, but it was said some other method was to be adopted. Was that the way the honourable gentleman allowed things to go on ? According to that report the manager of the mine was the Inspector, and the Inspector 