reasons that did not appear on the surface as to why the full amount of some loans applied for were not granted. When the valuator went to a person's property and came to a decision regarding its selling monetary value, there were sometimes other circumstances surrounding the case which were not desirable. It might be found that the applicant was behind in the payment of interest on his first mortgage, or of nis rent. In one or two extreme cases it had been found that the applicant for a second advance had had to be sued by the department before they could obtain the interest overdue. Those were all matters for consideration. It was laid down by legislation that the Board must first ascertain the true value of the security offered, and it must be seen that the security offered to the State for the advance was ample. However, if the honourable gentle- man would give him the names of the parties who had written to him, and if it was found that any one of them had made an application to the office which had not been fairly dealt with, the case would be looked into and full justice done to them; but he thought the honourable member would be convinced he had made a mistake in blaming the department. Mr. O'MEARA wished to make a personal explanation, as he had been misrepresented by the Minister. No application was made to the Government Insurance Department by the applicants mentioned, and he (Mr. O'Meara) did not know what the honourable gentleman meant by making such a statement. With https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 respect to the other valuation, he had a noti- feation from an officer of the department that the valuation was $225; and, when the honour- able gentleman stated that he (Mr. O'Meara) http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero did not confer with him, all he could say in reply was that the conference certainly took place in connection with this and another ap- plication, and in the presence of Mr. McGowan, the Superintendent. The whole matter was threshed out on that occasion, yet the Minister now said there must be some good reason for the action that had been taken. Why did the honourable gentleman not tell him the reason at that time? However, he reckoned he knew as much about the matter as the Superinten- dent of the department or even the Minister himself. Mr. MILLS thought the honourable gentle- man was in error in saying the matter had been threshed out in the presence of the Super- intendent. So far as the application to the Government Insurance Department was con- cerned, he understood the honourable member himself to say that the applicant went to that department. It may, of course, have been some other department that he went to, but the fact was still the same : he found the valuation was much lower than that fixed by the valuator sent by the Advances to Settlers Department. # LAND VALUATION ACT. Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera) asked the Minis- ter in charge of the Valuation Department, Whether he will have the Land Valuation Act bodies may appoint a valuer to act in con- junction with a valuer appointed by the depart- ment ; (b) the maximum and minimum valua- tion in each district may be fixed ; (c) a district valuer may have a basis to come and go upon, thus preventing the irritation and dissatisfac- tion which is now caused by the inequalities under the present system ? (2.) So that loans under the Local Bodies Act may be classed as improvements and deducted from the capital value ? He hoped the Minister would see his way to give an affirmative answer to this ques- tion, because it was one that affected settlers throughout the whole of the colony, and par- ticularly those of the Hawera electorate. Some time ago a deputation came to Wellington to interview the Minister with respect to the valua- tions. What the people of the district wanted was simply a fair and equitable valuation placed on their land. They wanted it arranged on a fair and honest basis. The Minister had already done something to carry out the wishes of the settlers by postponing the Valuation Court, and he had sent the Valuer-General to the district to confer with settlers, with the result that a satisfactory adjustment was ar- ranged between the farmers and the department. It was the wish and desire, in the first place, that the local bodies should appoint a valuer to act in conjunction with the valuer appointed by the department. That, surely, was only right, just, and reasonable ; the local body, being affected, certainly had a right to be repre- sented as well as the Government. In the past the valuations had been very uneven. In most cases they had been very high. It was now desired that the local body should have the right to appoint one of the valuers. The Go. vernment appointed their valuer, and the men they appoint have nothing to guide them. If a maximum and minimum valuation was fixed in each district by both valuators, as suggested in the question, the Government valuer would have a basis to come and go upon, and the irritation, dissatisfaction, and inequalities would disappear, and concord and harmony would be the result. He therefore trusted the honourable gentleman would have the Act amended in the direction indicated in the interest of all concerned. Mr. MILLS (Minister in charge of the Valua- tion Department) said it was not the intention of the Government to bring in an amendment of the Valuation Act this session. As far as the first part of the question was concerned, he did not think the suggestion would work out well ; but instructions had been given to the department to ask their valuers to consult with the local valuers, and to ascertain from them what was the true value of properties of which they had a good local knowledge. As a matter of fact, the department had been doing that for some time, and in that way they obtained the best advice they could possibly get. Of course, there was no wish on the part of the department that there should be any unfair valuation put on the roll. In reply to the suggestion that a maximum and minimum valuation should be 