in Committee, because they are more than the ordinary proposals for amendment. I am pre- pared, however, to recommend the Council to accept them. They are, I think, all in the right direction. They only give greater effect to the measure which we passed the other day. If the Council would like to go into Com- mittee on them, I should be prepared to accept a proposal to that effect ; but to put the matter in form, I beg to move, That the new clauses added by the House of Representatives as amending the Bili we sent down be adopted. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- I would like to ask whether this new matter has been inserted at the instigation of the Government, and whether it has been carefully drawn up, or put in in a haphazard sort of way by the other Chamber. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I think I can assure the honourable gentleman that it has been very well considered, and that it has been put in with proper supervision. Motion agreed to. FISHERIES ENCOURAGEMENT BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said this was a Bill which simply proposed to continue the bonus now authorised to be paid for canned and cured fish. The bonus was to be paid till the 31st August of next year. For some years the Government had been endeavouring to en- courage fisheries on our coast. The principal Act dated from 1885, and to a certain extent there had been some discouragement, as all that had been hoped for had not come out of the encouragement then given ; still it was rather hard for those who were endeavouring to do their best in canning and curing fish. This Bill, therefore, proposed to give them a bonus until the 31st August next year. He moved, That the Bill be read the second time. The Hon. Mr. BONAR said he would support the Bill, as it was most useful to support this industry, and the more the industry was sup- ported the better it would be for the country. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS wished that at- tention had been drawn by the gentleman who was at the head of the Fisheries Department (Mr. Ayson) to the notice he had given at the beginning of the session in regard to the pos- sible detrimental effects of trawling near the sea-shores of the Hauraki Gulf and other parts of New Zealand. He was satisfied, from what had taken place, that the fishery grounds were likely to be seriously interfered with in con- sequence of the trawling so close to the coast. At any rate, it was a question that should engage the close attention of the Fisheries Department. At Home it had been found, by experience based on a number of years, that the fisheries around the coastal lines had been in- jured by the trawling operations; and the Home Government contemplated setting up a Commission to inquire into the matter, so as to give relief to those who earned their living by fishing. This Bill was in the direction of en- couraging the canning and fish industry of the colony, and he therefore would support it. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY said he would like Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker Minister as to what the effect of the granting of the bonus had been. At present the Council had no information to guide them in coming to a conclusion as to whether it was desirable or not to continue the system of granting bonuses. He thought, therefore, the Council should be supplied with information to enable members <!-- PageHeader="1" --> to form an opinion as to whether it was desirable to pass the Bill. The Hon. Mr. JONES quite agreed with what had been said in reference to this question by the last speaker. He thought the honourable gentleman who introduced the Bill should give the Council some information as to whether or not bonuses had been of any substantial ad- vantage to the fishing industry of the colony and to the colony itself. He knew this from his own experience : that fish, as a rule, were scarce and expensive in the colony, notwith- standing the bonus which had been paid for years. It did seem strange that, while fish was so scarce and expensive, canning and curing should be encouraged by bonuses being granted by the Government. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER, in reply, said he would first refer to the debatable matter introduced by the Hon. Mr. Jennings-namely. as to the effect of trawling on certain fishing grounds. That was a matter of pure theory. All he could say was that the shores of Great Britain, and the banks for miles around the coast, were being trawled every day, and yet the supply of fish was some 20 per cent. greater than it had ever been before. An Hon. MEMBER .- Enormously diminished. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said, You could get fish in England now cheaper than it could be obtained previously. Of course, as to the effect of trawling, as he had said, that was a question of theory. He might be wrong-he could not speak authoritatively on the subject- but that was the result of his experience and his reading, and he knew what experts said about it. Experts said that fishing grounds were all the better for being stirred up by trawlers, the result <!-- PageHeader="!" --> being to distribute the food better, and it seemed to be beneficial also to the ova. Therefore, he did not think that sufficient had been said to show that trawling would injure our fishing in- 1 dustry in the colony. As regarded the result of 1 the present bonus, he might state that last year £1,016 11s. 9d. was paid for canning fish, at a bonus of 1d. per pound. That represented a great many pounds of fish, and it showed that, at all events, there was something being done for the money. An Hon. MEMBER. - How much the year before ? The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said about £1,000 or a little over. But, as to the accusa- tion made that there was not enough fish in New Zealand to supply our local wants, he thought that was an over-strained statement. An Hon. MEMBER .- The fish are scarce and dear. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said that depended on those who retailed fish. He knew 