was established some years after the Islands were under our protection ; and in respect to all matters dealt with by the Governor, to whom the British Resident referred all matters, and in respect to these matters the Governor consulted his Advisers. So practically, you may say, during this time the Islands have been, so far as administration is concerned, controlled by the Representative of the Crown in New Zealand, acting on the advice of Ministers and through the British Resident in the Islands. Coming to the Federal Parliament, there is no doubt that a number of laws have been passed, and I am asking the New Zealand Parliament for the present to make those laws operative over the Islands. I may as well define the constitutional position, as I am advised, before I proceed further - namely, that all laws existent in ceded territory remain in force until superseded. This is as I am advised. It would appear to me that would be a common-sense view to take, because if it were not so you would have chaos. There would be no Government, at all events, for a given time ; and, under the circumstances, I am inclined to think that the advice tendered is sound in principle, although I believe there is no precedent or ruling. At the same time the customs and laws hitherto existing in territory that is ceded-there being no stipulation that there was to be an end to all those laws-we may take it that the laws I am asking Parliament to enact by this Bill have been in force up to the time of the passing of this Act. This I have a right to make clear, and this will take from the objections that might be raised owing to this Bill being retro- spective. I am advised we should make sure. As I have said, there is no precedent to guide us, and it is better to make sure and re-enact these laws by the Act we are proposing to pass ; because it is now October, and practically this has formed a part of New Zealand since the 11th June. Unless we do so it might lead to some difficulty. To avoid this difficulty I ask the House to concur in the course proposed. The next question I shall be asked is : "Could you indicate to us some of the laws ?" I have had one copy only forwarded to me in a pamphlet entitled "The Constitution and Laws of the Federation of the Cook Islands in force on the 31st December, 1896." Mr. R. THOMPSON .- Is that a copy of the laws made by Mr. Moss? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes. Mr. PIRANI .- They have repealed the -- Mr. SEDDON .- I will come to that pre- sently, and endeavour to throw some light on the subject. To show that some of the laws are very reasonable, here is a declaration as to the Maori land tenure of 1894 ; it is very interesting :- "The land is owned by the tribe, but its use is with the family who occupy that land. The family consists of all the children who have a common ancestor, together with the adopted children and all the descendants who have not entered other tribes. The control of that land rests with the head of the family. But it is Mr. Seddon children have a right to that support, as well as the others of the family who may be in distress from sickness, weakness, or old age. We are told that among foreigners the man or woman in whose name the land is placed can lease or sell that land and keep the money. Also, that he can pledge the land in security for borrowed money, and that if he fail to pay back that money or to pay the interest upon it, or if he owe money for goods or other things, the creditor can take that land, and leave the family in poverty and dependent upon others for their support. We wish all men to know that this is not the Maori custom or law, brit that the land is for the family, for their sup- port, and cannot be taken from them. " Selling Land. " This has always been prohibited in the Cook Islands. No Maori can sell to another Maori, or to a foreigner. Therefore on that point we need not say more. " Leasing Land. "Land has been leased in two ways: (1) For fixed periods, and with rent to be paid in money ; (2) for indefinite periods on the Maori tenure, and with rent to be paid in services or in kind. "Those leases for lands which have been openly occupied and are occupied now are agree- ments which the law must uphold. But they are to be interpreted according to Maori law, and not according to foreign laws or customs. Thus the Maori law will not help or know any one who takes a lease merely to make money by selling that lease to some other person. The land is for the shelter and support of the family and must be used for that purpose, or the family will become burdens on strangers and other people. Also, the lease to such land cannot be taken away by a creditor ; nor must it be sold to another unless the person who holds that lease, and who wishes to sell, makes at the same time proper provision for the sustenance of those who have been dependent upon him and upon that land. To care for them is the first thing to be considered in any changes that the law may make. " Also, the right of access to water on that land, and the right to a road through it, can never be taken from the people without a special law of the Council of the Island in which the land is situated, and without that law being approved by the Council of Arikis and the British Resident. " But, as to such roads, the lessee has a right at any time to call on the Government to mark off a road, so that if he wishes to fence and improve that land he may do so without fear that his work will be thrown away." Then, there is provision made for fencing the land, and so forth. But I want to show to the House that some of these laws that are in existence are laws that suit the Islands, and it would be unwise for us to at once put our laws in force there, and it would lead to difficulties which it is our duty to avoid. Now, I heard some members mentioning some of the funny laws. Well, we have laws here against consult- 