Speaker to a reference given last year by Mr. could not get our questions answered, so that Speaker O'Rorke. A member had intimated that they could make no inquiry through the House he would oppose all the unopposed motions. That regarding their motions, and he wanted to know wa, exactly what had happened here through when this Standing Order No. 78 was to be observed. He held that in accordance with the the Premier having stated that, because he was opinion of Mr. Speaker O'Rorke these notices not allowed to move a motion, no other motion should be called on. Why should the whole of motion ought to be taken, if not from day to House suffer because of a personal feud between day, at least at periods convenient to members two members of the House? Standing Order of the House, who sought to gain information No. Ta laid down the order of business. The for their constituents and the people of the Standing Orders were for the protection of country by means of returns. minorities, and here was the Right Hon. the Premier setting the Standing Orders at de- was raised by the honourable gentleman he tance because of his feeling of pique. Mr. seemed to take it that once members gave Speaker O'Rorke. in giving his opinion upon notice of motion for a return that ought to be the matter in the session of 1899, said- taken as final, and the return ought to be given. " After a statement of that kind" - an The honourable member's interpretation of the honourable member having stated that he Standing Orders was entirely erroneous. The would oppose all the unopposed motions-"it question was, Were there any returns which seemed to him to be his duty to observe that, the Government were prepared to give ? as the guardian of the privileges of the House, said, as he had said to-day, that there were the privileges of honourable members would be none of these returns which the Government s.nously infringed if an individual member were prepared to give, surely he was within his should be permitted to intimate that he would rights ? oppose all returns, as was recently done by an- other honourable member." them when the embargo was taken off. That was exactly what the Premier had done the sort. LOW. Mr Speaker O'Rorke proceeded :- " The honourable member who had now an- ncurved his intention of opposing all returns Das at present be technically within his rights, cumstances " was the term he applied. What but he thought it was an abuse of the powers he said, and what he claimed still, was that a enjoved by members if they were permitted to Minister ought to be in the same position as a block the business of the House in this whole- private member, and if he had a return which She manner. A remedy should be devised to he thought ought to be given he did not see https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 meet such abuse. The unopposed motions why it should be opposed. would not be further called on to-day, but he thought the House should take some means to because there is an embargo on your return ? potret its privileges from being violated by individual members." punishment ; it was a question whether there The Premier, following upon the remarks of were any returns to-day which the Government Sir Maurice O'Rorke, said this : - could see their way to give as unopposed re- " He coincided with the views expressed by turns, and, as a matter of convenience, Mr. Mr. Speaker. There was a difficulty, and it Speaker took them out of turn if the Govern- would be the duty of the Government to call ment desired to give them. If the Government on these motions which they agreed should be did not give them, then they stood on the Order given unopposed, and to take them even though Paper, subject, of course, to any course that might be subsequently followed ; but any mem- there might be some individual members op- ber of the House could stop any of these returns Lixd to them. What he would like to impress by simply saying "I oppose them." It prac- toon members was this: that there ought to tically meant-and the Standing Orders bore t: some forbearance, though, of course, there this out-that, where the House and the Minis- Erzet he in some cases good and valid reasons for desiring a debate on a motion ; but, under try were unanimous in allowing a motion to go without debate as an unopposed return, then it di the circumstances, he thought there should could be granted ; but if a member said "I be some amendment of Standing Orders in re- object," then the motion could not be put. spect of returns." What brought about the observations of Mr. Now, he might tell members that at the pre- Speaker was this : The then member for Patea sent time we had more returns ordered than could possibly be supplied this session. He had asked for a certain return, which was op- pred by an individual member. The member would tell members also that our staffs were for Patea then said he would oppose all other kept going on these orders to the detriment of their other work, and no doubt towards the returns. Now, that was the exact position in which we were to-day; but then, the member end of the session the Government would be for Patea had this advantage which was now accused of having granted returns and then neg- denied to us : he could put a question on the lected to supply them ; and during the recess members opposite would take advantage of this Order Paper asking whether his certain return fact, and accuse the Government of wilfully Was to be granted or not. This was the state keeping back information, which they had of things now. In addition to our unopposed Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, As the question If he Mr. FISHER. -- You said you would give Mr. SEDDON said he had said nothing of Mr. FISHER .- I heard you say so. Mr. SEDDON said that "under the cir- Mr. FISHER .- Why should I be punished Mr. SEDDON said it was not a question of \-------- --- 