of Southland to additional representation ? There were at present nine members in the Council from Otago and one from South- land, and, the relative importance of South- land to Otago being the other way about, members would see to what extent the dis- trict he represented had been neglected in the past. He did not suggest that the Pre- mier should make any appointments until after the next general election, but if any appoint- ments were made he hoped Southland would receive consideration. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said that, in his opinion, there were two parts of the colony that were not sufficiently represented in the Legis- lative Council-Southland and Westland. At any rate, taking the former representation in the Council into consideration, there could be no doubt the claims of the district demanded consideration. In the making of appointments it was his opinion that neither occupation nor locality should be the guiding rule. Merit alone should be considered, and men should be put into the Council who would render efficient ser- vice to the colony-men whose standing in the colony and whose services to the colony would commend consideration. He believed there were in Southland men who would come fully up to that standard. HIKURANGI VOLUNTEER CORPS. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) asked the Minister of Defence, Whether the services of the proposed Hikurangi Volunteer corps will be accepted ? The honourable gentleman was, no https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 doubt, aware that an application had been made by a number of young men in the Hikurangi district to form a Volunteer corps. It was a mining district, and in it there were a number http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero of strong, active young fellows who were anxious to form a company. If the Minister only gave them the opportunity he would find that one of the best Volunteer corps in the colony would be raised in that district. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said the papers in connection with this application were forwarded to the officer commanding the dis- trict. Auckland, for inquiries and report, and he telegraphed yesterday that he was returning the papers with his remarks indorsed thereon. li the remarks were favourable the corps would de enrolled. CHRISTCHURCH DRILL-HALL. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) asked the Minister of Defence, Whether he will place a sum on the supplementary estimates for the rebuilding of the drill - hall at Christchurch, seeing that the Commandant of the Forces has reported that the present hall is " in almost a dangerous state "? The words quoted were the words of the Commandant himself. The Pre- mier, as Minister of Defence, must know that there was a very large and efficient battalion in Christchurch. The drill-hall was really too small for the requirements of the district, and when the Minister considered that fact, in addi- tion to his own officer's report that the hall was dangerous, he would see that it was quite time something was done. There was a large number of Volunteers in the district, and, as it cost them something to keep the movement going, the least the Government could do for them in return was to provide them with a proper drill-hall. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said the rule in the past had been-and the same rule would be observed in the future that there ought to be local contribution. The vote he had taken on the estimates had been at the rate of £1 for $1. An Hon. MEMBER .- Do you pay that to all? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about Auckland ? Mr. SEDDON said Auckland was differently situated. Auckland had a drill-shed, which was burnt down, and practically the Govern- ment were then the insurers. Subject to an amount being raised in Christchurch, the Go- vernment would provide for this drill-hall on the public works estimates. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - Who is expected to provide the local contribution ? Mr. SEDDON said there were people and Volunteer corps in Christchurch that were as well able to provide a contribution as corps in other districts of the colony that were not so wealthy as Christchurch. These other districts provided at the rate of £1 for #1. Southland and the North of Auckland were doing it, and he did not see he could do anything more than adhere to the rule that there must be a local contribution. Mr. G. J. SMITH said he would like to give the Premier some further information on the matter. It was a matter of renewing a drill- hall to accommodate ten or twelve companies, and it was no light task to undertake. The estimated cost of a new hall was £3,000, and if the Government would find £2,000 of that amount the companies would find the other £1,000. Mr. SEDDON .- If I get such a proposal I shall give the matter full consideration. # AUCKLAND DRILL-SHED. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) asked the Minister of Defence, What progress is being made in regard to the proposed re-erection of a drill-shed at Auckland ? Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said that plans and specifications had been prepared, and the work would be put in hand as soon as they were ready. AUCKLAND RIFLE-RANGE. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) asked the Minister of Defence, If the Government have taken the necessary steps to secure a permanent site for a rifle-range at Auckland ? Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said the Government had secured a rifle - range for Auckland. A considerable piece of land had been leased for twenty years, with the right of renewal. The rent was about $150 a year, which was £100 a year less than they had been paying for years past for the privilege of using 