but I say this : In view of the increase of the railway business of the country the Govern- ment ought to have taken steps to see that sufficient appliances were at hand to make the rolling -stock sufficient to keep pace with the increased traffic. But, apart from this, there has always been a tendency to send away for everything, from herrings to railway-engines. We seem to think that dis- tant pastures are greener than those we have near. I should like somebody to explain to me why there is any necessity to send away for rolling-stock when we can make it so admirably in our own colony-better, in fact, than that which we can import, and when the making of it would be to the advantage of our own people. I am aware that there is a difficulty. I am aware that the Hillside and Addington Work- shops have neither the room nor the appliances to do the work that is necessary. I have had it explained to me by an old railway hand, who occupied a high position in the department, that, in order to enable the Government to cope with the demands made upon it in re- gard to rolling-stock, we shall have to remove the manufacturing from these two places and keep them merely as repairing-sheds. It has been suggested that large works should be erected on the banks of the Waitaki, where there is plenty of room, a good solid foundation for the steam-hammers, and any amount of power to drive the machinery, and where a large community could be maintained in peace and prosperity. An Hon. MEMBER .- Put it at Oamaru. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 The Hon. Mr. JONES .- I am not speaking of the question from an Oamaru point of view; I am dealing with it as a large public question, re- moved from all political considerations. I sup- http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero pose, however, that the idea is utopian, because one can scarcely expect the people of Christ- church and Dunedin to surrender the advan- tages they possess in having in their midst the manufactories of rolling-stock. The Hon. Mr. McLean also spoke of the boot trade. He said it was ruined. I do not think what we have done in the shape of labour legislation has had It any detrimental effect on the boot trade. cannot have been affected by short hours and high wages, because those conditions have not existed in the colony. The Americans beat us for many reasons : They make better boots and shoes because of their immense resources. They make better boots and shoes because the United States is the home of the boot- making machinery, and because of the in- genuity of the American people. The Hon. Mr. Rigg endeavoured to elucidate this diffi- culty, and to show how it might be avoided, by saying that there should be a further increase in the tariff on boots and shoes. He thinks that would increase the demand for our boots and shoes and the employment of our own people. He holds also that provision should be made for importing the necessary leather from the countries in which it is made. But we shall never be able to compete with America or any other country till we make leather which will compare favourably with that which comes made up from the countries from which we now import the finished article. I am sorry to say our methods of leather making are not of the best. In the first place, everything is sacrificed to the exigencies of the frozen-meat trade. The animals are killed so soon that the skins are not properly matured. Another reason which pro- duces a difficulty in the manufacture of leather is that our tanning is not up to the mark by any means. It is done too rapidly, and not by the best methods. I think that if the manu- facturers in this country would only import up-to-date machinery and expert boot- and shoe - makers from America, and see that the quality of the leather is improved, then they could compete with any country in the world. It is not, as I have al- ready said, for the reason that wages are too high or that hours of labour are too short that we now find ourselves unable to compete with America in the matter of boots and shoes. The Hon. Mr. McLean, speaking as a member of the Labour Bills Committee, said that the ex- emptions were cut out by that Committee because woollen-mills were not included therein, That is a poor reason for cutting out No. 2 Schedule. I think it is a great mistake. There are special reasons for the exemptions in this schedule, and I am sure that the Council will see that those industries which deal with perishable commodities shall be treated con- siderately. Not only that, but that woollen- mills shall also be dealt with in the same spirit. It would not do to include the woollen-mills in the schedule, because it would place them in a position in other respects which would be un- desirable. My intention is to move a new clause dealing with this matter. The Hon. Mr. Rigg has an idea, for which I dare say he has some reason or other, that extra machinery would get over the difficulty - that if extra machinery were introduced into our woollen- mills there would be no necessity for women and youths to work longer than forty - five hours. It is, however, only those who under- stand the exigencies of the business who are able to give any opinion on a question of this sort, and I have been informed by a woollen- mill manager that it would be utterly impos- sible for anything of the kind to be done-that if the hours of the young persons were reduced it would also be necessary to reduce the hours of the others. Sir, I am always glad-and I hope that every other honourable gentleman in this Council is glad-to see labour placed in the best possible position. I would like to see short hours and higher pay, because these things not only benefit those who are im- mediately concerned, but conduce to the highest satisfaction and prosperity generally. Sir, in dealing with this measure we should not strain our eyes to behold the labourer and lose sight of others who are in question and who may suffer. Sir, one more word and I have done. The Hon. Mr. Peacock, in answer to the Hon. Mr. Rigg, said that these costly buildings which have been erected by the merchants and employers of our colony are no evidence of the prosperity of the industries which they carry 