refreshment. "(3.) Every woman or young person who is employed during such extended hours under this section shall be paid therefor at not less than one-fourth as much again as the ordinary rate : "Provided that when the ordinary rate is by time, and not by piecework, the overtime rate shall not be less than sixpence per hour for those persons whose ordinary wages do not exceed ten shillings a week, and ninepence per hour for all other persons so employed ; and shall be paid at the first regular pay-day thereafter. " (4.) The occupier of a factory shall at all times keep a record-book, called the ‘ Over- time-book,' wherein shall be entered a correct record showing, in the case of each person who is employed during such extended hours under this section, the name of the assistant, and the respective dates and periods of such em- ployment. "(5.) The overtime-book shall at all times be open to the inspection of the persons employed and of the Inspector. " (6.) The Inspector may at any time require the occupier to verify the entries in the over- time-book by statutory declaration in such form as may be prescribed by regulations." Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) moved to add the words, after "extended," in subsection (1), " but such extension shall not, in the case of women or young persons, be." Amendment agreed to. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) moved to strike out from subsection (2) the words " woman or young person shall not be employed," and in- sert in lieu thereof "no person shall be em- ployed for." Amendment agreed to. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) moved to strike. out from subsection (3) the words " woman or young." Amendment agreed to. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) moved to strike out from subsection (5) the words " of the per- sons employed and." Amendment agreed to. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) moved to in- sert new subsection (7), as follows :- " All overtime wages shall be handed to the Inspector, and by him paid to the persons en- titled." Amendment negatived, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 22 .- " With respect to the employ- ment of boys or girls the following rules shall be observed in every factory : - "(1.) A boy or girl under fourteen years of age shall not be employed except in special cases authorised in writing by the In- spector : " Such authorisation shall not be given in the case of a factory in which the total number of persons employed exceeds three. " (2.) A girl under fifteen years of age shall not be employed as type-setter in any printing-office. shall not be employed in any room in which there is carried on- "(a.) Any dry - grinding in the metal trade ; or "(b.) The dipping of matches of any kind. " (4.) A girl under sixteen years of age shall not be employed in any factory in which there is carried on- " (c.) The making or finishing of bricks or tiles, not being ornamental tiles ; or "(d.) The making or finishing of salt. "(5.) A girl under eighteen years of age shall not be employed in any room in which there is carried on- "(e.) The process of melting or annealing glass. "(6.) A boy or girl under eighteen years of age shall not be employed in any room in which there is carried on- "(f.) The silvering of mirrors by the mercurial process ; or "(g.) The making of white-lead." Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) moved to add the words " or women " after " boys or girls." Amendment negatived. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) moved to sub- stitute for subsection (2) the following : " No female shall be employed as a type-setter or operator of a linotype machine in any printing- office." The Committee divided on the question, "That the subsection be retained." AYES, 34. Palmer Allen, E. G. Hall-Jones Barclay Seddon Hardy Bollard Smith, G. J. Heke : Houston Buddo Stevens Carncross Kaihau Symes Ward Carroll Lawry Duncan Wilford Massey Field Witheford. McGowan Flatman Mckenzie, R. Fowlds McNab Tellers. Fraser, A. L. D. Mills Arnold Hall Napier Millar. NOES, 7. Collins Tanner Tellers. Willis. Ell Hornsby Laurenson Hutcheson. PAIR. For. Against. Hanan. Gilfedder. Majority for, 27. Amendment negatived. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to strike out the following words in subsection (6) : " A boy or girl under eighteen years of age shall not," and insert " No woman or young person shall." Amendment agreed to. Clause 26 .- " For all the purposes of the last preceding section every merchant, wholesale dealer, shopkeeper, agent, or distributor who lets or gives out textile or shoddy material to 