jections of their fellow-workmen, from going back to their employment again. Sir, if the Premier meant by that, that because a man is a member of Parliament he should abandon all other pursuits, and that during the eight months of the recess ought to do nothing at all to aug- ment his honorarium, he is telling me, at least, a thing I cannot agree to. An Hon. MEMBER. - That is the Upper House. Mr. HUTCHESON .- He also said it most distinctly in reference to this House. I may have mixed up a few of the words he said, but the meaning of what he said in regard to this House was that a working-man when he entered this House was, by his altered position in society, debarred from following his occupa- tion at any other time during the year-that " the circumstances and environment are such that an artisan will not return to his bench." Such were the words of the Premier. What is to prevent him from getting a bench of his own, and not asking anybody's leave? I can truth- fully say that ever since I have had the honour of a seat in this House, I have never stood in dread of the displeasure of my constituents. I have never felt distressed by the thought that my constituents would visit their displeasure on my head for any views I have expressed in this House, and I have always had my grip- sack packed and ready to lift the moment they said, " Go." And, so far as the displeasure of my constituents regarding my vote on this matter is concerned, it has never given me a single moment's thought. If I believed it to be right, I would vote for this ; I have always been a stickler for a fair day's pay for a fair day's work, and if I had a chance I would ask my constituents for it to-morrow; but I want it over the counter from the man who has a right to give it me. I do not want to wait till he is out of the shop so that I can sneak it out of the till. I believe that £300 alone is not too much to maintain a member of the House in dignity and comfort ; and the principal drawback to the position of a member of the House is the everlasting cadger; and I tell you, Sir, they are scarcer with me than they were two or three years ago. But I know them, and their methods, well enough to know that they make a man's life a misery, and would pauperise him if he gave whenever he was asked. These are some of the obstacles we have to stiffen our backs against, and determine that we will not be exploited any longer. For two or three years I was squeezed and sucked like any orange or lemon till there was nothing but the rind left, and I said to myself, Where will I come in when all this is over? When the time arrives when I have no longer the honour and maintenance of a member of this House, who is going to give a hand to rehabilitate me in my old means of livelihood ? Let each labour member put that question to himself, and answer it to his own satisfaction. This is one direction in which members of the House can remedy matters if they will only put a little starch into it. I ton member cannot attend to his business 1 required amount of stiffening in him when you pass the hot iron of adversity over him. I have had my experience of the guinea-cadgers, and very few get anything out of me now, and whether they withdraw their votes and support from me concerns me not at all. Another thing is the cost of elections, and we are told it does not cost anything to win an election in Wellington. Why, one night of one of our 1 public halls would pay for the hire for one night of all the rooms in a country electorate. It only costs for one of the halls in Wellington £12 10s. for one night, and, when you address four meetings in one night towards polling- time, and pay for four different halls, I reckon the cost of elections in the City is sufficiently high. However, it is not a question of com- paring the cost, and I would not have raised this point, as I consider it invidious to do so. I am willing that the Premier should put his threat into execution, and leave Wellington out of it altogether, and I would take no further part in the debate if he were to do that; but on him will rest the odium of having drawn this invidious distinction be- tween the Empire City and the rest of the colony. It may not affect me very long, but it will affect all those who come after me, and they may not thank him for it. We have always got to see how these things are going to work out in the future. A Minister once told me, when I complained to him about the low- ness of the wages paid in his department for a certain class of worker, that plenty of men .. could be got for the same money. That is the Premier's policy-" Your necessity, my oppor- tunity "; but I hope we are not going to conduct Parliament on these lines, because I will not be a candidate if he is going to run things on cheap and nasty lines. I am not of a cheese- paring nature, nor am I a skinflint; but, having made a bargain with my constituents, I am going to give them my very best services for the remuneration within the terms of that bar- gain, as I would if it were possible for me to accept the increase now proposed in this Bill. It is with the principle of the thing that I am concerned ; and if any honourable member can prove to me that I have a right as an indi- vidual member to assist in increasing my own salary without asking those who entrusted me with the care of the finances of the colony, on clearly understood terms of payment, I am willing to withdraw my opposition to the Bill, and accept the increased amount, in which case I do not think there is one of my electors I could not look squarely in the eye, and say, "What for no ? " I consider I am worth $300 for the work we are required to do. Of course, every man is accountable only to his own con- stituents, and, according to the way in which he satisfies them, so long will he remain in this House. It may be said the duties of a mem- ber for Wellington City are light, and, without being egotistical, I can hardly tell honourable members what our duties really are. First of all, although it has been so stated, a Welling- 