cil. Are we going to take this responsibility upon our shoulders ? If we are, I maintain we ought to have some say as to which of these laws are to be maintained and which of them are to be abrogated. To place the whole power in the hands of the Governor by Order in Coun- cil, and then to say that this Parliament is to take the whole responsibility, is a very unsatis- factory state of things, especially when we seo the kind of laws in force in the Cook Islands. Now, with regard particularly to one of the laws-which, unfortunately, we have not before us to-night - I have not been able to find what their law is with regard to land tenure. Pos- sibly if we had time to hunt back in our blue- books we should be able to discover what the land-laws are in those Cook Islands. An Hon. MEMBER .- There can be only feudal tenure. An Hon. MEMBER .- Tribal rights. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Yes ; but, as to the land in the hands of Europeans, are they freehold or are they leased ? Mr. SEDDON .- The land-laws are laid down by the Ordinance of the 3rd August, 1894. Mr. J. ALLEN .- These things ought to be placed in our hands. We have to try and gather them from our own blue-books, and from what I can gather leasing takes place to Euro- peans. We find one of the objections that the British Resident has is to the land tenure. On page 6 of this A .- 3 he says,- "I fear this," -- the growth of arrowroot- " like every other question of production in Rarotonga, is governed by that of land tenure ; and I fear it will not be possible to promote any new or important industry until the producers are safe in the possession of their holdings." Now, by this law we are proposing to place on our statute-book we intend to keep in existence the present land tenure in the Cook Islands. The British Resident says it is unsatisfactory. In what sense is it unsatisfactory? We practi- cally know nothing about it; and we ought to have each statute placed before us-more espe- cially those dealing with land tenure-before being asked to place a law like this on our statute-book. Then, it appears that one of the conditions under which annexation took place was that the land-rights of the people of these islands should not be vitiated by annexation. On page 15, A .- 3, 1901, the Arikis demand :- "That the land rights of the people of these islands shall not be vitiated by annexation, and, if any question shall arise hereafter as to those rights, such question shall be submitted for the final decision of the High Court of the Cook Islands." Now, is that part of the law going to be re- pealed? Because we provide in our statutes that the High Court of the Cook Islands shall not be the final Court of Appeal. The Supreme Court of New Zealand and the Court of Appeal of New Zealand is to be final. An Hon. MEMBER .- Is there no appeal ? Mr. J. ALLEN .- I do not know that there is any right of appeal to the Privy Council. But are we going to do away with this ; and, Islands ? We have had no particulars about these things, and it is not right that we should be asked to pass legislation of this kind, as it were, in the dark. Then, with regard to this land tenure, I find that last year it was pro- vided, as regards Aitutaki, in an Act called the " Statute of Aitutaki, 1899 " :-- "There shall be a Court within the Island of Aitutaki to decide all questions of boundary or ownership of land. And whereas there has in the past been much dissatisfaction with the decisions of the native Judges, who, it is alleged, have been influenced by their relationship to one or other of the parties to the suit : every dispute as to the boundaries or ownership of land shall be heard by the European Magistrate and two Assessors, one of whom shall be nomi- nated by each of the parties to the suit." All these questions of land tenure are of ex- treme importance. Is it to be the policy of New Zealand to retain the land in the hands of the natives? What provision is to be made for them in the event of their parting with their lands? I do not know whether they are going to divide them or not, or whether they are all tribal lands, or what they are. It seems to me we ought to have had some more satisfactory statement of the position of the land before we were asked to legislate as we are being asked to-night. Now, the Premier referred to the question of kanaka labour, and that is another question in which we are apparently in the hands of the Cook-Islanders if this Bill passes. I do not think the Governor in Council should be allowed to deal with this kanaka labour at all. The House ought to have an opportunity of express- ing a definite opinion upon such question before taking any action in the matter. As to dealing with kanaka labour, these Cook-Islanders make provision for that. It appears in our papers of this year; and I presume that is one of the statutes that is being continued in force, unless it can be argued that it is repugnant to the general principles of humanity. But who is to decide whether it is repugnant to the general principles of humanity ? Is that to be done by the Governor by Order in Council. Mr. SEDDON .- The Governor, if this Bill is passed, can, by Order in Council, decide that the Act shall not be operative. Mr. J. ALLEN .- The Governor can abrogate Acts under clause 3. It seems to me it would be impossible for him to do away with this statute of the Cook Islands to regulate the enlistment of Cook Islands labour, unless pro- vision is made somewhere else. Members who have spoken have already referred to the fact of members of Parliament being elected by the natives - the Maori people themselves. I do not think that is a right thing for us to perpetuate, as we are doing this evening. It is to put a bar upon our own white men, which surely is not intended to be done by the New Zealand Parliament with our eyes open, and that is what we are doing to night by passing this statute. That, I hope, and some other clauses, will be amended when we get into Committee. Now, with regard to revenue. The Premier 