all the larger towns, and as he had previ- ously said, they fluctuated constantly between the pavement and the gaol, and when they were in gaol they were only imprisoned there for a sufficiently long time to get a consuming thirst. It was generally admitted that some longer period of detention was absolutely neces- sary in order to effect any possible good with creatures of this class. The longest term it was now possible to inflict was six months, and he thought power ought to be given to the Magistrates to send them to gaol for a much longer period than that. They were not the kind of persons to be sent to an inebriates' home. They would destroy the character of any home to which they might be sent. He believed the gaol was the proper place for them, but the terms of imprisonment to which they were subjected in it, as he had said, were altogether too short. They passed again and again through the same routine of twenty-four hours for the first offence, a week for the second offence, and three months for the third offence. It was simply playing with the matter, and at the same time spreading disease through the town. It was impossible for him to ade- quately describe the danger this particular class was to the community, and he thought the Minister should give some attention to the point that he had brought under his notice before, and see if he could not give some larger power to the Magistrates. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) quite admitted this was a very important question, and it was a very troublesome matter to deal https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 with these particular cases. He thought the honourable gentleman recognised that. He did not know whether a longer term of imprison- ment would be the proper thing to prescribe, or whether it would be better to have power to send these offenders to some separate institu- tion, in which care would be given to their treat- ment. He would bring the matter before the Cabinet, and see what was best to be done. It was a difficult matter to deal with, but it was the desire of the Government to do the best they could under the circumstances. GRAND HOTEL FIRE, AUCKLAND. Mr. FIELD (Otaki), for Mr. Witheford (Auckland City), asked the Government, If they will offer a reward of $500 with a view to discover the person or persons supposed to have set fire to the Grand Hotel, Auckland ? Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said that experience showed that the offering of re- wards for information in criminal matters had seldom resulted satisfactorily ; whereas, on the other hand, the prospect of obtaining some considerable pecuniary benefit had frequently been the cause of unscrupulous persons at- tempting to cast suspicion on innocent people, on the off-chance that they might possibly hit on the guilty party and thereby secure the reward. In the case in question, the Coroner's jury, after going very fully into the matter, found that the place was wilfully fired by Jessica Minns, the pantry-maid, and some Mr. Collins brought before the Court on a charge of mur- der, and the Crown Solicitor conducted the prosecution, but the Magistrate rejected the evidence of accused taken at the inquest, and dismissed the charge. So much time had elapsed since the fire took place that he did not think anything would be gained by offering a reward of $500 for the discovery of the person or persons who were supposed to have com- mitted this crime. # RAROTONGA JUSTICES Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked the Minister of Justice,-(1) Whether it is a fact that two gentlemen residing at Rarotonga have been appointed Justices of the Peace for the Colony of New Zealand ; (2) if so, under what Act have they been appointed ; and (3) whether the Act under which they are appointed is in force in Rarotonga? This question had been standing on the Order Paper for a very long time. He believed that two gentlemen of the name of Craig, of Rarotonga, were gazetted in the New Zealand Gazette as having been appointed under the Justices of the Peace Act. Now, he would like to know whether that Act was in force in Rarotonga, as it would have an important bearing on the Bill which they were to be asked to pass in regard to the Cook Islands. Apparently there was a Native Court there called the High Court, which apparently dealt with most of the matters that generally came under the Justices of the Peace Act, and there were also the Ariki Courts, which were lower Courts ; and if the Justices of the Peace Act was in force, and these other Courts also had jurisdiction, they might have two rival Courts which would be in conflict in the Cook Islands. He thought they should have some explanation of this matter. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said the honourable gentleman himself had almost given the explanation ; in fact, he had pointed out some of the difficulties. He would reply to the questions as the honourable gentleman had numbered them. In regard to No. 1, his reply was " Yes " ; and in regard to No. 2, he would say they had been appointed under the Justices of the Peace Act ; and the answer to the third question was that that Act was in force in the Cook Islands. He thought that covered the whole of the questions. HIGH COMMISSIONER'S COURT FOR THE WESTERN PACIFIC. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked the Minister of Justice, -(1) Whether it is true, as stated in the public Press, that R. W. Gosset was charged with and convicted of embezzle- ment before Lieut .- Colonel Gudgeon, C.M.G., in the High Commissioner's Court for the Western Pacific within the limits of the Cook Islands ; and (2) whether, if this is the case, he will state what powers (if any) the High Commissioner's Court for the Western Pacitic has over any portion of the Colony of New Zealand ? No papers were laid on the table with reference to the Cook Islands, and there- 