gentleman has said just now there is not a | oppose the item if brought down by Bill. I tittle of truth in it. An Hon. MEMBER .- Is that in order ? Mr. SEDDON .- If the honourable member likes to use such expressions to me, much as I regret the necessity, I return the compliment in his own words. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I rise to a point of order. Is it parliamentary, after the member for Wellington City has made a statement, that the Premier should get up and contradict him in that way? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The statement of the honourable member must be accepted. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable gentleman has not repeated to the House what I said at all. I said it had been represented to me-and it was represented to me-that if I took this course of withdrawing the item from the esti- mates the honourable gentleman would agree to the provision if made by Act. If no induce- ment were held out, why did I withdraw it from the estimates ? An Hon. MEMBER .- Who made that repre- sentation to you ? Mr. SEDDON .- That is not the question. I repeat that representations were made to me, and this influenced me in withdrawing the item from the estimates; and I also say I think the honourable member spoke in that direction. Mr. HUTCHESON .- I never spoke at all. Mr. SEDDON. - When I intimated the course I intended taking by bringing in a Bill, I did not mention Mr. Atkinson. The member for Palmerston took me to task, and said https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 that I had not been fair or generous because I had not mentioned Mr. Atkinson's name, that this representation had not been made to me by him as regards the action taken, and what was stated by the member for Wellington City http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero (Mr. Fisher). I said, and I still say, that he had represented that if the item was with- drawn and a Bill brought in objection would be removed ; and this is still my impression. It had been represented to me that if I took the course of withdrawing from the 12.0. estimates this item and bringing it down in a Bill, a great deal of acrimonious discussion would be avoided. I wish to make that clear. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City). - I must make a further disclaimer to the charge that has been levelled against me - namely, that I had intimated to the Premier or led him to believe in any way that if he withdrew the item from the estimates and brought it down in a Bill I would support it. There is abso- Intely no foundation for that statement, and it can only be attributed to the proclivity the right honourable gentleman has of striking blindly all round him when he is on the ram- pagc, as he has been to-night. Mr. SEDDON .- Am I to be continually mis- represented by the honourable member ? I told him as plainly as the English language could express that it had been represented to me. I did not say he had represented it to me : I never said so. I said it was represented to me that he and his colleague would not repeat it. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I wish to make a personal explanation. The Premier, in the course of his speech, said I represented to him privately that if the item containing the refund to the Governor were taken off the estimates and placed in a separate Bill it would prevent acrimonious discussion. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable gentleman is mistaken. I never said anything of the kind. Mr. PIRANI .- I am fortunate in having been able to take the statement down at the time the Premier said it, and if he will examine his Hansard proof it will back up what I am saying. What I said to the Premier was this : I told him that the "Attorney-General " on this side of the House held the opinion-and I will back his opinion against that of any pseudo Attorney-General in the House-that if the item remained on the estimates the Governor would have to reserve the Appropriation Bill for the Royal assent. That was as far as I went. I made no pledge nor promise on behalf of any member. Mr. SEDDON .- What was my answer ? Mr. PIRANI .- The Premier said the con- tention was nonsense. But his colleague the Postmaster-General admitted the proper course was to strike the item out of the estimates and bring down a Bill ; and, as it turned out, the Premier had to follow that course. Mr. Atkinson did not know I went to the Premier with the information ; I did it entirely on my own motion. I made no pledge about any man -not even myself. Mr. SEDDON .- Did not the honourable gentleman, in the previous debate, say that it was unfair because I had not given the credit to the member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson) ? Mr. PIRANI .- Certainly. Mr. SEDDON .- If you had not mentioned his name, how could I know he had so advised, or was interesting himself in the matter. Mr. PIRANI .- The Premier knew who it was when I said "the Attorney-General, from this side of the House." Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- I wish to explain that I took no part whatever in recom- mending the Premier to the adoption of any particular course. If I had been in the posi- tion of His Excellency the Governor I would rather have given £10,000 than have my name connected with such a Bill. That, however, is a matter of taste, or of judgment. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) .- There are one or two points on which I should like to make a personal explanation. The Premier has misrepresented me. The first point the mem- ber for Palmerston has made fairly plain. I did not suggest the course the Premier has taken. I did suggest to Mr. Pirani that the Appropria- tion Bill would have to be reserved for Royal assent if this item of His Excellency's expenses I did not suggest remained on the estimates. that de should see the Premier, and I did not know he intended to do so. It came as a surprise 