prisoner be properly defended ? There was also this point : The Crown Prosecutor had handed to him the name of every juryman, and when the Court opened he had ticked off in red and black ink those jurymen whom he thought it would be wise to keep out of the box in certain cases and to let on in others ; and, though counsel for a prisoner had the right to challenge only six persons, the Crown Prosecutor could order as many persons as he liked to stand aside. As for the challenges allowed to the prisoner, it was, he contended, only fair that they should be al- lowed to him, and it was a right that should not be taken away. To take away from a prisoner the right to see the names of the thirty-six jurymen in the panel would be a great wrong to ar alleged guilty person. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) would like to hear the Minister's reply to the question put by the member for Eden as to Mr. Northcroft's salary. That officer was one of the best in the service, but for some reason he seemed to have been knocked about from pillar to post, and now that increases were being given he was the one who had been selected to have none at all. Mr. McGOWAN said, in reply to the honour- able member for Pahiatua, that every con- sideration was given by the Government to the interests of the back-block settlers. The honourable gentleman brought the question up in the House the other day, and was then informed that the business of the district did not warrant the establishment of a Court. The Government had made inquiries, and had con- clusive evidence that there would not be suffi- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 cient cases there to warrant a Court being opened. In regard to the matter introduced by the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier), the Government had not come to any conclusion on that point. In regard to the http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero honourable gentleman's suggestion that he should consult the Law Society, he was not going to consult the Law Society as to appoint- ments to the magisterial Bench. In reference to the point mentioned by the member for the Bay of Islands, in regard to District Courts and the large interests often involved, it was neces- Bary that consideration should be given to that As regards what had been said by the matter. honourable member for Wairarapa, as to the way in which District Judges and Magistrates should be paid, his idea was commendable, bat the colony could not stand the amount he said ought to be paid. The honourable mem- ber for Dunedin City referred to the salaries paid to Magistrates. There was an increase in these salaries this year, and the reason for it was this : in order to equalise the salaries of the Magistrates in the larger centres. Then in regard to the jury-list, it was not a matter that came within his functions, but he would cause inquiries to be made ; no prefer- ence should be given in regard to the means of obtaining justice. In regard to what had been said by the honourable member for Waihemo, he was not going to express any opinion upon the jury question. Mr. LANG (Waikato) said, In regard to the increase in the salaries of Magistrates, he VOL. CXIX .- 7. thought Mr. Northcroft was entitled to receive the increased amount. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) said, With regard to the establishment of a District Court at Pahiatua, it was impossible for the Minister to know the amount of business that would be done at Pahiatua. Courts had been established at Palmerston North, Napier, Wanganui, and Wellington, and cases of bankruptcy, probate, et cetera, had to be taken to one of those Courts, great expense consequently being im- posed upon those who had to travel long dis- tances to those places. He moved, That the vote be reduced by £1, as an indication that the administration of the Justice Department in respect to the setting up of District Courts and other arrangements was unsatisfactory to the. country districts. Mr. McGOWAN, in reply to the honourable member for Eden, said it was impossible to treat every Magistrate alike. His opinion was that the salary paid to Mr. Northcroft at the present time was a fair salary for the position he occupied. If he were moved to a larger dis- trict the probability was that his salary would be increased. There must always be the power to change the districts of Magistrates where necessary. As to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Pahiatua, he had made careful inquiry as to whether there was a necessity for establishing a District Court at Pahiatua. He found that in twelve months there were two civil cases and four bankruptcy cases at Pahiatua, and it was therefore hardly fair to ask that there should be extra visits to the place by the Magistrates. It would entail additional expense. Mr. O'MEARA did not see where the extra expense would come in. It would mean about a guinea for the extra day the Judge would spend in the district. Every case involving over £100 had to go to a District Court, and it was necessary for the convenience of litigants that there should be a Court esta- blished at Pahiatua. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) suggested that, if a District Court were established at Pahiatua, one should also be established at Eketahuna, and that it would be no inconvenience to the Judge to call there on his way from Masterton. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked the Minister if he really intended adopting the new policy of paying the Magistrates that he had laid down this afternoon-namely, that Magistrates in the four large centres were to get £550, and that the others were to get less. The Minister had also advocated the changing of Magistrates. Did that mean that a Magis- trate might get £550 one year in a large centre and the next year be transferred to a country district where, he presumed, he would be re- duced, and suffer a reduction by perhaps £100? He would like to know whether the salary was to be made to fit the position and not to fit the man ? Mr. SEDDON .- No, no. Mr. HERRIES said that if that was so, then a man might be appointed to a town at £550 and then be transferred to the country and still 