Labour for 1898. Here he predicts the neces- sity for change : - "Another proposal is that the decision of Conciliation Boards should be made binding if the parties to the suit agree to the Board's recommendation. Much time is now wasted by cases being heard before the Board when it is the expressed intention of the litigants to carry such cases on to the Court whatever the recommendation of the Board may be. This arises from the fact that the Board has not the power to bind the parties to any particular course of action, and therefore the decision of the higher Court, which has the effect of law, must be invoked. Whether it is desirable to destroy the principle of conciliation by giving the Board the powers of a tribunal is questionable, but it would certainly be an immense gain from the point of view of economy, and would remove a feeling of irritation from the minds of members of Boards who at present sometimes consider their time needlessly wasted." So we have two principles clearly indicated : The economy of the time of all the parties concerned, the economy of the cost to the State, and the economy of the saving of irritation and annoyance that must further aggravate the particular dispute. That is a report of the Labour Department so far back as the year 1898. Now, coming to the year 1900, we have a still more direct and emphatic recommendation :- " It has been suggested that entire alteration https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 in the system of Conciliation Boards is neces- sary, and I am of opinion that the arguments adduced for such change are so strong as to be worthy the serious attention of the Govern- ment." He goes on further to say,- "Such a Board, both on the scores of eco- nomy and experience, would be more competent and carry more weight in its recommendation than a Board constituted under the present Act. Much time is now wasted when, say, a tailor, a baker, a butcher, and a carter, with a clergy- man or lawyer in the chair, have to decide on technical points of dispute concerning, say, bootmakers, wharf-labourers, or printers. They know absolutely nothing even of the A BC of such employments." He is stating the actual constitution of the Board in Wellington. As a matter of fact, it had a lawyer and, without disrespect, has now an ex-clergyman as Chairman of the Board. He continues,- " Even if costly experts are called in to assist and explain terms and systems to the Board, time and money are lost. If this could be avoided by having Conciliation Boards of ex- perts in each particular case, the gain is evi- dent. On the other hand, it is certain that there would be some drawbacks to the pro- posed scheme, even if they are not apparent at this moment. The thoughtful opinions of men whose interests are likely to be affected should be invited before so far-reaching an alteration is attempted. " Suggestions for still another vital amend- ment have been received from different locali- ties and from representatives of both employers and employed. It is that, in case both parties to a dispute agree, the Conciliation Board should be passed by altogether, and the case commenced in the Arbitration Court. There is no doubt that valuable time is lost by suitors before the Conciliation Board when there is an expressed determination by one party or the other not to take notice of the Board's recommendation whatever it may be, but to proceed to the Arbi- tration Court for the sake of the power to bind possessed by the Court and not by the Board." Now, if the House will admit that the Minis- ter of Labour has not devoted to these measures the solicitous care and attention necessary for him to understand the exact trend of the work- ing of the existing law, who, then, is it to be guided by but by the responsible officer of his department ? and if he has not accepted that guidance, surely the House is justified, failing the honourable gentleman himself, in embody- ing these recommendations in the amending Act. Now, we have the authority of the expert of the Labour Department for these two prin- ciples we have put into the amending Bill now before us. Mr. MILLAR .- There were Boards of experts put in last year. Mr. HUTCHESON .- Just so ; but they were only available when both parties to the dispute were in agreement. Now, what is the effect of the amendment of the present Act? One party that desires a Board of experts in their own trade will approach the other party to the dispute and ask them if they will agree to have their case heard by experts, and I make bold to say that in the case of those who are working under intricate logs and technical logs that Board will be adopted every time. I do not believe that, for instance, the tailors would go on with a new case to the Arbitration Court and fail to avail themselves of the other Board of experts here expressly provided for them. How intelligible to the outsider are innumer- able technical terms in the tailors' log I will leave honourable gentlemen to imagine when I ask what the ordinary landsman would under- stand if I told him, in the terms of the sailor's log, that the accident was caused by "a thorougfoot in the clew-garnet." That may seem rather involved to many honourable mem- bers, but there are no other words by which I can express that statement ; and so it is with many claims that have highly technical terms in connection with their craft. Supposing, for instance, one party in every case shall elect to go direct to the Arbitration Court. Is not that almost the case at present ? and, if we judge by the results, how much would we lose ? What settlements would we lose ? Two cases in Canterbury, two in Otago, six in Auckland, and, I think, two completely settled in Wel- lington. Now, it is quite true I may be told there is a great deal of the preliminary en- tanglement straightened out and cleared away by the Board. 