thought the Minister for Railways would at- tempt. We had a statement from the Minis- ter to-night which is new to me, and that was that the recent poll of the railway em- ployes consisted of the votes of the men in the workshops. I hardly think that is the case. I was under the impression that it was intended to be a poll of the whole service, and that was the impression in the country ; I am glad it was not so. I have seen statements published that if the railway em- ployes were brought under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, they would lose their privi- leges in regard to cheap travelling, holidays, payment for sick-leave, and other privileges that they receive under Government employ- ment ; and I know instances where the idea of losing such privileges has caused employés to come to the conclusion that they would prefer to remain as they are. This argument to a very great extent influenced the votes. And then, again, there is another point: The honourable member objects to it being said that the wishes of the Government would in- fluence the votes of men who are employed in the railway workshops. I do not know much about the workshops in any other place than Petone, but many of the employés in the work- shops there, and I say that there are no handier men in the colony at election time than a large number of those men ; and if they acted in the same way against the Government during elec- tion times as many of them acted for the Government during the last election in Wel- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 lington, there would be a great many vacan- cies in the railway workshops. I do not say the present Minister attempts to influence them. They have not had any one who tries http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero to be fairer to them than the honourable gentle- man ; but influence may be brought to bear in an indirect way, and they may have been led to believe that it was the wish of the Govern- ment that they should vote and work in a cer- tain way. But I rose more for the purpose of expressing my surprise at the objection of the Premier to the member for the Bay of Plenty moving his instruction to-night An amend- ment in agreement with that instruction, last session, was carried by twenty-five to twenty- three, and incorporated in this very Bill; yet we were told to-night that the instruction could not be moved, and the Premier rose to a point of order to prevent the House doing what they did last year. I cannot understand one atti- tude being adopted one year and exactly the opposite the next year. I suppose the Premier thinks we do not remember what took place in the House twelve months ago. Another point in connection with the measure - and I am led to speak of it because of what the Premier said during the passage of the Bill in Committee - is that he uttered a sort of half warning that it was possible that an- other Chamber would strike out of the Bill certain provisions we have included in it during its passage through Committee in regard to Conciliation Boards, and decisions which the Premier himself agreed to. Now, if the Pre- said on this subject, I say this to him : that if any attempt is made by another branch of the Legislature to alter the Bill in the direction of reverting back to the old system of Conciliation Boards, there will be very little hope of it pass- ing this House. The last vote given in Com- mittee in regard to the Conciliation Boards is an exact reflex of the opinion of the country from one end to the other ; and that is that, with the exception of one or two instances, the Conciliation Boards have been a failure, and that employers and employés should have the right to go direct to the Arbitration Court. If any attempt is made to prevent that becoming the law, I am sure there will be very little hope of the measure going on the statute-book this session. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) .- The last honourable member made a very strong point to the effect that a certain amendment, moved as an in- struction to the Committee this evening, had been moved in the Arbitration measure last session, and that no exception was then taken. Mr. PIRANI .- No, I did not. The Premier did take exception to it; but the Chairman ruled it was in order. My statement was, that the clause which would go with the instruction moved by the member for the Bay of Plenty, was moved in Committee last year, and was carried. Mr. McNAB .- Now we have it: that the clause which would correspond with the in- struction moved to night was moved in Com- mittee last year and carried. Now, I will read the clause :- "Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) moved the addition of the following words to amend the definition of 'employer ': 'and shall include the Crown and every department of the Go- vernment of New Zealand : Provided that the appropriations to the service of Her Majesty shall not be increased by any award under this Act.'" The main provision of that clause-the pro- viso- would have removed the difficulty which was raised with regard to the instruction to- night, and the honourable member made no reference to the fact that there was included in that a proviso which did away with the diffi- culty that prevented the instruction being moved this evening. Mr. PIRANI .- I mentioned that on the point of order. Mr. McNAB .- I wish the honourable gentle- man would not interrupt. I took care to get him to repeat it before I made my statement, and he has repeated it ; and he has failed to make any mention whatever of the proviso, which was the real point at issue. Now, with regard to the question of whether the Railway servants, or any people in the Government ser- vice, should come under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, I am one of those who believe that the Government servants should not come under the Act, and one of the reasons I have for that belief is this : that the Railway service, as the Telegraph service, is a monopoly of the Government. There are no other employers 