districts, he thought they should have had more consideration than they had had given to them. He hoped before next session the Minister for Public Works would get a proper survey made, and that the Government would make up their minds which of the lines should be carried through. He thought it was hardly fair and just to the district he represented, where the roads were so bad and the traffic so heavy, that consideration had not been given to this question. He hoped the Minister would see his way to schedule one of the three lines that had been agitated for, whichever one might be found most suitable to the settlers and in the best interests of the colony generally. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) was rather amused that member after member should have risen expressing pleasure at finding certain rail- way-lines in the schedule had been authorised. They would find that there was a vast difference between lines being authorised and getting Other members of the them constructed. House knew this from painful experience. In his district there was a railway that had been authorised for over twenty years, and it was not made yet. He hoped honourable members would not expect too much simply from these lines appearing as authorised. If so they would be grievously disappointed. Mr. BENNET (Tuapeka) said, in reply to the honourable member who had just spoken, that he did not say he was glad these lines were on the schedule of new lines. He said the North Island members were to the front now as they always had been. He had simply https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 asked that some consideration should be shown to the districts which were doing so much good to the colony. Mr. HALL (Waipawa) said he had no au- thorised line in his district, but he thought the Minister for Public Works could not very much longer ignore the great want of a railway some- where between the Napier and Woodville Rail- way and the East Coast. There was a large tract of country there that was getting very thickly populated, and he was sure the Minister must soon see the advisability of constructing a line there. The honourable gentleman had promised to visit his district, and a visit could not fail to show the desirability of having such a line of railway as he now suggested. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) said, With regard to the Brighton line, he could not say definitely whether or not that was authorised, but would make inquiry. He knew he had some information about it. It was not an expensive line, but the Government had to consider that many parts of the colony were not provided with railway and road com- munication, and these, very properly, should first receive attention. Regarding the honour- able member for Palmerston's reference to and his suggestion about light lines, he hoped that whatever Bill might be passed - the Local Authorities Bill, or the Counties Bill, as it was now called-that it would provide for what he called in this case the construction of tramways by such local authorities to con- was provision under the present Tramways Act by which local bodies could construct tram- ways ; but there was no power for local bodies to combine among themselves for the con- struction of tramways through several coun- ties, and to rate those districts for their con- struction and maintenance, but this provision, he hoped, would be one of the provisions in the Counties Bill before it passed the House. With reference to the matter brought forward by the honourable member for Wai- pawa and the honourable member for Pa- hiatua, he might say that several lines were being surveyed by the department, and he could not at present promise to have a survey made of the proposed line which had been referred to. He thought, however, that thorough surveys would be made of all proposed lines of railway, so that they would be available when required. With regard to the remarks made by the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty and the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, there was no doubt that the East Coast should be connected. They were moving in that direction now, and were making fair progress from Gis- borne to Ormond; and they had the line authorised for eleven or twelve miles beyond that point. He was of opinion that that line would eventually run from Gisborne to Opotiki, and from Opotiki to Tauranga, and from there to Rotorua. It would be a great benefit to the settlers, and advantageous to the colony generally. They must, however, go slow, and it was better to make further progress with the lines that were now in hand before dealing with others. With regard to the Cat- lin's line, when the member for the Clutha, Mr. Thomson, first brought this matter for- ward a few years ago, he understood him to say that if it was taken to the bridge it would meet the requirements of the district for some considerable time. The line was au- thorised to that point, and was making good progress. An engineer was surveying from the southern side, from Pomahaka, and was work- ing his way through to Owaka, to the junction with the existing works. He was one of those who believed that money spent upon surveys was money well spent, and an exhaustive survey was being made of this line. The line to the Kaipara Flats had been referred to. They were making very fair progress there. They had the tunnel to Ahuroa, which was pretty nearly through. The rails were now laid up to the entrance; and beyond that there was a second tunnel, the face of which was being opened out, and the actual tunnel-work would soon be put in hand. In regard to the Akaroa line, that was constructed from the proceeds of certain reserves set apart for the purpose : The revenue had been anticipated to enable the completion of the work to Little River. There were some arrears ; but they were gradually working them off. He had pro- mised the honourable member for Ellesmere that he would visit that part of the country during the recess and see what class of land the line ran through. In regard to the ques- 