patronage on behalf of the Government. Well, Sir, I am not afraid of that. I am not speaking now with regard to any particular Government, but on the broad principle, because when the State employs the vast number of men there are on the railways and in connection with other branches of the public service of the colony, surely it does not need to be afraid of employing one or two hundred more men, if necessity arises, for the purpose of opening up our State coal-mines. I agree with the honourable gentleman that the conditions of the miners employed in the State mines should in every way be on an equality with those employed in private mines, and when the Bill is in Committee I shall be prepared to vote that every person employed in connection with these mines shall be brought under the provisions of the same labour laws that apply to those employed by private That is a principle I have mine-owners. always voted for, and one which I shall always support. Now, with regard to the remarks made by the honourable member for Bruce as to the 5-per-cent. limit of profits, I agree with him as to that. I think it would be the height of folly if in any year, because a profit of over 5 per cent. was made, you should immedi- ately reduce the price of coal. I think that any protit that is obtained, bearing in mind the average value of coal, or something slightly under it-I think that any profit that is made above that should be held as a sinking fund, not only for the repayment of the 11.0. £150,000 which it is proposed to bor- row, but also for the purpose of providing against accidents in the mines, and other contingencies of that description. Now, the http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero honourable gentleman remarked that this was going to be of benefit solely to the users of coal, and I think he took up a very weak position when he said that the persons who lived in the bush districts would get no benefit from it. Sir, exactly the same argument might be urged against every mile of railway in this colony being constructed, on the ground that there are certain districts where there are no railways, and, consequently, those persons who live in these districts would be taxed for the purpose of providing interest upon the lines of railway that were made. Mr. MASSEY .- So they will, if the railways make a loss. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - Yes ; but I am not prepared to argue that point so far as railways are concerned. I am, as far as I can, trying to speak upon the principle of the Bill, and I think this may be said : that there is no district in the colony which would not receive a benefit from the cheapening of the cost of coal. Mr. J. ALLEN .- You have not proved it will be cheaper ; and that is the whole thing. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I imagine that the honourable gentleman will admit the test of that will be experience, and that there is quite as much reason for saying that the State will be able to cheapen the cost as to say it will not. Mr. G. W. Russell Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- On that point I am quite prepared to say that, in my opinion, the State can produce coal cheaper than the public are being charged for it now. Now, coming back to this point in regard to the persons who will get the benefit of the State coal-mine being opened: take the back districts, even where they are using timber fuel. Is it not a fact that from these districts very largely come the sheep which are being frozen in our works and sent away : and will not the lessening of the cost of fuel, by which these freezing-works are kept going, be the means of raising the price of these sheep, and be a benefit to these people ? Mr. J. ALLEN .- You are going on the as- sumption that the price of coal is going to be less. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Yes; and I am per- fectly satisfied that when the State coal-mine is in operation we shall be able to buy our coal at from 2s. 6d. to 5s. a ton cheaper than now, and I believe that position, when attained, will be one of the greatest benefits that will have accrued to the people of New Zealand from advanced and progressive legislation. Now, the honourable gentleman also said that capi- tal in connection with the mines was disap- pearing. I do not know in what sense he intended that, excepting it was that, the coal being taken out of the mine, the mine was gradually approaching a state when it would be of no value as a mine. But, as a matter of fact, we know in a large number of the coal- mines in New Zealand that the land belongs to the people of the colony, and not to the private mine - owners. I admit there may be something in that argument when dealing with a mine that is privately owned ; but that does not apply to cases where & royalty is being paid and mining done on Crown land-which is largely the case with regard to the whole of the West Coast mines. Now, there is one other clause in this Bill upon which I should like to speak. Clause 3 affirms a large principle, which I am pleased to see placed upon legislation in this colony for the first time, and that is, that it is the duty of the Land Boards of the colony to reserve for State purposes those lands upon which it is supposed coal exists. That is a principle which I have fought for for a number of years past, and one of the arguments that I remember in 1894 I used as against the lease in perpetuity, urging that the rights of the State to the minerals should not be allowed to pass away. Members who were in the House at that time would probably remember that the Hon. Mr. Mckenzie argued the point that the State was retaining these leases, but, as a matter of fact, later in the session he brought down a clause which settled the matter effectually, and affirmed that, in connection with the State leases in perpetuity, the ownership of the minerals should entirely remain with the State. I do not propose to go through the objections which may be urged to the Bill. There are some which will probably be discussed in Com- 