represented by the member for Egmont, and contrast the condition of those engaged in agricultural pursuits ten years ago and their condition to-day; they are a new people alto- gether. Mr. HOUSTON .- It was not the Factories Bill did that. Mr. SEDDON .- I say they have all shared in the general prosperity, and a material factor in that has been progressive legislation. There has been an advancement out of the old beaten ruts, and it has been caused and would not otherwise have eventuated had it not been that we had this prosperity. I say we have helped it, and what I wish to bring now, in conclusion, is this. Take the farmer : I say his position has improved. Take his farm : his mortgage has gone in very many cases, his farm has increased in value. I say that, with an increas- ing population and prosperity, land is bound to go up. In respect to your industries, capital has had very fair interest returned thereupon. Capital so invested has better security to-day with the labour legislation than it had formerly. The condition of affairs is much better now under the terms fixed by the Arbitration Court or fixed between the employers and the men employed, and for a given period, and with the moral force of the whole of the workers of the country, and, with both working to- gether for the general good. And, although there might be a slight difference in the adjust- ment, I say that both parties are better off, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 knowing where they are ; and it is that which in this colony gives confidence that does not exist in the Mother-country or in other coun- tries. We are better off here to-day than they are in any other part of the British Empire ; and if our legislation gives confidence to the employer and to the worker, it is in the in- terests of both and in the interests of the colony. The employers and employed look to us to pass such laws as will do justice to all. The law now before us is such a law, and I am glad that its reception and its passing has been such that one and all may look back with plea- sure thereto. I move the third reading of the Bill. Bill read a third time. The House adjourned at twenty minutes past twelve o'clock a.m. LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Tuesday, 15th October, 1901. First Readings-Third Reading-Taheke Settlers- Maori Antiquities Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READINGS. Cornwall Park Duties Exemption Bill, Evi- dence Further Amendment Bill, Opium Prohi- bition Bill, Charitable Institutions Rating Bill, Egmont National Park Bill, Factories Bill. THIRD READING. Trustee Amendment Bill. # TAHEKE SETTLERS. On the motion of the Hon. Mr. JENKIN- SON, it was ordered, That the recommendation contained in the report of the Public Petitions Committee upon the petition of J. Gordon- Jones and other settlers of Taheke, brought up on Friday, the 11th instant, be agreed to. MAORI ANTIQUITIES BILL. This Bill was committed, reported, and read the third time. The Council adjourned at five minutes to three o'clock p.m. # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Tuesday, 15th October, 1901. First Readings-Bills discharged-Petition re Maori Degradation-Patea Election-Supply. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. # FIRST READINGS. Gore Cemetery Reserve Vesting and Enabling Bill, Public Health Bill (No. 2), Unclaimed Moneys Bill, Public Trust Office Bill, Chatham Islands County Bill, Medical Practitioners Bill, Hawera Borough and Public Trustee Enabling Bill, Crown Tenants' Rent Rebate Bill. BILLS DISCHARGED. Smoking by Youths Prohibition Bill, New Zealand University Bill, Young Persons' Pro- tection Bill, Land and Live-stock Auctions Bill, Law Amendment Bill, Discount Stamps Bill, State Fire Insurance Bill, Property Law Bill, Fair Rent Bill, Rating on Unimproved Values Bill, Rating on Unimproved Value Bill (No. 2), District Courts Bill, Orchard and Garden Pests Bill, Cycle Boards Bill, Crown Grants Bill, Limitation of Profits and Prevention of Rings and Combines Bill, Juvenile Smoking Suppres- sion Bill, Impounding Bill (No. 1), Gaming and Lotteries Bill, Libel Bill (No. 2), Settlers' Fire Insurance Bill, Fire Brigades Bill, Contagious Diseases Bill, Bicycle-dealers Registration Bill, Absolute Majority Vote Bill, Impounding Bill (No. 2), Totalisator Abolition Bill, Inspectors of Schools Bill. PETITION RE MAORI DEGRADATION. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said he wished to present a pictorial petition from Samuel Lawry and seven others in re Maori degradation. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) wished to ask, Whether it was in compliance with the Standing Orders that petitions could be pre- sented which bore on the face of them most insulting allusions to a section of the people of the colony-the Maoris? The pictures on the petition, several of which had been presented 