a vote the Bill would have gone through. How- ever, the next day information came from the promoters of the Bill, and they asked to have two-thirds of the clauses struck out. The objec- tion taken by the member for the Taieri was found to be valid, and the Council's own engineer reported against the proposal. If that Bill had gone through and had been found to be defec- tive, and trouble had arisen, members would all have had to take their share of the responsi- bility. However, no further business was done that day. He then gave another afternoon, and, as he was not aware that the cause of the trouble between the member for the Taieri and the mem- ber for Dunedin City had been removed, he said he would make a selection of the Bills and put in one class the unopposed Bills and in another the opposed Bills. He thought the result of that was in the interests of the House, because they had some nineteen Bills passed, and nineteen districts had had their require- ments met. If that course had not been followed all these nineteen districts would have been without their requirements, because these two or three Bills were blocking the way. Now, because he had arranged business to give a chance to these unopposed Bills he was accused of using his position against the City of Wel- lington. He could only say that any state- ment of that kind was absolutely without foundation. Then, the member for Wellington City to-day said what he would do if he did not get his way, and did not get a chance with his Bill. Now, the honourable member knew as https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 well as he did that the Standing Orders gave a certain number of days each session for local Bills, and the honourable gentleman knew as well as he did-and there was no use burking the fact-that the Bill had no more show of going through than he had of flying across the Straits. The honourable gentleman was now only posing before his constituents as a martyr in order to engender some sympathy. He could not, at this stage of the session, give the honour- able member preference over other members, and it would not be right for him to do so. He was quite prepared to give the other local Bills, that were unopposed, an opportunity to go through, and if the honourable member could make a satisfactory arrangement in regard to this Bill, the same as was done in the case of the Dunedin Bill, so that the Bill might become practically an unopposed Bill, it would not take five minutes to go through. He would ask the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson) to adjourn for a short time with his colleague Mr. Fisher, and see if they could come to an arrangement, because if the Bill was no longer opposed he would be very glad to give the honourable gentleman an opportunity to put it through. Mr. FISHER .- You will not be troubled. Mr. SEDDON said he would be quite pre- pared to give an opportunity to the honourable gentleman if the Bill was unopposed. So far as the Bill was concerned, he had stated his opinion of it, and he was still of that opinion. He could not understand how the value of the I should apply, and I said that it was not Mr. Seddon said the value was not in the property. This value was not in it at the time the owners wanted to sell it to the Government ; and he could not understand the Council taking an option over the property before consulting the ratepayers. There was something about the transaction he did not like. However, he could not stop all other business for the sake of having a fight between the two members for Wellington City over one Bill, and he did not think mem- bers would blame him for refusing to give that opportunity. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) wished to make a personal explanation. He objected to the in- troduction of the Bill on the ground that a sheaf of new Bills was being introduced in the last days of the session, when there were so many Bills on the Order Paper which had not yet been dealt with. The House divided. AYES, 36. Palmer Allen, E. G. Hall-Jones Parata Arnold Hogg Pirani Bennet Houston Buddo Kaihau Stevens Steward Carncross Lang Carroll Tanner Lawry Thompson, R. Collins McGowan Wilford Colvin McGuire Willis. McNab Duncan Tellers. Millar Ell Field Flatman Mills O'Meara Gilfedder Hornsby. Graham NOES, 18. Russell, W. R. Hardy Allen, J. Smith, G. J. Herries Atkinson Thomson, J. W. Bollard Hutcheson Fisher Tellers. Massey Meredith Fowlds Monk Russell, G. W. Fraser, A. L. D. Rhodes Fraser, W. Majority for, 18. Leave granted, Bill introduced, and read a first time. # WORKERS' COMPENSATION FOR ACCI- DENTS BILL. In moving for leave to introduce this Bill, Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said,-I would like to call members' attention to the English law upon this subject-the Workers' Compensation for Accidents Act. This is the Act of 1900. Mr. J. ALLEN .- It has been altered this year. Mr. SEDDON .- The Act came into force on the 1st July this year, but it was passed last year. I contended all through the piece last year that in the 4th clause of our Act the words "industrial employment" did not apply to farmers, and it was moved when the Bill was in Committee that the Act should not apply to persons engaged in agriculture. An Hon. MEMBER .- It was moved that it should apply, and you opposed it. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes, it was moved that it 