viction, he said, would have led him to vote for it, and I thought of him in this way : " Budge," said Sentiment ; "Budge not," said Convic- tion ; but the "Budge " had it. He also said he was more actuated by sentiment than by logic. Well, I am prepared to admit that sentiment is sometimes stronger than logic or conviction, and that a man is entitled on occasions to vote as he feels sentimentally, as no doubt the honourable member for Ash- burton will. Then, the honourable member for Napier said that sentiment had a great deal to do with our actions, and he instanced a case in which certain Auckland members in the House, by their quiet influence and by their bearing towards their fellow-members, and by their hard work, had influenced certain votes. I may say that I am prepared to admit that ; and, on the other hand, that there are members representing the City of Auckland, as has been mentioned already, who have done more towards killing the San Francisco service than anybody else. That has been instanced more than once this evening. I refer to the honourable mem- ber for Auckland City (Mr. Napier). That un- wise telegram of his, as the honourable mem- ber for Lyttelton informed the House, quite settled his vote upon the question ; and I think the honourable member for Napier was finally led to be quite decided in his way of voting by the threats of the newspapers and by the " mailed fist " of the honourable mem- ber for Auckland City (Mr. Napier). But, Sir, there are Auckland members to whom the San Francisco service will owe everything if it is carried to-night. I particularly allude to one honourable gentleman who is sitting opposite to me now-Mr. Fowlds, who by his excellent speech has, I think, done a great deal to in- fluence members to vote for the San Francisco service. There are others on this side of the House to whom similar credit is due. There is the honourable member for Franklin, whose work on this question nobody knows better than I do. He has by his persistent efforts not only privately tried to induce members to vote for the San Francisco service, but by his excellent arguments I think he has induced no fewer than three members to alter their votes in favour of the service. An Hon. MEMBER .- Arguments ? Mr. J. ALLEN .- Yes; sound, solid argu- think for the way they have ments. I spoken and acted the San Francisco service owes more to them than to all the Auckland Press and to Mr. Napier, and I hope the City of Auckland will recognise the service that has been done by these gentlemen. I do not forget either that there have been others who, like my friends Mr. Bollard and Mr. Herries, have been hard at work inside and outside of this House trying to do their best on behalf of the district they represent. I have said I believe there is a good deal to be advanced both by way of solid argument and by way of sentiment for this service, and I propose later on in what I have to say to try to convince the House that, on the ground of sentiment alone, there is a great being continued under the existing conditions. But let me, first of all, meet one or two argu- ments that have been advanced in opposition to it. The argument of some members has been merely an attack upon somebody else. I am speaking now of members who have been arguing on both sides, some in favour of and some against the San Francisco ser- vice. The honourable member for Ohinemuri, Mr. Jackson Palmer, evidently thought the best argument he could use for the service was an attack upon the Australian Commonwealth and upon the Peninsular and Oriental Shipping Company. I am sorry that this method of argument is being introduced into the House at the present time, and I regret extremely that already we have had evidence in the House that retaliation is to be the method adopted for inducing our brothers across the water to be our friends. I fail to see how that is going to bring about the friendship one desires. It seems to me that we should have kept silence-at least, until we knew what they are prepared to do-and then that weshould act- in our own interests in the best way possible. These threats of retaliation, I believe, can have no good effect, and certainly the attack by the honourable member for Ohinemuri upon the Australian Commonwealth and upon the Pen- insular and Oriental service will not benefit. the San Francisco service in the slightest. Then, Sir, the member for Masterton made a very severe attack on the Union Steamship Company, a company that this colony has reason to be proud of, and a company I should like to see enter into this mail-service, and which I should like to see subsidised. I shall show. presently why I do not think at the pre- sent moment we ought to throw over the present San Francisco mail-service for the Van- couver service, because I do not think matters are ripe for us to go in for it. But I hope the time will come when the Union Steamship Company will be able to enter into the mail- service, and when this colony will be able to help them to carry it out. Then, the member for Lyttelton, by specious arguments, attempted to show that the San Francisco mail-service was not the cheapest one. He certainly was correct so far as his figures were concerned, but I do not think that he founded his figures. upon a proper argument. He divided the total cost by the number of trips, and he said that each individual trip now in the case of the Federal service cost less than in the case of the San Francisco service, and therefore the one was cheaper than the other. Now, that is not. exactly a fair way of putting it. The fair way of putting it is to take the Postmaster-General's figures, which show the San Francisco service to be some thousands of pounds cheaper than the Federal service. That fact cannot be got away from. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about a weekly service ? Mr. J. ALLEN .- There is no weekly service provided for. That would be quite another thing. But the fortnightly service by the 