honourable members not to interrupt. Mr. SEDDON .-- You will note, Sir, that on this side of the House we have silence and good behaviour while members are speaking opposite. When those members' statements are refuted they interrupt. I admit that $675,000 is a large amount, but I have told the House we were committed to the extent of £275,000. We have had members demanding new stations. We have had members opposite applying to the Minister for Railways and ask ing how it is he is working men night and day- how it is he has not the trucks to bring the grain, the wool, and the timber. We have these complaints time after time, and the life has been almost badgered out of the Minister for Railways; and then, after we have given effect to what they have asked, and have ordered locomotives and trucks, and put on men to work in the workshops to make trucks and locomotives, they kick up a row about pay- ing the bill. I cannot understand honour- able gentlemen doing a thing like that. Then they force the colony into a commitment, and not without just ground, because it was neces- sary ; but after we have incurred the liability that they have urged upon us to incur, and that they have voted for, they actually turn round and say, " You should not take this £675,000 for renewals and additions to open lines." Well, I say, when we have taken half a million out of the Consolidated Fund, and when the margin is small that is now chargeable to the consolidated estimates, I cannot see there is https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 any strength in the honourable member's argu- ments. The rule laid down is this : If you are changing your line or replacing rails, and lift up a 50 lb. rail and put down a 701b. rail, you http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero charge the difference between the 50lb. and the 70 lb. to capital account. If you take down a bridge and put up one to carry large locomotives and grapple with the increased trade, the same method is followed. Let us say that the bridge taken down was originally charged against loan-moneys for $10,000. The new bridge, which will last for fifty or sixty years, will cost $50,000. In that case you charge the #40,000 against loan account, and the #10,000 remains as it was previously - paid out of capital account. That is the principle that is laid down by the other colonies, and also laid down by the railway companies throughout the world. If you take down a station that costs you £5,000, and put up a new station or additional buildings to meet in- creased requirements and increased traffic, you simply charge the difference between what was originally paid-not a reduced value, but the normal value and the present cost, and that is all that is charged against the Loan Account. That has been so often explained by my col- league the Minister for Railways that I cannot understand why gentlemen opposite will insist on saying that we are using loan-moneys for replacing and renewing works. We are doing nothing of the kind, and strict instructions are sent out on the matter. Any scrutineer you like to appoint to go through the railway lutely correct-that is, that we are not charging renewals or maintenance against capital or loan account ; that is the position. I come now to what was stated by the honourable member for Wakatipu. He impressed upon me that, when the loans of local bodies fall due, we ought to take power under the Act to lend money to them-that is, that in the case of a bridge, a road, or waterworks made thirty years ago, and for which money was borrowed and has not been repaid, we should provide the means, under the Loans to Local Bodies Act, to repay that loan of thirty years ago. That is what the honourable member wants me to do. Well, I say that in the old days there was a sinking fund set apart, and it was ex- pected that at the end of a stated time the loans would be paid off. But what the honour- able member suggests is not paying them off : it is simply renewing them ; but it is renewing them by means provided by the State instead of by means provided by the person who origin- ally found the money. It is a proposal that seems very nice on the face of it. But does the honourable member know the amount owing at the present time by local bodies? Does he know the number of loans falling in ? I tell him at once the reason the law has not been extended to meet these old loans, which the State, in his opinion, should renew : the reason is that it would be too heavy a call on the finances of the colony. The honour- able member, and other members of the same side, apparently want me to increase the public indebtedness in this way, and to borrow more money to lend to the public bodies ; and if I amended the Act for that purpose-at the present time the average amount lent to local bodies is $100,000 - I should probably have to increase 9.30. these payments by about $300,000 or £400,000. Then, Sir, I should be twitted in the very next financial debate about the ex- travagance of the Premier and the Colonial Treasurer. I would be told that the Treasurer seems altogether careless about increasing the indebtedness of the colony, that the indebted- ness of the colony ten years ago was #2 per head, and now it is $3 per head, and that if the Premier is allowed his own way it will be £4 per head. Who is it who wants the public indebtedness increased ? I say it is those gentlemen who urge upon the Government- and I do not say unreasonably so-to increase our lending-power. If I have to lend, I have to borrow. I cannot lend without doing so, and it is because this request means extending our borrowing-powers to too great a limit that we have not seen our way to amend the Act in the direction the honourable gentleman wishes. And, if I did it, probably he would be one amongst those who would accuse me of unduly increasing the public indebtedness of the colony. That is my answer. It means we would have to increase to treble the amount now required. Mr. W. FRASER .- No. Mr. SEDDON .- I say, Yes. We have had 