downwards, by reason of the bad times and depression in trade and agriculture. In every other position of life there is a struggle for higher salaries at present. The farmer desires higher prices for his produce, and the artisan a higher rate of wage, and, surely, it is only reasonable that school- teachers' services should be renumerated better when the colony is now enjoying fairly good times. The member for Christchurch City asked what was the object of the Commission. I take it that the object of the Commission was to provide an equitable scheme of salaries for the public-school teachers of the colony ; but, unfortunately, there was this feeling among the members of that Com- mission : that female teachers in charge of schools, or as assistants, should be paid at a lower rate than male teachers. The Premier said that teachers in the back blocks had suffered very much in the past. This Bill will not affect the teachers in the back blocks, or very little indeed ; and it is the back-blocks schools that are invariably the small aided schools. An Hon. MEMBER .- Will it include them ? Mr. BUDDO .- No, for in the district of the member for Franklin the salaries in some aided schools will be reduced. However, I presume we must put up with the inevitable ; but a minimum salary should have been fixed for these back-block teachers. This is one of the principal blots in the Bill. It is true there are one or two districts in the colony in which the householders provide a minimum salary. It is $65 in Canterbury, and, I believe, $70 in Otago ; but this Bill should have laid it down as a hard-and-fast rule that no certificated teacher should go into an aided school unless a mini- mum salary of from £60 to $70 is provided. This would be better than is provided now in many cases. Then, I think the Premier stated that the women could not do the work. I need not go fully into this question. I think the women teachers can do the work. In many cases the average of absence through sickness has been such as to show that the female teachers are nearly as regular in their at- tendance as the male teachers. This colonial scale, in my opinion, is worthy of the colony, and will encourage a profession that demands our best assistance. But, at the same time, there are two blots in it, and one of them is that the women teachers have this reflection cast upon them of being placed on a lower scale of pay than the male teachers when filling the posi- tion of assistant. Where the average school attendance is forty to fifty, the malo teacher receives a salary of $155 and a capitation for every extra scholar of $1, whereas the female teachers receive a salary of £145 and a capita- tion of only 10s. The same thing applies right through the scale ; and we find that where the boys and girls are taught apart the Schedule provides that where the attendance is from 201 to 250 the male teachers are to receive £185, while on the same attendance at the girls' school the female teacher is to have $135 per annum. Surely, Sir, this difference is not warranted ; and I believe the female teachers Mr. Buddo injustice is removed at an early date, and that they are paid for the work they do. Personally, I should like to see all reference to male and female assistant-teachers taken out of the Schedule. The Boards of Education are allowed to staff the schools, and I feel confi- dent they would continue to do so in a manner that would not result in the employment of more female teachers than males in large city schools, and if the salaries were adjusted, and the average salary paid to female and male teachers alike, the female teachers would feel that they were being placed in the position of being able to carn the salary if they were appointed to the positions. Such a system would cost the colony no more, and the reflection would have been removed from the Schedule recognising a difference between the work of male and female teachers. Sir, there are many old settlers in this colony who owe all the education they have got to the teaching in a dame's school in the Old Country, and I think those old settlers will resent this reflection being passed upon the female teachers of the colony, who have un- doubtedly done excellent work in our schools in past years. The Bill in other respects I think is a good one, and I intend to support it, for I recognise any alteration in the Schedule will in all probability lead to delay or loss of the measure. But, at the same time, I could not allow the opportunity to go past without pro- testing against one or two of the blots that spoil the Bill, and I trust in the near future that we shall be able to remove those anomalies from the schedule of teachers' salaries, so that the principle of equal pay for equal work may be at least recognised, if not practised, and that teachers of small or aided schools should be provided with a reasonable minimum salary. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- I suppose 9.0. it is almost presumption for a mem- ber who has not been on the Commission to speak on this Bill, especially after the speech of the Right Hon. the Premier. I do not know why he moved the second reading of the Bill at all. It is down in the name of the Minister for Public Works. Mr. SEDDON .-- He is busy with the Public Works Statement. Mr. J. ALLEN. - Are we to get it to-night ? Mr. SEDDON .- I think so. Mr. J. ALLEN .- We will excuse him, then. Well, Sir, I say that the argument which was adduced by the Right Hon. the Premier was a curious one in favour of our passing the Bill. What did he say? He said that members had not had any time to go through the evidence, and they must take for granted what has been submitted. Well, I should like to know whether it is the usual thing for the Pre- mier to ask the House to take what is sub- mitted to them, when they have evidence to read ? And I would like to know what is the value of printing all this evidence? I under- stood we were to be given time to go through this evidence, and judge for ourselves whether the report is in accordance with the evidence, and whether the Bill is in accordance with the re- 