eight or nine years to make homes for them- selves, and who have been facing difficulties that only pioneers can properly appreciate. And now it is suggested that the exemption should be taken away and they should be taxed. I maintain they are all taxed, and very heavily taxed. Within the last twenty-four hours 1 have received letters from leaseholders in perpetuity in my district, complaining that, while they only occupy about two hundred acres of land, they are paying $15 to £17 a year in taxation to the local bodies. If there is any class that might be taxed with some benefit to the community it is the owners of large estates, who are making their huge possessions inacces- sible, instead of cutting them up or employing plenty of labour on them. In such cases the graduated tax would have a wholesome effect, not because of the amount of revenue raised-that is a mere bagatelle, and I do not take it into con- sideration-but I say the graduated tax would have a beneficial effect if it enabled the Crown to get land for settlement at something like a reasonable price. Unfortunately, the Govern- ment is not inclined to increase the graduation, and that is the reason why close settlement in the North Island has been retarded. I hope the Premier will be able to explain why the mortgage-tax has not been got rid of and the graduated land-tax increased. Why, the tax has been in operation for. I think, over ten years now, and it was never anticipated that it would remain unchanged. 1 am greatly dis- appointed that in regard to land-taxation we https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 have had no alteration. Here we have the Crown acknowledging the fact that they are not able to get land for settlement. While the people are demanding land, large estates con- tinue locked up in a few hands, no proper im- provements are going on, and close settlement is almost at a standstill. Money has been spent to the extent of two or three millions in the purchase of certain estates, and very hard bar- gains are being made ; yet in the face of all this no effective measures are being taken to require the owners of huge unimproved properties to make their land productive, so that it may em- ploy labour and become a source of profit to the State, or dispose of it on reasonable terms for settlement purposes. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) .-- I rise to make a personal explanation. The member for Palmerston misrepresented what I said, and I ask to be allowed to correct that. The honourable member stated that I had quoted a precedent which did not exist, and he stated, further, that I said the case of the Kauri Timber Company and the Commissioner of Taxes was a question of a lease in perpetuity. 1 said nothing of the kind. I stated that in that case the whole of the Judges held that all chattel interests in land are taxable. The con- cluding portion of that judgment, reported in Volume 17, " New Zealand Law Reports," is as follows :- "The Act (Land and Income Assessment Act) exempts lands owned or occupied by Maoris only, and not leased to or occupied by any Mr. Hogg vested in Her Majesty, except where there is a tenant or occupier liable to pay such tax." I therefore submit I have shown the validity of my original contention. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I desire to make a personal explanation. I would like to point out that the honourable member has mis- represented me. He was arguing on the basis that leases in perpetuity were liable to taxation, and he said that the Appeal Court had already decided that they were. When I challenged him to name a case, the honourable member said the Kauri Timber Company : and I say that is a Native-land case, not a case referring to leases in perpetuity. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) .- We have had some rather peculiar arguments this evening, and I would like just to say, in answer to the statement of the honourable member for Christ- church City (Mr. Ell), that one might just as well say if you took all the coin out of a man's pocket he would be the richer for it. The honourable member's statement has no weight at all, and cannot be borne out by figures. I wish to point out this: that the $500 exemp- tion on the land-tax is only for the poor man, because it dies away after a certain value of land is reached, and therefore it is simply ridi- culous to speak of abolishing this exemption. I believe that the exemption on the income-tax might be reduced to £200 ; and also I believe the graduated income-tax is as fair as the graduated land-tax, and I do not see why Par- liament should not impose a graduated income- tax as well as a graduated land-tax if necessary. I do not know whether the House is clear upon the argument put forward by the member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier), as the return read by the member for Mataura contradicted his statement, which he asserts is perfectly correct. From the argument put forward by the mem- ber for Auckland City, I think if he misses the portfolio of Attorney-General the Government will do well to hold him in readiness for the position of Valuer-General to the Valuation Department ; and if he receives that appoint- ment I think we shall have an increased re- venue very quick. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- I understand that this is the annual Bill, and therefore that there is no great principle involved, and there can be no objection to the measure. I may say, further, that I do not intend to discuss the whole subject of direct taxation ; but, following up what has been said by the member for Nelson City, I would remind the Premier of his promise last year with regard to reducing what is called the mortgage-tax. This is what he said : - "For some considerable time interest on mortgages has steadily decreased. During the past ten years interest on mortgages has fallen about one-fourth : this makes the 1d. in the pound on the capital value a very heavy charge. The colony has conceded conditionally } per cent. on mortgages under the Advances to Settlers Act, and } per cent. to local bodies on loans under the Government Loans to Local 