that the honourable gentleman had already booked his passage, and also the passages of his family. Mr. SEDDON said, If the honourable gentle- man had not made the last statement he would have treated the first part of his remarks as serious. It amused him ; but reports of these statements got exaggerated. It was the first he had heard that there had been any passages booked, and the honourable member must know that there could be no foundation for such a statement. But, suppose the Premier had booked his passage for any part of the world, why should that fact be brought out on the floor of the House? The honourable member said he had heard it; well, he might hear many things in the course of the day, but that was no reason why it should be brought on the floor of the House and telegraphed all over the country as an accomplished fact. They did not do these things in other countries regarding the Premier or his movements, or the move- ments of his family, and he took exception to it. As regards the representation of the colony by members of the Maori race, that was a matter which was worth considering. They could do that, he supposed, without an invita- tion at all. If they desired to send representa- tives of the Native race Home, as they did in the case of the Jubilee, they could do so by making provision for it. If honourable mem- bers would give the Government the advantage of their views upon this question, he should be only too glad to have their opinion. An Hon. MEMBER .- Now ? Mr. SEDDON .-- At any time. Captain RUSSELL .- Not on the questions. Mr. SEDDON said, No, not on the ques- tions. He did not want to force the opinions of himself, his colleagues, or the Govern- ment on the House and country. He would like honourable members to set aside every- thing else except what they thought would be pleasing to the colony, and to the advantage and pleasure of our kindred at Home, and what would be suitable representation. That was a very fair matter for expression of opinion on. Hon. MEMBERS .- Give us the chance. Mr. SEDDON said he would be most happy to have the opportunity of members giving their views on this question to the Govern- ment. Mr. MEREDITH asked if the honourable gentleman would set apart an afternoon for the discussion of the question. Mr. SEDDON said the Government could, of course, he supposed, submit proposals for con- sideration, but there was a delicacy in the situation, because their taking action might lay them open to the insinuation that they were courting an invitation. ## R. H. ELLIOTTE. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) asked the Government, Why they have not paid to R. H. Elliotte the £20 which it was recom- mended by the Public Petitions A to L Com- Mr. G. W. Russell and the previous session ? It seemed to him that it ill-became those in power to refuse to pay a sum like this to an old warrior who had fought and bled for New Zealand in the earlier times. This was a sum of £20 which Mr. Elliotte had paid out of his own pocket, and which the Committee for two years in succes- sion had recommended should be repaid him by the Government. He had been injured quite recently on the co-operative works, and the £20 would be of great assistance to him. He hoped the Government would put the amount on the supplementary estimates, and pay it without further delay. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said this was the first he had heard of it. He would inquire into it, and if this was an old veteran who bad done good service for the colony, and had met with an accident, he would give him £20; but not as a matter of right, because it opened up a very large question, as others would bring forward claims. MRS. E. H. McDONALD. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) asked the Government, If they will set up a Com- mittee to inquire into the rights of Mrs. E. H. McDonald in reference to her claim for money paid and for damages in connection with her recent suit in the Supreme Court ? The claimant had been barred from a certain portion of her claim on account of statute law, and had no opportunity of prosecuting it. New evidence had been discovered in Australia, and she would now be able to put her case in a new light, either before the Court or a Committee. and such evidence would probably justify the Government in coming to her assistance. He simply wished her to have that opportunity. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he would make full inquiries during the recess into the facts. with the view of seeing that justice was done. # TOPOGRAPHICAL PLANS. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked the Minister of Defence, -(1) Whether the Government deems it advisable to continue the practice at present pursued of supplying the general public with topographical plans of sections of the colony prepared by the Survey Department; and whether, in the interests of the protection of the colony against possible invasion, it would not be wise to provide that all such plans should be placed under the control of the Defence authorities ; and (2) whether the time has not come for the inauguration of a corps of engineers to be instructed in topographical survey work, who would not only be a potent factor in the defence of the colony, but would \--- also be of material assistance to the Survey Department ? The matter was one of very great importance as affecting the safety of the colony, and had been brought under his notice by numbers of people. The plans referred to gave a very great deal of detail, showing the larger hills, with their height, and other natural features of the country, together \---- with railways, roads, tracks, and other works; 