cent. of the votes, and we know how they will be used, and which side is likely to be the most successful. I simply mention these facts to show that it is well that, while the Labour party are striving to treat the other side fairly -that while we are striving only to pass such legislation as is likely to be beneficial to our male workers, to our children, and to our female workers, as affects their health and as affecting their wages, without detrimentally affecting the employers - we should have the co-operation of the country members. I wish to point to one or two statements which have been made recently to show to what extent this criticism has gone. We were told, not many days ago, by a public speaker that, "as it is, the manufacturers are closing down their works and clearing out and leaving the colony ; they cannot go on ; they must get out of the colony and save a little of their capital from the wreck." Those are the statements made by a public man. And no sooner is a state- ment like that made than it is wired through- out the length and breadth of New Zealand, and is published in every newspaper, and re- peated until the farmers and employers in the country believe that such is the case. Now, I want to disprove this in a few words, be- cause I will not delay the House at length upon this question ; but I wish to show this : that the increase of labour or the decrease of labour in the colony during the various https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 years must be an answer to that question. And I find this : that from 1895 to 1896 the number of factory-hands had increased by 2,508, from 1896 to 1897 by 4,531, from 1897 to 1898 by 2,754, from 1898 to 1899 by 5,736, and from 1899 to 1900 by 3,636, and from 1900 to 1901-the end of March last-by 4,522. So that the increase of the employés in the various factories in the towns of the colony during seven years has increased by 79 per cent., and surely that is an answer to those who state that men in the colony are selling up and leaving so as to save the little they still have left from the wreck. Last year there were 4,744 factories in the colony, and the total number of hands em- ployed was 53,460. An Hon. MEMBER .- How many were em- ployed in each factory. Mr. ARNOLD .- It is impossible to say how many were employed in each factory ? An Hon. MEMBER .- There were only two or three in some places. Mr. ARNOLD .- Well, it is no argument to say that sometimes there were two and some- times three. You have the aggregate number and the aggregate increase, and that is quite sufficient argument. If I told the House the number of factories had increased I might be making a statement that would be misleading, but, when I say that the employés have in. creased in number it matters not whether they are working in twos or threes or whether there are three hundred in each place. Now, here is another statement that was made : A gentleman said,- " It would be a good thing for the colony if idleness with their hands in their pockets, and nothing else in their pockets but their hands. I think that would make them think a little." Sir, if a statement like that had been made ten or twelve years ago we might have under- stood it, because we know that at that time the policy of the capitalist and of many em- ployers was to strive to make working-men walk about the streets "with their hands in their pockets, and nothing else but their hands in their pockets," when they asked for higher wages and better conditions. But to day we expect something else. Here is another very peculiar thing : A statement like that is taken no notice of whatever by the Press of the colony. Not long ago we had in one of our illustrated papers-a very acceptable paper in this city, and especially among some of the local representatives, who receive a certain amount of notice-we had a full-page picture showing the manufacturers of the colony leav- ing the shores, each one with his #500 in his hand, and the working-men saying good-bye to them, and wishing them farewell. How is it we have never had an illustration in any paper in New Zealand showing the employers sending their men out of the factories, and compelling them to walk about the streets with both hands in their pockets, and nothing in their pockets but their hands, so that ultimately there might be nothing in their stomachs-for that is the argument - and consequently they would be glad to go and take that which is offered to them ? Here is another statement we have not had mentioned in the Press of New Zealand as far as I am aware : A speaker said, - " It would be a good thing for the colony if the working-men were to pack up their traps and leave New Zealand in a body. It would be a good thing for New Zealand, and possibly for them. Their place would be easily filled by Chinamen and Japanese." Why, there is a beautiful little picture for some of these papers. The working-men being turned out of New Zealand, and Chinese and Japanese coming in great steamers such as those we speak of when debating the San Fran- cisco mail-service; but not one word was said about a statement such as that in the Press of New Zealand. As I have previously stated, this Bill is a consolidating measure. It is a measure that has one or two improvements in it that might be very well touched upon, but I will leave that point to others who wish to refer to it. I simply wish to say that there are cer- tain exemptions from the Bill that will be found in the Second Schedule, and that some of these have been placed there with the full consent of the Labour party, in consequence of the con tents of subsection (3) of clause 18, which pro- vides that, if an industry whose hours are speci- fied in this Act as forty-eight has a dispute which is brought before the Court of Arbitration, that Court may extend the hours of labour or decrease them. I quite agree that that is a very fair clause, and, with that, none of those who have been exempted from the operation of this Act in regard to the hours of labour can possibly 