honorarium. I maintain we have no right to ing the contention that we, having entered into have a differential payment in this House, and a certain contract, have the right ourselves to I maintain that the very fact that such sug- increase the amount of our own pay. Again, Sir, gestions can arise on the floor of the House in we were told that many men who entered Par- discussing the matter is clear proof that the liament would have been better off if they had Bill ought not to have been brought down in confined themselves to their own occupation ; the form in which it is. It would be quite a different matter to discuss the question of the a member of Parliament actually entail a loss, value of a member's services on its merits if and that the country has no right to expect the the Bill were to apply to the next Parliament. sacrifice, and does not expect the sacrifice at the Then it would be discussed absolutely free from hands of those who serve the State. All of which, any personal feeling or prejudice, and the matter I say again, is self-evidently true. The country would go to the country, and we would take our does not expect this; but again I point out that chance of coming back and participating in the the country does not force us into the position. increase, supposing the increase to be carried. We sought the position-every member of the Now, an argument has been used which at the House sought the position he now occupies. first blush appears to carry some force. It has Then, Sir, comparisons were made between been suggested that members-and I suppose the amount of remuneration paid to members this was based on the discussion that took here in New Zealand and the remuneration place this afternoon-on this side of the House paid to members of Parliament in New South and members on the other side are willing to vote £130,000 to the shareholders of the Mid- altogether beside the mark as affecting the land Railway, and yet would refuse to vote an question whether we have or have not a moral increase in the payment of members in the right to increase our pay after having entered House. Sir, cannot the honourable gentleman into a contract with our constituents-to serve who suggested this see the difference in the for a definite period for a definite remuneration. situation ? Surely no honourable member will We have been told that this was the best time vote for that £130,000 payment unless he feels to deal with this question. I should urge that it his duty so to do. And, Sir, I would point this is, perhaps, the very worst time to deal out this: That if there be no legal claim-and, with this proposal; and it would surely be fair of course, I cannot discuss the matter of the to urge the increased expenditure in various £130,000 now-there is a moral claim, and that directions to which we have committed the moral claim should be a much stronger claim colony as indicating the present as the than any legal claim can possibly be. And most inopportune time to consider this pro- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 posal. Indeed, it has been urged by several that, it seems to me, will be the motive power impelling some members to vote for that members that we have voted increased sums £130,000 payment. But there is really no moral to officials connected with the Civil Service, reason why we should increase our own salaries. and that we have voted the expenditure of large sums of public money in various At least I can find no moral reason which directions. I should urge that that very in- will justify me in voting for increasing the creased expenditure-if it was a necessary in- amount, and, in saying that, I am casting no reflection on honourable members who will crease, and I suppose it was a necessary increase to carry a general vote of this House-I should vote for the increase. I can find no sound and urge that the very fact that we have so increased valid reason why I should support this Bill, and it appears to me, so far as I am concerned the public expenditure was a good reason for refusing a still further demand on the public in my relationship to my constituency, knowing purse for our own special benefit. At least, that I never hinted at it when I was before my that is an argument that would carry consider- constituents, knowing that they made no com- able force with me. Again, Sir, it has been pact with me, and that I made none with them said that if we leave this matter to the last on this subject, I cannot support this Bill days of a Parliament, we should be leaving it morally, and in saying this I again assert I cast till just before an election, and, we are asked, no reflection whatever on any honourable gentle- what would our opponents do supposing we man who chooses to take a different course. were to do that. Now, Sir, if our opponents in an I will now call the attention of the 10.30. electoral contest could make capital out of our House to some of the arguments that voting on this matter, if they could urge that we have been advanced in support of the proposal had improperly increased our own honorarium, contained in the Bill, and amongst those argu- and if that argument would have any force with ments were statements made by the Premier, the constituents as telling against ourselves, for instance, that the amount which was at then, assuredly, the Premier, who made use of present paid to members of Parliament was this argument, overlooked this fact : that the totally inadequate considering the conditions very essence of the contention here is that our under which honourable members worked. action would not meet with the approval of the For instance, also, we were told that Parliament constituents ; and that is my contention -- that lasted for nearly three years, and that we had we have offered to serve our constituents under to consider the cost of fighting the election, all certain conditions, one of which is the amount of which is absolutely true, of course. And of payment ; and the Premier really gives away they may be made very strong arguments as the whole case when he says that to do it near affecting the amount which members should that the duties and the demands made upon Wales and Victoria. Again, I urge, this is 