superannuation or anything equivalent to it had been provided, and that had already been done. Apart altogether from the responsibility that the State itself would have to incur in con- nection with such a scheme, the whole of the railway servants were directly concerned, because they would, under his proposals, be contributors towards it. Therefore before the Government, after it came down with their proposals, attempted to force them through they must be satisfied that the proposals were not only fair to those immediately affected, but to the country as a whole, and at the same time that it would make due pro- vision for the railway servants. He was quite satisfied himself that this could be done, and done effectually. They were all agreed that some system was absolutely essential for making a superannuation provision for those who, from old age or other causes, had to go out of the Railway service, and this would yearly become more marked as the service was growing older and older. He recognised that himself, as he was sure the head of the Government and every member of the Government also recognised it. He would not submit a scheme unless one the effects of which would be permanent, lasting, and satisfactory to those concerned. He be- lieved the scheme he had ready would do that. If honourable members had the information which he had collated from all the countries of the world that had provided superannuation schemes, they would realise the stupendous diffi- culty there was in the way of propounding a practicable scheme-one that would be per- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 manent, and that would protect the interests of the men and the families concerned. There- fore, it was not unreasonable to say that men who had such grave responsibilities upon their shoulders were not going to allow themselves by any pressure to be forced to submit a scheme before they were satisfied that the finances of the scheme were such as would carry it safely and succcessfully on, so that its continuity would be unassailable in years to come. Any one might devise and bring down a scheme that would last for a year or two, and then would require to be amended, or even break down, or perhaps, if bad times came, would absorb the moneys that had been paid into it. When men were required to pay their hard-earned money into a fund to assist in building up a superannuation scheme, then a permanent scheme must be provided. As he said, he fully believed the scheme now ready met all those purposes, but he fully recognised that others as well as himself had responsibilities, and had to be considered. Only the previous evening the honourable member for Riccarton and the honourable member for Otaki had asked him to receive a deputation upon this question be- tween ten o'clock and half past ten ; but as he had had a very heavy time all day on the estimates, and was to return to them immedi- ately after the half-hour adjournment, he had asked that this deputation should be postponed, so that the honourable member who had to- night moved the resolution would see that other Sir J. G. Ward see that matter pushed forward. Mr. BOLLARD .- I am glad to hear it. Sir J. G. WARD said they were all anxious to have the scheme pushed forward. He had himself been at work on the scheme ever since he had been Minister for Railways, and if honourable members would look at the speeches delivered by the Right Hon. the Premier in October, 1899, they would find, in connection with the classification scheme to which he re- ferred, that he had fully expressed an opinion in favour of it. The Government all along had been anxious to bring this about, but when they did so it must be done effectively. He would suggest to those members who were anxious to have a superannuation scheme and a classification scheme that there were others who were equally anxious with themselves ; but it must be remembered that there were great responsibilities on the shoulders of the Govern- ment in connection with the matter. He was desirous of bringing down the scheme at the earliest moment, and in such a form as to meet the necessities of the service by making pro- vision for the future of the staff in a suitable and practicable way. They were determined to do that so soon as they could see their way ; and, having said that, he thought the honour- able member would realise that his attempt to create the impression that the Government wanted driving in the matter was absolutely without foundation. Mr. BOLLARD .- There is no harm in stirring you up a bit. Sir J. G. WARD said there was no need for stirring the Government up about it. He was himself as earnest and anxious about it as any member of the House could be ; and, in addition to that, he had been working upon it. The scheme had been actuarially examined twice- once last year and again this year. There was necessarily great diversity of opinion as far as actuarial investigation into big schemes such as this were concerned-there was great differ- ence of opinion as to what the working-out would be in years to come. Such a scheme would have to apply to the whole Railway ser- vice. If it were made to apply to one section of it only it might be comparatively easy ; but we had a large growing service, and it was not only those employed to-day but those who would be employed in the future that had to be considered. Regarding an amendment of the classification, the Government had already made provision to the extent of £20,000 a year in respect to some branches of the Railway Service, and it was recognised that there were men in other branches of the service who were not sufficiently paid; but when the Government dealt with the matter it should be recognised that it must be dealt with on broad principles, and so that no injustice should be done to any branch of the service. He trusted the honour- able member, having this assurance from him- self as the responsible Minister in charge of the department, would recognise that this im- portant matter was not nor had it been in any way neglected; and when the proposals did 