sent to our servants. The Governor now receives berlain, and he in his turn sends confidential letters to the Resident Agent. This shows that the Cook Islands are in the position of a colony of New Zealand, which is not constitutional. I say the Premier ought to have told us what Acts he intends to bring into force in this group. He has not given us the slightest in- formation except that he intends to alter the law of divorce because attention was called to it. If attention had not been called to it nothing would have been done. We have no control, and we do not know what the Premier or the Governor in Council is going to do. An Hon. MEMBER .- Under the Bill he does everything. Mr. HERRIES .- Yes; the Government can do everything. I say that we are putting these Islands in the position of a Crown colony, and we shall presently have the white men living in these Islands coming to us for assistance just as the white men have come for assistance from Fiji; but their position will be worse than those in Fiji. In Fiji there is a white Govern- ment, and a certain number of white men who are in the Executive Council ; but in these Rarotongan Islands, though they certainly have a white Governor, the Federal Council will be composed of dark-skinned people, and the white people will have no say in making the laws under which they live. I say, their position will be ten times worse than the position of the white people in Fiji, and that, instead of being an example, we shall become the by-word among the nations as a people not able to manage their own affairs. Sir, I regret that my time is up, as there are several other points I desired to call attention to. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- Sir, it seems to me that by going in for this tropi- cal country we are entering into a work that will mean an immense amount of responsibility to this country. We are beginning a foreign policy-for what ? What is the area of these Islands? What is the population ? What are the productions of the Islands? The honourable gentleman who has just sat down said he had no information with regard to Niue. Well, I believe the population there is five thousand, and the area thirty thousand acres. There are twenty Europeans on the island. The total area of the whole of the Islands is about a hundred thousand acres, and the population twelve thousand five hundred. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable gentleman is in error. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Well, that is my information, and the most recent. 1 am told that the population of the Cook Islands is about seven thousand five hundred. and the population of Niue five thousand. The Island of Niue is about four hundred miles from the Cook Islands, and the Cook Islands are separated from one another by about one hun- dred and fifty miles. The area, therefore, is about half-a-dozen times as much as that of Resolution Island, to which we deport our kiwis and kakapos. The honourable gentle- got his island, but will he enjoy it ? The com- plications that are likely to arise to this country will be so great that the compensation in trade will nothing like recompense us for our anxieties and outlay. That is the view I take of the matter. The honourable gentleman says there are no two islands having the same laws, and he says it is not wise to enact laws such as prevail in this country, although that may gradually come about. Of course he says he will re-enact the laws at present existing, and when the member for the Bay of Plenty was speaking he interjected a remark about the laws passed in the Cook Islands in 1899- a law prohibiting interference with the people. The honourable gentleman says that law is re- pealed. Mr. SEDDON .- It is not among the laws sent to me as being in force. I think it has been repealed, or is inoperative. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Well, the honourable gentleman ought to know something of the laws that are in force. In the Appendices of last year we have this in section 7 :- " Any person who shall spread idle or mali- cious reports with intent to disturb the minds of the native inhabitants and the peace of the Cook Islands may on conviction be sentenced to a term of imprisonment with hard labour for any period not exceeding three months." I do not think that has been repealed ; in fact, I am sure it has not ; and it is practically the law sanctioned by this country. We sent a Resident there, and we ray his salary ; and this law cannot be brought into force until approved of by the Governor of this colony. Yet, although this Government sanctioned and approved that law, what did both Houses of Legislature do ? Both Houses passed resolutions regarding Fiji- a Crown colony-and forwarded them to the Secretary of State for Colonies. The resolution is :- "(1.) That, in the opinion of this House it is desirable that representations be made to the Imperial Government praying it to relieve Fiji from the position of a Crown colony, seeing that to continue the present form of government in the Fiji Islands is inconsistent with freedom, justice, and equity, and is an abrogation of civil and political rights, depriving as it does the European population, who are mostly New- Zealanders and Australians, of all voice in the making of laws, and debarring them from having the control of moneys raised from taxation." Now, here is the Government of this country practically spreading sedition in Fiji against the established authority there. Mr. SEDDON. - Oh, you had better not say that. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Well, it is so. Mr. SEDDON. - Sir, I rise to a point of order ; it is a great reflection. The honorable member says the Government are spreading sedi- tion in Fiji. A more serious charge could not be made against any Government or individual, and I ask that such a remark be withdrawn. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The charge of spreading sedition in Fiji must be withdrawn. 