Allen, J. Hardy Rhodes Russell, W. R. Arnold Heke Atkinson Hutcheson Smith, G. J. Buddo Lang Steward Collins Laurenson Symes Colvin Lethbridge Tanner Ell Massey Thompson, R. Field Willis. Mckenzie, R. Fisher McNab Tellers. Fraser, A. L. D. Meredith Herries Russell, G. W. Fraser, W. Monk Graham Majority against, 12. Amendment agreed to, and proviso struck out. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) moved the following new clause :- "Subsection one of section five of ' The Pay- ment of Members Act, 1892,' is hereby amended by the insertion of the word 'ten ' in lieu of the word 'five' where the same occurs in the said subsection." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to strike out " ten " and insert " fourteen." Amendment agreed to, and new clause as amended agreed to. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) moved the following new clause :- "Notwithstanding anything in this Act con- tained, any member of the House of Represen- tatives may elect to take payment at the rate provided by 'The Payment of Members Act, 1892,' in lieu of the payment mentioned in sec- tion two of this Act ; and any member failing so to elect shall be ineligible for re-election to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the House of Representatives or for appoint- ment to the Legislative Council for a period of three years from the passing of this Act." New clause negatived. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) moved the following new clause :- "This Act shall not come into operation until the thirty-first day of December, one thousand nine hundred and two." The Committee divided. AYES, 27. Atkinson Russell, W. R. Lethbridge Buddo Smith, G. J. Massey Mackenzie, T. Tanner Ell Meredith Fraser, W. Thompson, R. Thomson, J. W. Graham Monk Willis. O'Meara Hardy Herries Pirani Tellers. Hornsby Rhodes Collins Russell, G. W. Laurenson. Hutcheson Lang NOES, 29. Palmer Allen, E. G. Guinness Arnold Hall-Jones Parata Carncross Heke Seddon Carroll Hogg Stevens Colvin Houston Symes Duncan Kaihau Ward Field Witheford. Lawry Fisher McGowan Tellers. Mckenzie, R. Barclay Flatman Fraser, A. L. D. Mills McNab. For. Against. Allen, J. Hanan Bennet Pere Bollard McLachlan McGuire Smith, E. M. Millar. Morrison. Majority against, 2. Amendment negatived. Bill reported, and read a third time. The House adjourned at ten minutes past eight o'clock p.m. (Tuesday). LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Tuesday, 5th November, 1901. First Reading - Third Reading - Endowments for Primary Education - Coal-mines Bill - Maori Lands Administration Bill, The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Payment of Members Bill. THIRD READING. Cook and Other Islands Government Bill. ENDOWMENTS FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY moved, That this Council approves of the land proposed to be re- served as endowments for primary education, as specified in Paper 138, of 1901, being per- manently set aside as endowments for primary education. He might explain that these re- serves were made in the several provincial districts of the North Island, under the direc- tion of "The Education Reserves Act, 1877," which provided that 5 per cent. of all the waste lands of the Crown in the North Island should be set aside by the Land Boards for primary education. Motion agreed to. COAL-MINES BILL. IN COMMITTEE. The Hon. Mr. REEVES moved to strike out clause 6, and substitute the following :- "6. (1.) Subject to the provisions of the Act, a miner shall not be employed underground for a longer period in any day than eight hours, exclusive of meal-times. " (2.) Such period of eight hours shall be deemed to commence from the time the miner enters the mine, and to finish when he leaves the mine. "(3.) The prescribed number of working- hours may from time to time be exceeded, but on every such occasion wages shall be paid for such extended hours at not less than one-fourth as much again as the ordinary rate. "(4.) Where in any award of the Court of Arbitration under ' The Industrial Conciliation 