a personal explanation. The Premier had a perfect right to refuse to answer a question. ROYAL REVIEW IN CHRISTCHURCH. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) asked the Minister of Defence, Whether the Government intends repudiating or defraying the expenses of the Volunteers who, under instructions directly given by them, attended the Royal review in Christchurch four months ago? He had re- ceived a letter from the Kaikoura Mounted Rifles with reference to this subject. That corps was called upon by the Defence Minister to appear in Christchurch on the occasion of the review held in June last. Though four months had passed, yet the expenses incurred by the men in going a distance of 134 miles- sixty-eight of which they had to travel on horseback-had not yet been paid. He might mention that on the evening they arrived at Culverden, they expected to find carriages there to convey the men to Christchurch, and trucks to take the horses, but neither carriages nor trucks were there. The men had, therefore, to do the best they could for the night, stopping at the Culverden Hotel, and going on in the morning. There appeared to have been some dispute between the Defence Department and the men as to whether they should be allowed the cost of the night's lodging at Culverden. As the men had come a long dis- tance, and as many of them were married men with families, he thought these expenses should have been refunded to the men long since. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said he https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 was informed that all accounts in connection with this matter had been defrayed, with the exception of those of the Kaikoura Rifles, and the accounts of this corps were approved on the previous day. It appeared there had been a misconception on the part of the officials as to the distance these men had travelled. The de- partment contended that they had not travelled the requisite distance to entitle them to receive the full amount. He had pointed out to the officers that, although the distance from Culver- den might not entitle them, still there was the extra distance from Kaikoura which, taken together, would entitle them to the payment. An Hon. MEMBER. - Common-sense would show that. Mr. SEDDON said he had used common- sense, and he had authorised the payment. MESSENGERS AND ORDERLIES. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Pre- mier, If provision will be made on the sup. plementary estimates for the usual sessional gratuities to the messengers and orderlies ? Mr. SEDDON said, Yes, and with pleasure. FEDERATION COMMISSION REPORT. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked the Premier, If he will explain in what way the report of the Federation Commission has bene- tited the colony to the extent of £3,800? The question was perfectly intelligible to mem- bers of the House, but he thought it was not colony, for the people of the colony were not aware that the setting-up of this Commission and its investigations had cost the taxpayers no less a sum than $3,800. He wanted the Pre- mier to state what information the Commission had gained which the country did not already possess, and in what way our trade or com- merce was to be improved by the appointment of the Commission or by its report. There was no reason why the Commission should have been set up, because the people of the colony knew what the decision must be-he did not say would be or could be, but must be-because the Premier had already expressed himself very fully and definitely upon the subject of the federation of New Zealand with the Australian Colonies. Therefore, was it justifiable to set up a Commission which cost $3,800 merely to lend colour to or to indorse the opinion of the Premier, who had already said that New Zea- land should not federate with Australia? It would be remembered that the Premier had stated a number of times that a day would be set apart to discuss the report of the Com- mission. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the 4.30. honourable member was evidently re- ferring to something that had been said in a past debate, which was irregular. Mr. FISHER said the bare suggestion that the whole subject of federation could be dis- cussed in one day was the supremest degree of puerility. Now, the Parliaments of Australia, and the leading statesmen of Australia, having decided upon a certain course, and having ex- tended a generous invitation to New Zealand to come into the Federation, it was only rea- sonable that New Zealand should have been asked to give to that great concourse of states- men- Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable member now is going beyond an explanation of his question. Mr. FISHER said he really found it difficult to proceed. They had now been informed through the cablegrams what the tariff was that had been adopted by the Commonwealth Par- liament, and they had had the opinions Mr. SEDDON wanted to know what this had got to do with the question. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER was waiting to see how the honourable member was going to make it apply. Mr. FISHER said it was impossible for him to proceed if these constant interruptions by the honourable gentleman were allowed. He did not know that he had done anything to offend the honourable gentleman. There had been various opinions expressed in the House during the last few days, and even the honour- able gentleman had said that in consequence of the course adopted by the Commonwealth- Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER thought the honourable gentleman was trespassing on the indulgence of the House too far. Mr. FISHER would then ask the question in hard concrete form. Would the honourable gentleman tell the House, either in plain lan- 