Mr. MONK (Waitemata) asked the Native Minister, Whether the piece of land near the Pupuke Lake, Auckland, presented by the Go- vernment to the late Chief Patuone, is still the property of the Natives ; and, if so, what is its present disposition ? Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) said that, after very searching inquiries, he found that the lands referred to in the question were Lots 29, 30, 31, and 32, Parish of Takapuna, contain- ing 110 acres 1 rood 20 perches, granted to Eruera Patuone by Crown grant dated 30th January, 1866. There had been numerous deal- ings with the land. So far as he could make out, 58 acres 3 roods 31 perches had been alienated outright, and 21 acres 3 roods were the subject of leases. This accounted for 84 acres 2 roods 31 perches, and presumably the balance was in the hands of the Natives. Mr. MONK asked if the land was not alien- able. Mr. CARROLL said it was not. RANGITOTO ISLAND. Mr. PARATA (Southern Maori) asked the Native Minister, Whether he will this session introduce legislation to give effect to the recommendation of the Native Affairs Com- mittee in the matter of the petition of Karepa te Whetu and six others, with regard to their claim for adjustment of their interests in Rangitoto (or D'Urville) Island, either by way of special Bill, or by inserting a clause in a Special Powers and Contracts Bill to meet the case ? The petitioners alleged that the reason why they did not bring the matter before the Native Land Court which sat at Porirua some time ago and dealt with this matter was that they arrived there a day late, and they found that the Court had, previous to their arrival, given an award affecting these in. terests, and had no power to entertain any application made by the petitioners subse- quent to the Court having given its decision. Then, the petitioners made application 5.0. under subsection (10) of section 14 of "The Native Land Act, 1894," but the Chief Judge of the Native Land Court ruled that that section did not apply in the direction in which the petitioner thought it did apply. When the matter was referred to Judge Mackay he made a report to the effect that the petitioners had a grievance, and he recommended that special legislation should be framed to meet the case. There was certainly a grievance under which the petitioner and his friends were now suffering, and he (Mr. Parata) would like to see it re- dressed with as little delay as possible. He therefore asked the question standing in his name. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) said the Native Affairs Committee had dealt fully with this question and made a favourable recom- mendation. The report of the Committee had been considered by the Government, and there was no reason whatever, he thought, to disagree with their finding. It was a matter that would necessitate a clause being put into the " wash- able gentleman, therefore, should move in that direction when the measure was in Committee. TOROTOROA AND TAURUTU LAGOONS. Mr. PARATA (Southern Maori) asked the Government, Whether they will introduce this session legislation handing over the two lagoons named Torotoroa and Taurutu, in the Kaiapoi district, to the Maori residents of Kaiapoi ? These two lagoons were given to the Maoris residing at Kaiapoi in the year 1868. In Mr. Commissioner Kemp's purchase of the South Island there was a provision in the deed which specially referred to the lagoons-not to these two alone; but it was specially stipulated in the deed of sale, when the South Island lands were purchased, that the Maoris were to have assured and reserved to them their cultivations. workings, eel fisheries, and so forth. It was now found that the Europeans who were living in the neighbourhood of these lagoons claimed to be the owners of them. They claimed that the lagoons were part of the Crown purchase, and were now Crown property. To that he (Mr. Parata) said, No; they were specially exempted from the land purchased in the South Island under the deed of purchase by Mr. Commissioner Kemp. That being the position, the Government, in the interests of the Natives concerned, should move in the matter, and put the position of the lagoons on a proper footing once and for all, so that there would be no further doubt that they were the absolute property of the Maori residents, that they would continue to be their property, and that they would pass on to the descendants of the present owners for all time. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) said the \---- Government did not intend to take any steps by way of legislation in connection with these two lagoons at the present time. The lagoons were reserved in 1883 for the use of the abo- riginal natives. There was nothing to show they were specially intended for the use of the Kaiapoi Natives alone. At the present time the two lagoons belonged virtually to the Natives : they were reserves. He might say that the Torotoroa Lagoon covered about 38 acres, and the Taurutu about 30 acres. In January last Taurutu was reserved for the pre- servation of Native water-fowl-ducks, and so on. It was tapu for that purpose. He had no doubt the pakeha interest had brought about that reservation. The Acclimatisation Society had no doubt moved in that direction, and it was a step that was for the public good. He thought the movers should, at any rate, have got the permission of the Natives. It was the least they could do to ask it. At any rate. the land had not been taken away, and it was quite right the Maoris should be jealous of the exer- cise of rights over what was theirs. However, Taurutu had been gazetted as a sanctuary for wild-fowl for the present, and no great harm had been done. He thought, however, the Natives would be only too glad to join in any movement that had for its object the preserva- tion of Native game. With regard to the Toro- 