(5) the number of permits granted to racing- clubs to use the totalisator ; (6) the aggregate number of days such permits extended over ; and (7) the total amount of revenue the Go- vernment received for permission to use the totalisator : this return to be for the year ending 31st March, 1901. # ROTORUA MEDICAL OFFICER. On the motion of Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) it was ordered, That there be laid be- fore this House a return showing the amount received as fees which have been collected by the Resident Medical Officer at Rotorua for attending private patients since his appoint- ment. # CAPTURED GUNS. On the motion of Mr. HOUSTON (Bay of Islands), it was ordered, That there be laid be- fore this House a return giving an historical account of the two guns now outside the Parlia- ment Buildings - when obtained, how obtained, and from whom obtained. # GAOL WARDERS. On the motion of Mr. HUTCHESON (Wel. lington City) it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a Return showing,-(1) How many married gaol warders reside in Welling- ton ; (2) how many, together with their names, are provided with cottages free of rent ; (3) what allowance is made to those not pro- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 vided with residences; and (4) the names of the warders at present attached to the Welling- ton Prison, and the date of their appointment or transfer to the Wellington Prison. ## ALLENDALE COAL.MINE. On the motion of Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House all reports from Inspectors of Mines relative to the Allendale Coal Company's mine, made either to the Minister or to the manager of the mine, since the company was incorpo- rated and up to the present date (17th Septem- ber, 1901). # INTEREST AND SINKING FUND. On the motion of Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing the increase or decrease of (a) interest and (b) sinking fund, if any, respectively (a) charged and (b) paid respectively in financial years from 1895-96 to 1900-1, and as estimated for 1901-2, in con- tinuation of a similar return stated on page 26 of I .- 7B for 1895. # SPECIAL SETTLEMENTS. On the motion of Mr. HOGG (Masterton), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing the number of sections and area of land in special-settlement blocks created under "The Land Act, 1892," which have been sold for cash, or, having been sur- rendered or forfeited, have been reselected with right of purchase. Mr. Meredith CASUALTIES. On the motion of Mr. McNAB (Mataura), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing, up to the date hereof, the names of all members of the New Zealand contingents,-(1) Who have been killed in action ; and (2) who have died of wounds, of disease, or by accident. # BANK-NOTE STAMP DUTY. On the motion of Mr. ELL (Christchurch City), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing,-(1) The amount of stamp duty paid upon the bank-note issue of the five private banks trading in the colony ; and (2) the amount of stamp duty paid on cheques for the year ended 31st March, 1901. # WELLINGTON GOVERNMENT OFFICES RENTED. On the motion of Mr. E. G. ALLEN (Wai- kouaiti), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing, -(1) The number of offices rented in the City of Wel- lington to accommodate branches of the public service; (2) the locality and name of owner of such offices ; (3) the amount of annual rent payable for each of such offices ; (4) the name of the branch of the public service occupying such offices; and (5) the estimated cost of erecting a fire-proof building capable of pro- viding accommodation for the departments located in rented premises as aforesaid. # BURGESS-ROLLS. On the motion of Mr. SEDDON (Pre- mier), it was ordered, That a return be fur- nished giving the burgess-rolls and valuations of each borough and county in the colony, show. ing, respectively, the names and valuation of each ratepayer, amount payable under the capital and annual value, and the amount pay- able presuming the rating was on the unim- proved value. # OATS FOR SOUTH AFRICA. On the motion of Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing,-(1) The names of the firms or companies who executed Imperial orders for oats through the Government of this colony, referred to in B .- 6, Deposit Account, and amounting to £117,773 8s., and in Gazette No. 76, page 1669, and amounting to $103,333 4s. ; (2) what price per bushel f.o.b. was paid for the different orders so executed ; and (3) the names of the several ports of shipment. On the motion of Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return, in continuation of return of oats shipped to South Africa in execution of Imperial orders, placed on the table of the House, 1st October, 1901, to the order of the member for Ashley, showing the cost of oats per bushel f.o.b. at each port of shipment in the colony. 