labourers in the country and the workmen in the towns. I do not fear any union of farmers or farm-labourers. But all these restrictions are raising the prices to the farmers and to the labourers themselves ; and the question is whether, with all these increases and increases, the people in our factories are much better off than they were before. They have to pay more for house-rent and for other things, and, allow- ing for the rise in wages, it is questionable whether they have gained a great deal. Now, Sir, to come to the details of this Bill : from the evidence with regard to boys it is apparent that the provisions in this Bill will mean a further restriction on them. The evidence from the foundries goes to show that all the boys employed are over sixteen years of age. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- Some of them are not. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- I did not hear any master say that he employed boys under sixteen-they must be very few ; but the differ- ence between employing boys at sixteen and eighteen is considerable, and a change may help a good many in the industry. With re- gard to the forty five hours, if it could be kept to those factories where girls are at sewing- machines I would thoroughly approve of it, because I think if they do forty-five hours a week at that sort of work they do very well. I am quite satisfied that the good sense of the Council will allow the woollen-mills to be in- cluded in the exemptions, if necessary, by a special clause in the Bill. Some think that by https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 including them in the schedule of exemptions the mills will get a free hand that they do not seek and do not want. Well, probably that is so. It is a very difficult Bill to follow, and it is a very difficult Bill to understand in all its phases ; but if the restriction as to hours in the mills of which I have spoken is removed by a new clause or otherwise I care little, so long as it is removed. If such a provision is not inserted I will do my best to stop the Bill going through. I am not desirous of showing opposi- tion to Government Bills. The Government are probably doing their best, and are trying to please those whom it is necessary sometimes to please ; but the question is, do they please the right people? You will never please the ex- tremists, of whom my honourable friend oppo- site is one. I say, what we should aim at is to try to please the reasonable people. I hope, if this Bill goes through, we will not hear of an- other Factory Bill for some time to come ; and I should have been glad if this Bill had stood over for another year to enable us to observe this year's working of the industry. Do not for a moment think that I sympathize with all employers. There are bad employers as there are bad workmen. We hear a great deal about men being discharged because they are unionists. Well, if you search into the truth of this you will find that there are many rea- sons for these discharges besides the charge of unionism. I heard one case mentioned the circumstances of which I know, and I guarantee Hon. Mr. McLean said to his foreman, "Oh, if you ' sack ' me I will bring the union down on you," and he would not do his work. How can you expect that that man should be kept on when he dis- organizes all the work of the place ? An Hon. MEMBER .- That man should have been " sacked." The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- Certainly ; but it has been stated that he was dismissed because he is a member of a union. I believe, myself, that the employers are accepting the position very well. If a man has been dismissed because he is a member of a union I would not defend any such dismissal, but to my own knowledge there are many cases in which unionists have been bad workmen ; they did not care for their work, they were not steady, and they have gone to their unions and declared that they were " sacked " because they were propagating the principles of the union. I do not wish to take up the time of the Council any longer, but I do ask members to think of the outside worker, and to see what effect these restrictions have on our industry, and not to let us lead our own people astray to their own injury. I am quite satisfied that, if trouble comes upon our labour- ing population, they will turn round on us and tell us that we ought to have known better than to enact the restrictions which destroy indus- tries. As I have said, I am sorry to have occupied the time of the Council ; but I was determined to speak, so that if we continue these restrictions, at all events, I will have a clear conscience after having warned the people of what they might expect. The Hon. Mr. RIGG. - Sir, I regard the speech of the honourable gentleman who has just addressed the Council as a certain amount of effervescence. The honourable gentleman went very wide of the Bill in his remarks. He appeared rather to be replying to speeches made in a previous debate. However, I do not in- tend to follow him on those lines. There are one or two statements he has made which should not be allowed to pass unchallenged. We are told that by passing legislation such as this we are weakening the industries of the colony, and that they cannot stand it. In reply, I would say, look at the evidence of the general prosperity of the factory employers throughout the colony. One does not need to go outside Wellington to see that large indus- tries have grown up wholly since the passing of the Factories Act of 1891. Others, which were very small and insignificant businesses, have grown to extraordinary dimensions, not only as regards the number of hands em- ployed, but also the splendid premises erected to accommodate those hands. This is a solid proof that the factory legislation has not injured industries to the extent the honour. What has been the able member claims. position of the worker during these prosper- ous times? Has he received that share of the general prosperity that he should have received ? I say, unhesitatingly, No. I hear an honourable gentleman sitting behind me 