The sands of time are running fast, and it is necessary to infuse greater energy into the con- struction of this work. I trust that this will be done. With these few remarks, I have very little further to add. I do not think the vote of £160,000 is an adequate vote, provided the Government are sincere in their desire to com- plete the work ; but, even if it is an inadequate vote, I hope the Minister will spend the money during the time at his disposal. I shall be sorry if he does not see his way to spend the money in full ; in fact, I should prefer to see him spend an additional #40,000 out of the " Unauthorised expenditure." Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- The honourable gentleman, like other Auckland members, complains about not getting a fair share. He said 4160,000 is not an adequate sum to place on the estimates for this railway work, and suggested that £40,000 be added. The honourable gentleman utterly disregards anything like commercial principles. He says, "Let us borrow even at 4 per cent." He would borrow at 4 per cent., when he knows the money-market is hard, and it is altogether the wrong time to go on the London market. He must know that in a short time money will have receded to 3 per cent .; yet, in order to push a line to an extent out of all proportion to its importance, he is prepared to pay 1 per cent. more for the money than we will be able to get it at in a reasonable time. He also speaks of the Makohine Viaduct, in connection with which there is a most melancholy history- a history of reckless extravagance and incom- petence. It has swallowed up enormous sums of money, it has taken many more years to construct than it should have, and is altogether not on such lines of policy as the Government ought to pursue. I do not, however, at all agree with the honourable gentleman in saying, " Let us get the material at any cost ; let us go to America for it." An Hon. MEMBER .- I wonder if Spreckels is interested in it ? Mr. T. MACKENZIE. - Well, Spreckels might have an interest in securing the order for America. Then, the honourable gentle- man deprecated the ability of the British manufacturer to supply us with material, and quotes Lord Selborne. It is true that in some classes of machinery the British manufacturer is not always able to overtake orders; but in the particular class the honourable gentleman alludes to-namely, material for railway-con- struction-there is no difficulty whatever in his securing the orders and getting them executed within a reasonable time. I deprecate certain honourable gentlemen who are antagonistic to Great Britain endeavouring to divert orders to other countries -- countries that will not take an ounce of our stuff, of our produce-but who bar every article we have to export. You take your orders to these foreigners, while the British manufacturer can supply articles of a quality which your Yankee or German friends could not possibly supply. The honourable gentle- able from a business standpoint, just such as one might expect from a legal gentleman with no practical business training. Then, the honour- able gentleman says if you place these orders in the hands of the Agent-General the Government would be swindled. He went on to say that there were no experts to superintend the orders intrusted to the Agent - General. Has he got the slightest idea of the methods pursued in the Agent-General's Office in executing the orders for this colony ? Mr. NAPIER .- Yes. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Then, if he has, why does he make a statement distinctly contrary to fact ? He ought to tell the truth in connection with the manner in which these orders are executed. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I do not think that remark is in order-to say, in effect, that the honourable gentleman does not tell the truth. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- What I wish to say is this : The honourable gentleman stated that there was no expert experience shown in con- nection with the execution of indents in the Agent-General's Office; and when I asked the honourable gentleman if he knew the practice pursued there he said "Yes." Then, Sir, I will amend my remark by saying, if the honour- able gentleman knew the practice pursued there, why did he say there was no expert evidence given ? There is expert evidence given, and the Agent-General and his officers are always in touch with the very best expert evidence that can be had in Great Britain, and there is not a single indent placed by the Agent-General that is not placed after the most careful investigation by competent engineers and competent experts in every department in the execution of their orders. Mr. NAPIER .- They are outsiders. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- They are not out- siders. They have one of our Engineers-in- Chief -a man who has been connected with nearly all our railway-construction up to a certain time. He is retained by the Govern- ment now. Mr. NAPIER .- He is not an expert buyer. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- He is an expert buyer. He buys on behalf of the Government when he receives his indent instructions from the Agent General, and with his instructions he goes to the different manufacturers and gets quotations, and quotation is placed against quotation, and the very ablest and closest scrutiny is brought to bear in connection with these different quotations before the order is placed ; and I venture to say that no orders that are placed in Great Britain are placed with greater care than those which are sent through the Agent-General's Office. The at- titude the honourable gentleman takes up of deprecating the British manufacturer in favour of his Yankee and German friends, and then of attempting to show that there is not the attention through the Agent-General's 