0 12 Directory . . .. Repairs to harness 1 18 . . . . £162 5 9 Total .. Vote, £121,297, agreed to. Stores and magazines, £6,308. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked for details of contingencies under this vote. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) asked what was being done with regard to the erection of a defence store in Dunedin ? Mr. SEDDON said his recollection was that this land was ordered to be taken under the Public Works Act. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) asked for particulars with respect to the storing and safe keeping of the magazine rifles. Mr. SEDDON said the Commandant recom- mended that there should be an officer to look after these rifles ; but the first thing to be done was to get the buildings up, and that would be dealt with under the public works estimates. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) asked what was the intention of the Government with respect to giving rifles to cadet corps ? Mr. SEDDON said it was intended to give each cadet corps a certain number of rifles. Vote, $6,308, agreed to. South African contingents, £30,000. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) desired to know whether the Premier would fulfil his promise to lay on the table the papers connected with the transport of troops by the " Tagus," and also if he would lay on the table other papers asked https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 for by him (Mr. Allen). He intended to place on record the particulars with respect to the men who came by the "Tagus." One man died at sea on the " Tagus " before reaching Albany ; the http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero next was left ill at Albany, and unfortunately died there. Since the boat left Albany, one man died near Stewart Island, of embolism or pneu- monia ; the next died in Port Chalmers Har- bour, of pneumonia ; the next at Geraldine, of inflammation of the lungs: this man went to the Bluff; the next died in Dunedin, of enteric : he was bad on arrival ; the next died at Invercargill, of pneumonia : this man went to the Bluff ; the next died in Dunedin Hospital of abscess of the liver; the next died in Auck- land Hospital, of influenza : this man went to the Bluff ; the next died in Dunedin Hospital of meningitis : this man went to the Bluff. An Hon. MEMBER .- What was his name ? Mr. J. ALLEN said he was prepared to give the name : it was Nelson. An Hon. MEMBER .- That man belonged to the Bluff. Mr. J. ALLEN said, That was so, and he came away from his home because it was so cold. The probabilities were that if the men had come to Auckland, which was a warmer route, they would have arrived in the colony in a better condition to stand the cold of the South than they were ; but, having come by a cold route, they could not stand the extra cold of the Bluff. When the troopers heard at Port Chalmers that they had to go to the Bluff there was nearly a mutiny on board the ship. Mr. Seddon 6 Mr. J. ALLEN repeated that there was nearly 0 a mutiny, and a considerable number of the men, rather than go to the Bluff, evaded orders and remained on the ship, and did not go to the Bluff at all. The newspapers of the day would bear out what he had said. In the Otago Daily Times, of the 12th July, for instance, it was stated,- "In view of the fact that the large majority of the men who have gone to the Bluff are not in the most robust state of health, it is not at all unlikely that on the return to Dunedin a number of them will have to be placed on the sick-list." The same paper also said,- "How true it may be, there is no saying, but it was freely stated about Port Chalmers that the returned men made strenuous efforts to avoid being sent on to the Bluff, and some even went the length of escaping tranship- ment, and so came to the wharf with the ' Tagus."" Mr. MILLS said that those who were not feeling well were not asked to go. Mr. J. ALLEN said that the orders were that the men were to go, except those who were in the hospital. Those who felt they were too sick to go, no doubt, applied for sick-leave and got it ; but when the general order was to go, it was not likely that all the men would have applied for sick-leave unless they had good reason for it. As to the mutiny, he quoted from another paper, the Evening Star of 12th July, as follows :- " As soon as they heard they were ordered away to the Bluff, the troopers got up a petition to Colonel Davies asking to be allowed to land at Port Chalmers, and this was extensively signed." The Colonel's answer, in effect, was this :- "I am a soldier, you are soldiers ; and we all have to obey orders." What else could the Colonel do ? It was not the Colonel's fault the men went to the Bluff. Later on he (Mr. Allen) would deal with the cases of the men who became sick since they had arrived in New Zealand. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said he too had received communications, and he would read them, but he would not read them without giving names, nor would he depend upon extracts from newspapers that were, and always had been, hostile to him. He would read extracts from communications he had received from the officers and men themselves. There was this letter :- " Wellington, 21st September, 1901. " The Right Hon. the Premier, City. " DEAR SIR, -We, members of the Fourth and Fifth Contingents residing in Wellington and district, have read with surprise and indigna- tion of the charge brought against yourself by Mr. Allen, M.H.R. for Bruce. We wish to assure you that, so far as we are aware, there was not a man on board the 'Tagus' who objected to landing at the Bluff because of his health, and we are satisfied that landing us at Port Chalmers and taking us afterwards to In- 