HAWERA. On the motion of Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing,-(1) The cash value of Section 32, Block III., Waimate Survey Dis- trict, containing 90 acres and 20 perches, the amount of cash accrued when section was taken over by the Government, and the cash accrued since taken over: (2) the cash value of Sec- tion 534, Block XI., Hawera Survey District, containing 69 acres 1 rood 22 perches, the amount of eash accrued when taken over from the Mokoia Domain Board, and the amount accrued since taken over. BULLION, ETC., IN BANKS. On the motion of Mr. ELL (Christchurch City), it was ordered, That there be laid before this House a return showing what proportion of the £3,006,151 in bullion, bars, and coined money, as shown to be in the five private banks of the colony on the 30th June last, is in (1) gold, (2) silver, and (3) copper. PUBLIC DEBT. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) laid on the table a return showing the public debt 1871 to 1901, and moved that the same be printed. Agreed to. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) wished to draw at- tention to the fact that the document that had been laid on the table was unsigned, and that they consequently did not know who was re- sponsible for it, or whether it was correct or not. There was no signature to it, and they did not know whose it was. He thought that https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 no paper ought to be laid on the table by leave in this way, without the knowledge of the House, without authorisation, and without the document being signed by somebody who was responsible. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he was respon- sible for it. [Mr. Seddon then signed the paper.] The Standing Orders provided that the paper, before being laid on the table, should bear the signature of the Minister laying it on the table. Mr. J. ALLEN said the covering-sheet was not signed in this case. Mr. SEDDON said, That was not what the honourable member was driving at. The honourable gentleman wanted to know why the information contained no signature, not the covering-sheet at all. At all events, so far as the covering sheet was concerned, the defect was already cured. As regarded the other, he laid it on the table in accordance with the pro- mise he had made to the House. He mentioned this matter when he was making his speech on the Financial Statement, and he said then he would give a return to the House. The member for Franklin questioned the statement he made -or, rather, the interjection he made-when he (Mr. Seddon) said the average public debt had been increased by the public works policy by $1.300,000. The honourable member ques- tioned that statement, and this return, of course, proved that what he (Mr. Seddon) had said was correct. This return had been com- piled by the Treasury. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said, the informal- put the question to the House - namely, That the return be laid on the table, and be printed. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) said, Before that was put he thought the House should understand what was being done. He submitted that no paper ought to be laid on the table, especially if the paper came supposedly from the Treasury, without the Treasury signature, so that they might hold the Treasury responsible for the document if it was right, and, of course, hold it responsible for the document if it was wrong. He submitted that this document, if it was any- thing like a copy of what appeared in the Premier's speech in Hansard, was inaccurate, and could be proved to be inaccurate; but he ventured to say the Treasury would not put their signature to it. Mr. SEDDON said it was not a copy of what was in his speech, but he mentioned it in his speech in giving the totals, and these were now the details. Mr. J. ALLEN said that what the honour- able gentleman used in his speech was inaccu- rate, he was quite sure. He submitted the House ought not to accept any casual docu- ment, even if tabled by Ministers, unless signed by the Treasury, and, therefore, guaranteed by somebody or another whom they might call to account if it was not correct. Mr. SEDDON said they could not call the Treasury to account. Mr. J. ALLEN said they could call the Trea- sury to account if any document emanating from it which was tabled was found not to be correct. Mr. SEDDON said they could call the Minis- ter to account, but not the department. Mr. J. ALLEN said it was the same thing, and it was no use the honourable gentleman shuffling over words. Of course, in a casual glance such as he had only been able to bestow upon the document it was impossible for him to say whether the table was right or wrong. But, assuming it was anything like what the Pre- mier used in his speech in the financial debate, he had no hesitation in saying it was not accu- rate. He submitted that the House should not accept the paper unless it was submitted to the Treasury and the Treasury became responsible for it, and signed it. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said it was exceedingly difficult at any time to meet the wishes of the honourable gentleman. On every day during the session a continuous out- pouring was made in the direction of asking for returns. They had had an almost continuous demand made for full details concerning the public indebtedness of the colony, and when a return was laid on the table containing that in- formation, with the signature of the Premier on the covering sheet- - Mr. J. ALLEN said it had no signature. Sir J. G. WARD said the signature was now on it. Then, when that was done, the honour- able gentleman immediately took exception to it, and endeavoured to cast doubt on the return. Why, the inference to be drawn, judging by the remarks of the honourable member for Bruce, was that the Colonial Treasurer would lay an im- proper return on the table of the House for 