scholar, and a man of considerable ability ; but at the same time he held that the portfolio of Education should be in the hands of a member of the Lower House. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) agreed with the motion moved by the member for Christchurch City. The present position was a serious blot on the system of representative government. The post of Minister of Education was held by a member of the nominated Chamber-a member who represented, not the people of the country, but the Government who nominated him. If the Hon. Mr. Walker was a member of the Lower House he would say there was no gentleman who was better fitted for the posi- tion ; but, under the circumstances he had stated, it was not right he should hold this port- folio. As to the flags for the public schools, he would like to know if they would be New Zea- land flags, and when they would be handed over to the schools. Mr. HALL-JONES said, Yes, they would be New Zealand flags, and they would be handed over very soon. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) said he would support the motion of the honourable member for Christchurch. The Minister - he presumed through his not being the Minister of Educa- tion -was not acquainted with the facts. An uneasy feeling would be created when it became known that the Minister declined to give the information asked for, as to the two Inspectors. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said it could not be contended that the Education Depart- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 ment was being administered in the way it ought to be administered while the head of the de partment occupied a seat in the Upper House. In former years the affairs of the department were never allowed to float about as they were now. He said emphatically that the Minister of Education ought to have a seat in the House. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) said the fact that this same matter was brought up year after year on these estimates showed how difficult the Ministry must find it to carry on the busi- ness of the department without having the Minister of Education in this House. He thought that some change should take place in the portfolios. The Committee divided. AYES, 17. Arnold Monk Hornsby Buddo Russell, G. W. Laurenson Collins Tanner. Massey Mackenzie, T. Fisher Tellers. Hardy Barclay McLachlan Meredith Herries Ell. NOES, 23. Palmer Allen, E. G. Hall-Jones Heke Bennet Stevens Carcross Kaihau Symes McGowan Carroll Ward Mckenzie, R. Witheford. Colvin Duncan McNab Tellers. Mills Lawry Fowlds Hall O'Meara Wilford. Majority against, 6. Vote, £5,052, agreed to. Vote, Lunacy and Charitable Department : Lunatic Asylums, £60,976, agreed to. Vote, Charitable, £8,194, agreed to. Progress reported. The House adjourned at twenty minutes past three o'clock a.m. (Wednesday). # LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Wednesday, 9th October, 1901. Tariff - Miners' First Reading - Commonwealth Rights Fee Reduction Bill-Shops and Shop- assistants Bill-Rabbit Nuisance Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at eight o'clock p.m. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Maori Antiquities Bill. COMMONWEALTH TARIFF. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY asked the Minister of Education, Whether he will, as soon as pos- sible, procure and lay on the table of the Coun- cil "The Tariff Act, 1901," of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia ? It was very obvious that the tariff passed by the Com- monwealth would to a large extent affect the people of New Zealand ; and therefore it was desirable that, as soon as possible, the Tariff Act now before the Parliament of the Confede- ration should be obtained, to enable them to judge what was the policy of that Parliament, and what special industries in New Zealand would be injuriously affected by import duties levied on our produce. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER would have great pleasure in seeing that, as soon as pos- sible, the tariff as passed by the Commonwealth Parliament would be laid on the table. MINERS' RIGHTS FEE REDUCTION BILL. The Hon. Mr. REEVES moved, That the Council do now go into Committee on this Bill. The Hon. Mr. BOLT said, When this Bill was before the Council last he moved for a return showing the amount contributed to the revenue through miners' rights in various places in New Zealand. He felt it would have an im- portant bearing on the Bill. His own im- pression was that the Bill was of very trivial importance, and that it was questionable whether it should be put on the statute- book. He thought, if the Council got the return he moved for it would be a guide to a considerable extent in deciding whether the Bill was worthy of the attention of the Council or not. He did not know whether the Minister could tell them when that return would be pre- sented. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said the re- turn had been laid on the table. 