myself, are commonly in circulation in the city. Sir, the return we have here, which is valuable in its way, does not give us any very encouraging view as to the results from the sittings of Conciliation Boards : it does not give us very much information ; but, so far as I can gather in the very brief time we have had to study it, according to the return there have been only twelve cases settled altogether by this body in fifteen months. The information, as I say, is of the most meagre character, and therefore we are discussing this really very important question in the absence of the in- formation we ought to have had to enable us to deal with it properly. I am strongly of opinion that the Board wants remodelling, and I am told that one of the outcomes from the inquiry which the Select Committee has held was that this Board was in the habit of sitting from four to four hours and a half a day-four hours on an average, I am told. There is a pretty pro- ceeding for a Board which the colony pays to do important business at the present time. I have been informed that people have been dragged here and kept waiting while this Board spun out its days of sitting. An Hon. MEMBER .- More days, more pay. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND .- Quite so. I am told that these people have been brought to Wellington, while the members of the Board were spinning out their davs of sitting in order to get more pav. That alone is a matter which should have led the Government to inquire very strictly into the working of this Board, and to have made proposals to Parliament which would have led to a better state of things. The first important step would be to put the Board under proper supervision, and the opinion is becoming general that the Board ought to be under the guidance of a Stipendiary Magistrate. Then we should have some guarantee that there would be uniformity, and that the proceedings would be conducted in such a way as to study the convenience of the persons who are brought here, and not the persons who are paid to hear the cases This printed return which we have here gives very strong support to the statement that the Board here has been studying its own interest and the payments it receives from the colony. What do we find? We find that all over the colony the Conciliation Boards had expended upon them $1.811, and out of that Wellington has absorbed $1,089. Here is pretty conclusive evidence as to what has been done with this money, and that it has gone to pay those gentlemen who have conducted these cases, and who spin them out at the expense of the unfortunate persons who have been dragged here to attend cases, many of which, I have been informed by them, they have had nothing whatever to do with, and when they came before the Court it was found their time had been wasted. Sir, this re- turn shows, further, that the Arbitration Act has cost only $1,659. I am sorry I have not had time to carefully go into the very meagre evidence there is here, and therefore I can- not speak on the question as I should have say that the working of the Conciliation Board, so far as we can judge of it, is not a success, and if it is to be maintained it ought to have its constitution remodelled. For myself, I would much rather see it done away with, and see the Arbitration Court the Court to deal with these matters. I can only say I regret when an important Bill of this kind is being passed-as we are asked to pass it now -. we should have to do so without that information we ought to have to enable us to deal with it properly, and which, I believe, would have justified us in moving, even at this stage in the session, that the constitution of the Court should be sc altered as to put it under proper guidance. The Hon. Mr. RIGG .- Sir, like the honour- able gentleman who has just sat down, I also have a regret, and it is this : that on an im- portant measure like this he did not rise to the occasion and deal with the principles contained in the measure, instead of repeating as his principal argument the gossip of the man in the street as to the statement that the mem- bers of the Wellington Conciliation Board have fomented disputes, which has not one tittle of evidence to support it, but only the gossip of the people in the streets-people who probably for some private reason see fit to pass slanders upon that body whenever they have the oppor- tunity to do so. The measure as it now comes before us contains very important alterations in the law as consolidated last year, and some of the provisions, I am sorry to say, strike at the root of the vital principles of the Act of 1894. It would have been better, I think, had the Bill been confined to certain simple amend- ments which are required to make the present law effective, and to remedy mistakes made during the process of consolidation ; but I have noticed that in every Bill that comes forward of an amending character some new feature deal- ing with a new principle, or variation of a prin- ciple, is introduced ; and the result is that before an important alteration has had time to be pro- perly considered and worked we have launched upon it another amendment and another altera- tion which quite overrides the principle pre- viously introduced. Sir, the original Act was introduced in 1894; it was amended in 1895 ; it was again amended in 1896; it was again amended in 1897; it was further amended in 1898 ; and then it was consolidated and amended in 1900; and, as I have said, many important new principles and extensions of principles in- troduced in those measures have not yet had time to be exploited before we are now called on to pass legislation which, in some respects, goes quite contrary to them, and in some instances waters down very important principles, and so much so as to make them ineffective. I submit that, in dealing with a question like this, we should proceed cautiously, for there is nothing more dangerous than the system we have been going upon for some time past. Not only have important alterations not been properly under- stood by members, but I am prepared to say . they have not been properly considered even 