cess means everything in reference to the experiments, - than take any risk, and there- fore members may rest assured the Govern- ment will be very careful in respect to the whole matter. I feel sure the matter will turn out in the best interests of the State, and in the best interests of the consumers of coal in the colony. The consumers of coal and the householders are paying an unfair and an un- reasonable price for coal at the present time, and they have done so for years, and, as out- side demands continue to grow, the only way to meet the increasing demand is to open a State coal-mine. Under the Coal-mines Act of 1891 these three principles were laid down : For the first time in any mine we fixed forty- eight hours for the week's work. That was the first law that fixed forty-eight hours as a week's work. Again, we fixed that }d. per ton should be taken from every ton taken from the mine and given to the Accident Fund of the men working in the mine-the first time such a principle was affirmed, and it has been a great benefit to the men. Again, we fixed that the State should have the power to take and work a coal-mine. Now, I would have allowed those facts to be buried in oblivion as far as I am concerned. I believe that at the proper time some little credit will be given to the Government of which I have been a mem- ber for what we have done in respect to these matters ; but when a member deliberately tells the House that one is an opportunist, and when that member claims to have himself first mooted the question of a State coal-mine in the House, and that in the face of the measures that have been introduced and, in the face of the Hansard records, I say it is only justice to Mr. William McLean and Sir George Grey, leaving myself out of the question altogether, that I should have mentioned these facts. Sir, I move the second reading of the Bill, and I trust it will be placed on the statute-book. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- In con- nection with the remarks of the Premier, I wish. as a personal explanation, to draw attention to the fact that he himself was the member of the House who moved the clause which limited the operation of clause 60 of the Coal-mines Act. On page 364 of the Journals of 1894, when a Coal-mines Bill-clause 60-was in Committee, I find this :- " Another amendment proposed : After line 10, to insert the following proviso: 'Pro- vided that resumption and acquisition under this and the preceding section shall not be complete nor take effect until a resolution of the House of Representatives shall have been passed sanctioning the same.' - (Hon. Mr. Seddon.)" So that the honourable gentleman himself moved the proviso of which he has complained as limiting the influence of the clause. Now, the honourable gentleman says I charged him with being an opportunist. All I did was to quote the following passage from an interview published in the New Zealand Times of Satur- Mr. Seddon to have said : "Opportunist I may be, but an opportunist in the more sane sense of the term." Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) .- As a matter of personal explanation, I wish to say I did not mention one word about a bale of printing- paper, or a printing-press, or greenbacks, or any- thing of the sort. The honourable gentleman is not going to score off me in that way. What I said was that, if the Bank of New Zealand could create credit in favour of the Government of New Zealand and charge the Government 4 per cent. on the amount of that credit, a State bank could do the same and save the country that interest. Bill read a second time. Bill committed, and progress reported. LOCAL BODIES' GOLDFIELDS PUBLIC WORKS AND LOANS BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 2 .- Provisions for public work and for loan. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) moved to add the following new subsection : "(4) No loan shall be raised under this Act without a poll of the ratepayers as provided in ' The Local Bodies' Loans Act, 1886."" Amendment negatived, and clause agreed to. Bill reported. On the question, That this Bill be read a third time, Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said he had only a few words to say on this Bill. He did not object to it at all, but he wanted to point out that it was altogether altering the system of our northern goldfields. In the South the gold duty had been abolished and gold-mines were rated, while in the North the gold duty had been retained and the mines were exempt from rates. Now, it seemed we were still to keep the gold duty in the North, and yet the mines were to be liable to be rated for special loans. He admitted that there might be good reason for this in connection with Waihi and other towns ; but the Minister of Mines knew that the power could be used for the Thames as well, and that the Thames mines could be rated under this Bill for a special work. He thought it was a good Bill for Waihi, but that it would have a rather more far-reaching effect than the mover intended ; and he thought it might apply in a way the mine-owners in the Thames dis- trict would not like, though, of course, by an addition the honourable member for Ohinemuri had put into subsection (1) of clause 2 the rating value would be very small. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) thought the honourable gentleman had overstated the case, and the instance he had given in which it would affect the Thames was without founda- tion. It could not affect that borough, as it had power to raise loans under the ordinary Government Loans to Local Bodies Act, the land being held under freehold tenure. The House had in certain cases aided some of the small goldfields towns in establishing water- works by means of subsidy ; but in the case of Waihi the town was a comparatively large one, 