scheme that could be carried out under the present mining law would meet the case. It seemed that both these streams required a channel for a considerable distance, and he did not think there was any legislation in the Mining Acts of to-day that would enable the Minister to have such a channel cut, and at the same time make due provision so that riparian rights in connection with the stream itself were not taken away. He was in hopes of seeing provision made in this Bill to meet the case. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said he, for one, would not be very sorry if this Bill were not passed at all. The main object of the Bill was to give the right of appeal from the Com- missioner of Crown Lands. By what after- wards had proved to be a mistake, the Act of 1899 gave power to the Commissioner of Crown Lands, in districts which were not proclaimed under the Goldfields Act, to act in the same capacity as a Warden, so far as applications for mining privileges were concerned. Now it seemed that that unfortunate amendment would bring in its train the whole parapher- nalia of giving Commissioners of Crown Lands the power of Wardens practically. It had been found in the Supreme Court there was no right of appeal from the Commissioner's decision. though there was a right of appeal from the Warden's decision. Now that they had put in a clause in this Bill giving the right of appeal, next year they would probably find some other matter cropping up because the Commissioners were not vested with the full privileges and rights of Wardens. His idea was that it would be best to rescind the clauses of the Act of 1899 giving the Commis- sioners power at all to deal with such matters. He regretted that the Minister had 4.30. put in this clause, although he must admit it was on the recommendation of the Mines Committee, as it further put off the possibility of doing away with the Commis- sioners. Another way of getting out of the difficulty, and a much simpler way, would be to declare all these districts under the Mining Act. Of course, something must be done for those who had privileges under the Act of 1899. He would like to ask the Minister if he in- tended to reinstate clause 2, which the Com- mittee had struck out, because, whatever might be said of the clause with regard to coal-mines, this contained a very vicious principle in re- gard to quartz-mines. It would allow any man not connected with a mine to go down the mine when the company was on good gold or good prospects, and he would be able to report to the different papers and influence the share- market. Of course, such a man would go under the cloak of inspecting the mine under clause 2, but he might use his position to the detriment of the shareholders of the company. But he principally objected to the clause put in by the Mines Committee, by a majority of one vote, that the men's time should count from bank to bank, instead of from face to face as at present. He did not object to VOL. CXIX. 76. clause. He was informed that the provision he had mentioned would entail considerable loss to a great many mines. He was told it would make a difference of six hours in the week in extreme cases. Of course, there was a proviso that it should not affect any award under the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act, but it all depended on how the proviso was to be read. So far as he was aware, no award had been given that specified whether the work should be from face to face or bank to bank, but awards had been given that the men should only work a certain number of hours. He was informed that this clause, if it was left in, would make a considerable difference to the mine-owners in the Hauraki district, and would be in effect an infraction of the award which had just been given there. He trusted the Minister would not press this amendment. It would not affect the men, because the award had already been given; the loss would simply come out of the pockets of the mine- owners and shareholders, whose position, ac- cording to Mr. Justice Cooper, when giving his decision in the Hauraki mining dispute, was in a very critical condition, and could not bear any further oppression. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) said it had been the custom to read Bills in connection with mining matters a second time pro forma and refer them to the Goldfields and Mines Committee ; but he was beginning to doubt the wisdom of that course, as he found it did not facilitate business. For instance, the honour- able gentleman, instead of using those argu- ments when the Committee was considering the Bill, took up the time of the House with them now. However, he supposed the honour- able gentleman had a perfect right to bring up this question when he liked. In regard to the question of the honourable member for Ma- taura, he differed entirely from the honourable gentleman. There was no necessity for any special legislation in regard to declaring these two creeks sludge-channels. The matter was dealt with by the Rivers Commission, and the Government had been prepared to carry out their recommendation in its entirety from the very first, and it was entirely owing to the neglect of the dredge-owners to take advan- tage of the recommendation of this Com- mission that the difficulty arose. But, even though they had left the matter in abeyance for a considerable time, he did not think any special legislation was at all necessary. In addition to the original examination and subsequent recommendation by the Rivers Commission, the department had sent a gentle- man specially to report on this subject, and the report showed, as the honourable gentleman knew, that the department could deal with this matter without any legislation whatever. All that was necessary was for the people interested to appoint trustees, because, if that were done, the Minister of Mines had ample power under the present law to carry out the recommendations of the Commissioners. If the dredge-owners were prepared to take the course that had been 