Tellers. Parata Kaihau Field Seddon Lawry Palmer. Ward. McGowan Mills Majority against, 7. Item retained. \`The Committee divided on the question, " That the item, ' Further allowance to ex-Con- stable Patrick McGill, $55,' be struck out." AYES 9. Rhodes Tellers. Barclay Atkinson Symes Ell Tanner. Hutcheson. Hornsby Meredith NOES, 18. Parata Heke Buddo Seddon Kaihau Carroll Ward. Lawry Colvin Tellers. McGowan Duncan Allen, E. G. Mills Field Fraser, A. L. D. Palmer Hall Hall-Jones Majority against, 9. Item retained, and vote, £338, agreed to. CLASS XVII .- DEPARTMENT OF LANDS AND SURVEY. Vote, Department of Lands and Survey, £235, agreed to. Vote, Miscellaneous services, £4,326, agreed to. CLASS XVIII .- VALUATION DEPARTMENT. Vote, Valuation expenses, £67, agreed to. GOVERNMENT LIFE INSURANCE DEPARTMENT. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Vote, Salaries, £25, agreed to. Vote, Government Accident Insurance De- partment, £390, agreed to. Vote, Contingencies, £4,000, agreed to. PUBLIC TRUST OFFICE. Vote, Public Trust Office, £55, agreed to. GOVERNMENT ADVANCES TO SETTLERS OFFICE. Vote, Government Advances to Settlers Office, £400, agreed to. PUBLIC WORKS FUND. CLASS XX .- PUBLIC WORKS, DEPARTMENTAL. Vote, Public Works, Departmental, £2,885, agreed to. CLASS XXI .- RAILWAYS. Vote, Railways, £525, agreed to. Additions to open lines, $125,000. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) desired to call atten- tion to the unsafe and unsatisfactory condition of the Kaiapoi Railway-station, and he urged that more accommodation should be provided. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) said the Kaiapoi Railway-station and the arrangements for shunting were a menace to the lives of people travelling there, and it was surprising that accidents had not occurred. The station-build- ing was small and unsuitable. Sir J. G. WARD said he would be very glad to give consideration to the representations of the member for Kaiapoi and the member for Ashley ; but he could not promise anything definite at present. His action was necessarily governed by the moneys available for the de- partment. Vote, £125,000, agreed to. CLASS XXII .- PUBLIC BUILDINGS. Vote, Postal and Telegraph, £1,490, agreed to. School buildings, $6,000. Mr. BUDDO (Christchurch City) desired to know if the Cabinet had agreed to allow the Board at Christchurch to sell the site for a technical school, with a view of acquiring a more central site. Mr. HALL-JONES regretted to say that nothing yet had been done in connection with this matter, but he might say he quite agreed with the honourable member on the view be took on the subject. Vote, £6,000, agreed to. CLASS XXIII .- LIGHTHOUSES, HARBOUR- WORKS, ETC. Vote, Lighthouses, £500, agreed to. Vote, Harbour-works, £350, agreed to. CLASS XXIV .- TOURIST AND HEALTH RESORTS. Vote, Tourist and health resorts, £3.400, agreed to. CLASS XXVI .- CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE, AND SUPERVISION OF ROADS, BRIDGES, AND OTHER PUBLIC WORKS. Vote, Roads, £37,643, agreed to. Vote, Roads on goldfields, £783, agreed to. UNAUTHORISED EXPENDITURE. CONSOLIDATED FUND. Vote, For services not provided for, £26,367 18s. 6d., agreed to. Vote, For services in excess of votes, £62,788 3s. 2d. PUBLIC WORKS FUND. Vote, For services not provided for. Er), agreed to. Vote, For services in excess of votes, £17,468 3s. 7d., agreed to. LAND FOR SETTLEMENTS ACCOUNT. Vote, For services in excess of votes. 5334 18s. 1d., agreed to. GOVERNMENT LIFE INSURANCE DEPARTMENT. Vote, For services not provided for, 5327 9s. 6d., agreed to. Sums irrecoverable by the Crown required to be written off departmental accounts, $25 4s. j .. agreed to. Resolutions reported. Mr. SEDDON moved, That the item. f. "Fuel, light, &c., Government Houses." te restored. The money had already been paid. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) said he would o .: oppose the motion, but he thought reasonable economy should be observed. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) snes, sted to the Premier that the principal objection to 