He has had that correspondence for some days. He did not submit it to the House when he received it. . Now, some time ago he asked me to get the Assets Board to lay that correspondence on the table ; and I said if he wrote a letter and asked that it should be done, I would be glad to do so; but when he had that correspondence in his possession he did not lay it on the table, and I will tell the House why. He commenced his correspondence this morning by reading a letter of the 8th April. That letter, however, is not the first of the correspondence. He omitted altogether this letter of the 19th October, 1897. Now, I want members to mark how he commences this letter. He says there is public inquiry, and that the land is wanted for the public. The letter says .- "Wellington, 19th October, 1897. "SIR, - There is considerable inquiry in North Canterbury as to the intention of your Board to offer for sale, or on terms, portion of the Glentui Estate. I have just received a letter from a gentleman living in the Oxford district who is anxious to obtain a section of land for his sons, but no land at present in that district is under offer. Wool and mutton have been, and are, selling at fairly remunerative prices, hence the desire on the part of the public for the acquisition of land. In case of a lull in the market for mutton and wool, there must inevitably follow a depreciation in value of land. "I beg to suggest that your Board should https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 place the Glentui Estate in part or in whole in the market at the earliest possible date. If the best portions of Glentui were subdivided into sections of from 150 to 500 acres, I am con- vinced there would be a ready market at satis- factory prices to your Board. I should be pleased to be advised by your Board of your intentions to act on my suggestion .- Yours, "R. MEREDITH, M.H.R., Ashley. &c .. "The Chairman, Assets Realisation Board, Wellington." Well now, he deliberately, whilst this letter was given to him, leaves it out of the corre- spondence which he told the House he was placing before it. And. mark you, he wanted the land for the public, and said that for farms of from 150 to 500 acres there would be a demand. Then, the honourable member told the House to-day that he never applied for 1,500 acres, and he read a subsequent letter in which he mentions " 1,000 acres." But when he says he never applied for 1,500 acres he is condemned by his own letter. Here it is :- " Tullamere, Springbank, 8th April, 1898. "SIR,-Will you be good enough to inform me if your Board will sell me from 500 acres to 1,500 acres of the Glentui Run, partly pastoral and partly agricultural? I am aware that towards the close of last session of Parlia ment you signified vour intention of having the Glentui property cut up and offered for sale by November of the present year; I there- fore anticipate your subdivision by approach- give me full particulars as to locality, acreage, price, &c. - Yours, &c., "R. MEREDITH. " The Chairman, Assets Realisation Board, Wellington." Now, an honourable member who will stand up in his place in the House and say he never offered for 1,500 acres in the face of that letter -well, I can only say you must discount any statement he may make. The honourable member's forgetfulness is peculiar, seeing he had this letter in his hand at the time. As a member of the Board, I was furnished with the same correspondence as the honourable gentle- man. But there is something else the honour- able member has not told the House which I will tell it. There is, under his hand, a little note in which he, so I am told, said he did not want his name to be disclosed. He has not told the House that; nor bas he told the House of the candid views he gave the General Manager in the streets of Wellington, because Mr. Foster did not concur in letting Mr. Mere- dith have the land at the price offered. An Hon. MEMBER .- Was that Foster ? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes, Mr. Foster, the man- ager ; and Mr. Meredith said that he had made a fair offer for it ; that it ought to have been accepted, and that the refusal was a very serious matter ; that he would bring up the Board's action-and he did commence making it warm for the Board. He asked questions, and brought the Board's administration before the House, and at last it grew so had that the member for Wakatipu had to challenge the honouralle member to accept the challenge and give prac- tically what I gave the other day. Now, the honourable member to-day, very astutely, in his letter-and I hope whoever reads those letters will see this-the honourable member tells you that the land is stony. Here is a description of the land in one of his communications,- " (1.) That portion of the estate extending from the Ashley Gorge Bridge, and bounded on the north by the main road, on the cast by the road running from the said main road to the Ashley River, and on the south and west by the River Ashley, containing about 500 acres, and marked on the enclosed map (' No. 1A') in red. This block has had some surface-sowing of cocksfoot, varies very much in quality, being patchy, some fair land, including about forty acres of swamp, with stony flats containing large boulders predominating largely, covered with gorse, broom, and couch ; all the fences out of repair ; purely sheep country." An Hon. MEMBER. - Not bad land at 15s. an acre from that description. Mr. SEDDON. - I am going to give you later on the price which this sheep country brought at auction, and which was over #8 per acre. "(2.) We also applied for 500 acres, or any less portion, to the east of the road forming the eastern boundary of Block 1. This block varies very much in quality, from swamp land to light stony land, and is not improved other than a few drains, the swamp and the fences being in fair condition. There is a small whare 