the power to allow settlers to go off their land at periodical times for the purpose of getting work. But settlers should in such cases notify the Board in order to get leave, because, as the honourable member well knew, it was necessary to keep an eye on them, because some people took advantage of the permission, and when such cases were found it was quite right for the Board to forfeit. But if a band live settler wanted to go off his section for a few months, or even longer, they had a perfect right to do so, and the Board would not in such cases forfeit sections with his sanction. He would certainly ask the Board to reconsider this case, because he did not think it was one in which there should have been forfeit. Mr. MASSEY. - Then, you will ask the Board to give him another chance ? Mr. DUNCAN .- Yes. LEVIN EXPERIMENTAL STATION. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked the Minister for Agriculture, Whether it is true, as reported, that the Government is entering into competi- tion with and underselling the milk-suppliers of the Hutt Valley, and other dairying districts in the vicinity of Wellington, by supplying the Wellington Fresh Food and Ice Company with milk from one hundred and fifty cows on the Levin Experimental Station at a price which will not allow the private milk-suppliers to make a living after payment of their rent and other necessary expenses, and at a price which probably will not afford a margin of profit to the colony ? Since putting the question on the Paper he found that he had been rather under a misapprehen- sion. Instead of milk being supplied it was cream. The difference was only one of degree. It seemed to him that, if it was improper for the Government to supply State Farm milk to the Wellington market in competition with milk- suppliers in the Hutt and other districts im- mediately surrounding Wellington City, it was by the same reasoning wrong to supply the cream. To his mind, it was wrong that the Government should be competing with private individuals in the sale of produce. The result of the matter under discussion had been a very serious outcry from the milk-suppliers of the Hutt and other milk-supplying districts round Wellington. He trusted the Government would put an end to this competition. He approved of what had been done with the State Farm milk last year-namely, supplying it to the Levin Dairy Factory. That was an assistance to the Levin district and the Levin people. But it was unfair to swamp the Wellington market to the detriment of the milk-suppliers who were best entitled to that market, and many of whom, he was told, would have to give up dairying if the Government persisted in the action complained of. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister for Agriculture) said it was not the intention of the Govern- ment to send milk or cream to Wellington or anywhere else; but, in the meantime, they were getting a stock of cows together for the purpose of establishing a dairy school, and it Mr. Duncan the farm to supply the milk, because if they were dependent on the public they might not get the milk at the time they required it. The year before last the cream was sold to a com- pany in Wellington; last year there was a factory started at Levin, and that company applied for the cream, and they got it at the price they offered. This year the secretary gave notice to both the Levin factory and the Fresh Food and Ice Company of Wellington as to the price to be charged for the year's cream. The Fresh Food and Ice Company in Wellington gave 9d. per pound for the cream for eight months of the year and 94d. per pound for the other four months, as against the Sąd. per pound given by the dairy factory for the whole year. It was easier for the suppliers to put the milk on the train than take it to the factory, as there was a considerable saving. As stated by the honourable member, the cream was not all used in Wellington. Most of it was made into butter, which was princi- pally for export and for sale outside. It was not the intention of the Government to get a stock of cattle to compete with the public. POISONING OF POULTRY. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) asked the Minister for Agriculture, Whether the Government will make independent inquiry concerning the alleged poi- soning of ducks and other poultry at Silver- steam by poisoned oats laid by the Agricultural Department ; and, if it is found that that de- partment is to blame, whether the owner of the said ducks and poultry will be duly compen- sated ? The facts of the case were these : Close by the property of the settler referred to was a property belonging to the Government, con- trolled by the Department of Agriculture. Re- cently poison was laid for rabbits on part of the Government land, without, he understood, notice being given to the settler in question. This settler was a man in a small way, and was largely dependent on his poultry for his living. Recently a large number of his ducks and several fowls were found to be dying, and on examina- tion it was found they had been killed by eat- ing poisoned oats, presumably those which had been laid for the rabbits. Under the circum- stances, the Government might well take an equitable view of the case and award the settler something like fair compensation for the loss he had suffered. That was, of course, apart from the legal aspect of the question, for he (Mr. Field) and the settler were anxious to avoid litigation. It might perhaps be said the poultry had strayed on to the Government land ; but, even though that might be so, he still thought the Government would take a generous view of the case. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister for Agriculture) said the property belonged to the Defence Department ; it was a rifle-range. Some rabbits had accumulated on the land, and an attempt was made to exterminate them, so that they would not be a menace to the sur- rounding district. In carrying out the work poison was laid, and the owners of the ducks 