toroa Lagoon, there was no question about it ; it was absolutely the property of the Maoris under their rights by deed and under the treaty of Waitangi. # DRUNKENNESS AT TAIHAPE. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) asked the Minister of Justice, If his attention had been drawn to the statements, as reported in the New Zealand Times of the 18th instant, of a man who was charged with drunkenness at Taihape, that "any man at Taihape could obtain drink as long as he had the money to pay for it," and added that "there was far more drunkenness in Taihape since the hotels were opened than formerly " ; and, if so, will he insist on more strict enforcement of the licensing law by the police ? Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said a statement made by a party who was charged with drunkenness must be taken with a grain of salt, especially if that party was looking for an excuse for his drunkenness. So far as he (Mr. McGowan) was aware, there was no reason to believe that the police at Taihape were less active in their endeavours to prevent drunken- ness or to prevent the sale of spirits at illegal times than they were anywhere else. There was no law to prevent people from obtaining drink from a properly licensed house. Mr. ELL .- Not even though they be drunk ? Mr. McGOWAN said they were not allowed to obtain drink if they were drunk. It was a punishable offence for hotelkeepers to supply https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 drink to people who were drunk. That was the law, and there was no reason to suppose it was not carried out. It should be remembered that this was a statement made by a man charged with drunkenness, who would very http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero naturally look for some excuse for his own misconduct ; and, therefore, the statement should be received with considerable reserve. So long as a person was in a proper condi- tion, and asked for drink in a licensed house, there was no power to refuse to supply him ; but he had no information that would lead him to believe that men who were already drunk were allowed to go to these houses and obtain more liquor. The police made every endeavour to stop illicit traffic in drink, and to check its sale during irregular hours. The fact was that making matters of this sort public put those who broke the law on their guard, and made it more difficult for the police to obtain convic- tions. He was informed by the Commissioner that there was no reason for believing there was any greater neglect at this particular place than at other places. The police were making every effort to enforce the law, and the state- ment was such as ought to be received with considerable reserve. # STATE COAL-MINES. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) asked the Minister of Mines, If he will instruct the Royal Commissioners appointed to inquire into the purchase of a State coal-mine to visit Otago and investigate the coal areas there before send- ing in their report to the Governor ? He might say that there were very large coal areas in Otago, and a population of about a hundred and fifty thousand. If they were going to esta- blish State coal-mines, he thought they should establish one in Otago as well as upon the West Coast. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) might say, in reply to the honourable gentleman, that it was the intention of the Government, in the first instance, to deal with bituminous coal. The Commissioners were to report as to this class of mine ; but as soon as the Government Geologist was available he would have no objection to sending him to Otago to report generally. # STATE COAL-MINE. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked the Minister of Mines, Whether he will instruct the Com- missioners appointed to inquire into the pur- chase of a State coal-mine to visit the Auck- land Provincial District and report on the coal - bearing areas at Hunua and Wairoa South ? He did not think this question re- quired much explanation, because the Minister of Mines, being an Auckland man, would know there were large deposits of coal in the districts referred to ; and, though the locality might not be suitable for a State coal-mine, he thought it would be to the advantage of the Government and to residents to have an authoritative report thereon. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) might say that the reply given to the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) would meet this case. The coal in these two districts was somewhat similar in quality. But in the first instance the Government intended to deal with bituminous coal. Mr. MASSEY said he understood the reply was favourable. Mr. McGOWAN said, Yes ; they would get a report when the Geologist was available. # INSPECTOR OF PRISONS. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked the Minister of Justice, Whether he will instruct the Inspector of Prisons' to inspect and report on the penal settlement in the Island of Manuae, in the Cook Group? Now they had in their possession the Cook Islands he would like to know whether it was the Minister's in- tention to have an inspection of the penal settlement established there, under clauses 3 and 4 of the Act providing for the punishment of offenders of 1899, passed by the Parliament of the Cook Islands. Clause 3 says,- " And whereas by Act No. 3 of the session of 1892 it was provided that offenders against the laws of the Federation might be banished to the Island of Takutea : And whereas this Act has been inoperative by reason of the fact that Takutea is uninhabited and otherwise unsuit- able for the purpose of a penal settlement, Act No. 3 is hereby repealed." Clause 4 :- "The Island of Manuae is by this Act de- clared to be a penal settlement, and, with the consent of the owners thereof or their resident 