hundred to fifteen hundred acres, and quoted a price. Some time later I received a reply from the Board thanking me for my offer, but declining to sell, as they had decided not to sell by private treaty. The Assets Board were the vendors, and I was the purchaser ; I had a right to make an offer, the Assets Board had a right to decline my offer. That ended the matter as far as I was concerned. Having briefly stated the case, I leave it to honourable members to say whether there is anything dishonourable in my transactions with the Assets Board. Sir, I leave it in the hands of honourable members. I do not want to elabo- rate to any greater extent, but I desire to say again that I never made an application to the Premier nor to the Assets Board to make me a present of 6,000 acres, or any portion of land. My application was for from five hundred to fifteen hundred acres ; and honourable mem- bers may now decide the matter for them- selves. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, the honour- able gentleman having made his explanation, probably I may be permitted to make mine. During the passing of the State Coal-mines Bill through Committee last night there was a difference of opinion. Several members held probably extreme views as contrasted with those held by myself. We were debating the matter, and there was nothing intemperate said by me to any member of the House. I held different views from these members, and I think we settled the differences ultimately in https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 a manner that was satisfactory to the House and in the best interests of the colony. The honourable member, then, with the usual pom- posity and vaingloriousness which charac- terizes him- Hon. MEMBERS .- Order. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, I will say, with that self-sufficiency. I suppose, Sir, the next thing the honourable member will say is that I am using intemperate language. Whenever the honourable member rises in the House every one comes to the conclusion I have mentioned -namely, that what he means is: "I have spoken ; all the rest must be dumb." And when the honourable member last night in- terfered as between myself and other mem- bers, who were well able to defend themselves, and in hectoring tone and manner commenced to apply a lecture on propriety, I simply said to him we were not in a Sunday-school. That is the report in the paper, and it is correct. I never used the term that the honourable mem- ber was a Sunday-school teacher. I said what is here in the report in the Times. The report is : "Mr. Seddon, in reply, protested against the ,tone of the member for Ashley, and said that the members were not now in Sunday-school." .Sir, there is nothing very intemperate in that, and I, myself, was surprised to see the honour- able member take umbrage at the mention of Sunday-school. I do not know that there is anything offensive in mentioning the Sunday- school. Then, the honourable member made a reference to myself, drawing the distinction teacher, and myself. Well, Sir, we have read before of Pharisees- An Hon. MEMBER. - Also of publicans and sinners. Mr. SEDDON .- I do not know which of the two is looked upon, in these enlightened days, as the best. I, myself, prefer not to be a Pharisee, or hypocrite. I believe the honour- able member intended to be offensive, but, Sir, the report of the Times is not correct when it says I stated that I was a member of a Board which had made a present of six thousand acres of the Glentui Estate to the honourable member. I did not say that. What I said, I repeat. I was a member of the Assets Realisa- tion Board, and the honourable member asked the Board to sell him the pick of Glentui, at a price equalling £2 4s. per acre. I did not say all this last night, but I am repeating facts within my knowledge. I said I did not see my way clear to act dishonestly as a member of the Board, and make the honourable mem- ber a present equal to £6,000, and I will prove it. Mr. FISHER .- I rise to a point of order. I understand the honourable gentleman to be making a personal explanation. Is that so ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- No, the honour able member for Ashley has made a personal explanation, and the Premier is now giving us his version of the subject. Mr. FISHER .- And, in giving his version, is he entitled to rake up the whole of the Glentui matter, and to aggravate the offence of last night ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The Premier is entitled, I think, to give the facts upon which he founded his assertion. If those facts are not correct the honourable member for Ashley, who, I may say, is the only other honourable member cognisant of the facts, will have an equal right to correct him. Mr. SEDDON .- It must be apparent to you, as ofttimes it must be apparent to the Chairman of Committee, that it is deemed quite the right thing to attack the Premier, but that when the Premier is endeavouring to defend himself he must suffer interruption from one member for Wellington City, or rather from two of the members for Wellington City. On this occasion I have been interrupted by Mr. Atkinson ; and now, again, on a point of order raised by the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) ; and you, Sir, very properly, as you have to do in ninety- nine cases out of a hundred, have ruled the honourable member out of order. Why cannot I be allowed to proceed like other members ? It seems to me I am to be denied the courtesy and the privilege that is given other members. So far as I am concerned, I am well able to and am going to defend myself. These interrup- tions have taken me away from where I was, and I must revert back. I say, Sir, that the circumstances were as I have just previously mentioned. I may say this question came up in the House before, and at that time the mem- ber for Wakatipu defended the action of the 