members of the House in the same position as the servants of the House is far-fetched indeed. It is no argument at all. We are the controllers and the persons in charge of the purse, and, that being the case, we have from time to time in- creased the salaries of our servants; but our servants cannot increase their own salaries, and it is the people who trust us to see that we should arrange the finances and pay for the cost of administration. To say there are others who are performing services for the colony, and they are insufficiently remunerated, and that, although we have the power to increase that remuneration, we are not to do anything as re- gards ourselves without consulting our constitu- ents, is to use an argument which I must charac- terize as the height of absurdity. My contention is that for the time being, and from Parliament to Parliament, it has the inherent power, and we do it, we take the responsibility, we submit ourselves to the people, and the people are our judges. But to go, cap in hand, and stand on the public platform and say, " If I am returned to Parliament I shall ask you to allow me an increase upon the present salary I receive"- why, if I was an elector to-morrow, and a man stood before me and asked me to agree to that position, I would say, "Nothing of the kind ; you are not fit to go into Parliament." I should say that, " as far as your services to the colony are concerned, yours is the responsi- bility: You must respect and uphold the position, and you must go into Parliament un- trammelled." I believe most of the members of the House are untrammelled. I say they can vote for this amount and place this Bill on the statute-book, and when they go to their con- stituents their constituents will say they have done what is perfectly reasonable and right. I move, Sir, the second reading of the Bill. The House divided. AYES, 30. Allen, E. G. Hogg Napier Arnold Hornsby Parata Houston Seddon Carncross Kaihau Carroll Stevens Laurenson Steward Colvin Fisher Lawry Symes Ward. McGowan Flatman Mckenzie, R. Tellers. Gilfedder Barclay Hall McNab Hall-Jones Mills Palmer. Heke NOES, 25. Smith, G. J. Atkinson Lang Lethbridge Buddo Tanner Thompson, R. Collins Massey Mackenzie, T. Thomson, J. W. EU Meredith Fowlds Willis. Fraser, A. L. D. Monk Tellers. Rhodes Graham Russell, G. W. Hutcheson Hardy Russell, W. R. Pirani. Herries PAIRS. For. Against. Fraser, W. Duncan Allen, J. Hanan Morrison Millar Pere Bennet Smith, E. M. McGuire. Majority for, 5. Bill read a second time. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 1 .- "The Short Title of this Act is 'The Payment of Members Act, 1901,' and it shall come into force on the first day of January, in the year one thousand nine hundred and two." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to strike out all the words after " 1901." The ACTING-CHAIRMAN ruled the amend- ment out of order, as it would mean an increase in the appropriations, and could only be intro- duced by Governor's message. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) moved, That the word " two " be struck out, with a view to inserting the word " three." The Committee divided on the question, "That the word be retained." AYES, 31. Hall.Jones Allen, E. G. O'Meara Heke Palmer Arnold Carncross Hornsby Parata Carroll Houston Seddon Colvin Kaihau Stevens Fisher Lawry Symes Ward. Flatman McGowan Fraser, A. L. D. Mckenzie, R. Gilfedder Tellers. McNab Barclay Mills Guinness Hogg. Hall Napier NOES, 25. Smith, G. J. Atkinson Laurenson Buddo Lethbridge Tanner Collins Thompson, R. Massey Mackenzie, T. Ell Thomson, J. W. Fowlds Meredith Willis. Graham Monk Rhodes Tellers. Hardy Russell, G. W. Hutcheson Herries Russell, W. R. Pirani. Lang PAIRS. For. Against. Fraser, W. Duncan Allen, J. Hanan McLachlan Bollard Morrison Millar Bennet Pere McGuire. Smith, E. M. Majority for, 6. Word retained. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) moved, That progress be reported, in order to obtain the ruling of the Speaker on the decision of the Acting-Chairman in reference to the amend- ment moved by Mr. Seddon. The Committee divided. AYES, 31. Allen, E. G. Flatman Carncross Fraser, A. L. D. Arnold Carroll Colvin Gilfedder Barclay 