in bringing them away. Large numbers were offered that he could have got, but he would not bring them with him. He had brought a few out, and these would be distributed among the different centres where they were expected to do most good in improving the breed. Later on they intended to do a little more, but they could not do what they wanted all at once. He thought they had made a fairly good start, and if they brought out as many every year they would soon have enough to satisfy even the back blocks. # VETERINARY SURGEONS. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) asked the Minis- ter for Agriculture, If he will consider the advisability of distributing the veterinary surgeons in country districts, instead of their residing and giving their attention to the larger centres of population ? This was a very im- portant question, respecting the distribution of the veterinary surgeons that had been brought from the Old Country to look after the stock in the colony. He would point out to the Minis- ter that there were at present, quoting from the estimates, thirty-one veterinary surgeons, one chief. and one assistant chief. An Hon. MEMBER. - Where are they ? Mr. O'MEARA said, That was what he wanted to know. They had thirty - three Veterinary surgeons, as well as four dairy in- structors and a perfect army of other officers. 45 a matter of fact, he thought it would be wise if the Minister would consider the ad- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 visibility of allowing these veterinary surgeons to be distributed all over the colony, so that they should not confine their attentions and their actions to the larger centres of popula- / http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero tion. He presumed there was quite an army of them in Wellington and other chief centres, and would suggest that they should be placed in districts where their services would be of some use. If a farmer now desired to obtain the assistance of one who possessed special knowledge in dealing with cattle, sheep, or horses, he had to communicate with the Minis- ter himself, or some one in the large centres of population, to get a veterinary surgeon sent to the district. He did not think the farmer should go to the member for the district, and did not wish that his constituents should con- sult their member on such a subject. The proper thing, he thought, was to communicate with the Minister or the head of the depart- ment. He hoped the Minister would see the necessity of doing something in this respect, and that, instead of allowing the veterinary surgeons to remain in the large centres doing nothing, he would have them distributed about the country - for instance, one at Palmerston, another a: Pahiatua, another at Masterton, and Woodville, and so on. He hoped the Minister would give a reply stating that he agreed with his suggestion. Mr., DUNCAN (Minister for Agriculture) said the honourable gentleman forgot that these surgeons were imported specially under the Slaughtering and Inspection Act, and there- about the large centres, it was the large centres that were paying for them, and particularly for their duties in connection with the abattoirs. An abattoirs Act had been passed so that the meat consumed in the towns should be properly killed and inspected ; and how could it be in- spected unless they had such men as these ? Mr. O'MEARA .- It does not require thirty- three of them. Mr. DUNCAN said it required one in every centre, and they were very busy. There might be one in the honourable gentleman's district if abattoirs were erected there, and he could give some time possibly to other wants in the district. The fact was, the Government had been censured for allowing these surgeons to practise outside what they had been brought to the colony for, and it was said that they were interfering with people who had taken up this business. Several applications had come in from outlying districts to have a man sent up to see what was the matter with the stock, and they had always been sent, and had given the people the benefit of their experience; but if they were to get one, as the honourable gentle- man suggested, for Patea, one for Masterton, one for Woodville, and one for along the line, they would soon have an army, and there would be an objection to pay for them. An Hon. MEMBER. - You have an army now. Mr. DUNCAN said that clearly they had not too many, because they had not one to spare for Pahiatua. MILK TESTS IN DAIRY FACTORIES. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) asked the Minister for Agriculture, If he will cause dairy experts to visit dairy factories and test the instruments used in factories for milk-testing purposes by making milk tests themselves ? At the present time a good deal of dissatisfaction existed amongst those who supplied milk to dairies. For in- stance, in his own district they had two com- panies that were running factories, and the farmers were entirely at the mercy of the com- panies. They could not go there and examine for themselves ; a test was given them, and they had to be satisfied. Well, he thought arrange- ments might be made to overcome this. If, for instance, the Government were to appoint one of their own officers -- it was a very easy matter to test milk-and if either the Postmaster, the policeman, or a competent Justice of the Peace were to go to these factories and test the milk, then the milk-supplier would be perfectly satis- fied with the test of an independent person. At the present time there was dissatisfaction, and until this was taken up by some one of re- sponsibility that dissatisfaction would continue to prevail. It behoved the Government to pro- tect the interests of the suppliers, and so foster a very important industry. He hoped the Minister would give him a favourable reply to the question, as it was a very important one. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister for Agriculture) might state that he knew a little about this matter. He had been a director of a dairy factory for a good number of years, and he had 