for many of the good teachers in these small schools. In reply to the many objections taken to the scale of payment to the second male as- sistants, I might say that there were fifty-one second male assistants in New Zealand. Half of these will receive an increase of salary, and the other half (approximately) are reduced by the proposed scale. In Otago there are ten. Two of these are already appointed to country schools ; the others will not be affected by reductions for two years if No. 1 scale be adopted. The appointing of second assistant male teachers to country schools was one of the objects of the Commission for a twofold reason : Firstly, that country schools might have the benefit of well-trained teachers ; and, secondly, that, by the vacancies so created from town to country, some young men from the country might possibly get town appointments, so that they might obtain the advantage of attending the university, and be able to advance in their profession. It is also to be hoped, as the Premier indicated, that they will be able to adopt a higher scale; and, if it is adopted, there will be no appreciable loss whatever, because there will be, as I have already indicated, a margin on which the Board itself can come and go, and, where there is not such a large number of schools, as in the case of Otago, they will be able to increase the salary to something more adequate. But let me say in this connection that I am thoroughly in accord with those who are anxious to pay the very best attention to the children of our settlers in the back districts. I say this colony would be lacking in its responsi- bility and duty to the people of the country if it did not strain every point to extend the very best educational advantages within its power to those people who go into the back blocks. I do not agree at all with the honourable member for Riccarton, who said that people went back there because they got the land at a lower price. They go back there because they want to ob- tain homes for themselves, and because for many reasons they are not able to settle nearer the centres of population; and it is to these people, who constitute the vanguard of colo- nisation, that the very greatest consideration should be extended. Now, I come to the ques- tion that was mentioned by the honourable member for Franklin. The honourable mem- ber selected a number of salaries, and pointed out how female teachers of schools under six- teen or fourteen suffered. Then, we also had the statement that the schools between thirty and sixty had suffered, and the honourable gentleman gave us a little Bible quotation- that "to him that hath shall be given, and from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath." Now, let us, first of all, refer to this Provincial District of Auck- land, under the benign influence of the present reign, and we find there that female teachers in some schools only get £32. Mr. MASSEY .- Not head-teachers. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- I do not say what they are. They are the head-teachers in some cases as well as teachers. parents. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- I know that; but that is all they get from the Education Board. The parents will not cease to give something in addition; and they will get under the scale $40, instead of the £32 they now get from the Auckland Provincial District. There is no doubt about that. And if the honourable gentleman will look at page 20 of the Education Report he will find it is so. Then, we are told that between this thirty and sixty they suffer. Under the present scale teachers with forty-five pupils get £160 a year and a free house and an assistant. That cannot be said to be so very bad. I see that in Auckland under the old scale a teacher having forty-seven pupils only had £150. Now let us look to see how Auckland is treated. The statement was made that between thirty and sixty the teachers are suffering, and that is the statement I am replying to. Mr. MASSEY .- Will the honourable gentle- man allow me ? What I said was, that in the schools between thirty and sixty the increases given were not in proportion to the increases given in the case of larger schools. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .-- That is not what I took down, but I accept the honourable gentle- man's explanation, and we will see what the increases are, and he will see that he is wrong in his other contention also. Here is a school with fifty-five, and the increase there is from £150 to £171. I think that is a very fair in- crease. Here is a female teacher who has an increase from $140 to £155, another from £108 to £144, and from £108 to £141, and there are & good many similar cases throughout this report. And then below these numbers [ find there are few, comparatively, who have suffered reductions ; and I think, when you consider the enormous amount of leeway that had to be made up in connection with some of the other districts, you will find, with some exceptions, and I regret that they were touched, that the Commission did remarkably well with the funds at its disposal. Let us now refer to some of the smaller and poorer districts, and we find that, while we have got complaints from some in the richer districts, there are no complaints from Taranaki, Marlborough, Nelson, Grey, and Here is what has many of these districts. occurred in Taranaki. Here are some increases from £103 to $151, from $110 to $149, from £106 to £145; and these are male teachers. Let us come to the female teachers. The first on the list are £84 to £128, £86 to £137, £87 to £135, and so on. Then, take a poorer district, say Marlborough. Here we find male teachers increased from £106 to £151. Now, these teachers for all these years have been labouring for most inadequate re- muneration, and now they are being brought more into line, and my only wonder is that, with the money at the disposal of the Com- mission, they were able to do as well as they have for the districts which have been enjoying a higher remuneration in the past. In the smaller schools under twenty, there is an increase 