Account. Well, as their capital amounts to only one twentieth part of our own, it appears to me we ought to have had on the same basis a sum of £3,825,100 used as a depreciation fund. But, as our railways have been running double the time of that of the Manawatu Railway Company, our sinking fund ought to be double that ; or, in other words, we ought to have a depreciation account of £7,650,200, if our books had been kept in the reasonable way in which every business-man would keep his. Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- There is never any depreciation in railways if they are properly maintained. Captain RUSSELL .- The honourable gentle. man is an authority on railways and I am not ; but it seems to me there must be a period when a truck, or a railway-carriage, or an engine comes to an end, and therefore any business- man would provide for the day when his ma- chinery and trucks and railway-carriages are no longer fit to do the work. Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- That is part of main- tenance. Captain RUSSELL .- It is maintenance to keep them in order, but maintenance cannot keep them indefinitely. Unfortunately, the time-limit prevents me from going exhaustively into my subject, but I wish to refer members to page 20 of the Railways Statement, where, in Return No. 7, they will find a few of the de- tails of the repairs, renewals, and maintenance which are carried on. I find there every form https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 of renewal-relaying of rails, strengthening of bridges, and even the renewing of a sheep-yard. As to the renewing of the rails, I understand from the Minister that the lines are being re- laid with considerably heavier rails than were originally laid down, and that that expense, he says, is properly charged in the Capital Ac- count. Mr. NAPIER .- A portion-the extra weight. Captain RUSSELL .- Very well, a portion ; but I have been making inquiries from people who are competent to give me an honest and a sound opinion, and I am told that the heavier rails now being laid down cost no more than the light rails which were originally laid down, and therefore it would appear to me there can be no difference between the price of the rails originally obtained and the rails now being laid down, and no charge to capital, and so the charging of rail-laying to Public Works Fund is improper. I find on looking at page 13 that there are all sorts of charges debited to the Post Office Account, though in reality they belong fully as much to the Railway Ac- count. The telegraph - office and post-office, we all know, are used in the small stations along the line of railway in the railway- station, but, sooner or later, the post-offices are moved and the capital is all transferred to the railway capital, but not debited. We have witnessed many cases of this sort; but all these charges are placed to the account of the Post Office, instead of to the Railway account, which, therefore, does not show the proper amount of money spent on our railways. maintenance of roads in connection with all our railways is debited to the Lands Department instead of to the Railways. That is to say, when a high road runs alongside the railway, and a road has to be made to the station-yard to give access to the buildings, it is debited to the Lands Department instead of to the Rail- ways, and there is a mischarge there. Now, I am, unfortunately, prevented by the time- limit from pursuing the subject, but I would like to read to the House what was done under the administration of the Railway Commis- sioners. Members will see how utterly dif- ferent the position was in those days. On page 2 of the 1893 report of the Commissioners of Working Railways are these words :- "The lines and appliances have been thoroughly maintained, and their character and capacity have, as hitherto, been improved in the process of maintenance from working- expenses. "They repeat what has been pointed out in their former reports. The railways have been improved in value during maintenance by re- laying old 40 lb. iron rails with 53 1b. steel ; by increasing the capacity of the sidings, passen- ger- and goods-sheds; by renewing soft-timber structures with either masonry, hardwood, or iron ; by increasing the aggregate power of their engines, the passenger-carriage accommodation, the wagon capacity, and the brake-power. The execution of new work for private companies, and the sales of old plant and materials, have in no way at any time diminished or trenched upon the capital. New plant, supplied from working-expenses, of a more powerful, more commodious, more capacious, and better class, replaces the old plant abandoned and sold, and the capital value of the railways has been increased by the system pursued." Now, that was the process in force in the days of the Commissioners. The time-limit will not allow me to go through any con- secutive argument, but I would like to read the process in force in the neighbouring colony of New South Wales. It says here -:- " Good progress has been made with relay- ing. A length of 118 miles 53 chains has been completely relaid, rerailed, or resleepered, and 9 miles 60 chains partially resleepered, and 27,959 new sleepers and 38,327 good second- hand sleepers have been put in the road in re- newal and respacing, making a total length of 158 miles 33 chains dealt with and put into per- fect order for the year. All this work has been charged to maintenance. " In connection with the relaying, I might add that, although the whole of the work done is being charged to working - expenses, the capital value of the present line is much / greater than that of the line replaced, the number of sleepers per mile being increased by more than 10 per cent., and the weight of the rails and fastenings by about 14 per cent. "Fencing has received careful attention, 119 miles 72 chains having been renewed out of working-expenses, and 13 miles erected in 