New South Wales to an officer holding a far less responsible position. The officer was com- petent, and the amount paid was reasonable. He could tell the House that thousands had been saved to the colony in respect to financial operations through this officer. In regard to the second officer and the increase of #25, he did not consider anything required to be said. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) moved to reduce the item "Secretary to the Treasury," et cetera, by £50. Considering that £117 for a clerk and 7s. 6d. a day for a messenger was considered a living-wage, surely £750 ought to be enough for this officer. He had no fault to find with him : he knew him to be an excellent officer, well qualified for the position. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked whether this officer had received any other sum by way of a bonus, or any other addition to his salary. Mr. SEDDON said he did not think so. \- Mr. G. W. RUSSELL said he intended to support the amendment. As compared with the salaries of others in the service, this officer was getting one of the highest salaries of heads of departments. He was, for instance, getting £100 a year more than the Secretary of the Post Office, who had 2,061 officers under him. The Committee divided on the question, "That the item be reduced by £50." AYES, 25. Smith, G. J. Arnold Herries Hogg Symes Atkinson https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Hornsby Bollard Tanner Massey Thompson, R. Collins Mackenzie, T. Thomson, J. W. Ell Monk Fowlds Tellers. Gilfedder Parata Meredith Pirani Graham Russell, G. W. Rhodes Haselden NOES, 30. Allen, E. G. Mills Heke O'Meara Barclay Houston Bennet Hutcheson Seddon Kaihau Carroll Stevens Ward Colvin Lang Wilford Duncan Lawry Field Willis. Lethbridge Fisher McGowan Tellers. Hall Mckenzie, R. Carncross Fraser, A. L. D. Hall-Jones McLachlan Hardy Majority against, 5. Amendment negatived. Vote, £7,819, agreed to. Vote, Friendly Societies Registry Office, £1,380, agreed to. Old-age Pensions Office, £2,780. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked if the Minister would give particulars of the items included in " Contingencies, £300." Mr. SEDDON (Colonial Treasurer) said the old-age pensions "contingencies" expended last year amounted to £117, not £300, and the items were as follows :- Cleaning offices .. 16 16 10 0 8 Cloth baths for copying 1 2 Furniture for offices 3 21 6 Gas 9 3 48 8 4 Messengers 0 17 Mimeograph, &c. 0 Overtime to postal officers 28 14 0 Petty payments .. 7 3 4 Rent of offices 3 38 4 Telephone charges 0 2 0 . . . . Valuation fee 0 1 1 .. . Printing 1 15 0 . . .. 5 16 Travelling-expenses 0 . . £176 11 10 He might say, with respect to this matter, that the only thing that called for anxiety was that he was of opinion there were a number of per- sons who were obtaining certificates which they should not obtain, and it was his intention, as soon as the session was over, to make changes in respect to the control of this department. He thought, himself, they ought to have some one present to represent the Government when the claims were being heard. This was more particularly necessary because they found people in receipt of pensions had died who had large sums in the bank, and in some instances they had made transfers of money, and in other cases they had made transfers of property to their relatives. There were cases of that kind coming under his notice. With respect to the administration, with the altered law there would have to be a change. He intended to make a change in this matter after the session, and a large saving would result from it. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) asked if he was to understand that the Government were going to be represented at the hearing of these claims in future by a member of the legal profession ? Mr. SEDDON said, Yes. Mr. G. J. SMITH said, While that was wise, he thought at the same time instructions should be issued that legal technicalities should not be put forward against the claimants, other- wise they would find that legal gentlemen going into the Court to represent the Govern- ment would strain every point to prevent a person going on the pension fund. Now, he was sure that was not the wish or intention of the House. He also wanted to ask the Pre- mier a question about one item he read out in the contingencies vote. He understood the honourable gentleman to read, "Overtime, £28 14s." On what principle was that paid ? because he knew that in several of the Govern- ment departments men were working overtime without any payment whatever, and he wanted to find on what principle overtime was paid for in certain departments, while in other depart- ments it was not. Mr. SEDDON said his representation, 11.0. of course, would not be lawyer repre- sentation at all. It would be a representation by some responsible person-in his opinion, the Deputy Registrar. As soon as the application had been lodged they should have some one to 