difficulty ; and, taking the number of schools into consideration, my own opinion is, with the Boards relieved as we are relieving them now to some extent, they can very well man- age. But, so far as the Government are concerned, we shall not be blamed so long as they see their way to do it. Now, objection was taken to the Board not re- quiring certificates. There is nothing in this Bill to prevent the Board requiring any certifi- cates for the various positions that it sees fit. This matter is left entirely to the Board. We have not interfered as far as this Bill is con- cerned, and, if the Boards still wish to recognise these certificates to insure efficiency, it is for the Board to do it. I may say it is not pro- posed by the department to follow the advice of the Commission in regard to certificates. I do not think it advisable to interfere in this matter, and, at the same time, we have not thought it advisable to disregard the university degrees held by some of our teachers. The fact of the matter is, I believe we ought to go fur- ther in respect to our teachers, and ought to go in for the training of our teachers, and, when we have the best trained men, some recognition in that respect, and some encouragement in the way of training teachers, would be a good thing for the colony. I hold these views very strongly indeed, and I say you must, for some of your teachers, have training-schools aided by the State, and assistance in the way of facilities should be given to attend our university classes. It is a step in the right direction, and anything within reason that is asked to further that I shall be most happy, so far as I am concerned, to give it my hearty co-operation. Now, the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) took exception to the question of higher education. On that point I wish to remove any misapprehension. I am one of those who fully believe that if we are to hold our position as a nation, higher education must be placed within the reach of all that it is possible to give it to, and the more attention we pay to that the better it will be for the future of our country. With respect to the district high schools, and the proposals of the Bill affecting high schools, we have gone in the direction of making them free, and placing our education within the reach of all. And by taking the district high schools, and confining the Boards to what is laid down in the circular generally, I say we are going in the very direction the honourable gentleman was urging. We have decided,- "2. That the rest of the schools shall be as fully staffed as any other public school with the same average attendance :- "3. That the secondary pupils take arithmetic to a standard at least as high as that of the arithmetic for Standard VI. "4. That English be taken by all secondary pupils, and include the study of a work or works of some standard author-not less than eight hundred lines of poetry or two hundred pages of prose in a year. VOL. CXIX .- 42. pupil who has passed Standard VI. and is taking three or more of the following subjects, or 10s. per annum for each such pupil taking one subject, or £1 per annum for each such pupil taking two subjects :- 1\. Latin. 9. Botany .\* 10\. Mechanical draw- 2\. French. 3\. Euclid. ing. 4\. Algebra. 11. Book-keeping. 5\. Trigonometry. 12. Shorthand. 6\. Elementary me. 13. Agricultural chem- istry." chanics .\* 7\. Physics .\* 14\. Physiology .\* Etc. 8\. Chemistry .\* \* The work for these subjects must show an advance beyond what is offered or required for Standard VI. if the same subject is taken in Standard VI. "6. That, further, £4 per annum be paid on account of each free pupil who has passed Standard VI. and is taking not less than three secondary subjects in addition to English and arithmetic. "7. That, in addition to the extra capitation already named, £30 per annum be paid to each District High School having not less than twelve pupils who have passed Standard VI. and are taking three or more secondary subjects in addition to English and arithmetic." I say that that is a training and an oppor- tunity for those who desire to enter our Civil Service. I was surprised when I heard the honourable gentleman finding fault in so doing, especially seeing that in this circular we are going in the very direction he urged us to go. As regards payment for the instruction of pupil-teachers, I think that was raised by the honourable member for Palmerston, and 1 may say that payment for the instruction of pupil-teachers is not given in Auckland, nor is it given in Otago. In the scale it is included in the salaries of the head-teachers and first assistants. If you increase their salaries, it is tantamount to giving them, although you do not specifically state it, payment for the instruction of the pupil-teachers. Now, another question arises-that of house allow- ance. House allowance is small in small schools because such schools are found in the country where the rents are low. In the larger centres the rents are high, and correspondingly we must have a house allowance to agree. That follows, as a natural sequence, and we have stated it in the proposals -- the proportionate amount given in respect to this question of house allowance. I say there must be an equalising, otherwise no scale could be effec- tive or workable. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Time is up. Mr. SEDDON .- I am sorry that I must con- clude ; but I express the hope that the Bill will be carried unanimously, and that we will get into Committee. It is well and wise to pass it, and place it on the statute-book of the colony. Bill read a second time. 