same gentleman. I can refer to reports in regard to the finances of this colony, and more particularly in respect to labour legislation and administration. I say I have seen state- ments in the Times from their New Zealand correspondent which were absolutely unfounded and incorrect, and a tissue of misrepresentation. And I believe that to be the case in this matter, and that that was sent Home as the reason why exception was taken by the House; and that is how I say Mr. Stead was evidently misled as to what was said in the House. Evidently what was cabled Home was incorrect, and, in my opinion, what was cabled to Australia was also incorrect, because here we have this let- ter :- "Sir,-I have not yet seen the text of the debate in your House of Representatives on the arrangements made with the Review of Reviews for Australasia as to taking for distribution a certain number of copies of the issue which contains an article on ' New Zealand at the Be- ginning of the Century '; but I gather by the cablegrams from England that the latest ver- sion of the story is that Mr. Seddon paid the Review of Reviews for Australasia a sum of money for an article which is practically a puff for himself. I cannot imagine that any sane New-Zealander will believe this story, whatever may be the case in England. "The article was one of a series designed to give a picture of each of the Great Australasian Settlements at the beginning of the new century in turn, and the whole series, it was hoped, would, when completed, form a book of per- manent interest and value. New Zealand came third on the list. As there was very consider- able expense attached to the many illustrations which accompanied the article, the New Zea- land Government was asked to take a certain number of copies for distribution in England and elsewhere, on the ground that the article would be of public service to New Zealand." Now, I wish members to mark this, because, when I stated in the House the other day that I had not seen this article, nor knew anything about it, members murmured, and suggested that I was under a misapprehension. Now, this paragraph settles that question,- "Mr. Seddon expressed no wish whatever as to the character of the article, and never saw a line of it till it was published. "My duty was to secure the best possible writer for the article, and to give him an abso- lutely free hand. I invited the Rev. Joseph Berry, of Adelaide-a writer of mark, who lived for many years in New Zealand, and is uni- versally respected-to undertake the article, and it appeared exactly as he wrote it. There could not be a more honest bit of literary work. No one could read it without seeing that it is a perfectly independent, though friendly, study of the resources and prospects of New Zealand. " It certainly includes no special eulogy of Mr. Seddon. His name, in fact, except in the titles to the photographs, occurs only three times in the article. And nothing could be more straight- forward, businesslike, and honourable than the this transaction with the Review of Reviews for Australasia. He plainly wanted to serve his colony, not himself. And the article is not written in superlatives. It is a sober and absolutely reliable account of the resources and prospects of one of the richest and most flourishing provinces of the British Empire .- Yours, &c., " W. H. FITCHETT. "30th September, 1901." I say, I did come in for adverse criticism- although I cannot refer to a past debate-but I have come in for criticism in the Press and in the House in respect to this matter. Refer- ence was made to the pictures, and to the number of times the Premier appeared in the pictorial part of the article. Now, the number of times the Premier appeared is twice out of thirty one illustrations. Mr. PIRANI .- Five times, as I can show. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable gentleman has a wonderful power of imagination, and his eyesight is extraordinary, for he can see that which does not and never did exist. A letter was received from the Rev. Mr. Fitchett, as follows, dated the 18th October, 1900 :- " Sir,-Under separate cover we forward you a copy of the Australasian Review of Reviews containing a special article entitled " The Great Queensland Winter Pleasure-trip," by the Rev. Joseph Berry, of South Australia. Mr. Berry, who comes from New Zealand, proposes to write an article on similar lines descriptive of the resources and beauties of New Zealand .. The article will be got up in good style, and will be more thoroughly written and illustrated than that dealing with Queensland, and should,. we think, be of real service to New Zealand .. Will you not help us, as the Queensland Go- vernment did, by taking, say, ten thousand copies as an advertisement for your colony, and sending them to England, and America, and all the other colonies? You will see by the audi- tor's certificate we enclose, to what a scale the Australasian Review of Reviews has grown ; so, apart from any number you take, the article will have a very wide distribution. We will be prepared to supply these copies to your Government at the wholesale trade rate of 6d. net per copy. " We hope we are not troubling you in this matter unduly, but we trust to receive as gene- rous treatment from yourself as we have re- ceived from Mr. Philp, the Premier of Queens- land. "The photographs used to illustrate the Queensland article were supplied by the Govern- ment. We take it for granted that, if you agree to this proposal, you will direct that photographs be forwarded to us showing to the best advantage the resources and beauties of New Zealand. " We might add that the bulk of the copies. purchased by the Queensland Government have been shipped by us on their behalf to the Agent- General for the colony in London. " If you consent, would you kindly let your Secretary send us a wire, so we can make 