corporal had been held by himself and Dr. Chapple, and they were of opinion that his illness was not due to the injury described by the late corporal, but that the malady from which, in their opinion, he died was kidney- disease. He further said that the only way to definitely settle whether the injury had any- thing to do with the death was to make a post mortem. This was not done. The case had frequently been brought up, and the opinion expressed that she had already been well treated, and her application for increased com- pensation declined. According to law, twelve months' salary was given to Civil servants, and Mrs. Gauntlett had received an amount equal to twelve months' salary, although not entitled to anything at all from the branch of the ser- vice in which her husband served; and he really could not see his way to promise any- thing further. At first they only gave Mrs. Gauntlett an amount equal to six months' salary, and she petitioned, and it was repre- sented to the Government that the proper thing to do would be to give her another six months' salary. That amount was given, and now she wanted more. The Government had dealt fairly with Mrs. Gauntlett, and was not prepared to do more. # THE FEDERAL TARIFF. Mr. LANG (Waikato) asked the Premier, If he will send to the farmers' unions and clubs throughout the colony similar telegrams to those sent to the Chambers of Commerce with refer- ence to the Federal tariff ? This question had been on the Order Paper for some days. His reasons for asking the question was on account of the following announcement that appeared http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero in the New Zealand Times a few days ago :- " In consequence of the agitation throughout the colony in reference to the Federal tariff, the Premier has telegraphed to all the Chambers of Commerce in the colony to ascertain their opinions on the subject. In the course of his telegram he said the tariff proposed by the Australian Commonwealth Government was one which had an important bearing on the colony's export trade, and the question was of such im- portance to the country that the Government was considering what steps, if any, were desir- able in order to protect the colony's trade, which, as a result of the high tariff imposed, specially against New Zealand, would be affected to some extent. He would be glad if the Chambers would confer, and favour the Govern- ment with an opinion upon the altered con- dition of things, and what effect they thought the Federal tariff would have upon the pro- ducers and export trade of the colony. He would also be glad to receive any suggestions or proposals the Chambers might agree upon in connection with the question before it was finally discussed in Cabinet." He was aware that the Premier had replied to a somewhat similar question that afternoon, but he was sorry that the Premier had not seen his way in the first place to communicate with farmers' unions and clubs in the same way Mr. Seddon Commerce. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, When he sent out the first telegrams expedition was neces- sary, and he desired replies to come as soon as possible. However, the answer he had given the member for Riccarton would apply to this question. # LAND BOARDS. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) asked the Government, Whether they will give effect to the wish of the House, as expressed by a vote of the Committee of the whole House, and can- cel all appointments of members of Parliament on Land Boards ? He would only point out that, when the estimates were in Committee a few nights ago, the item "Fees to members of Waste Lands Boards," was reduced by £2, as an intimation to the Government that, in future, members of the House should not be appointed to the Land Boards of the colony. That amendment was carried on the voices ; and he thought he would ask the Premier when he would give effect to the wishes of the Committee. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said it was quite evident to him that the House laid very great stress on the recommendation it had made- that members of the House should not be on the Land Boards. It was the only reduction made on the estimates, and, such being the case, he could only take it that members earnestly desired a change in this respect. He might also say it was the opinion of the late Sir John Mckenzie that it was not desirable that members of the House should sit on Land Boards. It did not help the administration at all, but rather retarded it. However, the Go- vernment did not intend to cancel the appoint- ments of those who already held seats, but, as they dropped out, the Government would con- sider whether they should reappoint them or not. # MEMBERS OF PARLIAMENT IN PUBLIC POSITIONS. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) asked the Premier, If he will introduce legislation defining the public positions for which Ministers of the Crown and members of Parliament are eligible ? After the reply the Premier had given to the honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins) it was highly desirable that members of the House should know their position. As a member of a Land Board, he might say the late Minister of Lands had appointed him to the position without any request on his part. He had never made a request to be placed on that or any other Board to which the Govern- ment had the right to make appointments. He believed there were members of the House who were Justices of the Peace, Volunteer officers, School Commissioners, and members of Educa- tion Boards. Attached to some of the positions there were perquisites, but after one had paid his expenses it would require a very strict micro- scopical examination to detect what was left. For himself, he would not remain on the Land 