whilst others wer under age. He had cases quoted by the office, and if he showed those cases to honourable members there would be none who would hesitate for a m ment. It had been held that the whole of the parties must consent, and when one was a child of twelve years of age the estate had to be kept -- An Hon. MEMBER .- The Court can give con- sent. Mr. SEDDON said, No; that was why he wanted to amend the Act. At the present time until the youngest child came of age the rule was that no order could be made. He con- sidered the interests of those concerned ought not to be sacrificed. There was no clashing between the Court and the Public Trust Office, and no taking away from the Court power ; but authority for realisation, which at the present time the law did not give, was given, and the want of this, the Public Trustee assured him, caused serious loss. The Board consisted of business-men, and was not likely to order the realisation of properties unless in the best interests of the parties. Honourable members knew the composition of the Public Trust Board, and, taking the constitution of the Board, they could not suppose that it would be likely to do what was unwise or improper. If they found in the working of an institution li-e the Public Trust Department there were difficulties, then in the best interests of those concerned they should remove them. It lay on those opposing the measure to show that there were good grounds for re- fusing what the Public Trustee and his legal advisers said was necessary. He could give cases. There were cases in which the parties could not consent because they were not of age, and the result was that the property was injured. Bill read a second time. CHATHAM ISLANDS COUNTY BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Premier), in moving the second reading of this Bill, said at the present time there was no local government at all in the Chatham Islands, and this Bill was to in- troduce the same system of local government there as prevailed in the colony. A Bill had been drawn up last year to deal with this ques- tion, but the machinery had been found to be altogether too elaborate, and the Government considered the best way to meet the difficulty was to allow the present Counties Act to apply. Mr. PARATA (Southern Maori) said it ap- peared that the effect of this Bill would be to impose taxation on the Natives, while the Natives themselves would get no benefit at all from it. As this Bill very closely affected the Natives, he asked Mr. Speaker to rule whether it should not be translated into the Maori language. He asked the Deputy - Speaker's ruling. Mr SEDDON said he had no objection to the postponement of the Bill if the honourable members desired it. It was, however, really in the interests of the Maoris. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said, If it was admitted that the Bill affected the Natives the Bill must be interpreted ; it would therefore stand over till the following day. NEW ZEALAND ENSIGN BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Premier), in moving the second reading of this Bill, said it amended the Bill of last session in the direction indicated by the Imperial authorities. As passed last session the Admiralty took exception to it, because it meant that any vessel registered in New Zealand would be able to use the ensign as the New Zealand flag. Whilst this was contrary to Admiralty rules and conditions, they asked that the matter should be recon- sidered. They never intended it to be so ; they claimed the right to use the flag on New Zealand steamers. That had been given by the Admiralty in 1869. They wanted it to be the flag of the colony, and to prevent what sometimes happened, when the New Zea- land flag had been used for advertising and other purposes, which placed the flag in a posi- tion they did not like. The Bill of last session was not refused, but in a very courteous way it was pointed out that there were difficulties in the way, and this Bill was to remove those difficulties. The Government thought the best course was to bring the Bill down. They claimed their right under the charter of 1869-namely, so far as New Zealand steamers were concerned, they could use the flag without having upon it the disc which had been ordered by the Board of Trade in respect to other steamers. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said there was a flag with a blue ground and with what pretended to be the Southern Cross on it placed on the wall in the library building, and he understood that that flag was exhibited in all our public schools as the flag of New Zea- land. First of all, the flag did not correctly represent the Southern Cross. Mr. SEDDON must confess that he did not accept any responsibility for what was posted up in the lobby. Mr. FISHER said it was an official repre- sentation, he understood, of the New Zealand flag, issued by the Education Department. Mr. SEDDON .- That is only on paper. Mr. FISHER said he would like to know who the ignorant person was who designed the flag which was intended to place before the school-children of the colony a representa- tion of the Southern Cross. Any New Zealand child taught to believe that that flag, which was ordered to be posted up in the schools, contained a true representation of the Southern Cross would grow up in a state of ignorance ; and if the child went to any other country and said that that was the Southern Cross it would be asked, "My dear child, where were you educated ?" And the child would reply, " In a State school in the Colony of New Zealand." Of course, it had nothing to do with him (Mr. Fisher), but it had something to do- Mr. SEDDON .- Are the stars not in the right position ? 