reflections on the Premier and Parliament I can understand the Premier feeling that some. thing should be done. After criticizing the Ministry individually in the article, the writer winds up in this way :- " Of such is the Kingdom of New Zealand's Parliament. Roll up, roll up, rich man, poor man, beggar man, thief, doctor, lawyer, Maori chief ! Rag-tag and bob-tail, scum or cream, all and any may enter the lists. So roll up, gentlemen ; here's power to you." Now, I wonder if the feeling of satisfaction which the Premier enjoyed when he read the Windsor article by a writer who can speak in those terms of the Ministry and of Parliament still exists ? An attempt was made to bring me before Parliament for writing an article dealing severely with members ; but 1 am sure that nothing I have ever said would at all approach the terms in which Parliament is described in an article like that." Now, I have another theory about this Bill. You & now it was intro- duced a little earlier in the session than during the last month, and I feel certain that the only object in the introduction of this measure was to please the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher). Mr. SEDDON .- No. Mr. PIRANI. - Well, I feel certain of that, because he asked the Premier a question in connection with this Bill, and you will rnd the Premier's answer recorded in Hansard before the Bill was introduced at all; and, as there https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 cannot now possibly be any desire on the part of the Premier to please the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr Fisher), I feel perfectly certain that after the Premier gets a doing for an hour or two in Committee the measure will be dropped. Speaking seriously, I cannot understand the Premier looking upon a measure of the kind with anything but ridicule. If he does intend to amend the law of libel-which I believe ought to be amended -which is neither fair to the man who publishes an honest criticism, or faithfully reports & public meet- ing, or to the man who desires to expose abuses -if he desires to do anything of that sort on the lines of the legislation which has been in force for years in other civilised countries, why not have a reasonable Bill framed and brought down at a reasonable part of the session, and have the matter settled once and for all ? To attempt legislation in this way is sufficient to prevent anything like an amendment of the libel law going on the statute-book. I have given notice of an amendment by way of a new clause, and I intend to proceed with it in Com mittee-that is, to abolish the privilege which members of Parliament now enjoy in libelling people outside Parliament. There is no more scandalous thing in the history of this Parlia- ment than its libels on men outside Parliament, which libels are uttered here under cover of privilege. If every member who made a speech personally attacking men outside Parliament who are not in a position to reply to them, and cannot reply to them through the public Press without the risk of an action for libel brought before the bar of the House for a breach of privilege, then surely it is a proper thing that the member who is so ready to libel a fellow-creature in the way some members do it over and over again in this Parliament should himself come under the same laws as the journalist who is endeavouring to do his best for the benefit of the public. And I feel sure if my clause is carried the result will be that the debates in Parliament will be very much shortened, and there will be a very great deal of matter that is now utilised in Parlia- meut as argument which will not be used at all. Otherwise, if the House does not consent to embody a provision like that in our law-to put members of Parliament on the same footing as honest men outside the House-then I think the House ought to object to allow such a measure as this to go on the statute-book, because it is so ridiculous, so foolish, and so out of place that there is not the slightest possi- bility of its being enforced in any law-court in the colony. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City). - May I be allowed a word of explanation ? The mem- ber for Palmerston has slightly misrepresented my statement of the law as to the plea of truth in a Civil action for libel. I only, of course, stated it was admissible when properly pleaded and a conclusive answer, and when proved to be a fact. I understand in this case he failed to plead in time. Mr. PIRANI .- No; he pleaded truth, but they would not admit it. Mr. ATKINSON .- The honourable member must have misunderstood the ruling ; the plea Was either too late, or objection was taken to it in point of form. Mr. McNAB (Mataura). - I think the Premier would do . ell to accept the suggestion made earlier in the debate by the honourable mem- ber for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay), and refer this Bill, after the second reading, to the Statutes Revision Committee. It has been known to the legal profession for a considerable number of years for five years, at any rate -- that there was this point with regard to criminal libel, and I remember, myself, on one occasion conducting & prosecution for criminal libel, when I was advised by a solicitor of very con- siderable experience to watch that that point did not arise in connection with that case. I remember that we watched very carefully to see if counsel for the defence raised that point. It was not raised, and I never heard it again until it was raised in the Supreme Court; and the Court of Appeal decided on the lines which have been referred to. The honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay) has pointed out that this Bill was taken from the Criminal Code Bill which appears amongst the Bills rejected in 1883, and if honourable members will turn up the rejected Bills for that year they will see the criminal libel provisions that really ought to be added to this Bill. When 11.30. I tell honourable members that the provisions which were considered necessary for a proper system of criminal law in regard 