responsibility in virtually saying that the award of the Court was either not a just one, or, in the alternative, not a competent one, because it was this tribunal which owners of estates which were compulsorily taken had to appeal to. If the Government, when an award was given which the Government might think was above the value of the land, were going to exercise this responsibility, and say, " If retain the property, you like, you can because we are dissatisfied with the award," would the Government allow the same right to owners of land which was compulsorily taken if it should turn out that the vendors thought they had not been treated fairly by the Court ? An Hon. MEMBER. - They have the same right. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL said the honourable member who made that interjection was wrong. The position was this : The Government desired compulsorily to acquire a block of land, and, whether the owner of the land was satisfied or not, he had to abide by the award. In this case the Government were compelled to abide by the award. He admitted that. But the Govern- ment now said, although they had put the law in motion to take the land, the award of the Court was such as to the value of the land that the owners could retain it if they chose. In other words, that was an admission by the Government that the Court was either incom- petent or unjust. He ventured to say that in adopting that attitude the Government were acting unwisely. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable gentleman must not proceed to discuss the question. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL said he wished to avoid that, but having gone so far he would like to go a little further, and to say that in giving this option to the owners the Govern- ment had, in his opinion, acted unwisely, and had struck a blow at the standing of the Court in the public mind. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- That is the very thing I asked you not to proceed with. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL said it was a ques- tion as to whether, if the owners of the estate elected to retain their land, it would not be fair to them that they should be compensated for the expense, the loss of time, and he would say the mental anxiety to which they had been put in connection with the matter. If the owners determined to retain their land, the Govern- ment should certainly recoup them for the loss they had sustained. Did the Government pro- pose to pay them for their loss ; and, if so, from what source ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said there was just one statement the honourable gentleman had made, and when he gave that an unqualified denial it would upset his calculation altogether. He had never said that if the owners refused to retain it that then the Government would not take it. He had never said anything of the kind. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Would the right honourable gentleman allow him to explain Mr. G. W. Russell sell) had said ? He had never made that state- ment. The Government were compelled to take it. Mr. SEDDON might say at once, in reference to this matter, that he would briefly review the position. First of all, the owners had come voluntarily to the Government and had offered to sell the Forest Gate Estate. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) asked if he would be allowed to review the Premier's argument. Mr. SEDDON said he did not think the honourable gentleman had asked the question. He was simply answering the question that had been put. He would say, first of all, that the Government did not seek to take the land in the first instance. The land was offered voluntarily by the owners, and the amount of £4 10s. per acre was asked for it. The Government was prepared to give #4, so that there was only 10s. difference between the two as to the value placed upon the land by the owners themselves. That was the fact. Captain RUSSELL .- No ; that is argument ; at any rate, it is not fact. Mr. SEDDON .- I repeat, it is a fact ; and why does the honourable member interrupt ? Captain RUSSELL asked Mr. Deputy- Speaker to rule whether the Right Hon. the Premier was not departing from the Standing Orders, which prevented the introduction of arguable matter. He would be prepared to argue the matter if that were allowable. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the honour- able gentleman must accept the Hon. the Pre- mier's assertion as to the facts. Mr. SEDDON said he could not take the honourable member's assertion. The honour- able member was not one of the owners, and he (Mr. Seddon) was speaking of facts as they were recorded in the papers. It was he (Mr. Seddon) who was making the statement, and not the honourable gentleman. Captain RUSSELL said the statement was not in accordance with the real facts of the case. Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER said the Hon. the Minister was entitled, in answering the question, to state the facts. Captain RUSSELL .- I say those are not the facts, and the matter becomes arguable. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said he must ask the honourable gentleman to accept the asser- tion that these were the facts. Mr. SEDDON would repeat that the owners had offered the estate to the Government at £4 10s. per acre. That was the statement he had made. Captain RUSSELL. - You said that was what they thought was the value. Mr. SEDDON said that if a person offered land at £4 10s. per acre and was prepared to take it, that seemed to him clearly the value the owner fixed upon the land when he offered to sell at that figure. Then, the question went to the Arbitration Court, because the Govern- ment were not prepared to give the £4 10s. per acre, and they found the award given by the 