The next report was dated the 21st Septem- ber, and the same correspondent said,- " In my last letter I mentioned that certain anomalies had arisen by reason of the action of the authorities here in respect of duties on goods imported into the Cook Islands. A no- tice has since been posted up, signed by the then Acting - Collector of Customs, stating that calico, rice, and kerosene-which, under the New Zealand tariff, are free goods, and as such did not pay duty when imported from Tahiti-would be admitted free of duty on importation from New Zealand. Why these three lines only should be singled out from the ordinary list of free goods under the New Zea- land tariff is a matter which at present is not understood by the importers." In his opinion, the levying of duty on goods imported practically from one part of the colony to the other was illegal, and he trusted the Minister would put an end to it, and refund the money which, in his opinion, had been illegally exacted from the importers. Mr. MILLS (Commissioner of Trade and Customs) said, in reply to the first part of the question, that information had been received from Lieut .- Colonel Gudgeon to the effect that he had charged 10 per cent. duty on certain goods imported from New Zealand, and in- structions had been sent to him not to make any further charge. In regard to the second part of the question, that had been done, and the instructions sent, and the same tariff would be in force for the future in the Cook Islands as in New Zealand. In regard to the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 third part of the question, any duties that had been wrongfully collected on imports from New Zealand would be returned. ### ADVANCES TO SETTLERS VALUATION. FEES. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Government, Whether they will amend the procedure under the Advances to Settlers Act by providing for the return of inspection- and valuation-fees in cases where applications for advances on properties are refused; and, if necessary to secure the department against loss, by increasing the fees in cases where the security is accepted? There was no matter connected with the administration of this Act which caused a greater feeling of soreness than the retention of the fees charged for inspection and valuation in cases where the department re- fused to make an advance. It seemed to him that provision might be made for a refund of fees in all cases where advances were not made without any loss to the department ; that was to say, if the fees charged in respect of those applications which were successful were not sufficient to cover the cost of valuation, in the cases where the application was not successful, he would suggest to the honourable gentleman that the fee should be increased. Mr. MILLS (Minister in charge of Advances to Settlers Office) said that section 61 of the Act provided that valuation-fees should be pay- able by applicants in any event, and according to the scale set forth in the schedule to the | Now, he had a letter from the department, VOL. CXIX .- 12. Act, and it would be impossible to make a change without amending the Act. He would point out that it would be a very unfair way of conducting business to penalise the man who made a successful application by making him pay the fee of the unsuccessful applicant. It would be really absurd to penalise a 4.30. man who had offered the department good security for an advance and got it, while the security offered by the other man, whose application was refused, might have been worth only about one-third of the amount asked for. Another thing he would like to point out was that if the proposition, as the honourable gentleman suggested, were adopted, and the fees had to be returned to unsuccessful appli- cants, it would lead to a great number of what he might alm st call frivolous applications being made, because so many people thought. all their own geese were swans, whilst the Ad- vances to Settlers Office had to be particular that the securities they accepted were really as gilt-edged as could be obtained. Major STEWARD would like to point out that persons did not make applications for mere amusement ; they only made application when they required money, and therefore the number of unsuccessful applicants was presumably very much smaller than the number of successful ones, and therefore he did not see that so many would be penalised. Mr. MILLS would like to point out to the honourable gentleman that the department had hundreds of instances where settlers had made applications for loans and had not been cognisant of the provisions of the Act. Many were not aware that not more than 50 per cent. of the value of improvements could be lent on leasehold. In many cases the settlers wished to redeem an existing mortgage and get some little further advance to carry on, thus requir- ing a loan most probably beyond the power of the department to grant. They had to be guided by the valuation made by their own officers as to what amount it would be safe to lend. Mr. O'MEARA .- But you are not guided. Mr. MILLS said, That might be so, in some cases where the Board had other important and reliable information ; but the applicant could always ascertain what was the value of the security he had offered, and form his own judg- ment as to whether the department had acted in good faith. ADVANCES TO SETTLERS ACT. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) asked the Go- vernment, Whether they will consider the advisability of amending the Advances to Settlers Act, so as to enable the department to make advances on improvements made on education leases? This was an exceedingly important question to every country district in the colony. As a matter of fact, the Advances to Settlers Board was very reluctant to grant advances to Crown lessees at all. The Minister stated just now that the Board was entirely guided by the report received from its valuers. 