quarters in any one day ; nor "(c.) For more than four hours and a half continuously without an interval of at least three-quarters of an hour for dinner. " (2.) The foregoing limits of working-hours shall not be deemed to apply to any male worker employed in getting up steam for machinery in factory, or in making preparations for the work of the factory, or to the trades referred to in the Second Schedule hereto. "(3.) Where in any award of the Arbitration Court, whether made before or after the passing of this Act, provision is made for limiting the working-hours in any trade, this section shall in respect to such trade, and so long as such award continues in force, be read and construed subject to the award." Clause agreed to. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) moved the following new clause :- "The provisions of this Act, exclusive of those referring to payment or expenditure of money and the infliction of any penalty, shall apply to any building, office, or place in which two or more persons are employed directly or indirectly in any handicraft, occupied or owned by the General Government of the colony or any officer thereof." The Committee divided on the question, "That the clause be read a second time." https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 AYES, 8. Ell Tellers. Hutcheson Laurenson Collins Fowlds Smith, G. J. Hornsby Massey. NOES, 29. Allen, E. G. Hall-Jones Palmer Arnold Hardy Seddon Bollard Heke Stevens Buddo Kaihau Symes Carncross McGowan Ward Mckenzie, R. Wilford Carroll McNab Witheford. Duncan Millar Flatman Tellers. Barclay Fraser, A. L. D. Mills Napier Hall Tanner. PAIR. For. Against. Gilfedder. Hanan. Majority against, 21. New clause negatived. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) moved to insert ths following new clause :- "The Inspector and every other person who may be dissatisfied with the judgment of the Court on any summary proceedings under this Act may appeal to the Supreme Court or to a District Court in the manner provided by ' The Justices of the Peace Act, 1882." Clause agreed to. Schedules .- Third Schedule : - " Works and factories exempted under the operation of section 17A :- "1. Freezing-works. "2. Dairy factories. "4. Fish curing or preserving. "5. Jam - factories (during the small-fruit season). "6. Bacon-factories." Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) moved to insert the words "including creameries " after " Dairy factories." Amendment agreed to. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) moved to insert "and pelt - works" after " fell- mongers." Amendment agreed to. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) moved to add the words " Bush sawmills " Amendment agreed to. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) moved to add " Sausage-casing manufactories." Amendment agreed to. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) moved to add the words "Agricultural-implement manufactories (during the harvest months)." Amendment withdrawn, and Schedule as amended agreed to. Bill reported. On the question, That the amendments made in Committee be agreed to, Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) said that an amendment had been made in the Bill-in- advertently, he thought-to the effect that those employed in bush sawmills should be exempted from the operation of section 17A. Section 17A provided that a week's work for every male worker should not exceed forty-eight hours, and by exempting those workers in the bush sawmills from that section it meant that those men might have to work an unlimited number of hours for a week's pay, and without any payment for overtime. That would break down the whole system of the eight-hours day, because there would be an agitation arising throughout the country for the purpose of having other workers exempted from the opera- tion of the eight-hour clause. The honourable member who moved that amendment, he under- stood, believed that he was merely introducing an exemption from the prohibition of working more than eight hours a day, but he did not know that the workers, if the amendment passed, would not be paid for overtime. If that were so, he did not think that the amend- ments made in the Bill ought to be agreed to now, but that the Bill should be recommitted, so that the amendment to which he referred might be excised, and the principle of the eight-hour day preserved in its integrity, not only for the city worker, but also for the workers in the country. In the northern por- tion of the colony they had a number of bush sawmills, more, he thought, than in the dis- trict represented by the honourable member who moved the amendment, and he would regret if those workers were sent back to the condition from which they emerged many years ago, or that their last state should be worse than their first. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) said it was not his in- tention to alter the forty-eight hours a week. His intention was that the ordinary week should 