SETTLEMENT BILL. A message was received from His Excellency the Governor transmitting amendments in this Bill. Mr. SEDDON (Colonial Treasurer) .- I move, That the message be referred to Committee of the Whole. It will be obvious to members why these proposals should be submitted to the House. If they look at the Public Works Statement they will find there is only a balance unallocated of £335,181 ; that is sailing a little too close. Last year we had over a million on the 31st March. I mention, further, that, in respect to the additions to open lines, the loco- motives and wagons have come to charge earlier than we anticipated, and it is therefore neces- sary, seeing the charges that will come to book before the 31st March, that further provision should be made. Not only that, but last year, on the 31st March, we had a surplus of £600,000. This year it would be unreasonable to expect a very large one, though I anticipate having a very fair one, but I do not think there will be much to carry forward next year for public works. We should then, provided the money is expended, though I do not anticipate it will be, find ourselves in this position : to carry on to November following, we should only have about $335,000. This margin is too close, and we should be twitted again with having no pro- vision made for liabilities. This being the case, we came to the conclusion that the safest way for our finance was to ask for the additional https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 £250,000. It will not necessarily increase our expenditure as proposed on the estimates, but it is wise to have this extra amount, and I may add that it will be necessary to further increase the expenditure on the North Island Trunk Railway when the summer comes. Under all the circumstances, I think it is best that we should get the extra amount. Therefore I move, that this resolution be referred to Com- mittee of the Whole. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- I should like to ask the Premier when the September accounts will be published ? Usually they are published at about this time in the month of October. Mr. SEDDON .- They are in course of pre- paration. The draft has been sent down to the Printer, and I will let the House have them as soon as I can. Motion agreed to. IN COMMITTEE. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) asked the Minister for Public Works, if he could explain what appeared to be an inaccuracy at the bot- tom of page 2 of the Public Works Statement. It was there stated, "The estimates of expendi- ture for the current year total to $2,197,334 (in addition to $46,577 under the Government Loans to Local Bodies Account), thus leaving an unallocated balance of £335,181." Now, if any one went through the figures they would hnd that that amount included the #46,577. Mr. HALL-JONES said, as far as he could see, the figures were correct. The £46,577 was Act. Mr. FRASER said the £46,577 must be in- cluded in the #2,197,334, otherwise they would not get the #335,181 as an unallocated balance. He thought it only right to draw the Minister's attention to that now. Mr. HALL- JONES (Minister for Public Works) said the honourable gentleman had made a mistake, in this way: the amount under the Government Loans to Local Bodies Account was authorised by Act, and it did not affect the Public Works Fund, and the amount would be raised as it was required for opening up land for settlement. Mr. W. FRASER said he was not making any mistake; and he wanted to know why on earth this £46,577 was said to be in addition to the £2,197,334, and yet they were now told it must not be added to the latter sum. The truth was, reference to the £46,577 was made in the wrong place, and should have been a sepa- rate paragraph by itself. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said he would like to ask the Minister for Public Works what was being done with the revenue that was being re- ceived from the lands set apart for the construc- tion of the North Island Main Trunk Railway. He had noticed that for the past two years the revenue had been about £17,000, and he would like to know whether this money was paid into the ordinary Public Works Fund or whether it was set apart for the North Island Main Trunk Railway in addition to the money voted by Parliament. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) said that a portion of the money was absorbed in the surveys of the lands to be acquired, and the balance was paid over to the Public Works Fund, but it was not made out. Honourable members from that district had been anxious to have the surveys of these lands pushed forward, and a large number of sur- veyors had been employed. The work was now tapering off, and later on the railway would get the full benefit from these lands. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said he would like the Minister to look again at the figures men- tioned by the member for Wakatipu, for unless an alteration was made in this Statement it would be like an historic statement of some years ago, when the same department made a mistake of $80,000. If the Minister would subtract the proposed expenditure of £2,197,334 from £2,532,515 he would find it left a balance of £335,181, and he would see that that was not in addition to the #46,577, but must be in- cluded in the expenditure. The words "in addition " would have to be altered, or the balance would have to be put at $46,000 less- one or the other. It was an extraordinary thing to find mistakes of this nature made in official documents, and it made one wonder how trustworthy the rest of the figures were. Mr. HALL-JONES said a certain amount was authorised by Act to be raised each year under the Loans to Local Bodies Act, for forming roads on certain blocks, and this £46,000 mentioned here came out of the 