matter can well stand over until next session, and I hope the House will not waste any more time in discussing it, but will either demand a more reasonable Bill or else leave the question to be dea t with next session. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) .- I agree that there is some necessity for an amendment in the law relating to libel, but I support the sug- gestion made by the member for Mataura, that this Bill should be sent to the Statutes Re- vision Committee. If that be done, I will, as Chairman, undertake to convene a special meet- ing of that Committee for to-morrow or Mon- day, so that the Bill may be submitted to the House on Tuesday in a better shape than that in which it is now presented. I am quite satis- fied that a Bill drawn on such Draconian lines will not be acceptable to the country. I do not agree with the right honourable gentleman in charge of the Bill that the provisions of the Bill constitute the English law at the present time. I am not going at this late hour into a detailed criticism of the clauses of the Bill, but I think the right honourable gentleman would be well advised if he would adopt the suggestion I have made and allow the Bill to go to the Statutes Revision Committee, where it can be put into proper form, and its rigorous pro- visions moderated. The argument of the mem- ber for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson), I think, is a very cogent one, with reference to Lord Campbell's Act. It appears to me that the draftsman of the Bill was labouring under some https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 difficulty, or under some misapprehension, at the time he was drafting the Bill as to the existing state of the law, and as to the true meaning of the recent judgment of the Court of Appeal. I hope, therefore, the Bill will be sent to the Statutes Revision Committee. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - I am rather pleased at the debate which has taken place on the Bill, and I cannot take exception to anything that has been said. I do not wish to be extreme in any of the laws we may pass, but at the same time I beg to inform the House that I am advised what is in the Bill is at the present time law, and, such being the case, I had not intended to go further than the law on the same subject in England and in Queens- land. Now, the necessity for this Bill must be apparent. For eight years there was the belief that the law existed, and that there was the necessary machinery ; but it is now dis- covered that we have no criminal libel in this colony, and no one knows what may result. Now that it is discovered, persons may libel others without fear of criminal proceedings, and it is hard to say what may follow or who may suffer. I know I have reason myself to complain, and no one is safe. There seems to be no respect for public men or for those who are near and dear to them, and if such things are to go on we shall have to go back to the good old times. That is what I feel myself in respect to it, and that is the only way you can appeal to the feelings of some of those brutes who have no hesitation in spreading slander and in libelling persons, knowing it i Revision Committee wanted the Bill to graft on a fine, these people who libel others and who. have no means laugh, because they feel sure no one will trouble about them, and so, of course, they proceed. I say, as a pre- ventative, it is necessary to have a criminal libel law, and I myself desire to place on the statute-book as perfect a measure as possible. I know the privileges of the journalists. I am not one who wants to go to extremes, but I do sometimes think they have not the considera- tion for others that others have for them. It is that want of consideration that makes me feel that something more should be done. And, in regard to our general libel laws respecting the Press, although there might be some amend- ments necessary, members refuse to make them, because from time to time the members of the Press are so inconsiderate, and sometimes so atrocious, in the manner they slander other people. As has been stated, a Bill came down in 1883-it was introduced by Mr. Tole-and it went to the Statutes Revision Committee ; but I do not know how the provisions were dropped out of the Criminal Code Bill. However, that is what was done, whether designedly or not I cannot say. An Hon. MEMBER .- There was a Libel Bill before the House at the same time. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes, I suppose that is so ; and the one Bill got through, and the other, which contained the criminal libel provisions, did not. At any rate, I cannot get a satisfac- tory explanation of it ; but it seems to have been the impression that it was the law ; and that opinion was held until the Appeal Court de- cided it was not, which makes this measure imperative. An Hon. MEMBER .- This will not do it. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, let the Statutes Re- vision Committee take the Bill in hand and go into it, and let us have it early next week. I will feel under an obligation to the Committee if they will give us a Bill-presuming this is not a perfect one- that we may put on the statute-book and feel that the country is safe. That is all I wish. Mr. FISHER .- May they add clauses ? Mr. SEDDON .- The point raised in the de- bate is that this Bill is not consistent with the English law, and I have no objection to it being brought into conformity with the Eng- lish law. I was informed that it was in con- formity with it. There is a modification of the punishment in some cases, but I have no ob- jection to that. As for the words in clause 2,- " A defamatory libel is matter published, with- out legal justification or excuse, either designed to insult the person of whom it is published," et cetera-it struck me there was something that required alteration ; but I have no doubt that language is to be found in the English law. Mr. FISHER .- When the Statutes Revision Bill comes down I will be ready for it, and we will have a merry time. Mr. SEDDON .- If I thought the Statutes 