output for 1900 being 1,093,990 tons. The quantity of gold entered for export dur- ing 1900 was 373,616 oz., valued at £1,439,602, and of silver, 326,457 oz., valued at £38,879 ; as compared with 389,558 oz. cf gold, valued at £1,513,173, and of silver 349,338 oz., valued at £40,838, for 1899, being a decrease of 15,942 oz. of gold, valued at £73,571, and 22,881 oz. of silver, valued at £1,959. The Royal Commission appointed to inquire into the question of proclaiming rivers in the Middle Island to be watercourses into which tailings and mining debris may be discharged under the provisions of the Mining Acts has completed its labours, and the report has been presented to Parliament. A settlement of the claims of the farmers is gradually being arrived at on the basis of the recommendations of the Commission, and it is expected that before long most of them will be adjusted, and that many of the rivers which have been reported on will be proclaimed. The amount expended last financial year on works for the development of the goldfields was £15,907, while the liabilities amounted to £2,011. It is proposed to take a vote of $50,000 for the current year. # TELEGRAPH EXTENSION. The expenditure under this head was £50,101, which includes £14,016 for new exchanges and additions to existing exchanges. The new exchanges opened were :- Welling- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 ton District : Pahiatua and Woodville. Dunedin District : Edendale, Lumsden, Ngapara, River- ton, Waikouaiti, and Wyndham. Trunk wires connecting the following ex- changes have been erected :- Wellington Dis- trict : Marton and Wanganui; Pahiatua and Canterbury District : Palmerston North. Timaru and Fairlie. Dunedin District : Inver- cargill and Wyndham ; Invercargill and River- ton ; Main line and Waikouaiti; Winton and Lumsden ; Wyndham and Edendale. The total number of subscribers at the end of the financial year was 8,210. The most important extensions to new dis- tricts were : - Auckland District : Dargaville to Tangiteroria : Howick to Motuihi Island ; Kau- kapakapa to Makarau ; Ohaeawai to Pakaraka ; Kaihu to Aranga. Wellington District : Strath- more to Wangamomona ; Greenmeadows to Taradale and Mecance ; Alfredton to Pongaroa ; Rongotea to Glen Oroua. Nelson District : Westport to Mokihinui Mine; ferry wires at Haast and Arawata Rivers. Canterbury Dis- trict: Christchurch to Port Levy ; Christ- church to Gebbie's Flat ; Waimate to Waihao Downs. Dunedin District : Duntroon to Ma- erewhenua ; Georgetown to Ikawai; George- town to Borton's; Ranfurly to Wedderburn ; Heriot to Dunrobin ; Invercargill to Waima. haka ; Riverton to Gummie's Bush. Additional accommodation to existing lines has been provided by the erection of wires :- Auckland District: Auckland to Mahoenui ; Whangarei to Kawakawa. Wellington Dis- trict : Wanganui to Mahoenui ; Wellington to heim ; Reefton to Greymouth. Dunedin Dis- trict : Lawrence to Clyde ; Invercargill to Gore. The vote asked for this year is £40,489, and provides for new exchanges, additions to exist- ing exchanges, additional wire accommodation, and extensions to new districts. # PUBLIC BUILDINGS. The expenditure upon our public buildings again showed an increase over the previous year, though the increase was not large, being only £11,306-namely, ₺5,937 under the Public Works Fund, and £5,369 under the Consoli- dated Fund. The appropriations proposed for the current year amount to £254,000, namely : £46,750 under the Consolidated Fund, and £207,250 under the Public Works Fund. The principal works carried out last year or pro- vided for this year are as follow :- # General. The fitting-up of the new library wing of the Parliament Buildings, altering the buildings at Mount Cook to adapt them to a Defence depot, and sundry interior renovations and sanitary improvements at the General Departmental Buildings were carried out under this head last year. The vote for the current year provides for new offices and laboratories for the Mines, Agricultural, and Public Health Departments, acquisition of the land for some necessary addi- tions to the Departmental Buildings in Auck- land, completing the alterations at the Mount Cook Defence Depot, partial rebuilding Depart- mental Offices, Napier, completion of fittings of new and of renovation of old portion of Par- liament Buildings, and sundry minor works. # Judicial. Courthouses .- New Courthouses have been erected or are in hand at Te Awamutu, Manga- weka, Collingwood, Temuka, Hampden, Dun- edin, and the Bluff ; and extensive renovations have been effected at Auckland, Hikurangi, Whakatane, Taupo, and Wanganui. The prin- cipal works provided for in the vote for the current year are the completion of the new law. courts at Dunedin ; new Magistrate's Court, Wellington ; new Courthouses at Waihi, Opu- nake, Outram, Gore, and Orepuki; and addi- tions, renovations, or improvements at Nga- ruawahia, Wairoa, Napier, Waipawa, Patea, Feilding, Palmerston North, Carterton, West. port, Kumara, Hokitika, Christchurch, Wai- mate, Oamaru, Lawrence, and Invercargill. Gaols. - The total expenditure under this head last year only amounted to £1,258. The principal work in hand was the continuation of operations at the new gaol at Mount Eden, Auckland, with minor works at Napier, Wel- lington, and Dunedin. Provision is made in current year's vote for continuing operations in Auckland, for additions to gaol building and new Gaoler's house at Wellington, Gaolers' houses at Westport and Dunedin, new warders' cottages at Lyttelton, and for a new gaol on a new site at Invercargill. 