valorem duty of 20 per cent., which is equal to about 22} per cent. Then, house-furnishing, clothing-I do not speak of cost of manufac- tured clothing, but I speak of cotton prints. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about boots ? Mr. ELL. - The honourable gentleman knows I am as strongly a Protectionist as any member in this House, but I do not be- lieve in the hybrid tariff we have now. If we had a purely protective tariff, then I would have nothing to say, but the bulk of the taxa- tion from the Customs is revenue. We are taxing a large number of items. Mr. SEDDON .- I rise to a point of order. The Bill now before us is simply a Bill fixing the date upon which the land-tax and income- tax is to be payable. The honourable gentle- man is raising the whole question of the tariff. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I do not think I can prevent the honourable gentleman from making comparisons with regard to the tariff to show how there is not enough or too much proposed to be raised as land-tax or income- tax. Mr. ELL .- I am referring to the land-values of the colony, and I am giving instances to show that the present incidence of taxation does not reflect credit on the Premier, who professes to be a statesman. To allow that value which has been created by the presence of the people, by the expenditure of money on road-work and railway-work-to allow value which has been created by the progress of the country and by the increase of population to escape payment of its fair share of taxation is, to my mind, most unjust and unstatesmanlike. Now, the honourable member for Marsden is a strong ad- vocate of sweeping away the exemption alto- gether ; and I say it would be far better for the small landowners and for the people generally if this exemption were swept away altogether, and the increased revenue from that source used so as to reduce the duty upon food and articles required for furnishing the homes of the people, on clothing and food. We now allow an exemption of $500 of land-value to abso- lutely escape taxation ; but the exemption operates up to fifteen hundred pounds' worth of land, declining £1 for £1 up to £1,500, and it would be far better for the settlers if the exemption were reduced or abolished altogether. Now, with regard to the income-tax, I wish to say that the bulk of it comes from the centres, and I have urged for years past that the exemp- tion is too high. We exempt #300, and, in addition, we allow £50 a year to be utilised in paying life-insurance premiums. That means, practically, that £7 a week is absolutely free from taxation ; and I say it would be far better for the people of the colony if the Premier would reduce the income-tax from £300 to £200. Now, this would not affect the country settler, because the man who owes his income to land does not pay income-tax. I say that would be far better for the people, and would be more statesmanlike on the part of the Premier, if instead of collecting the bulk of the revenue as he does now from cotton goods and other Mr. Ell of life, he would reduce the income-tax exemp- tion and land-tax exemption, and use the extra amount of revenue from that source in reducing the dues on the necessaries of life, and on such articles as cannot be produced in this country. That, Sir, is my excuse for getting up and speaking on the second reading of this Bill. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) .- Sir, I think it is hardly becoming or consistent that those who are advocating the purchase of large improved estates, like the honourable member for Christ- church City (Mr. Ell), should object to the reduc- tion which must necessarily take place in the re- venue by the land-tax when the estates that have been bought by the Government within the last few years have been exempted from contribution to revenue by a sum of nearly $250,000. Then, again, there are the millions of money exempted in the amounts lent to settlers by the Advances to Settlers Office-an amount equal to £12,500 per annum less than would be on the same money if lent by private enterprise. I think the honourable member is the last who should complain about the decline which is taking place in the land-tax revenue, which, notwithstanding the large estates that have escaped, is only a few thousands less than it was when the buying of improved estates was first introduced. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) .- Sir, I re- gret that the session is likely to close without the Premier being able to give effect to the promise he made last year to the House that he would make a reduction in the mortgage-tax. We understood last year that the mortgage-tax would be dealt with this year, and now we are nearly at the close of the session and nothing has been done in that direction. I can assure the honourable gentleman it is a great dis- appointment to many people throughout the colony that some reduction has not been made. At all events, I hold that the mortgage tax should be confined to the unimproved value of the property, and that no person should have to pay tax on his improvements. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- Sir, I cannot let this opportunity go without saying, with reference to the remarks of the honour- able member for Waitemata, that I am one of those who hold very strongly that leaseholders in perpetuity ought not to be allowed to escape paying their fair share of the land-tax. These people have interests in land which, if they come within the limitation of value on which land-tax is levied, certainly ought to pay their share of the land-tax. The purchases under the Land for Settlements Act amount now to nearly two millions sterling. The whole of that pro- perty when in the hands of the private owners was paying its fair share of the land-tax, and you now have the anomalous position of per- sons occupying leases in perpetuity, which for all practical purposes are actually better than a freehold, escaping all land-tax, while the free- holders of the colony are compelled to pay 1d. in the pound on the value of their properties over £500, the present exemption. I believe it is unfair to the freeholders of the colony that 