that view, I have known an Education Board to be so manipulated as to become the tool of land speculators, or a land speculator, for a school was erected in a suburb of one of the principal cities of this colony where there was literally and absolutely no population at all, so that the speculator who was cutting up his land might be able to announce in the auctioneer's advertisement that there was a school in the district. The cost of the edu- cation system, which was formerly thought to be enormous, was in the year 1890 £373,764; it is now, ten years after, £512,519, or an in- crease of £138,755. It is natural, of course, that the cost should be increased to keep pace with the increasing population; but I hold now, as I always have held, that, while it is the fact that we have members in this House, and very many people outside this House, who tell us that their admiration for the system is so great that they care not what its cost may be, yet it is possible, by able and skilful administration, to keep the cost within reasonable limits without in the least degree impairing the efficiency of the system. But in discussing this Bill we are not concerned with the question of cost. I am glad the Bill is introduced. I hope it may become law, for the purpose of insuring that there shall be a uniform system of payment for the same class of intellect, the same teaching-power, in what- ever part of the colony the teacher may live. In the past it has been strongly and justly urged against the system that in the poorer districts of the colony the teachers were starved, while in the richer districts the teachers were well and amply paid. That is not the fault of the Boards ; it is the fault of http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero the system. The annual contributions from the Consolidated Fund to the Education Boards are distributed upon the population basis. Thus the wealthy districts become wealthier, and the poorer districts become poorer. This Bill will initiate a desirable change. The edu- cational grants ought, instead, to be distributed in accordance with the actual educational needs of each district. And so the gentlemen who formed this Education Commission have dis- covered the inequality that some teachers of merit were receiving very small salaries, while others of only equal merit were receiving much higher salaries. That state of things will be rectified. The member for Ashley refers with great satisfaction to the fact that the report of the Commission does not touch the question of the continued existence or otherwise of the Education Boards. I am not surprised that the Commission has not thought fit to touch this question. It is a question the Commis- sion dare not touch. No Commission-no Go- vernment-dare touch it. And yet, although no Commission or no Government has the courage to approach that question of the abolition of the Education Boards, there are, or there were, a majority of the School Inspectors of the colony in favour of the abolition of the Boards, notwithstanding the fact that they are paid their salaries by the Education Boards. abolished. Mr. FISHER .-- Yes, I am aware of that. Now, may I say, with the kind permission of the honourable member for Waihemo, that I have received many letters from teachers, from Inspectors, and from educational institutes, con- gratulating me on my efforts to abolish the Education Boards. Sir, I look with satisfaction on the Bill, for the reason that it will place all teachers on an equal footing-that merit will receive its due and proper recognition, regardless of the financial necessities, or the whimsicalities, of the Boards by whom they may happen to be employed. I need not touch the question of the difference in payment of female and male teachers. I have my own opinion on the point. I know the female teacher is as necessary and as valuable in her particular sphere in the education of the youth of the colony as the male teacher, but I differ from those who say they ought to be placed in point of salary on an equal status, for their functions, I hold, are not the same, nor aro their conditions of life. I have not read the evidence given be- fore the Commission upon this point-in fact, I have not read any of the evidence, for my time has been very much occupied through- out the session ; but I understand this point well enough to enable me to express an opinion with- out reading the evidence. There is a provision in one clause of the Bill to which I always had a strong objection. It is contained in clause 9, which relates to the extension of the staffs and the teaching in the district high schools. The clause is not a long one. I will read it,- "Notwithstanding anything in this Act, it shall be lawful for any Board, with the sanction of the Minister, to make such additions to the staff of any district high school, and to pay such additional sums as salaries to such staff, as may be prescribed by regulations, such payment to be made out of moneys appropriated by the General Assembly for that purpose, and distri- buted to the Boards in accordance with such regulations." I hold that parents who desire to give their children higher education should pay for that higher education. That idea is not new or original. It is a cardinal feature of the Educa- tion Act of 1877. I go further. I say that those children who are in the Seventh Standard, and who have no right to be there -for there is no such thing as a Seventh Standard-ought to pay for the educational advantages they receive at the cost of other children attending the school. They monopo- lize the attention and the teaching-talent of the teachers, and other parts of the school must suffer in consequence. Section 56 of the original Act of 1877 says this in regard to high schools :- " Every such district high school shall be under the charge of a headmaster, and such number of duly qualified masters and assistants as the Board shall from time to time consider necessary. "All the branches of a liberal education, comprising Latin and Greek classics, French and 