three miles further. The completion of this survey will be intrusted to an officer whose attention will be solely devoted to it, so as to insure its being finished at an early date. Preparations have been made to start work on the extension from Opau to Grahamtown. It was found that the original survey could be improved upon, and a new survey has accord- ingly been made, and plans of the bridge over the Whangarei River have been prepared. The total expenditure on this railway last year amounted to £13,101, and for the current year an authorisation of $15,000 is asked for. # Helensville Northwards. The Tahekeroa Section of this railway, 3 miles 18 chains in length, was completed and handed over to the Railway Department for regular traffic on the 19th December last. Work on the Komokoriki Section has been actively pro- ceeded with, and the line as far as the south end of the tunnel is completed, and the rails laid. More than three-fourths of the excava- tion in the tunnel has also been done, and the rest of the formation to Ahuroa is well in hand and should not take long to finish. A contract has been let for the supply of bricks for lining the tunnel. I am hopeful of being able to open the section to Ahuroa by about the 31st March next. The final location of the line beyond the end of the Komokoriki Section is now necessary in order to avoid any delay taking place on the completion of the works on that section, and the survey has accordingly been put in hand. The question has been raised as to whether the route for this railway by the Hoteo Valley is really the best that could be followed. Another route has been examined by a committee of the local settlers, and considered by them to be superior. In order to set this point at rest, instructions have been issued for the newly suggested route to be examined, and on com- pletion of such examination its merits will be carefully compared with those of the route previously proposed. The expenditure on this railway last year amounted to £11,933, and for the current year an authorisation of £15,000 is proposed. # Pacroa-Waihi. Only preliminary work had been done on this line up to the close of the financial year 1899- 1900. During last year, however, substantial progress was made, and work now extends for a distance of 6 miles 15 chains. The excavation of the long tunnel is well in hand, the position of the work at the end of September being as follows : - West end- Top heading 741 feet. . . Bottom heading 675 . . Bricking 359 .. East end -- 469 Top heading . . Bottom heading 457 An air shaft has also been sunk at the west end of the tunnel, about 600 ft. from the mouth. Platelaying has been started from the junction Karangahake. A contract has been let for the construction of a combined road and railway bridge over the Ohinemuri River at Karanga- hake, the contract price being £8,771. The expenditure on the line last year was £12,259, but this year it will be larger; an 1 authority for £20,000 is asked for. # Gisborne-Karaka. In the case of this railway also the only work done prior to the commencement of the late financial year was of a preliminary nature. During the late year, however, very substantial progress has been made, so that at the present time the formation is finished for about 12} miles ; all the bridges for the same distance have been erected, and the rails laid. A ballast-train is busy widening the banks, completing the station-yards, and ballasting. The station- buildings are also actively in progress, and I expect to have the line to Ormond ready for regular traffic by February next. The final location of the balance of the line to Karaka will be taken in hand as soon as a suitable officer can be detailed for the work. The ex- penditure on this railway last year exceeded the vote by £3,498, having amounted to £15,498. This year it will be even larger, and an authorisation of £20,000 will be required. # Stratford-Kawakawa. This is one of the new railways authorised last session. The survey was put in hand soon after Parliament rose, and construction-work started in April. Such good progress has been made that a large part of the first section to Toko, six miles and a half in length, is now ready for platelaying, and the rails, which have recently arrived, are now being sent up to the work. I have every confidence that this section of the railway will be opened for traffic by Christmas next. Survey-work is in progress on the next sec- tion of the line, so that by the time the for- mation to Toko is completed we shall be in a position to determine the best route to be taken beyond that township. The vote taken for this railway last year was £10,000, but scarcely any expenditure took place prior to the 31st March. For the current year an authority for £12,000 1 will be necessary. Honourable members are aware that in my last year's Statement it was suggested that this railway should be con- structed as a narrow-gauge line ; but an ex- 1 amination of the country showed that this was inadvisable, and, having in view the probable traffic as the line is extended, it was decided to construct it as a light railway, but without departing from the New Zealand standard gauge. North Island Main Trunk. A very large amount of work has been per- formed on this railway during the year. At the northern end especially, the engineering staff employed upon the line has fully realised the desire of the Government that the work should be pushed to completion with reasonable ex- pedition, and every effort has been made, 