and he would give instructions to have this looked into. Mr. MASSEY .- Thank you. NOXIOUS WEEDS. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) asked the Government, If they will offer a substantial bonus for the discovery of some cheap and effective process for killing noxious weeds, such as blackberry, briar, gorse, et cetera ? This was the most important question that had been placed on the Order Paper this session, and he hoped the Minister of Lands would give him a plain and clear answer to it. He did not want an answer that was full of a lot of padding, that probably nobody would understand or would take the trouble to read. He wanted an answer that was clear and definite. He might remind the Minister that last session they passed a Noxious Weeds Act, and that under that Act the Minister was to clear all Crown lands of noxious weeds. There were several millions of acres of Crown lands in his district fuil of noxious weeds, and if the Government would give a bonus for the discovery of some chemical process that would destroy the noxious weeds they would save the colony thousands of pounds. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said the plainest and briefest answer he could give was that there would be no bonus offered for the ! present. RESERVES FOR NGATIKUIA TRIBE. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. PARATA (Southern Maori) asked the Minister of Lands, Whether the two small islands situated between Rangitoto and Pelorus Sound have been set apart and reserved for the Maoris of the Ngatikuia Tribe as fishing-places arxi mutton-bird preserves, in accordance with the promise made to that effect by the Lands Department ? This question was the outcome ! might have an opportunity of availing them- of a petition sent to the House by members of the Ngatikuia and neighbouring tribes of the South Island in reference to the matter. In that petition it was pointed out that the two small islands referred to had been from time immemorial made use of by these Maoris as fishing-grounds, karaka-grounds, and mutton- bird preserves, and they asked that those islands should be reserved by the Crown for Native purposes. The matter was eventually sub- mitted to the Under-Secretary for Crown Lands, who gave a promise that the Government in- tended to reserve the islands for Native pur- poses. He wished now to be informed when the Government intended to give effect to that promise. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said the answer from the Under-Secretary of Lands was to the effect that a promise had been given that these islands should be retained for the Ngati- kuia Tribe. But the other residents in that part of the country wished the islands to be re- serve for the preservation of native fauna, and considered they ought to be kept for the pre- servation of native birds and scenery, and not allowed to go to the aboriginal natives alto- might destroy the scenery of this very beauti- ful place. Mr. PARATA said it was not the desire of the Maoris, in the event of these islands being set apart for their use, to spoil their natural beauties in any way. They only wished the right to use them as fishing-grounds, mutton- bird grounds, and so on. Mr. DUNCAN said the only fear on the part of the department was that the Natives might destroy the bush by fires, and so forth ; but they did not wish to prevent the Natives from going there altogether. They would still have a perfect right to go there, just as Europeans had. Mr. PARATA asked if the Government would gazette an order to that effect. Mr. DUNCAN said, Yes, that would be all right. ## STUD HORSE FOR SOUTH CANTER- BURY. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) asked the Minis- ter for Agriculture, If he will locate one of the imported stud horses in South Canterbury ? Some of the best stock in New Zealand was to I be found in South Canterbury, and he hoped the Minister would see his way to locate some of the imported stock in that district. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister for Agriculture) said there were three imported stud horses in the South Island, all within easy distance by train of the country intervening. Mr. FLATMAN .- How far ? Mr. DUNCAN said there would be one stationed somewhere about Oamaru, one about Mataura, and one about Christchurch, and arrangements could easily be made for sending stock to those horses. The Government had considered these to be the most convenient 1 places so that each part of the South Island selves of their services. OTEKAIKE ESTATE. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Minister of Lands, Whether he has received a numerously signed memorial praying that the Otekaike Estate may be acquired and opened up for settlement under the Land for Settle- ments Act ; and, if so, have any steps been taken in that direction, or is it intended to endeavour to carry out the wishes of the memorialists ? The memorial referred to was numerously signed, and since it was sent up he had received frequent letters from persons re- siding in that part of his electorate urging that this land should be taken for settlement. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said this was an old friend, and he might say at once that if this request was acceded to and the land taken from the present owner, he would be compelled to give up the Crown lands he now held on the high lands adjoining. The con- figuration of the country was such that there must be a certain amount of low country in- cluded in the holdings, because some of the mountains down there were over 5,000 ft. in 