legal profession, who is more competent to draft a clause than the Premier himself. What was proposed in that clause was in effect very much the same as at present, except that power was given to the Governor in Council to draw up regulations to give effect to the intention of the clause. Well, Sir, I submitted that to the Premier, and he simply laughed at it, and said it was absurd to try to get it passed. I .said then that I knew the feeling of the House was with me, and that he would find it would be carried. The clause came on in due course, and the Premier took exception then to the Government being introduced by means of the "Governor in Council, and after some little dis- cussion it was agreed it would be a good thing not to introduce the Governor in Council in it. Then, the honourable member for Palmerston proposed another clause, which in effect was the same as mine, but got at the object in a very much simpler manner. It was agreed then that, if I would withdraw my clause, that of the member for Palmerston should be taken in its place. The Premier was quite right when he stated I did not show him the clause relating to arbitration, and I am willing to make ac- knowledgment when there is anything just or right in the objection. I did not show the Premier my clause in regard to the question of arbitration, and the reason was simply that the clause was not then drafted. Mr. SEDDON .- You stated in Committee that you showed it to me. Mr. WILLIS .- I did not. It was not shown https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 at the time, because it was not drafted, but, at the same time, the Premier must acknowledge that he received fair warning that a change was going to be made when I gave him notice, at the ten-o'clock adjournment, of the clause that had been drafted. Well, Sir. so far as the colony is concerned, I think it will consider it is perfectly safe in regard to these alterations. The Premier need not be alarmed. He seems to look upon employers of labour as his natural ·enemies, and that he has got to rely solely on the workers of this colony. Well, Sir, if the workers of the colony are his friends he should endeavour, by all means in his power, to contrive legislation that will bring employer and em- ployé into line, and enable them to work amicably together, so that the advance in trades and manufactures may be for the joint benefit of both parties. The Premier should consider that. When he made the statement he did in regard to employers, that they were trying to destroy arbitration and conciliation, I can only think that he spoke with heat, and that he did not mean, and could not have meant, what he said, because there has been nothing whatever to justify it. I think, also, that when he spoke about these employers he should have spoken out straight, and should have said who these employers are who he stated have done their best to destroy con- ciliation and arbitration. I do not know whether he was pointing to myself as one of them, but I say that during the time I have been in this House I have been a supporter of labour legislation. There may have been in lated to do a great deal of harm in this country, and which the Premier was never able to pass. I was always an opponent of these Bills, and, I am glad to say, a very suc- cessful opponent. But what I wish particu- larly to state is this: that I am a warm advo- cate of arbitration and conciliation. I think it is one of the best things ever introduced into this country. But do not let it be one-sided. Do not put employers in such a position that they are obliged to take disputes before Con- ciliation Boards such as the Wellington one, as at present constituted. Let them have an opportunity, in the first place, of settling their own disputes. That is the main thing; and I believe, myself, so far from the Premier having cause to be alarmed as to the future of this amended Act-and I consider that I am quite as capable of judging of the effect of it as he is-the Premier will find there will be satisfaction throughout the colony, and a general feeling that we shall get some rest from the eternal irritation that has been going on for the last two or three years. Sir, I do not want to go over the ground traversed by the honourable member for Christ- church City. I consider he has put the ques- tion in a remarkably clear and lucid manner, and it is no use to repeat what has already been said to the House, but I can only say, in con- cluding my speech, do not let us try to raise up bad feeling between employers and em- ployes. We want to work together, and we want to have a feeling of unity so that we may pull together, and I think, myself, we ought to endeavour to do all in our power to promote a universal feeling of good-will between employers and employes from this time out. I am pleased now that the Premier has ad- mitted the position that, where both Houses by such large majorities have adopted the course they have, as the Premier of this colony and leader of the House, he has to bow to that decision, and, although he may not agree with what has been done, still he is quite willing that the amended Act shall come into force. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - I wish 8.30. to make a personal explanation. I do not wish to be placed in a false position in respect to anything I have said. The honour- able member was incorrect when he said I had made statements that were absolutely incorrect. To show that I was correct I may say that I had fortified myself with the amendment the honourable member showed me, and it is as follows :- "The provisions of sections thirty-six to thirty-eight, and forty to fifty-one, of the principal Act are hereby repealed, and the following enacted in lieu thereof :- "(1.) The members to be elected under section thirty-five of the principal Act shall have jurisdiction to try such industrial disputes as may be referred to them by the Governor. " (2.) The Governor may make regula- tions providing, on the filing of the dispute, for the election of the mem- bers of the Board, such members to 