Company's productions. I know that the big : manufactured in a foreign country because these trusts and combines in America, when they want to hold up the price of goods in the American market, run their surplus products to the Australian Colonies at a price that enables the importers to undersell the pro- ducts of the workmen of New Zealand. will now, Sir, take note of a few of the remarks of the honourable member for Auck- land City (Mr. Napier), and will endeavour to criticize one or two points of the most disin- genuous speech I ever heard made in this House. I never heard an attempt to withhold the other side of the question so carefully and skilfully executed as in the speech of that honourable gentleman. He told us that Canada had obtained a modification of the American shipping laws : and how ? By doing what this House and country ought to do: telling the State-subsidised contractor to go about his business and make other arrangements. If that were done, then there would be a proba- bility of our getting a modification of the American Navigation Act. I say that in no spirit of hostility, for if we could run the con- nection between New Zealand and San Fran- cisco equally I would subsidise the service to twice the amount provided for in this proposal. I would not begrudge £30,000 a year. Let me make the honourable gentleman understand, despite the bombastic talk of the article which he deprecated, -when he said he could not defend some of the language used,-that I think the most offensive and truculent, the most ill-considered statement that I have seen in the public prints was the telegram of the honour- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 able gentleman, where he advises that the people of the Auckland Province should com- bine against all party organization, should combine against all the rest of the colony, for the purpose of saving Auckland and the Em- pire ! I say that, in that, he has made one of the most hysterical screams of the last two or three weeks. And let me here say that I do not want to prevent Auckland from being made the port of call for any mail connection if it is for the good of the colony. Auckland is nearest geographically to any point the mail may come from, and, so long as that remains, so long will I offer no opposition to Auckland being made the port of call. The long and offensive articles such as have been published in the Auckland papers I decline to notice, because my mind is fixed on what is going to be for the good of the colony, and for what is consistent with the dignity of the House, without bom- bast or unnecessary stage display, which is inconsistent with the policy of a British colony. And now I want to say a word to the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier), who asked, " Why do we buy goods from a foreign country ? "- with the intention, no doubt, of proving that because we bought goods of foreign manufacture we ought to make no objection to subsidising the ships of foreign nations ! Sir, there is no analogy, and I ask the honourable gentleman, Do we propose to sub- sidise the industry of a foreign country because we buy the goods, or do we propose to buy goods Mr. Hutcheson goods can compete on their merits in the open market with goods manufactured in our own country ? Mr. NAPIER .- There is no proposal to sub- sidise this service. Mr. HUTCHESON .- Is there nothing in the I proposal to subsidise this service? Then, in the name of reason, what are we discussing ? Mr. NAPIER .- No. Mr. HUTCHESON .- The honourable gentle- man is the one honourable member in this House who declines to allow any other member to make interjections when he is talking. He goes on with his speech quite heedlessly of such interruptions ; yet he would like to argue ques- tion by question when any other member of the House is speaking. I say he made that alto- gether insufficient rejoinder, " Why do we buy our goods from a foreign country ?" Now, I will tell him why. The average Briton talks about his loyalty, and parades it about a lot ; but he generally goes and buys goods made in Germany, and takes the label off and sells it as of British manufacture. Now, he does not do it because he loves Germany, or because he is not a good Briton, but because he can get the goods more cheaply and make better pront from their sale. If you suggested he ought to make a sacrifice and subsidise the industries of his own country to the extent of #15,000 a year, he would probably act as members of this House do now. I would agree to pay Spreckels, as & temporary expedient, a fair price for carrying our mails-namely, 2s. per pound, as against the conditions that obtained during last year of 10s. 5d. Then, we were told again by the same honourable gentleman of the views of past states men in this colony. He quoted the opinion of Sir Julius Vogel, who unequivocally approved of the San Francisco mail-service. Mr. FISHER .- After a visit by Spreckels to his private Ministerial residence. Mr. HUTCHESON .- That may be so. What I told this House in 1899 did not strike home to the sense of the House until the " Moana" was stuck up in Honolulu. In 1899 I told the House this :- "Any man who has been in the United States knows that it is the one country of all the world that is most protective and conser- vative in its shipping laws. Anybody who has been in America knows that any other than an American bottom cannot carry an ounce of cargo from one port to another. They make you dump it out at the first port you come to, so that their own ships can carry it along the seaboard of that country. They understand how to keep their trade to themselves better than we magnanimous Britishers do. It is with them ' Our ain fish-guts for our ain sea- maws,' while we Britishers allow the whole world to come in and partake of our good things." And then, when the " Moana " was stuck up at Honolulu as an American port, and refused the right to pick up passengers from Honolulu and carry them on to San Francisco, it began to dawn on the colony there was something wrong 