order, wished to ask the Premier if, through Mr. Deputy-Speaker, he would kindly answer his question. Mr. SEDDON said he was giving a reason why the Government should be very careful before giving any further orders for newspapers or pamphlets; and at the same time, in view of his recent experience, he must be very care- ful to see that the honourable gentleman, in putting this question, was not laying a trap for him. He had therefore been giving reasons ; but, as they appeared in a newspaper, of course he could not possibly do so after Mr. Deputy- Speaker's ruling. However, he thought the House would have extended to him the courtesy that was generally extended to other members. Mr. T. MACKENZIE said it was contrary to the Standing Orders. Mr. SEDDON said there were many besides himself who transgressed. One of the most frequent transgressors was the member for Wai- hemo. Mr. FISHER said he would do without an answer to his question. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the honour- able gentleman had asked the question, and could not very well withdraw it now. Mr. SEDDON hoped it would not be a case, on the honourable gentleman's part, of doing a certain thing in haste and repenting of it at leisure. He was now about to give a more favourable reply, and, since it showed that one pamphlet at least had given satisfaction, the honourable member, no doubt, would listen to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 it with pleasure :- "I see there has been a second edition of photos and descriptions of Mr. Seddon's tour among the Islands issued. I am not aware if the book be for sale, or only for private dis- tribution ; if the former, I would like to pur- chase a few copies according to the price. If there are plenty to be had, you would oblige me by sending, say, three copies, and if I think they would be of interest to my friends in Canada or the Old Country, and easily obtain- able, I could get some more. I should much like one copy to send to Sir Oliver Mowat, Lieutenant Governor of Ontario." That was the Premier's trip to the Islands. It showed that, in consequence of what had been said in the House, there was now a demand for this work right through the colony, and he took it that had been the intention of honourable members. They naturally wanted to create in- quiry for it. And he thought the honourable member to-day, in putting this particular ques- tion, was doing so not so much expecting the Government to deal with it as desiring himself to draw attention to the other two pamphlets on the same subject of whose existence honourable members were not aware. He (Mr. Seddon) knew they were a most complete answer to the American publication. If that was the object of the honourable gentleman, he thought in calling attention to these pamphlets he had done a very proper thing. He would say, further, that if the honourable gentleman felt disposed to move that these two pamphlets would treat it as a motion for an unopposed return, with a view to their being published throughout the colony, and would raise no ob- jection to it. He thought the House should take the responsibility, and not the Govern- ment. He did know that the pamphlet to which the honourable member had more particularly drawn attention was well written and concise, and was valuable not so much for what it said, as for what you were led to infer after reading it. Even though the course he had suggested might not be followed, he would commend to members, particularly the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay) and the member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson), the last two pamphlets mentioned by the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) for their favourable consideration, and hoped they would read, mark, and inwardly digest them. He trusted the honourable mem- ber was now very pleased at the answer he had given him. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) asked leave to make a personal explanation. He might inform the right honourable gentleman that. had he been as thorough and impartial in his reading on this subject as he (Mr. Hutcheson) had been, he perhaps would have taken a more lenient and tolerant view of the opinions of others who differed from him. He had read carefully books and pamphlets written from both points of view, in his search for informa- tion, and he had even read studiously " The Transvaal from Within," by Mr. Fitzpatrick, so that he did not suffer, if any other member of the House did, from want of reading on the other side. Mr. SEDDON was very glad to hear it, and gave the honourable gentleman credit for it, and now he commended this pamphlet to his favourable consideration. Mr. FISHER would like to say that he had two copies of the suppressed first edition of the right honourable gentleman's trip to the Islands, and he would bring them down to the House and read some passages from them that were far more interesting than anything which appeared in the second edition. Mr. SEDDON had also some interesting matter connected with the trip in the "Hine- moa " of the honourable member to the Camp- bell, Macquarie, and other Islands, which he likewise would give to the House when put in pamphlet form. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) was quite familiar with two of the pamphlets referred to by the honourable member. He was not fami- liar with the last pamphlet referred to that had been produced, and he could only say that, like the member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutche- son), he had been endeavouring to read, mark, and inwardly digest everything that had a bearing on and was worth reading about the war. He could only say that the result of his reading, which was as impartial as it could be, had been what it was, and what he had already expressed both in the House and elsewhere. 