the Natives to sell the land at the department's own prices. This condition of things is most regrettable, and should not have existed ; it is a matter of which the Natives very justly com- plain. I do not know that the Bill before the House, and the amendments which have been suggested, even now make it quite clear what Acts are and what are not to remain in force. It is a matter of doubt how far the Native Land Act of 1894 and its amendments are in force, and, judging by an amendment which the Hon. the Native Minister has proposed to his own Bill-that is to say, the exclu- sion of the words "The Native Land Court Act, 1894," from clause 5 of the Bill - it seems likely that when the Bill was originally drafted he thought that that Act was in force, and that after mature consideration he came to the conclusion that the Act was not in force. There has been no opportunity for the Courts to decide how far the Act of 1900 affected the Act of 1894 and its amendments; but there have been many discussions on the subject, the result of which go to show that $10,000 might easily be spent in endeavouring to interpret the law as it at present stands, and, even then, not get a satisfactory solution. I propose to vote for the second reading of the Bill, but I shall support the amendments of the honour- able member for Napier so as to allow the Natives to choose for themselves what shall be the law governing their lands. The policy of the present Government is to allow the Natives to elect for themselves how their lands are to be dealt with, and that being so, the amendments referred to should be carried. It seems to me to be useless to take up the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 time of the House at this stage, but I must conclude by entering my protest against bringing down an important Bill of this nature at this stage of the session. We should have had it earlier, when there was more time to consider it and when honourable members' minds were freer and were all not so intent on getting home. I cordially agree with the sug- gestion of the honourable member for Bruce that the South Island members should in future take a hand in dealing with measures affecting these Native land matters. The majority of them do not claim to have a knowledge of Native land matters ; but that very fact will enable them to tackle the question with a mind in an undistorted and unwarped state, and their assistance will for that reason be in one sense of all the greater value. I therefore trust that the South Island members will be in their places and take their turn in these discussions, take an intelligent part, and vote according to the judgment framed on the debates to which they may listen from time to time on this vitally important subject. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) .- It is just as well, Sir, that we should discuss this matter entirely apart from party and entirely apart from racial feeling. This is a question that should be taken on non-party lines, and it has been pleasurable to me to see that on both sidas of the House we have honourable mem- the Natives. It reminds me, Sir, of an old Wir. Field question that undoubtedly is of the very greatest importance to the whole of the colony. Now, I hope when the division comes-and a division will be called for on the committal of this Bill-I trust that it will be non-party, and that every vote will be cast conscientiously and realising the responsibility of the position. The time has arrived when we should treat the Natives as one race with ourselves. The Hon. the Native Minister now in charge came into this House on the crest of the wave of European and native popularity, engender-d by his war-ery to throw aside racial differences and place the Natives on the same platform as the Europeans. One distinct note of ap- proval went from the North Cape to the Bluff, and that note was this: At last we have a statesman in the House who will deal with this question, and deal with it with the hand of experience and determination. We heard it ringing through the colony in 1887, but ever since he has been making a stronger line of demarcation between European and Native than before. I say we should consider this non-racially. The Natives are growing up with us and will be absorbed by the Europeans, and their blood, I hope, will long be flowing with ours ; but, at the same time, we must educate them to bring them into the fold-not the fold the present Government have taken them into, but a fold of consideration, fairness, and jus- tice-and let them walk along the path of prosperity, civilisation, and light, hand in hand with us. That is our duty, I say-to place aside all racial feeling and take them with us: and where we find their steps lag in the race of civilisation it is our sacred duty not to further retard those steps, but to encourage them on- wards. We can divide politically, but should be one racially. Dealing with this measure, I say that the greatest injustice Parliament can do is to perpetuate a wrong. In the legis- lation as introduced by the Minister last session, if I were allowed to use the words, I would say that it was degrading and contemp- tible, and, further, there was no initiative policy-there was nothing new. It was no ex- perimental legislation, it was perpetuating a wrong that had been attempted in 1858, and repeated year after year up to 1886. I refer to Boards or Committees dealing with Native lands. It is not the duty of Parliament to per- petuate wrongs, it is not the duty of Parliament -Rip Van Winkle-like- to rise from its sleep after twenty or forty years, it is not the duty of Parliament to disinter unworkable legislation. It is the duty of Parliament to launch experi- mental legislation ; but I say their greater duty is, to my mind, to destroy and sweep away exploded fallacies. Instead of that, we find the Hon. the Native Minister introducing legis- lation which-if he had his own way. if he was not the phonograph of the Premier-he would not touch with a pair of tongs. It is clearly opposed to anything he ever be- lieved, it is entirely opposed to the dictates of his heart and antagonistic to the interests of 