the Minister of Education had given a long list of the trade in skins and rabbits that had been exported, and he had told the Council that eleven millions had been exported in one year. Now, what did eleven millions of rabbits mean to the colony? It meant somewhere about $100,000. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is not very much. The Hon. Mr. REEVES said it was not very much, but look at the employment it gave. The export of rabbits and rabbitskins from the south part of New Zealand was far more to be considered than the export of wool or sheep. They would employ twenty men for one employed by the squatter looking after the sheep. The export of rabbits amounted to about £120,000 a year. He would like the Minister to have shown, in contradistinction to the export of rabbits, what amount of wool they would have got. But he would support the Bill for this reason : He did not think it was a right thing that the word of one man should be taken without having sufficient evidence in addition to get a conviction. He supposed that Rabbit Inspectors were as decent men as you could find anywhere ; but at the same time, for their own sakes and for the sake of the public generally, their charges should be corroborated by other evidence. It was not right that an Inspector should be allowed to go into the box and swear certain things, and that the farmer or tenant should practically not be allowed to open his mouth. In the Wairarapa he had seen a case-it was the case of Mr. Andrews, who https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 had been brought before the Court from time to time for not carrying out the provisions of the Act. He contended that he had complied with the Act, and yet he had been fined. He http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero (Mr. Reeves) would therefore support the Bill. He thought it was a very good Bill, and that it was only right, and an English way of look- ing at a question - namely, that both parties should have fair treatment. The Hon. Mr. LOUISSON said he thought, from the statistics given by the Minister of Education of the enormous number of rabbits and skins exported annually, that it was a question for the Council to consider whether it would be safe to relax in any way the provisions of the present Act providing for the destruction of rabbits. If there was an average of ten or twelve million rabbits and skins exported every year, one could imagine the number of rabbits that existed in the colony, and the enormous amount of feed that it took to support them. The Act could not be so very drastic, or else he would have thought the destruction of rabbits would have been greater, and they would have been almost annihilated. In looking at the Act he did not see that there was very much room for a great deal of injustice to be perpetrated. It gave the In- spector power to enter on land, and, if he saw rabbits, to order them to be destroyed. That was quite right. But surely the Inspector would have no object in going on land and, seeing no rabbits, ordering the landowner to destroy rab- bits. Where could the injustice come in ? The Hon. Mr. LOUISSON said the honour- able member said they did so ; but he would like to have evidence of that. The honourable member evidently had not studied the Act, because the evidence of the Inspector was taken the same as any other evidence was taken. There was nothing in the Act to prevent the party summoned bringing rebutting evidence. If an Inspector accused & settler of having rabbits on his property, he doubted whether the Magistrate would fine the settler without giving him an opportunity of answering the charge. There was nothing in the Act to prevent the settler defending himself, or bringing evidence to the effect that there were no rabbits on his land ; or, if he was prosecuted for not having carried out the order of the Court to destroy the rabbits, all he had to do was to show that he had made reasonable efforts to destroy the rabbits. The law was plain enough on the subject : so long as the settler took reasonable action, and made reasonable efforts to destroy the rabbits on his land, he could not be fined. And it seemed to him (Mr. Louisson) that, considering the enormous number of rabbits and skins exported annually, the Act could not have been administered in such a drastic manner as had been suggested, and he thought it would be rather dangerous to interfere with it. It certainly did seem rather strict, but probably it was a question that wanted dealing strictly with ; and without very much better arguments being advanced than those he had heard, he would be inclined to allow the law to remain as it was at present. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY said, when this Bill was before the Joint Stock Committee the Minis- ter of Lands appeared before the Committee, and he must say that a large majority of the Com- mittee were in favour of the Bill, but after the explanation given by the Minister with regard to the Bill it satisfied his mind that to repeal the 9th and 10th clauses of the Act of 1882 would be a very dangerous experiment. The Minister of Lands stated to the Committee that no harsh proceedings were taken under that Act, and that at least two Inspectors had to go over the ground before proceedings were taken, and even then they had to report to him before an information was laid. That being the case, he could not see any reason for repealing the provisions that now existed, because it must be evident to any person that the rabbit nuisance existed in the South Island and in some parts of the North Island ; and, unless better cause was shown for taking the power out of the hands of the Inspectors, and leaving it to the Magistrate to decide, as practically this Bill would do, he thought it would be an experiment too dangerous to try. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY said he was coming up in the steamer a year or two ago with a gentleman from Southland. He did not know him, but this gentleman told him how the Act was administered in his district. He, not being a favourite of the Inspector, had been prose- cuted, because there was a favourite of the In- spector on the other side of the fence, whose 