before he recorded his vote. He would also like some information as to the number of years the Inspectors had been in service, and why those who had been a lesser number of years in the service than the Inspector in Napier had been promoted over his head. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) saw no reason for the increase of this officer's salary. He con- sidered that, with the large army of officers there were in the department, a great deal more might have been done than had been done. He pointed out, for instance, that the Kaikoura district-a very isolated community-was never visited by the Veterinary Surgeons. The Committee divided on the question, " That the item 'Secretary and Chief Inspec- tor, £600,' be reduced by £50." AYES, 20. Hall Arnold Pirani Herries Russell, G. W. Barclay Collins Hogg Tanner McLachlan Ell Thompson, R. Field McNab Tellers. Fowlds Monk Hornsby Meredith. Gilfedder O'Meara NOES, 32. Allen, E. G. Graham Rhodes Hall-Jones Russell, W. R. Bennet Heke Bollard Seddon Buddo Lang Smith, G. J. Carncross Symes Lawry Carroll Massey Ward Colvin McGowan https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Willis Mills Duncan Witheford. Fisher Napier Tellers. Fraser, A. L. D. Palmer Laurenson Parata Fraser, W. Lethbridge. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Majority against, 12. Amendment negatived. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) agreed with the opinion expressed by the honourable member for the Bay of Islands, that the Veterinary Surgeons of the Government should visit the district north of Auckland as well as any other part of the colony. He would also like to sup- port what had been said regarding compensating farmers in the matter of anthrax. So far as the Auckland Province was concerned bone-dust was an absolute necessity ; but it was doubtful whether the restrictions that had been placed on the importations had had the desired effect of preventing diseases being brought into the colony by the bones. He hoped the matter would be handled in a business-like manner, and placed in a better position than it was at the present time. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) asked the Minister whether it was proposed to do anything with regard to the grading of meat, as it was in- tended by the Bill of last session. Regarding the Noxious Weeds Act, he thought some indication should be given to the House and the country whether it was intended to en- force the Act more strictly this coming season than last ; unless more activity was shown, the Act would be a farce. He knew of several Mr. O'Meara greatly by being covered with Californian thistles. With regard to the Inspectors, he would like to see them do very little in the way of drawing up voluminous reports and do a little more moving around, in order to see for themselves what was wanted. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) agreed that something should be done to put the Noxious Weeds Act in force, for as things were at pre- sent those who tried to rid their land of thistles had their efforts nullified by the failure of their neighbours to work in the same direction. He also thought that some compensation should be given to farmers who had cattle die by anthrax, for it was only by that means that the farmers would be induced to report the deaths of cattle by anthrax. He suggested that the Govern- ment should take over the paddocks which were condemned for three years through stock dying from anthrax, and themselves lime the ground and do the other necessary work for eradicating the poison. Regarding the inspection of rabbits, he thought the Inspectors were far too ener- getic, especially in settled districts, where rab- bits would never increase. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) said there 12.0. was provision made on the estimates for thirty-one Veterinary Surgeons. He would like the Minister to say if he did not think the time had arrived when a school of veterinary surgery should be established, so that our young men might learn to follow this profession. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) said he was prepared to support the increase in the salary of Mr. Cameron, the Produce Commissioner in London. This was the man who had been con- ducting the prosecutions in the Old Country to prevent the nefarious practice that was going on of selling inferior and diseased meat as New Zealand mutton. This action was a decided step in the right direction, and would prove beneficial to the colony. He would have much pleasure in supporting the increase proposed in order to mark his approval of what had been done. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) wished to ask the Minister why he had allowed the Secre- tary for Agriculture some months ago to try to compel the South Island Meat Company to use the Gear Company's labels. Mr. DUNCAN said that the attention of the Government had been drawn to anthrax. They had not decided definitely what was to be done, for, as honourable members would know, the matter was one that it was ex- ceedingly difficult to deal with. Bones were brought from all parts, and especially from Queensland, where it was known this disease existed. The information he had received went to show that if the bones were cleaned thoroughly their introduction would be quite safe. At the present time the Government did not allow bones to be brought into the colony without a certificate that they had been steamed up to a heat that was supposed to be sufficient to kill the germs of the disease. It had been thought that was sufficient; but it might be necessary that something else should 