reducing the amount for roads. I cannot con- gratulate the Minister for Public Works on diminishing the amount for roads. It is a mistake to check settlement, as this will do ; but I do trust the Minister of Lands will try to spend the small amounts that may be voted. Mr. HALL-JONES .- It will be done. Mr. HERRIES -I hope so; but last year the amount spent on roads was £315,000, and there was voted £465,000, so about £150,000 was not spent. There is no reason why this money should not be spent-that is, if the Minister can borrow the money. And now to come to the Bill itself. I will point out an important alteration in regard to the loans. Formerly, in the Bills of the last year and preceding years, there was a clause as follows :- " No debenture, scrip, or other security created or issued in respect of any moneys raised under this Act shall be sold or otherwise disposed of by the Colonial Treasurer, the Agent-General, or the aforesaid Agents at a price that will yield to the purchaser a higher rate of interest by the year than four pounds for every one hundred pounds of purchase- money in the case of short-dated debentures, and three pounds ten shillings for every one hundred pounds in any other case ; but such debentures, scrip, or other securities may, for the purpose of temporary advances pending the raising of the aforesaid moneys, be hypothe- cated or mortgaged by him or them, upon such terms as to interest and otherwise as are deemed expedient." https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Well, now, this year that clause, "and three pounds ten shillings, for every hundred pounds in any other case," is left out, so that the Colonial Treasurer, if we pass this Bill, can go to London and borrow at 4 per cent., not on short-dated debentures as he could before, but he can float a regular loan of a million and a quarter at 4 per cent. An Hon. MEMBER .- More than that. Mr. HERRIES .- Just so; if the Solicitor- General so advises him as to the law ; but these are the terms of the Bill, and it is quite dif- ferent to what it was last year. Last year you could not float any loan for any length of time for more than 33 per cent. Now, the honourable gentleman has to confess that, either from the position of the Government, or other things which affect the Stock Exchange at Home, he cannot raise a 33-per-cent loan at Home, and he has to go and borrow at Home at the rate of 4 per cent. Such a thing has not been known in the colony for a long time. This seems to meto show that the Government cannot have that popularity at Home which it is presumed to have had here. The honourable gentleman evidently knows he cannot borrow at Home at any less rate than 4 per cent., and this is the first time he has confessed it ; and yet his constant boast about the country has been that he can borrow at 3 per cent., which no other Government could. In his Loan Bill he confesses straight out that he cannot borrow for any less sum than 4 per cent. How is he going to raise the half-million we have given him for advances Mr. Herries anything less than 4 per cent., the whole system will be destroyed? I trust he will be able to borrow for less than 4 per cent., and I trust the market will be favourable when he goes Home for his loan ; but I assure him he will have to do it as quick as ever he can, otherwise I am afraid the works will come to a standstill. It seems to me that the Public Works Fund is in a very parlous state ; there was only $626,028 in hand on the 30th June after raising every penny of money they could raise of previous loans. All the money au- thorised last year has been raised, and it is only the $500,000 which has to be transferred from the Consolidated Fund this year that comes to their rescue. I trust the Minister will raise the money he requires as soon as possible, in order that the public works shall not receive a check. Mr. SEDDON .- We generally ease off for the summer. Mr. HERRIES .- That is what I am afraid of. I am afraid there is an easing-off on all sides, and it seems to me that there is a short- age of funds. The very fact of the Minister bringing down a proposal for raising an extra quarter of a million at half an hour's notice will strengthen the idea in the country that there is a shortage in the Public Works Fund. I trust the works will be continued right through the summer with the same alacrity as they have been up to now, and I hope, seriously, the Minister will float his loan as quickly as pos- sible, in order that no check may take place. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City). - Sir, it is somewhat singular that this debate, instead of taking the customary form by honourable gentlemen opposite of an attack upon the general public works policy of the Government as enunciated in the Public Works State- ment, has assumed the form of an acute criticism of the Railways Statement. Now, the honourable member for Hawke's Bay made a very plausible, and what was doubtless in- tended to be an impressive speech with regard to the condition of the railway accounts, and to some extent while he was speaking I may say I was impressed by what he said. I thought, if his contention was a well-founded one, there were grave reasons to fear that we were not conducting our railways on business lines ; but I took the precaution, before ac- cepting the honourable gentleman's deduc- tions to obtain a copy of the report for the pre- sent vear of the New South Wales Railway Com- missioners, and I found that the honourable gentleman had only made a partial examination of that report. If his examination had been a more exhaustive one he would have found that his argument was entirely fallacious. I think I shall be able to show that the amount spent upon maintenance of the railway-lines out of railway revenue in New Zealand is relatively greater than in New South Wales. The honour- able member made a very strong point of the allegation that we are spending a large sum of money for maintenance of way and charging it to capital account, and that in New South 