have done anything. On account of the num- ber of members who have intimated to me that they are opposed to this course, it would have been futile for the Government to have at- tempted to pass a Bill. I have been told I am not meeting the wishes of Parliament by the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), who opposes in toto anything being given to the debenture-holders or the shareholders. I say, in the course taken, I have not been at all treating him with discourtesy. I consider, if the Government this session do nothing, those who have consistently opposed any action in this direction being taken should be the last to raise an objection. However, Sir, the matter would stand over. In the meantime, I do not think anything will occur to prejudice either the position of the colony or the position of shareholders and debenture-holders. I consider the present situation, under all the circum- stances, is one that will allow us to approach the matter next session, and to deal with it, as I hope, straightforwardly and in the interests of all concerned. It is one of those matters, I think, which ought to be dealt with and put out of the way, and, unless something arises which would render it unwise to proceed, so far as I am concerned, early next session a Bill will be submitted to give effect to the Committee's recommendation. I may almost say I nearly lost my seat in the Ministry through the Mid- land Railway. and I have done my best for many years to uphold the honour of the colony and to keep the colony from a very heavy loss. Now that we have arrived at such a position that we can be generous, having vindicated our position, we should show we are not un- generous or unmindful of what the share- holders and debenture-holders have done and have lost. Taking all the circumstances into consideration, I think it will be admitted the Government is prepared to do what is right, and, instead of being twitted with flaunting the opinion of Parliament, one should be entitled to some little credit for the situation that, I say, has been brought about to a very great extent by the action of the present Govern- ment. Amendment negatived, and motion agreed to, "That the report of the Public Accounts Committee do lie on the table, and be referred to the Government." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, That the report, evidence, and minutes of proceedings of the Committee be printed. Motion agreed to. MANAWATU RAILWAY SALE AND PUR- CHASE EMPOWERING BILL. A message was received from His Excellency the Governor, transmitting a draft of this Bill, and recommending the House to make provision accordingly. On the question. That the message be referred to the Committee of the Whole, Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, -- Sir, I know the introduction of this Bill is a welcome sur- prise to honourable members. I was unable to bring it down before. The intention is to give Mr. Seddon the Government an opportunity during the next few months of purchasing the line on the terms stated, on the acceptance of which the Government are prepared to take up the com. pany's debentures, which amount to 46-0,000. and, in addition, to give 3os. per share for 170,000 shares, which means about $25,000. the colony in return obtaining the railway, rolling-stock, land, and all assets. I have every reason to hope that ere Parliament meets again the purchase will have been com- pleted. Mr. TANNER (Avon) .- Are you taking over the debenture liability ? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes : we take over the deben. ture liability. Negotiations have been going on for some time, and I have not had the opper- tunity prior to this to bring down the measure. Indeed. it was only this afternoon that the final revision between the chairman of directors and myself took place. At the same time I think the colony should be congratulated on a pro- spect of this matter being brought to a success- ful issue. Motion agreed to. Resolution agreed to, reported to the House and agreed to, and Bill read a first time. On the question, That the Bill be now read a second time, Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - Sir. this Bill is to empower the acquisition of the assets of the Manawatu Railway Company, and the decision has been come to after due consideration. The measure itself is a purely machinery one to enable those negotiations to be completed- completed on lines that I am sure will be ap. proved by honourable members. I consider that to have the company walk out and the Government walk in and take over the railway as a going concern on the terms mentioned in the Bill is fair to the company and the share- holders and in the best interests of the colony. I have little further to say. The question is now for the shareholders to decide. li they like to take the maximum amount we are po pared to offer, it will, of course, be for us to enter into the agreement. If they do not de ») no harm is done. At the same time I do this it is in the interests of the colony that all lines of railway should belong to the State. At all events, taking into consideration the terms and conditions, and the whole contreet and the conditions we have under the Bi- conditions that are likely to be successfuly accomplished-it will be for all concerned to say that it is a business transaction condarted on business lines, and, if accomplished as !! . vided by the Bill, it will be for the good of the colony, while the company will have no reas a to regret the sale. I move the second reading of the Bill. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay). - S. I beg to move, That this Bill be read this da; six months. If there is but one honourale member who will tell with me we will hast c a division. I do not propose to speak at aty length on the Bill. When I look at the class I see it is not quite one hour since the BH was introduced. We have not had time ever w 