this Bill only applies to Maori objects, and it would be as well to provide against that. The fossilised remains that have been dis- covered, and will yet be discovered, in con- nection with the fauna and flora of the country will be of inestimable value to the scientific world, and surely should be preserved. Mr. CARROLL .- The word "maori" means indigenous. Mr. COLLINS .- I am afraid it is only a racial term. All I want is to be quite sure that the Bill will not be limited to the mere pre- serving of Maori relics, but to provide that objects of natural and scientific interest shall be equally preserved. I am perfectly satisfied with the intention of the Native Minister, and again congratulate him on having taken this step. We in Christchurch have a Museum of which not only Christchurch, but New Zealand, has every reason to be proud, and we have a very valuable collection of Maori curios, which is due very largely to the generosity of Christ- church citizens. It is a pity that in other places there is not a little more of this generous public spirit which has secured such valuable additions to our collections. And it is desirable that the State should now provide means of securing more complete collections than are possible by private effort or by individual generosity. It will be of inestimable value in time to come, both intellectually and scientific- ally. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) .- It is ex- ceedingly pleasant to see the manner in which this Bill has been received by all members who have spoken. I think I may say that I am entitled to the credit of having first raised this question, so far as this Parliament is con- cerned, for on the 4th July, in the present session, there will be found the following ques- tion on the Order Paper :- "Mr. BARCLAY to ask the Government, If they will take steps to legislate, as is done in other countries, to prevent valuable historical, artistic, or scientific relics, documents, articles, or things being disposed of outside New Zea- land without first being offered to the Govern- ment for purchase ?" True, the member for Waihemo also gave notice of a question dealing with the matter of Maori curios, but, as a matter of fact, I was a little before him. I am glad to see the Bill seems to include rather more than the member for Christchurch City thinks it does. As I read the Bill, it includes all objects of historical and scientific value, not necessarily peculiarly Maori. I think, if the honourable member will look at the Bill, he will see one clause reads in this way : " Maori relies,' includes any Maori relics or curiosities, or other articles or things of historical or scientific value or in- terest and relating to New Zealand." Mr. COLLINS .- The word " Maori" governs " articles or things." Mr. BARCLAY .- I contend that the word "Maori " applies only to " relics or curiosities." However, it is a matter that may easily be made plain in Committee. Sir, the study of Mr. Collins ceedingly dry, but that view is generally held by people who have not taken any very great trouble to study the subject. Any student of history will know that there is no pursuit more absorbing, none more interesting, than the perusal of the works of great historians. There are also a number of people who never seem to estimate the difficulty of writing a history. A good illustration occurs to my mind. Any person engaged in the practice of law must know how difficult it is in many cases, on coming before the Court, to ascertain the truth. Now, when you have living witnesses, and can bring them before a tribunal and examine and cross-examine, and yet find it difficult to get at the truth, what must be the difficulty of the historian when he can only refer, perhaps, to imperfect records and documents, as to some of which he may not know whether they are au- thentic or unauthentic? So that I say it is highly desirable that every possible effort should be made to secure every authentic relic, docu- ment, article, or thing connected with the early history of this colony. Something has been said as to the place where a national storehouse of these articles of historical value should be erected. The Hon. the Minister has suggested that perhaps some ground around this building might be used for that purpose. I think pro- bably that would be a very suitable place, but I must say it seems to me it would be rather more fitting that the building should be on the Museum grounds, and should be in some way connected with that institution. It has been said this Bill is too drastic in char- acter. Well, I admit it does appear to be very drastic in some of its provisions ; but the diffi- culty is that if you do not make it drastic it is exceedingly easy to slip out of its provisions. As far as I can judge, the Minister has adopted the best course in framing this Bill that, under the circumstances, he could have adopted. I am afraid that a great deal will have to be left to the Government in connection with the measure. It will have to be left to them and their responsible officers to decide what are articles, relics, or things which come within the scope of the Bill. It will have to be left with their officers to say whether they should purchase these articles or things, or whether they shall prohibit them leaving the country; and I suggest that probably in every district there will be local officers appointed by the Government-at any rate, in those districts where there are articles coming within the scope of the Bill-and that to these officers will be committed the duty of deciding in re- spect to the various articles which come under their notice. Of course, the difficulty about traders, I imagine, might be got over in this way : A trader would invite the local officer to inspect his stock. The local officer would go and inspect his stock in the shop, and he would take all the precautions possible to ascertain from the trader that he has no other articles or relics he proposes to dispose of in his shop or stock except those which he shows to the officer. The officer can say, "Oh, very well, then, so far as 