The Hon. Mr. TAIAROA asked the Minister of Education, Whether it is true that the waters of Lake Ellesmere are to be drained through the Native fishing reserves ; and, if so, what steps are being taken by the Government to conserve the rights of the Natives as set out in the Ngaitahu deed of sale? He was given to understand that certain drainage-works were being undertaken on Lake Ellesmere which would seriously interfere with the fisheries of the Natives - that was, their eel-weirs, where the lase drained into the ocean. This class of fishing - ground was reserved to the Natives under the conditions of the Ngaitahu deed of sale. He believed that if the water was carried away by means of pipes the Natives would lose their fisheries, upon which they had subsisted for many years ; and if this work was to be done he thought that the authorities who put in the drain-pipes, whoever they may be, should recom- pense the Natives in order that they might have something to live on in the future. This particular place to which he referred was where the Natives had been in the habit of catching eels as they migrated from the lake to the ocean, and had been used by them from the very earliest times that the Ngaitahu Tribe went to live there, and they had continued to work the fisheries up to the present time. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said his in- formation pointed to the fact that certain works were being done by the Selwyn County Council, who had power in accordance with law to deal with the lake. He was unable to state officially whether, in the opinion of the Government officers, the works would interfere with the Native fisheries. Apparently, however, it was admitted that the fish would not be able to get up or down at spawning-time ; but it was added that, owing to the large growth of weeds in the lake, the access of the fish to the sea was actually stopped at the present time. However, he would refer the matter to the Government officers for further investigation and report. He would refer it in the first instance to the Native Minister, and ask him, in the interests of the Natives, to see that this very important matter for them was thoroughly looked into, and that their rights were properly preserved and protected. LABOUR DAY. The Hon. Mr. RIGG asked the Minister whether he proposed to adjourn the Council on account of Labour Day. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER thought it would be very proper to do so, but, as Wednes- day was private members' business day, he pro- posed that the Council should meet in the even- ing. He would therefore move, That the Coun- Cii, at us rising to-day, adjourn till eight o'clock to-morrow evening. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI again raised his voice against these continual adjournments. M. mbers were there to perform a public duty, for which they were paid. The Government ousht to put its foot down and maintain the dignity of the Ministerial position, instead of them by the unions. He maintained that the Council should do their business in a business- like way, as members representing the people of the colony. The Hon. Mr. RIGG said they had plenty of time to do all the business that was before them, or likely to be before them during the week. Last year the Council adjourned on this occasion ; and this being the one day in the year when the labour people have their holiday, and the demonstration being in itself an object-lesson and a moral to the younger people that no country could grow great except through the industry of its people, the adjourn. ment should be granted. The Hon. Mr. REEVES thought that, in- stead of adjourning till the evening only, they should adjourn altogether till Thursday. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY said, With regard to private members' business, he found there were only two measures on the Order Paper, and these appeared to consist of business which could be disposed of in a few minutes. The Order Paper altogether was very light, and he did not suppose there would have been any ob- jection to the adjournment except for certain people who desired to advertise themselves. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND could not see why the Council should suspend their business be- cause the unionists were going to march in pro- cession through the streets of Wellington. It was taking them too much at their own valua- tion. He did not suppose that if the agricul- turists or pastoralists were going to form a pro- cession Parliament would take any notice of them, nor did he think that the House of Lords or the House of Commons would adjourn for such an occasion as a procession of trades-union- It was ists through the streets of London. making too much of the unions, which were causing trouble enough in the country already. The Hon. Mr. REEVES pointed out that the House of Commons always adjourned on Derby day. The Council divided. AYES, 20. Smith, A. L. Jenkinson Ark wright Baillie Johnston Swanson Barnicoat Jones Twomey Bolt Kelly, T. Walker, L. Walker, W. C. Kelly, W. Bowen Gourley Pinkerton Williams. Rigg Harris NOES, 6. Shrimski Reeves Bonar Scotland Taiaroa. Feldwick Majority for, 14. Motion agreed to. INDUSTRIAL CONCILIATION AND) ARBITRATION BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, I do not propose to deal with the points at issue in this Bill. It has come to us from the other House, and it proposes, as the result of ex- perience, to amend the present Act. The most 