here and Australia to connect with the Federal service. The estimate of subsidy required was $1,000 a month -$12,000 a year is what would be demanded for carrying mails twelve hundred miles; and surely we must realise that, if such terms are asked of us, it is well that we should enter into an arrangement for mails to come vin America rather than by the Federal route. Now, there is another point also, which, I think, is worthy of attention, and which, at any rate, has occupied my own mind. New Zealand occupies, unfortunately, a most remote position in the Pacific Ocean: how best can we remedy that disadvantage? Is it wise to close the doors to important trade routes, and by every possible means limit our commerce with a country which, whether we like it or do not like it, is going to supply us with large quantities of goods? Is it our business to so isolate ourselves that we shall remain here separated commercially, as we are geographi- cally, from the nearest country which must and will be connected with us in trade, except Australia? Are we prepared, an insignificant island in the South Pacific, by every means in our power to shut off communication with so important a continent as America, which pro- bably in fifty years will receive an enormous part of our produce ? It seems to me it would be very shortsighted policy to do any- thing of the kind. I admit I do not believe the subsidising of a quick line of steamers will conduce to the carrying of freight by those steamers. But at the same time I think there https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 is no disputing the fact that rapid mail com- munication does lead to trade ; and though the trade is not carried in the bottoms that carry the mail, still the trade is augmented though not created by the mail-service, and will annu- ally increase and become very great. Now, I find that the imports from the western coast-from San Francisco, I presume, to New Zealand amount only to $103,587, against an import trade from the eastern coast of $958,286, or a total im- port trade from the United States of $1,061,873, of which it will be noticed eight-ninths come from the Eastern States. But bear in mind that all the correspondence which is necessi- tated by the trade done with the Eastern States has to travel through the Western Pacific, and if the mails have to first go to Eng- land and then to America before they reach the hands of the persons we are doing business with it would be a prolongation of the time of the transit of these letters by two or three weeks. Is that desirable ? I think not. Much as I regret it, and much as I wish to see the trade of the Empire increase rather than the trade with other countries, there is no use ignoring this fact : that the United States of America are going to be large suppliers of the Australasian markets, and, Auck- land being the final port of departure of Australasia for the San Francisco mails, we ought to be very careful how we close so important an avenue of prosperity. I might say, as a matter of interest, that our export to the Western States is practically nothing Captain Russell States, again showing that subsidising a line of steamers does not mean the carriage of freight in the same bottoms. But all the figures tend to show that we are largely increasing our trade with America, £1,518,550 being the total value of trade with America during last year. Honourable members speak of the trade which they hope for by a steam line with British Columbia and Canada ; but the trade figures are absolutely so paltry and insignificant that it seems to me they are scarcely worth putting on record. And we must consider also this fact : that the trade we do with British Columbia and Canada will remain practically nil, because they are, like ourselves, a producing, not a manufacturing, country, and the articles produced in Canada are mostly those which we ourselves also export. In other words, there will be practically no trade between Canada and New Zealand, for the reason that British Columbia produces only coal, grain, timber, and gold, which we produce in con- siderable abundance in this country. I find in the New Zealand statistics that our total im- ports from British Columbia last year amounted to $8,996, whilst from Canada -- which, I pre- sume, means the Eastern States -- the total was $32,169, the total import being only $41,165. We exported to British Columbia $8,229. and to Canada proper $55,021. Now, it seems to me that these figures show that the trade with the United States of America is a matter of considerable importance, for, with the total imports of $10,646,096 to this country, exactly one-tenth comes from the United States, and the returns prove it is a rapidly increasing trade. During the 11.0. last decennial period I find the im- ports from the United States have increased from £361,795 to the amount which I have already quoted - $1.061,873. The exports, it is perfectly true, are remaining practically stationary, and I regret that is the case. Mr. SEDDON .- What do they amount to ? Captain RUSSELL .- They amounted last year to $458,796; but it is no increase, for the year before they were $433,499, and the year before that $623,133, and ten years ago they were larger than at the present time. But still I hope and believe that, sooner or later, the import and export trade will balance itself, and that, with a large and continually increasing importation of goods from the American States. we shall not only import, but export to an approximately similar value. For these reasons I am of opinion that it is desirable we should renew our contract for the San Francisco ser- vice : on the ground. first, that it is the most rapid one; second, that it brings us into con- tact with the greatest number of customers and producers ; third, and that by so doing we maintain an additional mail-service. 1 shail therefore support the San Francisco mail route. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) .- What is the present position in regard to the proposed contract with Messrs. Spreckels Brothers ? 1 find in the paper F .- 6B that, so far as negotia- 