motion be adjourned till half - past seven o'clock. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said he would say half-past seven, and if the Bill deal- ing with the matter had not come down from another place then, and there was an oppor- tunity of its coming down, the debate could be still further adjourned. Debate adjourned accordingly. # COMPANIES BILL. A message was received from the House of Representatives containing certain amendments in this Bill, in which they asked the concur- rence of the Council. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said he did not see any reason why the Council should not accept these amendments in the Companies Bill. It made the provisions of the Mining Companies Act to apply to all mining com- panies registered under the Companies Act or any of its amendments. The clauses in ques- tion were 32 and 33. The first was that direc- tors had to furnish the half-yearly statement, and the second was that clause 33 enacted that the books of companies were to be open to in- spection. He thought they could safely accept these amendments, and moved, That the Coun- cil cmcurred in the amendments made by the House of Representatives. Motion agreed to. DEATH OF THE HON. MR. BONAR. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, I beg to state to the Council that information has been received of the death of the Hon. Mr. Bonar. I think it might be suitable to the feelings of the Council if, after expressing the regret which we all feel on this occasion, I should move a motion of adjournment. I beg to move, That the Council adjourn for one hour, out of respect for the honourable gentleman's death. Sir, he was an old member of the Council, as he was appointed in the year 1868, and he had therefore given the best years of his life to the service of his country. In the early days of the West Coast he rapidly rose to first rank among the persons who filled public positions. He was the first chairman of a County Council on the West Coast, and when that district was made a province the confi- dence of the people was shown by his election as the first Superintendent, a position he held until the abolition of the provinces. I beg to move that the Council adjourn for an hour, out of respect for the late Hon. Mr. Bonar. The Hon. Mr. REEVES .- Sir, in seconding this motion, I feel rather strongly about it. I have known the late honourable gentleman for considerably over forty years. I knew him in Melbourne when he was quite a young man, and when he was employed in a very large firm there-Messrs. Henty and Co. I also knew him on the West Coast, and, although our late departed friend and I never agreed in politics in any form at all, I always found him to be an upright, honest, straightforward man. I can state without hesitation that he has honest man." The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY .- I would like, on this occasion, to say a few words to the Council. I have known the Hon. Mr. Bonar for the last thirty-five years. I met him first on my way to Melbourne in 1863, and I can truly say that he was one of the best specimens of manhood- full of geniality and good-fellowship. I did not meet him again until the year 1869, when I took my seat in the House of Representatives and found him a member of the Council ; and, from my own knowledge of him, I can con- scientiously say that he did good service to the colony in this branch of the Legisature, and therefore I beg to express my regret for the loss of an old colleague. Motion agreed to, and Council adjourned for one hour. # LIBRARY. The Hon. Mr. RIGG brought up the Report of the Library Committee, recommending that members of both Houses of Parliament residing in or within fifteen miles from Wellington be the Committee for the control and manage- ment of the Library during the recess. Motion agreed to. # FACTORIES BILL. A message was received from the House of Representatives desiring a Conference on the subject of the amendments of the Legislative Council in this Bill. On the motion of the Hon. Mr. JONES, the Hon. Mr. Bowen, the Hon. Mr. Jenkinson, the Hon. Mr. Jones, the Hon. Mr. W. Kelly, and the Hon. Mr. Pinkerton were appointed Man- agers on behalf of the Council, and a time and place for the Conference was appointed. Subsequently, The Hon. Mr. JONES brought up the report of the Conference on the Factories Bill, as fol- lows : - "The Managers appointed by the Legislative Council to conduct the Conference upon the Factories Bill have the honour to report that they have met the Managers appointed by the House of Representatives, and they have come to the following agreement, namely : - " In new clause 19A, fine 3, after ' women,' to insert ' over the age of eighteen years.' "In clause 20, subclause (3), to restore the first proviso. " In clause 2, to amend the last paragraph so as to read as follows : 'Boy ' means every male under the age of sixteen years. "The other amendments made by the Council are accepted." He moved that the report be agreed to. The Hon. Mr. RIGG said he merely rose to congratulate the Managers on the very satis. factory result of their labours. He did so for the reason that he was very anxious himself to be on the Conference, not that he wished to go back on anything the Council had done in the way of amending the Bill, but so that he might be in a position to point out to the representa- tives in another place that the Bill as passed 