effect to what the honourable gentleman asked. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said there was a gentleman in Christchurch who was a first-class law draftsman, who had for some considerable time past been engaged on the work of com- piling an abridged edition of the statutes. He referred to Mr. Badger. Now, the effect of this work being done by a Government officer would deprive Mr. Badger of reward for the time he had already spent upon the compilation of the statutes. He hoped the Government could compensate this gentleman in some way for his loss of time and money, or employ him to assist in the work that was being done under the Government, more especially as he felt sure the work would be too much for one draftsman. Mr. SEDDON said the matter would be re- ferred to the Solicitor-General. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said it had been reported that the auxiliary oil - engine schooner for the Cook and other islands was not at all suited for the work, and that the money spent upon her had been practically wasted. They had also heard that there had been a strike amongst the seamen engaged on the steamer. He was disappointed to find that all information with regard to the colony's new possessions had not been laid on the table of the House long ago. The Committee should also know what instructions were given to Mr. Percy Smith, who had recently been sent on expedition to the Island of Niue. Mr. SEDDON said he intended to give all the information before the second reading of the Bill. The statement about the schooner was entirely wrong. She had made a good http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero trip, and was reported to be very suitable for the work. There were no particulars yet as regards the difficulty with the men, but they might have the information down in the course of a day or two. As to the instructions given to Mr. Percy Smith, if the honourable mem- ber liked to read the correspondence between that gentleman and the Government's repre- sentative he could see what instructions were given. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) said he had been informed that the engineer em- ployed on this schooner was not a competent engineer, and that he had not obtained his certificate; also that he did not receive the current rate of wages paid to certificated engi- neers. He hoped the honourable gentleman would give the Committee the details of the vote, "General Contingencies, £5,948," ex- pended las , year. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) would like to ask the Minister to favourably consider the idea of putting on the supplementary esti- mates a bonus to aid the flax industry. He thought this would be in the best interests of an industry which was of the utmost im- portance to the colony. Sir J. G. WARD said the details of the vote £ s. d. Advertising 210 Allowances in lieu of free quarters and lighting to Caretaker, Govern- ment Buildings, New Plymouth 22 18 8 Allowance to Acting Private Secre- tary to Minister of Lands 10 0 0 .. Books and publications .. 156 19 11 Cost of photographs, &c., of South Sea Islands 161 7 0 Cost of taking evidence and report- ing as to charges of Southerley against the Public Trust Office .. 0 44 12 Carriage of telegrams 38 1 9 Cost of procuring deer for Govern- ment of Queensland .. 12 2 6 165 Directories for public departments 0 1 Freight and cartage 480 6 7 Fuel and light 296 0 10 Grant to Greytown Fire-brigade 25 0 O Inspection of weights and measures 22 8 4 Law costs 157 10 0 .. Newspapers 118 15 10 .. Official postages 296 0 Payment to G. D. Hamilton for compiling hand-book on "Trout in New Zealand " 12 0 0 .. 0 Rewards for arrest of deserters 50 0 Removing books from Parliament- ary Library 15 0 0 Sessional allowance to Private Se- cretaries- Native Minister 0 50 0 Minister of Justice 0 25 0 . . .. Premier 25 0 0 Sessional allowance to messengers 210 4 0 Subscriptions to telephones, &c. .. 300 14 0 Sundries, small amounts under 10s. 129 6 5 Travelling-allowances of Ministers 1,499 0 5 Travelling-expenses of Ministers .. 1,456 19 9 Travelling - expenses of officers of 69 12 Colonial Secretary's Department Travelling - expenses of Registrar- General attending Conference of States in Sydney 68 8 6 Travelling-expenses of Labour dele- 34 2 11 gates Typewriters and accessories 149 1 6 Uniforms and overcoats for messen- 136 3 9 gers .. .. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said there was an item in the "General Contingencies," for "Cost of Photographs, South Sea Islands, £161 7s.," and he would like to know from the Minister something about the instruc- tions given to the photographer who went on the excursion, because he understood that the Government photographer with the Royal tour was told to take a shot every time he saw the Premier near the Duke. It seemed to him it was merely personal expenditure on behalf of the Premier, and he thought by the time they went through the estimates they would make some extraordinary discoveries. Already the expenditure in connection with the Premier's trip on the "Tutanekai " in search of health had been shown to be as follows :- 