Under this Bill, with the enlarged franchise, there would be actually less probability of women being elected than under the present Under the present system pressure system. could be brought to bear on suburban Councils and boroughs close to cities, and the result had been in one or two cases in Christchurch that ladies had been put in. Another point was that this Bill went in a direction which they all recognised from time to time. There was a kind of feeling that the public mind should be kept in a constant state of ferment, and the idea seemed to be that in the election of these bodies by a subsidiary method the influence of public opinion was lost. He did not think so. His opinion was that, while it was right that there should be rapid and frequent appeals from this House to the constituencies on large ques- tions, the more you could simplify the machinery of the election of local bodies the better. So far as the Hospital and Charitable Aid Boards were concerned, it was doubtful if the change proposed would improve the present system. Those elected were nearly always members of the local bodies, who had experience of public affairs, and from the districts represented by the bodies the Board drew its money. Also, the members of these bodies were familiar, in a large number of cases, with the persons who received aid, and were often able to advise the Charitable Aid Board as to the bona fides or otherwise of applicants for aid. There was another thing to be borne in mind -that in a number of cases the Counties Act was not in operation. Take, for example, the Ashley https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 County. There the Act was not in operation. This Bill prescribed that the election of mem- bers of the Hospital and Charitable Aid Board was to be held on the same day as the election for the local authority. Now, as a matter of fact, the elections to Road Boards were in May, and to County Councils in November. That was another defect which he wished to point out. The member for Avon told him there were eleven counties. in the colony in which the Counties Act was not in operation ; consequently, in these districts the electors for the Road Boards would be a constituency for electing two members to the Hospital and Charitable Aid Board for the entire county, thus involving still more expense. However, to hark back, a year or two ago an enlarged fran- chise was passed for the boroughs ; and what had been the effect of that ? Would anybody say that, with all the efforts made in certain cities-Christchurch, for example -- in endea- vouring to place people on the roll, the in- creased number of people who voted in the last election for the City Council was a justification of what was predicted would follow ? They were told that once the enlarged constituency was given a tremendous amount of interest would be taken in public affairs. They were told the enlarged constituency was going to revolutionise the whole aspect of public affairs, so far as the local bodies were concerned. Had it done that ? Of course not. This would simply be the means of introducing a disturbing element, and would Mr. G. W. Russell expecting. He did not wish to detain the House further in connection with this matter, and, speaking for his own district, he said there was no request whatever for this measure, and there was no desire for the enlargement of the con- stituency for the election of these Boards. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) had listened with a certain amount of amazement to some of the speakers who had spoken on this Bill. They could not surely have read the Bill for themselves, for one and all seemed to think it was going to revolutionise the manner in which the Boards of Trustees which managed hospi- tals and charitable institutions were elected. It did not affect them at all. It simply re- ferred to the election of the District Charitable Aid Board, and it was only when there were no separate institutions in a district that the District Board had anything to do with the management of a hospital. Where there was a separate institution the District Board had no more to do with the management of that insti- tution than the members of this House had. Clause 7 of the Act of 1885 provided the manner in which members of District Boards were elected. Sections 47 and 48 of the same Act provided for the manner in which Trustees of separate institutions were elected-namely, they were elected by the members of con- tributing local bodies, and by the persons in each district who contributed not less than 5s. Now, this Bill did not propose to interfere at all with the elections of Boards More than one for separate institutions. honourable member had referred to the enor- mous benefits that were to be conferred on the country because they were going to improve the machinery by which members of Hospital and Charitable Aid Boards were to be elected. Now, this Bill did not do anything of the sort. He agreed with a very great deal of what had fallen from the last speaker, and he did think instead of simplifying this matter the Bill was going to complicate it. It would not have the effect of doing what some seemed to desire- namely, that ladies should be appointed to these Boards. He did not know that the pre- sence of ladies on the District Boards would be a very great benefit, for District Boards in most instances had very little to do with the direct management of the institutions. He quite saw, however, that there were good reasons why ladies should be elected on Boards of Trustees directly managing these institu- tions ; but this Bill, as already shown, was not going to help that. He thought no measure affecting such a large question as the manage- ment of hospitals and charitable institutions should be proceeded with in a hurry. He would suggest to the Minister that he should take the second reading of the Bill that night, and then allow the Bill to be circulated through the country, and thus get an expression of opinion on it. In its present form he did not think he could support the Bill. The Bill pro- vided for two kinds of electorates-the counties and the boroughs, in each of which there was a different franchise. It would be better to pass 