small thing that a man should be asked to pay 10s. instead of 5s., but in many instances very great hardship was caused by the higher fee, and he was sure that if the miners' rights fee was reduced to 5s. a very much larger num- ber of miners' rights would be taken out. It was purely a local matter. The Bill had been before the other House for the last two years, and no protests were made by the local bodies, and, in fact, he could safely say that the local bodies were in favour of the reduction, for the simple reason that, instead of there being, as was now the case, a large number of men work- ing who did not obtain miners' rights, these men would not run the risk of not taking out miners' rights for the sake of paying 5s., and therefore the number of miners' rights taken out would be largely increased. An Hon. MEMBER .- Ought not this Bill, in the ordinary course, to go to the Goldfields Committee ? The Hon. Mr. REEVES said he thought it ought to go to the Goldfields Committee, and, if the Council would agree, he would move, That the Bill be referred to the Goldfields Committee. Motion agreed to, and Bill referred to the Goldfields Committee. SHOPS AND SHOP-ASSISTANTS BILL. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON said that, in the absence of the Hon. Colonel Pitt, he had been asked to take charge of this Bill. He begged to move, That the Bill be read the third time. The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK begged to move by way of amendment, That the Bill be recom- mitted, for the purpose of adding the new clause standing in his name on the Order Paper. He might state that he brought forward this http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero amendment knowing perfectly well what he was talking about. When the Bill was brought up for the second reading he mentioned that in a certain town in Europe there existed a rota of chemists ; and his honourable friend the leader of the Council mentioned that in a large city in South America there existed not only a rota of chemists but also a rota of doctors, and that these rotas were daily mentioned in the morning papers. He might mention that there was a messenger then present in the Council who had occasion to obtain medicine for him in the City of Wellington. He went to four chemists' shops once (and to one chemist's shop twice) in the middle of the night, and before he could get that prescription filled it occupied him two hours in running about. Now, he said it was a fair thing, in order to meet cases of this sort, where life and death might be concerned, that some one or more chemists' shops should be open by day and night, as specified in this amending clause, which he proposed to put in the Bill if the Council agreed to his motion for recommittal. It was all very well to talk about holidays and half-holidays, but if they were to be granted at the cost or at the risk of human life it was not proper, and he thought if the chemists looked at the thing in a proper spirit they would that one, two, or even three chemists' shops ought to be open in every large city, so as to be available for the public at any hour, day and night. The chemists carried on a large and profitable business-they often, he supposed, got 2s. 6d. for what was actually not worth 3d. ; but at any rate it was their chief duty to be humane, and to study the lives and interests of the public. Doctors, they assumed, were the guardians of the public life, and of all our interests in that way, and chemists ought to be equally as available as doctors were. He thought the extra clause he had drafted would fairly meet the case; if not, possibly a verbal amendment or two might better fit it for the purpose : but all he asked for in the present instance was that they should go into Com- mittee for the purpose of considering this new clause. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY said that, with regard to this proposed amendment, he had no objection himself. Virtually it was, or ought to be, an amendment of the Pharmacy Act of 1898, and should not be included in a Shop- assistants Bill. And, besides that, there were certain duties given to the Pharmacy Board to make regulations, and if this amendment were made there was no machinery provided, or power to enforce the by-laws. Neither was there any power in the Pharmacy Act, and therefore, so far as this proposal went, it would be a dead-letter even if it were put in the right place. Under the Pharmacy Act the Pharmacy Board had power to enforce their by-laws, but, as he had just pointed out, if this clause were added to this Bill there was no power to enforce it. He therefore would advise his honourable friend to report progress, so that a clause could be clearly drafted to provide in a proper manner what he wished to effect. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI said, although there was no power to enforce it, there were several chemists who were residing on the pre- mises, and who would be only too willing to sell to the public if they were permitted to do so at the hours when other shops were closed. But it was ridiculous, by passing this law, to close the shops of all the chemists, seeing that it would be done at the expense of the suffer- ings of human beings, in order that these few people might have a holiday. He had had sad experience of the inconvenience of this sort of thing in Wellington. In a case of sudden ill- ness he was nearly run off his legs in trying to obtain some medicine, and, after a great struggle and the loss of a couple of hours, he was directed to a chemist's private house, where he asked the gentleman to oblige him with the medicine. This gentleman, who lived at the top of Willis Street, came down town to his shop, and gave him the medicine he wanted ; but in the meantime the person who required it might have died. He did not think they should lightly support a Bill which was really at the expense of the public, and they ought to take care that, in a business of this kind, cer- tain shops should be kept open for the good of the public at the time when other shops of that 