critical time of a man or woman's life, the managers of the institution in which he was placed should be responsible to the electors of the district for his safety and comfort. Now, was there any more critical time in life than when overtaken by a serious illness or accident -and those who visited our hospitals and saw the patients would understand the position ? They had an instance given to them in that House not many weeks ago of a man suffering from a serious illness who was not provided with the necessary conveniences which he should have been supplied with. He believed the statement of the honourable member for Waihemo to be correct, and he ventured to say that no such instance as they had heard of then would have occurred if they had had as managers, or as the Board of managers of that institution, men who were elected by the elec- tors of the district. An Hon. MENBER .- Why did not you agree to an inquiry ? Mr. HALL - JONES said the honourable member knew why the Government did not give an inquiry. Any member of that House, or any man or woman in the colony, might at one time or another be an inmate of a hospital, and be suffering from something by which his life and the future of those dependent upon him might be at stake. He thought there could be no difference of opinion but that, at whatever cost, our hospitals should be provided with every convenience and every appliance for the comfort of the inmates of the institu- tion. The ratepayers of the colony had to find the money for these institutions ; and was it not right, therefore, that they should elect those who managed these institutions? To many men-to most men-it was more important / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero to have the election of members of Hospital Boards on a broad basis than it was to have members of that House elected on that basis; because a man's money and his possessions might depend upon what took place in that House, but his life was at stake in the hospital. Certain objections had been raised to the Bill. It had been said that the members of the Hospital Boards were at present elected by the representatives of the people. But, to follow out that system with regard to that Chamber, suppose you had the members of that House elected by the repre- sentatives of a local body --- An Hon. MEMBER. - Who elects the Legis- lative Council ? Mr. HALL-JONES .-- The representatives of the people through the Ministry of the day, and the general opinion throughout the colony . as that they had a Legislative Council now more in touch with the wishes of the people than they ever had before, and honour- able members knew it. Now, in electing a member of a County Council or a Borough Council what did they look for ? They looked to obtaining a man as & represen- tative who had a knowledge of road-construc- tion, of bridge-construction, or, on the other hand, he might be a good business-man, in- Mr. Hail-Jones lings, and pence. Then, what man should be 1 elected to look after the care of the patients in a hospital ? They wanted a kindhearted, a humane, and also a business-man as & member of a Hospital Board ; whereas on a Borough Council they wanted a business- man. With regard to those who said that the present system was perfect, and capable of no improvement, and that it was right to leave the election of such Boards to some six or seven members of a County Council or to some ten or twelve members of a Borough Council, instead of leaving it to the electors of the whole district, he said that they did not understand the wishes of the people of the colony. During the present session petitions had been presented, and he had had scores of letters from all parts of the colony, asking that such a proposal should be brought forward, and members from various parts of the colony had also brought the matter under his notice, and the re- sult was the Bill they had now before them. Now, the provisions of the Bill were extremely simple. It provided that the Boards should be elected in the same manner as local bodies were elected now. Instead of the members of the County Council or the members of the Borough Council appointing a representative, they had the whole of the people of a district electing the representatives, in the same manner in which the members of the County or Borough Council were elected. In the machinery clauses everything was provided for, barring, perhaps, one thing, and that was, Who should be eligible for election to the Boards ? Now, if honourable members would look at clause 5 they would see that it read as follows :- "Every election under this Act shall be held on the same day and in the same manner as in the case of members of the local autho- rity ; and it shall be the duty of the local authority to do all such things as are neces- sary, or as the Governor by regulations pre- scribes, for the proper holding of every such election as often as occasion requires." What did that mean ? What was the manner in which the members of local bodies were elected ? They were nominated, notifications of their nomination were given. ballot-papers were printed, there was a day for their election, and there was a day for their being returned as members of the County or Borough Coun- cil ; and all this applied, under clause 5, to \---- the members of Hospital and Charitable Aid Boards. The member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay) and the member for Bruce had raised a question that had not occurred to him -- that 1 was, the election of representatives by members of Medical Boards. He was very doubtful of the advisability of this being done. It was entirely new to him, and he did not see why they should be specially represented, seeing that they were not contributors to the cost of these institutions. Mr. BARCLAY said that in Edinburgh the University had that privilege. Mr. HALL-JONES thought the honourable member would find they were under a different 