offer is entertained the day of departure from the Bluff will necessarily be altered." The reply of the Postmaster General was :- " While your proposals may be worth £12,000 & year to yourselves, certainly the connection would not be worth anything like that to the Government." Well, Sir, in the face of that letter, have we any evidence, or did the Postmaster- General bring us any evidence, as to the pos- sibility of their taking £10,000? It seems to me that if this Federal tariff is carried out we shall find that the Union Company will not be able to carry so much cargo to Australia, and, instead of asking £12,000, they will pos- sibly ask £14,000 or £15,000 for carrying our mails to Melbourne or Sydney. It seems to me that in putting it at £10,000 the Postmaster-General is putting the amount at a lower rate than it should be. So that the Federal service depends on the Federal Cabinet giving us the power to send our mails at the cheap rate of £12,000; and it also depends on the Union Company taking a less price than they have already said they would take; and therefore, if those "ifs " are not carried out, it will mean that it is a much more expensive ser- vice than has been put down by the Postmaster- General, and, instead of the net cost being £19,000, it will cost, perhaps, £22,000 or £25,000. And it must be remembered that it is a much longer service, and that even to the Bluff, which is the nearest port to Australia, there is a dif- ference of six days between that and the San https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Francisco service; and therefore it is 5.0. paying a dear rate to pay possibly £10,000 for a much more lengthy service, and it seems to me folly for the colony to commit itself to a lengthened service at a higher rate when it can get a cheap service. Mr. MCLACHLAN .- Cheap and nasty. Mr. HERRIES .- No, I do not think it is ; or, at any rate, that could be remedied. I have been on steamers belonging to the Union Com- pany which have not been very pleasant, and the old Orient liners were not very pleasant ; but, no doubt, the Oceanic Company will im- prove. It has been up to this only a temporary arrangement, and with a contract entered into for from three to five years these things could be remedied, and it will be the duty of the Postmaster General to see that they are. We ought to enter into a definite contract, and one of the regulations should be that there should be a proper room for the carriage of the mails ; but, under any consideration, these are minor difficulties which ought not to weigh with mem- bers. It seems to me to have been proved by the debate, apart from provincial jealousies, the San Francisco mail-service is the cheapest and the best. The Federal service, which is the only alternative-because it is impossible for us to entertain the Vancouver service at present- would be longer and much dearer, and it would be putting us under an obligation to the Federal Government. I trust that the House will agree to even the small contribution of 78. 6d. per pound, and vote for the San Francisco service. Mr. PALMER (Ohinemuri). - Originally I had no intention of speaking on the motion ; I intended to wait until we got into Committee, and I have very little now to sav. Few subjects that have come before the House have been discussed with all the pros and cons of this question ; there is hardly a word for or against the service or in regard to the carrying of mails by sea that has not been discussed fully by the House. I feel sure for my part, and I think members will agree with me, that any speeches in regard to this question will not alter one. vote, one way or another, so that, as far as that is concerned, the House might as well go to the vote at once. Feeling that, Sir, it is not. necessary for me to go over any of the ground that has been gone over already, and therefore I will cut my remarks as short as I possibly can. However, I feel constrained to speak for a few moments in regard to the personal feeling that has been brought into the question. I am sorry it has been brought in. I regret- extremely the injudiciousness of perhaps ono Auckland member, and the injudiciousness of some of the newspapers in Auckland; but I trust that the House, in coming to a decision with regard to the San Francisco service, will not be swayed in any way by those occurrences. In regard to the speeches that have been delivered, I must say I was sorry to hear the remarks of some of the Wellington members. It appeared to me they endcavoured to make out that this question was the subject of a quarrel between Auckland City and Wel- lington City. The speech of the honourable. member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) last night was certainly very bitter against Auck- land City; and the speech of my friend the member for Wellington Suburbs was a speech that I think he should not have delivered. I am sorry he made that speech, because there is a feeling existing at the present time that this is a question of Wellington against Auckland. I do not know how that feeling came about, and I am anxious to disabuse the mind of the people of any such feeling. Mr. WILFORD .- You are trying to move the seat of Government there; and you want to disfranchise us. Mr. PALMER. Well, as to that, I may say I have twice or thrice tried to move the seat of Government to Christchurch. In the time when Mr. R. M. Taylor was a member of this House that question came up on several occa- sions, but we always took care that we did not provide the necessary money to carry out such a project. In dealing with the subject of the removal of the seat of Government, I have no doubt arguments might be brought forward to show what had been attempted in the past. Did you not take away the seat of Government from Auckland ? Did you not take away the head office of the Bank of New Zealand ? And now, I say, there is a feeling that Wellington wants to take away the San Francisco service from Auckland, and I extremely regret that any colour for a rumour of the kind should have been found in the speeches of the member 