drew,- £ s. d. Salary, 29th October, 1900, to 31st March, 1901 .. 424 14 7 House allowance, 29th October, 1900, to 7th February, 1901 55 15 7 .. 0 23 Travelling-allowance 5 75 9 Expenses 0 .. $579 4 2 The Hon. Mr. Cadman drew,- d. € 8. Travelling-allowance 61 10 0 .. . . 6 4 Expenses 6 . . £67 14 6 Mr. J. ALLEN .- Did he draw no salary ? Mr. SEDDON .- No. Mr. ALLEN .- How did he get expenses then ? Mr. SEDDON .- He was a member of the Executive, without portfolio. The Hon. T. Thompson, who was in the same position, also drew for travelling-allowance £18. This paper is certified to by the Secretary and Ac- countant to the Treasurer ; and the total cost of the Ministry in salaries and allowances that they alone drew, and expenses incurred in respect to them, was £11,253 15s. 6d. As it has been stated by the honourable member for Ashley, Mr. Meredith, and as tables have been drawn up and made a matter of record in Hansard that we Ministers alone cost over £20,000, and that was the cost of Ministers to the colony, I think members will hail this return with pleasure. I may say it is already in the possession of members, because if members will turn to B .- 3 they will find all the salaries and allowances there mentioned. If they will turn further to an order of the House, on the motion of the member for Franklin, they will find the balance; but I think it is best to put the whole thing into concrete form, so that the Press and people of the colony may know that the vin- dictive and wild statements which have been made are not correct. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- I wish to ask the Premier whether the statement read by him of what has been drawn by himself includes the house allowance, or, in the alterna- tive, the cost of maintaining and furnishing the Ministerial residence. If not, could he give any idea of the cost of maintaining the Minis- terial residence in which he resides. Mr. SEDDON .- My answer is, that I have drawn no house allowance. The law is, and no one knows it better than the member for Ric- carton, that a Minister occupying a Ministerial residence receives no house allowance. Conse- quently, I have drawn no house allowance ; and, as to the amount spent on repairs to the building, it has been no more than to any other public building, and I am only an occu- pant for the time being. The Crown is the landlord. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- My reason for ask- ing was, that I did not hear any reference in the Premier's return to what he had drawn in that respect, while all the other Ministers who VOL. CXIX .- 66. amount weighted by house allowance. Con- sequently, that amount ought to be extended by at least £200-I will not say more - as having been drawn by him. Mr. SEDDON .- But I never drew it. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston). - I regret the Premier, at this stage of the session, has thought fit to obtrude a personal matter on the House-because this is purely a personal matter. Mr. SEDDON .- It is not a personal matter. Mr. PIRANI .-- We will agree to differ on the point. My opinion is that it is a personal matter. The Premier has brought this before the House because of certain statements made as to the cost he has been to the colony. No reference was made to any other Minister, and there was no need for the Premier to drag any other Ministers into it. This paper is intended purely as a defence of the Premier. Mr. SEDDON .- My colleague, the Minister for Railways, was mentioned. Mr. PIRANI .- No reference has been made to the expenses of the Minister for Railways- at any rate, in a carping spirit. This return is utterly misleading. Take the trip of the Pre- mier's, to the South Sea Islands: does the Premier mean to say it was not an expense in- curred by himself ? Mr. SEDDON .- No. Mr. PIRANI .- Does he mean to say that the "Tutanekai " was not taken to the South Sea Islands for his personal benefit ? There is a sum of over £1,100 not included in this return. I am not calling into question the propriety of the expenditure at all, but I am pointing this out as an omission in the total of expenses <!-- PageNumber="\-" --> incurred purely for the benefit of the Premier ; and the very title of the book, which was pub- lished by the Premier afterwards-I refer to the first edition, "A Premier in search of Health "-is sufficient to show that was the general impression. Then, there is the cost of printing that book about the South Sea Islands, which is another purely personal matter, and would amount to another £200. Then, we have the cost of that tinsmith's shop, bought to give the Premier a little more fresh air, although every other Minister who lived in that residence was content with the amount of fresh air previously obtainable. That was bought at the rate of £52 per foot, when the land-tax valuation is £26 per foot. Then, we have the increase in the size of the Premier's backyard-which is also a personal expenditure, and which was bought out of the coffers of the State. That should also be included as part of the expenses incurred for the personal benefit of the honourable gentleman as Premier. Then, the Premier talks about the necessity of repairs to the Ministerial residence; but it is not a question of repairs, it is a question of very large additions; and if all the expenditure on the Premier's residence was put down, it would be found that £200 a year would not anything like cover it. It would be impossible to cover the cost of all additions to ground, additions to build- ings and matters of that sort-works that no 