side which reaps the advantage is not ourselves ; and, although I hope I am not altogether sel ish, I say that in a matter of this kind we are bound to consider our own interests before those of the American people, even although their laws are similar to ours, even although they do speak a similar language, and even though their modes of thought, political and religious, are something akin to our own. But, sir, I wish to point out that every word the honourable gentleman said would also apply to Canada, for its language, its laws, and its religious thought are as near akin to our own as are those of the United States ; and, as far as ties of blood are concerned, I think the ties between ourselves and Canada are closer than those between ourselves and the United States. So that the arguments of the honourable gentleman would have applied with stronger force to the Vancouver route than to the San Francisco route. However, I was referring to tho argu- ment that the San Francisco route brings us into touch with seventy millions of people, and the advantages of coming into touch with seventy millions of people should be at once apparent-self-evident. What avenues for new trade ! What marvellous chances for develop- ing our commercial and industrial interests! Well, all I can say is that figures are not parti- cularly encouraging. The table I hold in my hand at the present time has already been referred to to-night, and the House I am sure will pardon me if I again trespass on its patience by quoting from the statement. I would ask members to note the trade, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 so far, of this particular service. What do we find ? In the year 1891 the carriage of cargo from San Francisco to Auckland was 1,069 tons, and in 1900 it had gone up to 5,141 tons-a remarkable increase. But, Sir, such increase as it is is an increase of cargo from San Francisco to Auckland. Now, mark : from New Zealand to San Francisco, 601 tons in 1891, and 1,395 tons in 1900. While our exports to America have doubled, in the same period their imports to us have increased tive- fold, or. in other words, we are subsidising this service to enable America to exploit our markets, our trade, and our industries. It has been said, and said with a great deal of truth, that these goods largely consist of cheap prison-made goods, made in America. I do not wish to dwell on that ; but, at any rate, we know that a very considerable quantity of the goods brought here are goods which come into keen and immediate competition with some of our own manufactures. Mr. MASSEY .- What are they ? Mr. COLLINS .- I am not going to be led off the track by the honourable gentleman, although it would be easy to enumerate the articles. We are not finding new markets, or new avenues of trade. They are finding the new markets, and the new avenues of trade and commerce. It is our markets that are being exploited, and not those of the people whose vessels we are subsidising. Then, again, it has been said this route offers wondrous facilities to the tourist, Mr. Collins Spreckels because of the tourist traffic. Let us look again at the figures. In 1891 supposing they were all tourists, which they were not 298 passengers came to New Zealand ; in 1900, 319 came. Supposing they were all tourists, it does not appear as though even with all the seventy millions of people-with all the inducement of subsidising this route ; all our generosity being known to them -it does not appear to be a great increase in the number of tourists to the colony. Then, passengers from the colony in 1891 were 453; in 1900, 533. I say the figures fully demonstrate that, so far as this service in- creasing the tourist traffic is concerned, it has done absolutely nothing of the kind ; the tourists who come to New Zealand will come whether you subsidise this service or not. But the figures are amply sufficient to show that New Zealand is gaining no particular advantage, so far as the tourist traffic is concerned, by the subsidy to this service. I have spoken on the question of the advantage to Auckland of the service. But there is another point. What is the advantage to Auckland ? Personally, I fail to see what the advantage to Auckland can be. The fact that the vessels happen to call there can be no great advantage to the city; if it be a fact that some slight purchases are made by the passengers-who merely pass through, they do not stay there-or some small quantity of vegetables or fruit is bought for the vessels, thereby encouraging the Chinamen gardeners who trade in the city, that is taking a very low estimate of the advantages which accrue to Auckland. But, if not, what are the advan- tages ? So far, those who represent the City of Auckland have not informed us what are the material advantages to Auckland. Mr. FOWLDS .--- It is for the advantage of the whole of the colony. Mr. COLLINS .-- I am glad the honourable gentleman has informed us that the only ad- vantage is to the colony as a whole, and that some parts of New Zealand get their letters a little quicker than they would do by another route But even when you come to that, it is a disadvantage to have your port of call at the extreme end of the colony. In every respect Wellington is the best port of distribution for everything, and that being so, it should be so for correspondence. This appears to me to be a reasonable thing. It appears to me to be a reasonable thing that the mails should come direct to Wellington, from which point they can be more q ickly distributed to the other parts of the colony. Here, it appears, there is a little selfishness on the part of Auckland in endeavouring to prevent the mail coming to Wellington, from which the southern part of the colony could receive their letters in much less time than from Auckland- certainly as far as distribution in concerned. All the southern cities would get their mails much quicker as far as the actual distribution within the colony is concerned. I am speaking of the distribution within the colony. But, Sir, the few moments or the few hours that are to be gained by this particular route-and I am will- 