employés who do not quite receive the recogni- tion that they ought to receive under the pro- posals in the Bill before us. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) .- Sir, I am quite prepared to give the several matters referred to by the member for Wel- lington Suburbs the fullest consideration. I recognise that one very important matter which he has referred to in the course of his speech is that of enabling the two branches of the Railway service to have a different repre- sentation on the Appeal Board. I have already given the matter a good deal of consideration, and I am not satisfied that the present system is the best. I think there is a great deal in what the honourable member said, and I am quite prepared to look into the matter, and, if it is possible, to effect a change in this Bill-I do not want to jeopardize the passage of the Bill- to have a representative from the Locomotive branch and from the Maintenance and Traffic branch, so that the respective branches might be represented on the Appeal Board. I will consider the matter, and when I finally decide as to the best course to follow I will have the Bill amended in the Legislative Council. Regarding the other questions referred 5.0 to by the honourable member, I am afraid that, generally speaking, they will require to be deferred for future consideration. The maximum amount of increase under this Bill is, in round numbers, £30,000. I am limited to that amount, and consequently any alterations which would increase that amount would bring the sum beyond that for which I can ask the authority of the House. I desire to thank honourable members for the way in which they have received the Bill. I am glad to know, by the personal expressions of opinion of members to me, and also by the absence of speeches from honourable members, which speaks volumes for their good wishes for the measure, that they desire to see this important measure become law. Bill read a second time. # IN COMMITTEE. Clause 13 .- " For the purpose of the depart- ment an Appeal Board is hereby constituted for the North Island and the Middle Island respectively, each of which Boards (hereinafter called ' the Board ') shall consist of the fol- lowing persons, that is to say :- "(1.) A Judge of the District Court, or a Stipendiary Magistrate, to be ap- pointed from time to time by the Governor, and to be the Chairman of the Board ; " (2.) One person to be elected by the mem- bers of the First Division in the North Island and Middle Island respectively from among their num- ber ; and "(3.) One person to be elected by the mem- bers of the Second Division in the aforesaid Islands respectively from among their number." (2), to strike out the words " respectively from among their number." The Committee divided on the question, "That the words proposed to be omitted be retained." AYES, 40. Allen, E. G. Fowlds Parata Allen, J. Fraser, A. L. D. Seddon Arnold Gilfedder Smith, G. J. Graham Barclay Stevens Hall Bennet Tanner Buddo Hall-Jones Thompson, R. Carncross Heke Thomson, J. W. Carroll Ward Hogg McGuire Collins Wilford Willis. Mckenzie, R. Colvin Duncan McNab Millar Ell Tellers. Fisher Mills Hornsby Palmer Russell, G. W. Flatman NOES, 13. Hardy Massey Symes. Herries .Monk O'Meara Tellers. Hutcheson Rhodes Guinness Lang Russell, W. R. Pirani. Lawry Majority for, 27. Amendment negatived. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) moved, in subsection (3), to strike out the word " one," and to insert in lieu thereof the word "two." Amendment negatived, and clause agreed to. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) moved the following new subsection :- "All evidence shall be reduced to writing, and the deposition of each witness shall be signed by him." Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) moved, That progress be reported. Progress reported. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, That the committal of the Bill be made the third order of the day. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) moved, That the committal of the Bill be made the second order of the day. Mr. SEDDON said the House had already ordered that the Bill should be Order No. 3, and he was simply wishing to put the measure back in its proper place. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the House could at any time order at what period of a sit- ting a Bill should be brought on. The House divided on the ques- 5.30. tion, "That the word 'third' be re- tained." AYES, 37. Lawry Arnold Flatman Fowlds Massey Barclay Mckenzie, R. Gilfedder Bennet Buddo McNab Graham Meredith Carncross Hall-Jones Heke Millar Carroll Mills Colvin Herries Palmer Duncan Hogg Parata Hornsby Fisher 