a half of the Bill-book of 1883 they will see how much has been left out in the preparation of this Bill. The Bill before us to-night con- sists of sections 218, 219, and the final sec- tions 233 and 234 of the Bill of 1883. All the intermediate sections are omitted. For in- stance, there is the question of publishing upon invitation, of publishing a libel in Courts of justice, publishing parliamentary papers, and fair reports of proceedings of Parliament and Courts. There is the question of fair dis- cussion, fair comment, seeking remedy for grievance, answer to inquiries, giving informa- tion, selling periodical containing defamatory matter, selling books containing defamatory libel, when truth is a defence. Honour- able members will notice that in section 2, " defamatory libel " is a matter published with- out legal justification or excuse. As the Bill stands now, the whole question of legal justifica- tion or excuse in a case must be decided as in civil and not criminal libel. If it is so, then we have got a Criminal Code which does not contain in the code all the law relating to the subject -which does not contain even sufficient law relating to the subject for you to get from the code the offence and its punishment In the Criminal Code Bill which was formerly before this House there is this clause: Sub- section (1), section 23, says,- "(1.) It shall be a defence to an indictment or information for a defamatory libel that the publishing of the defamatory matter in the manner in which it was published was for the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 public benefit at the time when it was pub- lished, and that the matter itself was true. "(2.) Provided that such defence shall not be entertained unless it is pleaded in the manner hereinafter provided for." Then, when we go further into the question of the Criminal Code, we find that the Criminal Code of that year-1883-laid down the proce- dure, and that section 398 also makes provision in regard to indictment for libel. Then I go on further, and I find a number of other pro- visions contained in the Criminal Code. I find that section 415 contains the plea of justifica- tion in a case of libel, and there is a whole page dealing with that subject. As it is getting late I shall not go further into this question ; but, in conclusion, I would urge the honour- able member in charge of the Bill not to ask that this Bill should go into Committee with- out, having gone to the Statutes Revision Com- mittee. I believe if that is done the Statutes Revision Committee will only be too happy to meet at once, and in one or two sittings they can put this Bill into proper form. so that provisions may be embodied in the Cri- minal Code which would be a credit to the code and to the legislation of this year. I am perfectly satisfied that, if this Bill was placed on the statute - book in its present form, there will be endless litigation in con- nection with the interpretation of its pro- visions, and that we would find that again and again there would have to be a recom- mendation from the Courts of justice to this Mr. McNab place, in order that there should be a proper system dealing with this class of offence. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) .- I recog. nise this is a lawyer's Bill, and it will be much more a lawyer's Bill if passed into law. I think there is some warrant for the criticisms of the honourable gentleman who has just sat down, and I fully recognise all the defects he pointed out. The suggestion that the Bill should be sent to the Statutes Revision Committee is one the House could scarcely entertain at this time. We are nearing the end of the session, or we hope we are doing so, and I fail to see there is such a necessity for the Bill being passed into law in so violent a hurry as to necessitate it being at once sent to the Statutes Revision Committee and dealt with this session. It may well stand over till next session. Mr. SEDDON .- No ; it will not be safe. Mr. COLLINS .- The Premier says it is not safe. In many things I would defer to the honourable gentleman's judgment ; but what urgent necessity can there be for this Bill ? 1 fail to see the immediate necessity to safeguard the public in this manner. I undertake to say. as far as defamatory libel is concerned, that a hundred take place inside the House for every one outside. There can be no doubt about that. I cordially agree with the honourable member for Palmerston in his desire to see something done to curtail the privileges enjoyed by mem- bers in uttering defamatory libels without taking the consequences which such libels should entail. But it seems to me, speaking as a layman, I can only describe this as a very crude measure. It seems an attempt is made in two clauses to embody a number of clauses from Lord Campbell's Act. It has been de- scribed as a brutal measure. There is no doubt it is much more drastic than any that can be pointed out elsewhere. Mr. SEDDON .- It is the English law- Mr. COLLINS .- I beg your pardon ; it is not. There is no English law which defines a defamatory libel as " matter published, without legal justification or excuse, either designed to insult the person of whom it is published. or likely to injure his reputation by exposing him to hatred, contempt, or ridicule, whether ex- pressed in words legibly marked on any sub- stance or by any object signifying such matter otherwise than by words, and may be expressed directly either by insinuation or irony." 1 may be wrong, but I do not think so. One can easily see that scarcely a cartoonist would be safe in this colony if this Bill were passed into law. As has been pointed out by the member for Mataura, not only are the penalties much more severe than under the English Act, but the whole Bill is crude and wretchedly incom- plete. The question the honourable member for Mataura raised, that the plea of justification is excluded from this Bill, is a most serious defect, and one can easily conceive it might be necessary for a newspaper to say something which, under ordinary circumstances, would be libellous, but might be necessary to safeguard the public, and would be justified in the in- 