from the Native Land Court. Mr. Sheridan, in an interview with a clerk of the solicitors retained by Mrs. Karaitiana, suggested that the charging order should be applied for, and he himself drew the application. The application was duly proceeded with, but a few days before the hearing he intimated that there was only one person who could get that charging order, and the gentleman spoken of was not a member of the firm in question. Notwithstanding that, the solicitors proceeded, but Mr. Sheridan in- sisted that it would be no good. However, the order was duly granted about three weeks ago by Judge Mackay. They had since received notice from Judge Mackay that Mr. Sheridan desired to have the matter reopened. The matter was still undecided, but he had here a copy of a letter sent by the solicitors in ques- tion to the Judge's associate as follows :- " Grey Street, Wellington, " Re Tamaki. October 28th, 1901. " DEAR SIR,-We are in receipt of your letter of the 26th instant. We cannot understand the attitude of Mr. Sheridan in this matter. Before the order was applied for, Mr. Sheridan informed us that he had the money in hand, and the only reason he could not pay it out was that he had no charging order from the Native Land Court. "He suggested that the order should be applied for, and he himself drew out the appli- cation. This is in our possession. The appli- cation put in is copied from it. He also telegraphed to the Chief Surveyor with re- ference to the lost certificate, and got him to compile again the information upon which the certificate was granted. He expressed himself as anxious to pay the money out as soon as he could legally do so. A few days before the hearing, Mr. Sheridan informed us that Mr. A. L. D. Fraser was the only man who would be able to get the order made, and said that he must be employed to apply for the order, or it could not be obtained. He further said there would be no trouble about it if Mr. Fraser was employed. The day before the hearing our clerk saw Mr. Sheridan, and in- formed him that we were going to make the application the next day at Levin, and asked him to send on the certificate of the Chief Surveyor. He then repeated that if we applied the order would not be granted, and that Mr. Fraser was the only man who could get it. "Two days after the order was made Mr. Fraser sent a message to us that he was going to Levin, and that he would apply for the order. When we informed him that the order was already made, he said he was very glad of it, as the people had been kept out of the money for a very long time. " As you are aware, Mr. Fraser was not em- ployed ; but that does not seem to us to con- stitute a valid objection, and Mr. Sheridan has never urged any other. We respectfully submit that any application to be made by him should be made in a formal manner, and that we should have notice of it, and of the grounds of objection. We are taking the Mr. Atkinson understand that Mr. Sheridan has made per- sonal representations. We have sent Mr. Sheridan a copy of this letter .- Yours truly. ". YOUNG AND TRIPE. "A. H. Mackay, Esq., Clerk, Native Land Court, Levin." Honourable members who were familiar with the legal profession in Wellington would know that that was a firm of as good standing as any in the town. He would like to say he had men- tioned to the member for Napier, Mr. A. L. D. Fraser, that he was going to bring the matter up. With regard to the facts in the letter, be would like to say that, although they might be capable of explanation with credit to the honour- able member for Napier, they could not be ex- plained with credit to Mr. Sheridan, the chief officer of the Native Land Purchase Depart- ment. That gentleman suggested a particular course and a form of application, and drew the application up himself. The matter was put on foot and came before the Court, and he then asserted that unless a certain Native agent was employed the matter could not go through. It was monstrous to suggest to a respectable firm of barristers and solicitors that they must brief a Native agent as counsel to put through what, if the officers of the department were doing their duty, was nothing but a matter of course. Such a state of things was nothing short of scandalous, and he would ask the Native Minis- ter to look into the subject and see if it was capable of any creditable explanation; and. further, to direct that in future neither the Chief Clerk in the department nor any under- officer should constitute himself a "tout" for any professional man or any other man in regard to the business that came before him in his capacity as a trustee for the public. When he told the honourable member for Napier he was going to bring the matter up the honourable gentleman said all that Mr. Sheridan wanted him for was to give evidence. But how was that compatible with the desire on the part of Mr. Sheridan, after recommending the application and after it had been granted contrary to his prophecy, to have the matter reopened ? The order was now made, and how was Mr. Sheridan concerned with the evidence on which the Judge had thought fit to grant it ? He would leave tha: to the Native Minister to say. He would like to ask what was to be the future with regard to the administration of the Maori Councils when. under the very nose of the Native Minister and of the Ministry generally, such an obvious piece of favouritism and touting-to call it by no harsher name-could take place as was de- scribed in the letter he had read to the House. This Bill gave us a good deal of trouble last session and this session ; and, being a highly complicated and important matter, the Minis- try thought proper this year, as last, to reserve it until a late period of the session and the early hours of the morning, and, of course, it was impossible to legislate even on ordinary sub- ject-matter, let alone on highly difficult matter like this, under these circumstances. Last year 