1900," there was no limit, as far as he could see, to the rates which the Auckland City Council might levy. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS said, in answer to the Hon. Mr. T. Kelly, that he proposed to submit in Committee the following amend- ment : " In line 11 of the preamble, after the word 'power,' to add the words ' conferred by ' The Municipal Corporations Act, 1900.'" This would place the rating of the City of Auckland in the same position as that occupied by other Municipal Corporations throughout the colony. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY said that would satisfy him. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER asked if it would be sufficient to put those words in the preamble. Should they not be put in the enacting part of the Bill ? The Hon. Mr. REEVES said he had received a telegram from the late Mayor of Auckland, a man of influence there, Mr. David Goldie, which said,- "Auckland ratepayers desire that a poll be taken before rating restrictions removed. Kindly assist to give effect to this in Bill before Council." He would ask the honourable gentleman if he could comply with that when the Bill went into Committee, because it seemed a strange thing to him that the Auckland people should have this Act thrust down their throats without the ratepayers being consulted by taking a poll. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON thought he https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 ought, as Chairman of the Petitions Com- mittee, to state that they had received a number of petitions from the ratepayers of Auckland protesting against the Bill being passed unless they had the power mentioned by the Hon. Mr. Reeves. He did not know if the Hon. Mr. Jennings was prepared to say that power had been provided. So far as he could see, the prayer of the petitioners had not been granted, which was that they should not allow this alteration to take place without a poll being taken. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS said he desired to answer the Hon. Mr. Reeves and the Hon. Mr. Jenkinson. He might remark that on the second reading of the Bill he had explained that a poll of the ratepayers had been taken in the City of Auckland upon eight different pro- posals, and that five of those proposals had been agreed to by a large majority of the rate- payers. That poll, as expressing the views of the ratepayers, necessitated a loan of £60,000 to carry out the works scheduled for the im- provement of the City of Auckland. He had presented a number of petitions praying that the removal of this limitation should not take place; but, judging from the fact of a poll having been taken, he thought it was not right to have the work already done in getting an expression from the ratepayers upset. He would leave it to the Council to say whether the addition of the words in the preamble which he proposed would not protect the ratepayers from an imposition of rates over that allowed and provided for by the Municipal Corporations VOL. OXIX .- 70. Act of last year. When they came to the matter he would be prepared to discuss it in Com- mittee. Bill committed, reported, and read the third time. The Council adjourned at half-past eleven o'clock p.m. # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Monday, 4th November, 1901. Bills Discharged-Factories Bill-James Beattie- Midland Railway Company-Revenue Returns -Railways Authorisation Bill - Payment of Members Bill. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. BILLS DISCHARGED. Public Health Bill (No. 2), Government Rail- ways Superannuation Fund Bill, Government Railway Servants Superannuation Bill, Food Trusts Bill, Medical Practitioners Bill, Hospitals and Charitable Aid Boards Election Bill, Sale of Preventives Prohibition Bill, Second-hand Dealers Bill, Stud Bill, Products Export Bill, School Attendance Bill (No. 2). # FACTORIES BILL. A message was received from the Legislative Council, forwarding amendments made by the Council in this Bill, in which they requested the concurrence of the House. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, That the amendments be disagreed with. Motion agreed to. The following were appointed a Committee to draw up reasons for disagreement: Mr. Seddon, Mr. Hutcheson, and Mr. Millar. # JAMES BEATTIE. Mr. PALMER brought up the report of the Mines Committee on the petition of James Beattie, and moved, That it be referred to the Government for consideration. Mr. McNAB (Mataura) said some of the streams through the petitioner's property were utilised in connection with a fellmongery. The law made provision under which an application was made to the Commissioner for Crown Lands for the right to get a certain quantity of water from the stream. When the legislation was passed under which this provision was made no provision was made for appeal against the decision of the Commissioner of Crown Lands. After the right had been obtained, the petitioner had sought to appeal against the decision. First the case went before the Warden's Court, and the Warden held he had a right to reverse the decision. It was subse- quently taken to the Supreme Court and to a Judge, who beld that he had no jurisdiction to reverse the decision of the Commissioner. He (Mr. McNab) had brought the matter up before the Goldfields Committee, with the result that 