are correct. What we want, I say, is & combined Otago, so that, if the Govern- ment are going to continue this system of borrowing and expenditure, Otago, at any rate, shall get its reasonable proportion of that expenditure. Now, there is a point too in connection with the railways of Otago, and that is- though it is not in my particular dis- trict I hope I can take a wide view of the in- terests of my part of the colony -- there is an extension of the Catlin's River line which I think the Minister for Public Works ought to send on at a greater speed than he is doing at the present time, and I hope the honourable gentleman will adopt a system of light railways which would tap the valuable forests which exist there. The honourable gentleman last year gave us some very valuable information with regard to light railways, and this district is particularly adapted for being opened up by that process. About fifteen miles from the present terminus is a great forest of valuable timber, and from the way works are being prosecuted there the railway gradually crawls along, and the forest is usually denuded four or five miles ahead of the railway. Roads are cut up by drays in carting and driving timber, and when at last the railway reaches it often the whole of the forest is destroyed. What the honourable member for Auckland said in con- nection with the borrowing of money and push- ing on construction works, and the lying waste of so much valuable capital, is absolutely correct. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 If the line is to be constructed it ought to bo constructed with speed, and not dragged along as it drags along now. But this is not the time to do it by borrowing money at 4 per cent. We should either have done it some time ago or else do it in the future, when money is procur- able at a reasonable rate. It would be much better if the Government selected certain lines and carried them out to a finish than to carry on all these lines in the patchwork way they are doing. Referring once more to the Catlin's River line, I venture to say it would have paid the Government, when money was at 3 per cent., to go on and complete the line and utilise the timber which can be brought out from this Taukauku district. Personally, I should pre- fer to see the local bodies having a great deal more to do with the borrowed money. If that were so, we should not find the honourable member for Masterton getting more than the lion's share. Why, glance over the estimates .and see what the honourable member obtains. There is nothing really which the honourable gentleman will not submit to the Government to get a vote for. Mr. HOGG .- It would not feed a cat what -the honourable gentleman gets. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- " It would not feed a cat!" Well, he must have most voracious cats. Now, there is a question of telegraph extension. I have long held that there ought to be greater telegraphic or telephonic com- munication with the country districts. The Minister in charge of the department does not see his way to grant this unless an amount of | upon particular lines ; but if he wishes to en- courage settlement in the back country he should extend the benefits of telephonic com- munication to the back districts. That is most essential in many cases of sickness. Women in particular are frequently in need of medical assistance, but, owing to the lack of communi- cation, very serious illnesses, and frequently deaths, occur. I do not think I need delay the House longer, beyond voicing my opinion that we are continuing the policy of borrowing out of all proportion with what we need. An Hon. MEMBER. - After what you have said ? Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Yes; if the honour- able gentleman heard what I said, it was that we should take individual lines and prosecute them to a successful issue. An Hon. MEMBER .- The Otago Central. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- No; I do not speak of the Otago Central. I never thought much of the methods in connection with the Otago Cen- tral; it has been badly managed, taken from the wrong point, faultily constructed, and a great deal of the country that it travels through is extremely poor. Last year, when $50,000 was voted for a duplicate line in Otago, I said I did not think it necessary at all, and, if a vote could be taken that could transfer it, I would rather it was allocated to the Auckland railway, because that was much more important. Mr. WITHEFORD .- A noble sentiment. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Yes; I think the honourable gentleman will congratulate me. He is a great congratulator. I think, in con- nection with borrowing, we are borrowing far too much, and this state of affairs cannot possibly continue. I, however, venture to express the hope that the Minister will consider that excel- lent district Waihemo, and extend to it some of the funds not yet granted. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City) .- I would like to offer a word or two on this question ; but I must say that the proposals of the Minister for Public Works have almost knocked me speech- less, and my position is made worse by the wonderful speech we have heard from the honourable gentleman who has just spoken. If you take about 50 per cent. off the figures and statements made by the honourable mem- ber for Waihemo you will arrive at something very near the mark. He wanted to assure the House that there had never been more than three hundred and fifty persons employed on the Otago Central Railway. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Three hundred just now. Mr. FOWLDS. - Three hundred was the number he gave, and he contrasted that with the number employed on the Main Trunk line of railway at the same time. Mr. SEDDON .- Three hundred ! Six hun- dred last month. Mr. FOWLDS .- The exact number was 663. and if you take about the same percentage off his other figures you will arrive at a fairly 