by 6 in. (or its equivalent), per 100 superficial feet . 6 1 "Timber, undressed, n.e.i., of sizes less than 7in. by 2} in. (or its equiva- lent), per 100 superficial fect 2 6 " Laths, per 1,000 0 5 " Palings, per 1,000 . 0 15 . . " Pickets, dressed, per 100 0 4 . . " Pickets, undressed, per 100 0 2 .. " Shingles, per 1,000 .. 0 3 " Doors, of wood, 12 in. and over, each .. 6 7 over 1} in. and under 13 in., each 0 5 1} in. and under, each 3 6 I think honourable members will admit at once that these figures are really prohibitive, and we are not considering an altogether new thing. The tariff has been passed, and is the law at the present time in the Commonwealth of Australia. In order to show what the inten- tion and meaning of the Federal Parliament was, I turn over to the exemptions from the tariff, and find the following :- " Logs, not sawn. "New Zealand pine, undressed, of sizes 12 in. by 6 in. (or its equivalent) or over. "Shafts and poles, sawn or bent, but not dressed. " Spars, in the rough. "Spokes, rims, and felloes of hickory, in the rough. " Staves, undressed or roughly dressed, but not shaped. " Veneers." Showing conclusively their policy is to en- courage all the work being done in Australia. Well, now, if there is nothing done by this http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Parliament to counteract the exodus of our raw material, and we allow the logs to be exported, those who are competent to give a safe opinion, and who are engaged in the business, say the effect would be to kill the saw-milling industry in this colony. The Conference of sawmillers which was held here quite recently comprised representatives from all parts of the colony, and they were unanimous in their resolutions. They passed at their meeting the following resolution : - "That this meeting, very largely represent- ing the timber industry in New Zealand, would urge upon the Government the necessity, in the interests of the workers of this country, to place an export duty on all logs, either in the round or squared with axe or saw, of such an amount as will prevent the export of such timber from our shores." And, later on, it was moved that the duty be 3s. per hundred superficial feet. Now, while there may be a few settlers up North who might have to sell their timber to companies, as explained by the honourable member for Mars- den, that does not affect the matter on the whole. Mr. R. THOMPSON .- It will kill the small men. Mr. MILLS .- Not at all. There are always those who, when alterations of the tariff are possibly suffer by the change ; but you have to deal with the collective interests of all the saw- millers combined, and I tell the House that since that Conference sat here I have been in constant communication with other sawmillers who were unable to attend, and they were of the same opinion as those who were here and approve of the course that this Bill proposes to take. We wanted to know the mind of all who were interested in this industry, and instead of the South Island not being interested in the business, as was stated by the honourable member for Ashley (Mr. Meredith), why, Sir,. he forgets altogether the vast timber interests . that are growing up on the West Coast of the South Island, and in Southland too. There was exported from the West Coast some- thing like 19,000,000ft. of timber last year, and new sawmills are going up, so that it is. likely there will be between 30,000,000 ft. and. 40,000,000 ft. exported next year. Then, there is the White-pine Company down South. All these timber people were in agreement, and a resolution was passed, " That the duty on round or square logs be 3s. per 100 ft." I ask mem- bers to say, were the representatives of these large industries competent to give an opinion ? If so-and I believe they were-we are not far astray. They were the proper persons to con- sult. One northern millowner told me he paid £30,000 a year in wages. He said, " If the Government do not pass a Bill providing for this export duty it means that I am to shut up some of my sawmills, and remove them to the other side, either Sydney or Melbourne. I do not think honourable members will con- sider this style of encouraging industries in our colony would be either wise or judicious. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Then, it is retaliatory, is it ? Mr. MILLS .- No, certainly not ; but if you saw some one take a thousand sheep from your paddock without authority, or consulting you in the matter, you would be the first to stop them, and so would any one. Therefore, in the interests of the whole colony, we should do the best we can to encourage these industries and have the timber sawn up into suitable sizes in our own colony before exporting. And when we consider the immense amount of bush that has been wasted, cut, and destroyed in this colony, we must realise that more interest ought to be taken in the matter. I understand from the Public Works Department that the average life of a bridge is only about sixteen years, and the average life of all the wooden buildings in New Zealand is not more than thirty to thirty-five years; and when we con- sider the growing population of the colony, it means the local consumption of timber must steadily increase year by year, and more in- terest must be taken in this important ques- tion. Therefore I think the measure is a wise one, and I trust it will receive the favourable consideration of the House. The House divided on the question, "That the Bill be read a second time." 