myself. I may say, for myself, that I voted in the way I thought was the proper way. Certain resolutions were brought down to this House in 1888, and to-night I have carried out the views I expressed in this House at that time. I have all along acted according to my convictions, and that is the attitude I took up in this debate, and voted accordingly on the late division. It is nothing but natural that the Maori members from the North Island should lean towards the interests of Auckland and support the San Francisco mail-service. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why ? Mr. PARATA .- Well, it is only natural they should do so. Their homes are in the North Island, and, of course, every one looks to his own interests when it is not conflicting with duty. I regard the remark as a slur on the Native race. We always vote in the way we feel, and in the way we consider best in the interests of the Maori race and the land-the land of our birth. Is this all the thanks I am going to get because my brother members voted in another direction? I think it is unkind, and that it is wrong, that remarks of the kind should have been made. When a matter comes before the House in which I am inter- ested I do not care one iota whether members speak against it or not. For myself, I always vote according to my convictions, no matter whether those convictions should be against the Government or for the Government. I am prepared to go before my people at any time, whether they are half-castes or Maoris, and state the reason why I voted in a certain way https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 at any time, and I am certain they would sup- port me. Of course, there are different views to take and different feelings to consider. To- night everything had gone off well, and the hatchet should have been allowed to lie buried. The Government did not attempt to force the Maori members, but practically told us to vote as we thought best. It was not a no-confidence motion. The European members had their fling, and it is only right that we should finish up well. We gave and we took, and there is no reason why the whole thing should not have ended pleasantly. Mr. MCLACHLAN (Ashburton) .- Sir, with the honourable member for the Southern Maori District, Mr. Parata, I regret that remarks have been made that will lead the House and the country to think that feeling has been shown in this matter. As far as I am con- cerned, I wish to say there has been no friction at all between other members and myself. ] am quite at one with other members on the matter. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) .- Sir, I think the divisions that have taken place and the attitude of members show quite clearly that at least 75 per cent. of the taxpayers of the colony are deadly opposed to the San Francisco mail- service, and I am sure it must be admitted that at least 95 per cent. of the taxpayers of the colony are opposed to the J. D. Spreckels foreign company and contract. How- 1.0. ever, what do we find? When two- House work to try and keep the Government on the right track on this question, we find the Opposition changes its ground and comes to the rescue of the Government. Call them His Majesty's Opposition ! who assist in keeping the mail-service from being put on a proper basis. They are as pliable, supple, and spine- less as so many lamprey eels. The Opposition assists the Government every time. From the time they commenced to abuse their leader and ultimately deposed him they have been going from bad to worse. Now we have this unholy alliance between the Ministers and Opposition, by means of which this contract is to be forced upon us for two years. It ought to have been renewed for one year only, and then we could have well reviewed it next session. Now we can do nothing until after the next election, and then I hope we may have something better than the obsolete, spineless Opposition now on the opposite benches to meet the Government and review its misdeeds. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Hawke's Bay) .- I should not have risen to speak if it had not been for a remark made a few moments ago by one of the honourable members sitting near. He said, "Fraser, I regret very much to find you have been carried away to a great extent this evening by your feelings on this matter." Well, after I had considered what he said for a few moments I came to the conclusion that he was correct; and I think that many other honourable members have been carried away in a similar manner, and possibly on the spur of the moment one has done and said things one should not. I take this opportunity of ex- pressing my regret if unintentional offence has been given ; and I would especially like to say a few words with regard to the Natives. What have we been doing ? We have been trying all we knew to get them on our side. I have done my best to get Mr. Kaihau, and also Mr. Wi Pere. I tried even to get the latter to pair, but he declined when he discovered that the proposed "pair" was down south and could not attend. That says something for his astute- We have endeavoured to frustrate the ness. San Francisco mail-service, and we have been unsuccessful. Let us accept our defeat with equanimity, and extend to the victors the hand of friendship and congratulation. And when we adjourn, Sir, this evening there is another place where we can say to them "Kia ora." Mr. KAIHAU (Western Maori) .- Sir, I feel I ought to say something in regard to the remarks that fell from the honourable mem- ber for Riccarton reflecting upon the capacity of the Maori members of this House to decide for themselves how they shall vote ; not that I personally am troubled in the least about what he said, because it is a common habit of people who have been worsted to cry out in that manner. However, I do not consider it neces- sary to say very much in reply to his remarks, because I hope that every member in this House, like myself, knows how he votes and why he votes. Now, with regard to the state- ment that has this moment been made by the 