voted. That is not a thing that is creditable to the Minister in drawing up his Public Works Statement. I say he is neglecting the roads, and they are the most important things in the country. Now, having expressed myself with regard to that point, I would like to say a few words on the railway question, which is the question on which the debate appears to be turning. The member for Hawke's Bay and the member for Bruce did not say that all additions to open lines ought to be charged to the working-expenses. We admit that some of them are properly charged to capital account ; but there are any amount of items that we say, and that any business man would say, ought to be charged to working-expenses. Mr. NAPIER .- What are they ? Mr. HERRIES .- The replacing of sleepers, for instance. That ought to be provided for out of working-expenses. For my part, if I manured my paddock, I would charge it to working-expenses. The Bank of New Zealand did not, and that is why they came to grief. Relaying rails ought not to be charged. Take the fitting of second-class bogie cars with cushions. I reckon that ought to be charged to working - expenses, because I do not think that capital ought to be borrowed to provide cushions. But I would like to ask the Minis- ter to explain whether the whole of this £325,000, which is the expenditure on additions to open lines for 1900-1901, and is borrowed money, has been added to, or whether it is in the £17,207,328 which is put down as the total cost of constructing the open lines? I would like to know whether it appears in the capital account, or whether it is added to the £1,022,729 put down as the cost of unopened lines. I allude to return No. 6, which is a valuable return. Sir J. G. WARD. - Look at the General Manager's report. Mr. HERRIES. - I have carefully checked all these figures, and I think this sum of $17,207,000, which is the total cost of con- structed lines, is grossly misleading. In the first place, take Return No. 16-a return show- ing mileage, cost, traffic, revenue, et cetera, of the railways. There it is shown that this year we increased our railways by about 108 miles in the mileage column, but we only increased our capital cost from £16,703,887 to €17,207,328, or by a sum of $504,000. Well, now, I say that is grossly misleading, because eighty-two of these 108 miles is Midland Railway, and no charge is put down for the Midland Railway in the capital account of the colony. I say that is not right : it should have been valued and put down to capital cost ; because otherwise, if you divide the capital cost by the mileage, you get an entirely wrong idea as to what the railways cost to make in this colony. Turning again to Return No. 6, I find a great number of the things there-for instance, stock (permanent- way), stock, additions to open lines, stores, and surveys-are not included in this sum of " opened $17,207,887." They are included in this "total unopened $1,022,328," and the Hon. the Minister will nowhere find that this VOL. CXIX .- 53. £1,022,000 is treated as included in the total cost of construction. Now, I believe that all that money for stock, additions to open lines stores, et cetera, has come out of the borrowed money for additions to open lines, and yet does not show in the total cost of open lines. Take, for instance, the additions to open lines stores, which have increased this year by $30,000 odd : we find exactly the same sum enumerated in Return No. 7. at the bottom of page 27, as part of the £325,000 borrowed for additions to open lines ; and yet this sum does not show in the sum of $17,207,328, total cost of open lines, but comes in that $1,022,000 of the total of unopened lines, and I say that is a grossly misleading thing. What happens is that all these alterations and figures are put where they should not be, and the total cost of opened lines does not appear as great as it should be, and the consequence is that the percentage earned by the railways on the total cost is made so much less. I do not think it brings the earnings to under 3 per cent., but it brings it nearly down to 3 per cent., so far as I can make out. I say, in the total cost to open lines the value of the Midland Railway should be put; and in the same way the whole of this $325,000 of last year's borrowed money should be added to opened lines. I will further show how impossible it is that this £325,000 can have been added. If honourable gentlemen will look at Return No. 6 they will find last year the total cost of open lines was $16,703,000 ; this year it is £17,207,000 ; but two separate items that occur in this year's open lines-Westport Harbour works, €14,111, and Greymouth Harbour, $127,234-were set down as unopened lines last year. This year they are in the open lines, and they increase the cost of open lines ; therefore, the net increase of open lines is only $362,000. Now, if the whole of the £325,000 was added, this would leave a balance to be accounted for of £37,000. But twenty five miles of railway besides the Midland have been opened ; therefore this ought to appear in the cost of open lines: £37,000 is a ridiculous sum to say twenty-five miles of railway opened could cost. Therefore, I am satisfied the whole of this £325,000 does not occur in the cost of open lines. So that, as far as I can make out, the amount given as £17,207.328 as cost of open lines is entirely misleading and below the actual cost, and any calculations founded on that cost must be mis- leading. So much for the railways ; and I must say the discussion on the railways at cdd times always happens because no opportunity the Railways State- is given to discuss ment. That Statement ought to be discussed -and perhaps the Minister will now see the usefulness of the suggestion-when it is brought down, like the Financial Statement. We have to discuss the Railways Statement whenever we can get a chance-bits of it on the railway estimates and bits of it on the Loan Bill. The railways are the most important part of the service of the colony, and the need of discussing the Railways Statement is not out of place in the counsels of the House. In regard to the Public 