of the Royal guests. There can be no ques- that in his own mind he knows that the Bill as it was introduced was, as he said, harmless, and tion about that. Members might very well that the word "and" in that part of the Bill ask, and probably have asked, themselves the would have left it harmless with regard to question whether authority had been given to His Excellency in respect to incurring the a professional money-lender or any other per- son, and that by the substitution of " or " you expenses. The answer to that, Sir, is this: His Excellency, by arrangement with Minis- have got a workable clause, and that without that the Bill would have been inoperative in ters, consented to act as host for the colony. New Zealand, as it was proved to be now in the The colony, in inviting their Royal Highnesses, undertook that all expenses in entertaining and Vid Country. I think we have a very good Bill, incidental to the visit would be defrayed by and a Bill that will only be operative where the the colony itself. There was no one else, of interest charged is extortionate or unconscion- abie. for only in such cases will there be any course, to act the part of host except His remedy to be obtained before the Court. If Excellency. We had the advantage of the two Government Houses at Auckland and Welling- caus of a different kind were brought, those ton ; but in Christchurch and Dunedin there who brought them would be mulcted in costs, and that would deter others from bringing were other expenses outside those incurred by His Excellency which were directly incidental further cases. But I do not believe that any to and in connection with the visit. As I man in New Zealand would bring a case before stated the other day, outside the amount we the Court where the interest was not more than are asking the House by this Bill to pass, there that fixed in the second clause-that is, 10 per can be no doubt His Excellency was put to ceut. I move that the amendments be agreed additional expense. In order to enable us to to. Mr. ATKINSON .- Sir, might I be allowed look at the matter from a proper standpoint, all we have to do is to estimate His Ex- to say a word in personal explanation. The cellency's ordinary expenditure for a period Minister has misrepresented me-I do not say intentionally. As he said, I was the first to equal to that during which their Royal High- nesses were here, and allow for the expenses point out that this Bill as introduced applied solely to the professional money-lender. The preparatory to their arrival. After deducting Minister is also correct in saying that I pointed from the total amount the sum which it would cost His Excellency under ordinary circum- out that every person who charges an excessive stances, the balance, I hold, is a liability of rate of interest should be subject to the Bill. But the Minister appears to overlook the fact the colony, because Ministers were asked what that clause 3 as amended expressly provides the arrangements in respect to entertaining were to be in New Zealand. The answer was that no money-lender shall be exempt from the that New Zealand would cheerfully bear any operation of the Bill, whether the rate of interest charged is excessive or not. What I expense incidental to the Royal visit. Under Wanted to get at was the money-lender, and not these circumstances, I think the House would be consulting their own dignity; and mem- the trustee or other bona fide investor. The bers would be voicing the wish of the country, amendment of clause 3, though it arose through by simply passing this Bill. Having invited my suggestion, was therefore opposed by me in the Royal guests here, and after they have Committee as it is now. Amendments agreed to, and Bill read a third spent a very pleasant time amongst us, after we have entertained them in such a manner Rome. as commended itself to them and to the people ROYAL VISIT EXPENSES BILL. throughout the British Empire, it would, I Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- Sir, we practically think, be derogatory to our dignity and a re- had the second-reading debate on the motion flection upon the colony if there was anything to introduce the Bill. It has been pointed out like an acrimonious discussion or objection that on the appropriation being passed, had the taken to what we are asking Parliament to amount mentioned in this Bill been passed on grant under the Bill now before honourable members. the estimates, the question would have been think that the amount is rather high. raised as to whether or not the Appropriation Bai itself would have to be reserved for the Rosal as ent. As I said previously, the Go- Terminent were advised by the Solicitor-General we would desire to question the accounts, the that such a contingency could not arise, and if management, or the economy or otherwise of His Excellency in respect to the amount. I exception was taken that His Excellency would do not think it is necessary, nor do I think be quite right to approve of the Appropriation Bill, seeing that he is not at all interested in members would care to have the vouchers respect to this amount-that he has simply placed on the table of the House in respect to been the host for the colony, and only appears this expenditure, but, if I might give honour- cominally as being liable for the amounts which rable members a general outline, probably it are mentioned in the Bill. He has already dis- might remove some doubts in the minds of a cursed on the part of the colony over £1,100-I few honourable members. If it would prevent think the correct amount is £1,153 19s. Then an acrimonious discussion, and what I think the balance is due for accounts which were would be a reflection upon us, I should be very happy to give every reasonable information reudered to His Excellency, and which were to members. I suppose many members think necessary in respect to the proper entertaining Some honourable members may Hon. MEMBERS .- Hear, hear. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, I do not think myself 