a power, and is necessary in the interests of the people as well as those employed in the factories. Then, there is a question affecting the position between tenants and owners, and a new clause has been inserted by the Committee, as follows :- " When the occupier, not being the owner of the property, is required to make any alteration of the building for sanitary purposes only under this section he may recover the cost of the same from the owner thereof." I suppose it will be a matter for the terms of the lease, but it is a matter of some moment to the occupier of the premises. In conclusion, I hope that members will agree to allow the Bill to proceed. It is necessary we should have the consolidation of our factory laws, which at pre- sent cover three or four statutes, which in some instances seem to clash. There has been a necessity for a slight alteration of the law, and in this Bill certain objections that were taken are met. The employés, I think, are generally satisfied with what is now proposed, and I do not think the employers can possibly take exception to it. I should like to arrive at a stage when the laws referring to factories and industries will be made as perfect as possible, and will not require further amendment. It is in the interests of those who invest capital in industries that they should know where they are, and it is also in the interest of the workers that our laws should be made perfect and remain so. All sorts of things have been written about https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 this Bill, but the writers have written many of them not knowing that what they have been criticizing has been the existing law for four or five years, and has not been taken exception to by the employers. The principal objections were in respect to holidays, and in respect to reducing the working-hours of the men em- ployed. I have not heard it disputed by any employers that, in respect to the health of women and children, and for other reasons, it would be wise to bring the hours down to what they were in the original Act of 1894, and that is all we now propose to do. There will pro- bably be some exception taken in respect to some industries, that if women and youths are not allowed to work then the men cannot work. I do not see how that objection can be met, unless there is to be in the Bill a section in respect to particular industries, dealing with it. It is the woollen industry that I allude to, and my own opinion is that an ar- rangement could be made if they would make up their minds to do so; and I say that the prin- ciple we have to consider is whether or not it is wise that women and children shall be worked longer hours. I say that working longer hours would be detrimental to the health of the rising generation, and that ought to outweigh any consideration as to keeping a few women and youths working in order that we may keep a certain number of them em- ployed. I think they can make arrangements, at all events, that a certain number may be em- ployed. Whether they take it in rotation, or by what means they like to organiza it, I need VOL. CXIX .- 23. ment can be made, and that we should fix as a principle that women and children should not be required to work more than forty-five hours a week. I beg to move, That the Bill be com- mitted. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) .- There is no doubt, Sir, that the Bill now in the hands of members is a measure as different from the Bill originally submitted to this House as night is from day. I do not know any labour measure ever submitted to Parliament that caused so much resentment and exaspera- tion throughout the whole of the colony as this Factories Bill did ; and, though I am entirely averse to raising one discordaut note in con- nection with this labour legislation, I have a solid complaint to make against the Minister of Labour, in that he has himself confessed that he has not given the personal care to this and similar measures which they deserved. Mr. SEDDON. - The honourable member knows that I never shirk responsibilities. After I had an assurance twice that the principle of the Bill was the same, that prevented me from going carefully through the Bill myself. Mr. HUTCHESON. - I am actuated neither by a carping nor fault-finding dis- position, and I respect the Premier for that quality more than any other which he possesses -namely, that he puts his own shoulder under the load and relieves the strain from those who are working under him. That is not the com. plaint I have to make. I desire to make myself clear. I am credibly informed that recently some people interested in this labour legislation asked several Ministers of the Crown some elementary questions in connection with the intended scope of the Factories Bill, and both Ministers frankly confessed that they knew nothing whatever about it-that they had never seen the Bill, and had never been consulted in respect to it. My complaint is that the Premier, who is Minister of Labour, has not taken his colleagues into his confidence, and that this Bill has not been considered in Cabinet. I do not know whether it is the custom of the present Cabinet to discuss policy measures in Cabinet; but I have always understood that these Bills were dissected and criticized by the Cabinet before they were sub- If the Premier had mitted to Parliament. gone through the Bill, or if it had been con- sidered in Cabinet, I feel quite certain that his own and his colleagues' sense of the fitness of things would never have permitted this Bill to be submitted to the House in the form in which it was brought down. Is it part of the scheme of things to induce panic, or is it simply due to Whatever the cause the culpable negligence ? Premier is equally blameworthy. But how far can this and similar legislation go? 8.0. I submit that it is only possible to have legislation of this character just so far as the prompting of the liberally minded, humanely disposed employer of labour, with a full sense of the responsibility which attaches to the employing of others, would induce him without the force of law to go. Just so far 