years past, gentlemen in whose honour they reposed the utmost confidence, and this pro- po-al cast a reflection on their honour that was outrageous. The Hon. Mr. W. C. SMITH did not think the honcurable gentleman who moved the amendment had any such intention. Mem- bers had every confidence in the Clerks; but even clerks were liable to make mistakes. It was quite possible that in the ballot some informal votes might be cast ; then, why not allow mem- bers to see the voting for the purpose of check- ing any such informality, just the same as the Clerks? In ballots there was always a scruti- neer to see that no mistake was made. If there happened to be an informal vote, the member giving it ought to be allowed the opportunity of knowing it, and saying, " I did not mean that at all." The Hon. Captain BAILLIE .- You cannot draw it back. The Hon. Mr. W. C. SMITH .- You may not draw it back, but it is only right that members should see the ballot-papers. The Hon. Mr. JONES said, If that were done they must have a set of rules setting forth in what order - whether by order of age or other- wise - members should go up to inspect the voting-papers, so that the thing might be done decently and in order. However, he did not agree with the proposal at all. If the election was to be by ballot let it be by ballot, and there should be no indication and no means whatever of ascertaining how members had voted. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 The Hon. Mr. McLEAN did not think this proposal would do at all. It might be that some members would inspect the voting-papers just to see who had voted for them. It was not any reflection upon the Clerks. The usual way. of course, was to appoint scrutineers, and he took it that what was now wanted was that scrutineers should be appointed. But it would never do for all members to have the right of examining the voting-papers, because they would never get to the end of it. What was wanted was to provide against any mistake which the Clerks might possibly make. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH did not think there was a single member of the Council who would think for a moment the honourable gentleman had put this proposal forward in any sense as a reflection. All the same, it carried with it an implied doubt as to the competency of the Clerks, in whom they reposed just as much confidence as in any one there. Amendment negatived. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN moved the addition of a new paragraph, namely : "That the elec- tion of Chairman of Committees shall be the first order of the day on the day of such elec- tion." Agreed to. Resolved : " That Standing Order No. 253 be repealed, and the foregoing paragraphs be agreed to in lieu thereof." The Council adjourned at a quarter to five o'clock p.m. Tuesday, 1st October, 1901. Customs Returns-Supply. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. # CUSTOMS RETURNS. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) announced to the House that the amount of Customs duty col- lected during the month of September was £197,586 18s. 8d., as against £166,487 13s. 11d. for the corresponding month of last year. # SUPPLY. CLASS IV .- JUSTICE DEPARTMENT. Vote, Department of Justice and Patent Office, £2,254, agreed to. Vote, Crown Law Office, £2,500, agreed to. Supreme Court, £6,645. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) asked whether the Minister would be prepared to put a sum on the supplementary estimates for extra remuneration to the Deputy Registrars of the Supreme Court, for the services as Clerks of Awards under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Year after year these officers had been doing this work, which was every year be- coming heavier, but they were getting nothing for their extra work. If honourable members would look through the estimates they would find that where another new department had been established which entailed extra work on officers. of another department those officers received extra pay for their work. Mr. PALMER (Ohinemuri) said that these officers-especially the one in the Auckland District - were worked very hard, and often had to be back at night to twelve and one o'clock on the work of the Arbitration Court, and were deserving of extra remuneration. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) said that, if honourable members would look, they would see that increases had been given to these officers at Auckland, Wellington, and Christchurch. There was no increase at Dunedin, for that was a case of promotion and was an increase to the officer on what he had previously been receiving. In making those increases consideration had been given to the fact of their having to discharge the duties of Clerk of Awards under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said it was quite true that the fact of their being Clerks of Awards had been taken into consideration in compiling these estimates ; but if any special salary was to be given for the position then it should come out of the vote for the Labour Department. It was to be remembered that these officers only worked from nine to five, and if a man's time was not fully occupied by his ordinary duties and he was given other duties to perform he should not be paid extra. 