cient to induce Parliament not to prorogue until defamatory libel is placed in the Criminal Code Act. 1 therefore move the second reading of the Bill. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) .- Sir, while agreeing with the Premier that it is necessary there should be some protection for the public with regard to persons libelling and slandering others- persons who have no means and cannot be proceeded against with any show of success on the Civil side of the Court -- still I hope he will not attempt to place such a law as this on the statute-book of the colony ; for, Sir, in its provisions it is one of the most savage Bills I have ever looked at. Why, we have here a term of imprisonment for five years with hard labour -- for what ? Here it is :- "Every person is liable to five years' im- prisonment with hard labour who publishes, or threatens to publish, or offers to abstain from publishing, a defamatory libel with intent to extort money, or to induce any person to confer upon or procure from any person any appoint- ment or office of profit or trust, or business, or in consequence of being refused any such money, appointment, office, or business." Captain RUSSELL .- What are you reading ? Mr. HORNSBY .- I am reading from the Criminal Code Amendment Bill, No. 74-1. Well, Sir, I know that the law has been pretty bad in this colony with regard to criminal libel, but I do not think there was ever a punishment of that kind provided previously. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes. Mr. HORNSBY. - Well, then, Sir, I do not https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 think it is right, even if it did exist previously, to attempt to perpetuate a law which has nothing to justify it. I quite agree with the Premier that there are cases where you must set the law in motion on the criminal side of the Court, but the experience of the past has been this : that the criminal side of the Court has too often been invoked against people in this colony-not only newspaper men, but others. I have in my remembrance a case in Christchurch, where a man was haled before the Court for criminal libel, and the Magistrate had no option but to commit the man for trial. He was sent for trial, and what were the re- marks of Mr. Justice Denniston on the case ? They were in effect this: "I have never seen a more monstrous thing than the in- voking of the criminal side of the Court in such a case as this, when the Civil side was there to be availed of by the prosecution." He as good as told the grand jury to throw out the bill ; and the bill was thrown out. Sir, under this law that we are asked here to pass there is a term of one year's im- prisonment for any one that "publishes any defamatory libel, or, if knowing the same to be false, to two years' imprisonment." Now, in most countries where the punishment exists of imprisonment for publishing defama- tory libels the offenders are treated as first-class misdemeanants ; but there is no provision of that kind in this Bill. A man may be in his own mind conscious that he is trying to do what Mr. Seddon public service for the benefit of the people ; and yet he may be haled before a Court and sent to prison for twelve months, and have to herd there with criminals. I say it is a monstrous provision to make in the law of this or any other country. Our libel law at the present time is a very bad law - it is an unjust law, it is an improper law. For example, the Press of this colony at the present moment cannot with safety publish in their columns the reports even of public meetings, because such reports are not in any way privileged, not even when the re- port of a meeting is published in good faith and for the public interest. Newspapers are not protected in any way, and actions for libel and slander can be taken against them on the slightest provocation. I do not maintain for a single instant that there are not men who sometimes in the heat of the moment, and sometimes designedly, go altogether too far in their criticism of public men and in their criti- cism of their fellows. It is a ditheult matter indeed for me to refer to this question without showing the personal feeling that I have in the matter as a journalist ; but I would like to say this : that, while I have no desire whatever to see the Press of this colony protected in any way against legitimate prosecution, I do ask and I do hope that this House will give a fair consideration to this matter before it places on the statute-book what I deem to be a cruel- nay, as I have said before, even a savage law. There is no option of a fine here. Sometimes a man may be haled before the Court on the criminal side, and, although the prosecutor may not believe him to be possessed of any of this world's goods, he may be able to pay a fine ; and why should you not give to the Court the option of fining a man? I know that under the old law in this colony a man may be fined and imprisoned. A man may be sued for libel, judgment may be given against him <!-- PageHeader="\---" --> for a large amount of money, and he may be imprisoned also. That is the state of the law, and I say it is a most improper and unjust thing. I hope the House will give this matter careful consideration, and that the provisions of this Bill will be considerably modified if the Bill is passed at all. I say, emphatically, we need some protection for the public in the matter of criminal libel, and I think it a pity that the criminal provision was dropped out of our Criminal Code altogether : but I would ask the House, when we go into Committee on this Bill, to modify its provisions, and to give a reasonable amount of protection to the public, but not to attempt to inflict such a law as this upon the Press and the people of the colony. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City). - I shall support the second reading of the Bill, not. withstanding the misuse of language applied to it by the honourable member for Wairarapa. This Bill is what the newspapers stand very sadly in need of. They have been asking for a Libel Bill for some years. Here is just the thing. This Bill suits me down to the ground. It is the public of the colony who require pro. tection against the libeller, and particularly 