documents on the table ? "Mr. SPEAKER .- The House is entitled to have official documents, when quoted, presented to it. All papers read by Ministers are liable to be called on to be placed on the table. " Mr. SEDDON .- I intended to and will com- ply with the rules of the House." I contend, Sir, that in accordance with that ruling you should demand that the honourable gentleman shall lay these papers on the table. If you refer to Barron's "Rulings of the Speakers," from 1867 to 1899, you will find on page 83, section 23, that " Official documents quoted from by Ministers must be laid on the table "; and then seven rulings are referred to, one by Mr. Speaker Bell, two by Mr. Speaker O'Rorke, two by Mr. Speaker Steward, and again two by Mr. Speaker O'Rorke. On 27th July, 1893, Mr. Speaker Steward gave his ruling as follows :- "It appeared to him that it was for him to rule on the point, and that would end the discussion. The quotation read by the honour- able member for Inangahua was perfectly clear, and the point raised by the last speaker was also quite clear. It was never intended that private memoranda should be called for ; but it was laid down that, if official documents were used, then those official documents, subject to certain conditions, could be demanded. There were limitations. For instance, the ruling of Mr. Speaker Peel was very clear indeed on the point. It was a modern ruling- of 1887 : ' When a Minister quotes an official document the whole of such document should be laid be- fore the House. A confidential document is excepted from the rule that communications referred to in debate should be laid upon the http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero table.' The whole point was, Was the docu- ment in question a private document, or a memorandum, or an official document ? In the remarks the Premier had just made he said there were certain other documents he read which were memoranda, but that that particular paper was an original document, and therefore he recognised the right of members to call for it, and his duty to lay it on the table. But, merely for convenience' sake, he had taken the liberty of keeping it back for a little while to have a copy made. He did not think the honourable gentleman, or any one else, had any right to withdraw it for convenience' sake : that should have been done by arrangement, and it would have been better that a copy should have been made there and then. But, as the honourable gentleman had stated that the document was in process of being copied, it would be laid on the table. The position was quite clear-that an official document must be laid on the table, but not a private one." "He did not think the honourable gentle- man, or any one else, had any right to withdraw it for convenience' sake." I lay stress upon that point. Mr. Speaker Steward's ruling is valuable, because it deals exactly with the thing done by the Premier in this House yesterday afternoon. " He did not think the honourable gentleman, or any one else, had any right to most audacious thing to do. The honourable gentleman having made use of the correspond- ence, to the great disadvantage of the member for Ashley (Mr. Meredith), then withdraws the document from the House. That, surely, should not be allowed. That would destroy all prin- ciples of honour and justice. Can there be any departure from Mr. Speaker Steward's ruling that, " When a Minister quotes an official docu- ment, the whole of such document should be laid before the House"? Now, Sir, the two questions upon which I wish to have your ruling are these : (1) Should the papers, being the property of the Assets Board, have been produced in this House by the Premier? (2) Having been produced in the House, and having been officially used by the Premier, must they not be laid on the table? I take it I have made the point perfectly clear, and that it requires no further elaboration. It has been definitely determined in the most conclu- sive language both by Mr. Speaker O'Rorke and Mr. Speaker Steward. Mr. SEDDON .- As to this point of order,- Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- It is a question of privilege, and my opinion has been asked whether a breach of privilege has been com- mitted. Mr. SEDDON .- I claim the right to speak. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I am prepared to give my ruling on the point. Mr. SEDDON .- I wish to make a personal explanation. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I do not see the necessity. You can make your personal ex- planation after I have given my ruling. Mr. SEDDON .- I ought to be the best judge of that. Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER .- I am prepared to give my ruling. Two points have been sub- mitted by the honourable member : First, should the documents, being the property of the Assets Board, have been quoted in making a personal explanation; and, secondly, having been quoted, should the documents have been laid on the table. In the first place, my ruling is this, -- - Mr. SEDDON. - I never quoted from a document. Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER. - I heard the honourable gentleman say he had certain docu- ments in his hand, from which he quoted, and my opinion is that the documents he was quoting from were not official documents within the meaning of the decisions of the House as quoted by the honourable member. It is entirely a matter of opinion or taste for the Premier, as a member of the Board, to decide whether he should refer to and quote from documents belonging to that Board. It is not for me to rule whether he should do so or not. I take it that it is for the member who is in possession of those documents to exercise his discretion. On the second point-namely, that a breach of privilege has been committed in not laying these documents on the table, I am of opinion that no breach of privilege has been committed, because the documents quoted by 