which I could not for one moment accept. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City). Sir, the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds) said he had no intention to go into hysterics upon this question, and he has cer- tainly fulfilled his promise, and if all the other representatives of Auckland had imitated his spirit the question would not have been ap- proached with any heat on either side It was an exceedingly ingenious plea that the honour- able member put forward for other representa- tives of Auckland City who have not taken the same reasonable attitude. He suggested that their attitude was unreasonable, not on account of any local concern for Auckland, but simply from concern for the colony as a whole. Feeling that the Fr'isco service was so much the best and so obviously the best for the whole colony, they must necessarily suspect some sinister motive on the part of those who venture to doubt so palpable a truism. Well, as I say, it is unfortunate that other representative persons from Auckland have not brought the same reasonableness to bear upon this ques- tion. And, if we may judge of the people of Auckland by their utterances upon this question, we are entitled to say, I think. that while the people of Auckland have a magni- ficent public spirit, and great munificence has been shown on the part of its citizens-a muni- ficence which I should be proud to see equalled in this city-Auckland has also the defect of her qualities, and I am afraid, with regard to this particular contract, she has shown that defect in a very pronounced fashion. But here in Wellington we have taken a cooler view of the position. We are more cosmopolitan ; we have perhaps less of that public and corporate spirit than they have, but by reason of that defect we have taken a more level and even view upon this question than the majority of the people in Auckland. Of course, there is the further reason that this is a more serious ques- tion to the people of Auckland than it is to the people of Wellington. It is a greater hardship to be deprived of a benefit, even a small one, which you have long enjoyed than merely to continue to do without what you never had, and had little prospect of ever getting. Now, I would like to draw attention to some recent utterances of the senior member for Auckland. and the Mayor of that city. I think the honour- able member for Auckland (Mr. Fowlds), with his candour, will admit that some of the utterances of both those gentlemen during the last few days do not admit of the same reasonable con- struction as the honourable member desired us to put upon them. In a telegram from the Mayor of Auckland to the Premier on the 14th instant, he reminds the Premier of his promise with regard to the Fr'isco service in the follow- ing terms : "There is intense feeling here regarding the San Francisco mail-service. In your address to the Auckland electors on the 31st May, 1899, you said the San Francisco service was the best the colony had, and you were going to keep it- you had never the slightest intention of taking Nr. Fowlds gether as long as you were Prime Minister." Surely there is something there of local in- terest. I take it that the Premier would have <!-- PageHeader="1" --> held to his promise if he did not rob Auckland of this privilege in order to give the preference to any other city in New Zealand ; but I fail to see that the Mayor of Auckland can justify holding him to his promise, or to the apparent letter of his promise, if it should be proved that the best interests of the colony would be served by dropping the service altogether. Then, the senior member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) sent a telegram. My colleague has referred already to that telegram, and while my col- league was referring to it the honourable mem- ber (Mr. Napier) said there was no statement in that letter. I do not know whether he meant that threats were not statements; but let us look at the telegram and see whether there are no statements in it. This is the telegram, and it is addressed to the Mayor of Auckland,- "Thanks for resolutions. Your meetings and telegrams give us great encouragement. Glad to see all Aucklanders united to resist the latest attempt to injure the Empire and colony, and further despoil Auckland by abolishing San Francisco mail-service. Continue to display the unanimity of the people of the province by meetings and resolutions of public bodies. The help of the people so given will sustain and strengthen Auckland members in doing their duty unfalteringly. Any weakening by a mem- ber, in face of clamours of Auckland's enemies in the Press, should be visited with severest censure." That is to say, that so reasonable and states- manlike an utterance as that of the honour- able member for Auckland City (Mr. Withe- ford) which had been given publicity to on the previous day, should be visited with the severest censure. Then the telegram proceeds :- " All Governments appreciate the conciliatory power of the mailed fist of a united people. For thirty years our province has been plundered, and if it is necessary to prevent further humilia- tion we must allow party politics to slumber for a period, and fight as one man for our rights." 1 That is, for the rights of the people of Auck- land. It is from the Emperor of Germany that the honourable gentleman has borrowed the 1 phrase " mailed fist." The Emperor of Ger- many sent a sensational telegram, it will be remembered, and the honourable member for Auckland is going to rival him, and here is the 1 result. It is appropriate that the honourable member should borrow a phrase from another military potentate. The only other passage in literature where I can remember the use of the epithet "mailed " is one of the funniest passages in the " Anti-Jacobin,"- Ah! who has seen the mailed lobster rise, Clap her broad wings, and, soaring, claim the skies ? The answer to that is not recorded ; but I should say, if any lobster were to make any such foolish attempt, it would not make a less dignified or less effective figure than the honour- able member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) 