Reeves, I would remind him that the students of the university of New Zealand are not as a rule able to reside at a distance from their homes to get university teaching. No doubt the ideal place for a university college is one where all the students would be resident, and where they would be, as the honourable gentle- man suggested, outside of the turmoil of a great town; but it has been found necessary even in the Old Country to found universities at the centres of population, where the students can attend the lectures regularly. It will take a great many years before there are here a number of young people able to devote them- selves to university study at a distance from their own homes. For that reason I think it will be necessary for a long time to come to have our universities and colleges at places where there is the largest population near the schools. However, I am glad that some hope is held out for agreeing, in Wellington at least, as to a site for the university. I confess I should like to feel more certain than I do. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- Sir, this Bill says that the Mayor and citizens of the City of Wel- lington are empowered to do certain things, the Victoria College Council have power to do certain things, and the Wellington Hospital Trustees may do certain things. Well, those things could have been done before without a Bill. The bodies mentioned could have come to a decision to make the exchanges without any Bill, and a Bill could have been introduced afterwards to give effect to their decisions. I https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 would like, however, to ask the honourable gentleman whether he is at liberty to tell us the result of the negotiations which took place be- tween the Premier and the Victoria College Governors and the City Council. I hope that this Bill means that some definite arrangement was arrived at-that we are not merely passing the Bill in the hope that something may turn up to enable a decision to be come to. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I suppose the honourable gentleman refers to the Con- ference held yesterday. Well, I was not pre- sent at the Conference, and do not know what happened, and so cannot be expected to say what took place. I believe, however, there was a modus vivendi arrived at, and I have no doubt if the people of Wellington are sensible-which I admit they often are not-they will assist each other in seeing that the institution thrives in the way similar institutions do in other towns. I am sorry to say the Wellington public is very acrimonious and cantankerous, but the Govern- ment cannot help that. All we want to do is to give them a fair show, and I think this Bill gives them a fair show. If they will only try to act, as most people do, in the best interests of their town, there ought to be no difficulty between these bodies. The Government was asked to empower them to do this, and has done so; and the only body that in any shape or form requires compensation is the Hospital Trustees, and that is specially provided for from the Consolidated Fund on the valuation of the General Assessor. I think, therefore, the whole it will prove satisfactory. Bill read the second and the third time. RESERVES AND OTHER LANDS SALE, DISPOSAL, AND ENABLING AND PUB- LIC BODIES EMPOWERING BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER, in moving the second reading of this Bill, said it was one of those Bills which was periodically necessary. It was a Bill that represented a great many old questions, there not having been a Bill of the kind brought forward for some years. He had very carefully looked into it in Cabinet in the first place, and it had been thoroughly sifted in the other Chamber. Bill read the second and the third time. DUNEDIN CITY AND SUBURBAN TRAM- WAYS BILL. The Hon. Mr. BOLT said, the Bill was for the purpose of granting in a small way a fur- ther extension of the powers given to the Dunedin City Corporation under the City Tramways Act of last year. That Act gave the Corporation power to borrow £200,000 for the purpose of purchasing the property of the Tramways Company and establishing a new system of trams. The purchase had been made by the Corporation for a sum of £43,000. The estimated cost of the new system, together with other expenses, amounted in all to about £192,000, leaving a sum of $8,000, which might not be sufficient to meet extra expenses anticipated, and this Bill enabled the Corpora- tion to obtain such sum as might be necessary to do so. He moved the second reading of the Bill. Bill read the second and the third time. PUBLIC WORKS BILL. A message was received from the House of Representatives, forwarding the following reasons for disagreeing with the Council's amendments in this Bill :- "1. That the Bill is intended to remedy great loss, inconvenience, and hardship, which is being suffered by numbers of property- owners by reason of the provisions of sec- tion 21 of 'The Public Works Acts Amend- ment Act, 1900'; and also to prevent the unsightly appearance which streets will pre- sent if that section remains unaltered. "2. That the amendments of the Legislative Council, if agreed to, would result in the con- tinuance of the evils above referred to." The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER moved, That the Council doth not insist on its amendments. Motion negatived. The Hon. Mr. REEVES moved, That the Hon. Messrs. Rigg, Gourley, and himself be appointed a Committee to draw up reasons for insisting. Motion agreed to. Subsequently, The Hon. Mr. REEVES brought up the fol- lowing reasons, and moved, That they be agreed to :- "The proviso struck out would, if passed, 