is that we are to take the evidence as read, and take the Bill as submitted as being in accord- ance with that evidence. Now, Sir, I do not approve of this method of dealing with legisla- tion, and I think it would be very much better if the Premier would take the second reading of the Bill and then postpone it till next session. I do not mean to say he should not pay the extra capitation. Let him pay the extra capi- tation to the Boards this year, and let them deal with it this year as they think fit ; and I do not think it would be a very great hardship to the people interested if we continue the existing state of things with the extra capita- tion of 5s. Then, during the recess, we shall have time to go through the evidence, and early next session we could deal with the measure in a way which would do credit to us and to our legislation. Another curious argu- ment the Premier adduced was that, though the country is prepared for this measure now, it is hard to say what will be done next session. I can only put one interpretation on this statement, and it is that the country is in ignorance now, but when enlightened it will deal with the matter in a different way. If that is the correct interpretation, surely the proper thing to do is to delay the measure until next session, and let us see whether that interpretation is correct or not. Perhaps the country, when it has read the evidence, will be in favour of the Bill ; and this conclusion of the Premier's may be an incorrect one, and I dare say it is. Then, the Premier has said that not a single Education Board had objected to the measure. Well, I do not know whether other honourable members have had the communica- tions that I have had. I have had a circular from the Education Board of Otago objecting to the measure ; I have had a circular from Auckland, I think, objecting to the measure ; and I do not know but there have been circulars from Can- terbury and elsewhere also in opposition to the measure. Therefore the statement of the Pre- mier can hardly be correct ; and it leaves one doubtful whether the measure is in accordance with the wishes of the people or not. I do not say it is not in accordance with the wishes of the people, and I do not say the Bill is not a good Bill ; but I do say none of us have had time to consider it, none of us have had time to read the evidence, and we are acting entirely in the dark on this subject, as the Premier himself has admitted. Now, Sir, the Chairman of the Commission, from whom we expected some more enlightenment than we got this evening, has told us that no fault was to be found with the Boards of Education with the means at their disposal, and that he did not want to see their functions impaired. Sir, I am not at all sure but that the step we are taking in this Bill is the first step towards impairing the functions of the Boards. I have had very great faith, and still have very great faith, in the Boards of Education and in the School Com- mittees, as bringing the colony into the very closest touch with our educational system, right down to the very limits of colonial mittees are the strength and the strongest pillar of support that our educational system has; and I hope that this measure, if it passes into law, will not impair the efficiency of the Boards of Education. I fear, however, that it is only the first step towards something further that is to come hereafter, which will take away from the Boards of Education more power than this Bill does take away. An Hon. MEMBER .- And a proper thing too. Mr. J. ALLEN. - The honourable member says, " And a proper thing too." Well, I do not agree with him. I do not agree that the power of the Boards of Education should be im- paired in the slightest ; it should rather be strengthened. The Chairman of the Commis- sion said that this Bill took away from the Boards their responsibility. Well, if this takes away from the Boards their responsibility surely it impairs their efficiency. Responsibility, when properly acted upon, means efficiency, and if responsibility is taken away I say efficiency is bound to be impaired ; and the admission of the Chairman of the Commission, that this Bill does take away from their re- sponsibility, means nothing more nor less than that the Boards of Education in a very short time will be impaired, so far as their efficiency is concerned. If you take away some of their power, then it is only the first step to taking away more of their power. Now, the Chairman of the Commission also made this curious remark : that the conditions of the different districts are as variable as the hues of the rainbow. Well, Sir, if the condi- tions of the districts are so variable and change so much as the hues of the rainbow, why this alteration? Why this stereotyped plan ? If the conditions are different in the different districts, then they need different treatment. This tends to treat them all exactly alike on a stereotyped plan. I think that the argument he adduced was an argument not in favour of this Bill. Then, he also made allusion to the large centres of population, saying that the large centres had strong schools, and that that was unfair when compared with other districts where there were none of these large schools. Well, my experience is not a very wide one, I admit, but my experience of the large centres has been that a large portion of the profits made in the large centres have gone to sup- port the small schools in the country dis- tricts. That, at any rate, has been the case in Otago, and I shall refer later on to the effect of this Bill on the small schools in Otago. Now I come to the Bill itself, and I am as desirous as any one in the House-per- haps more so-that our school-teachers should be placed in as good a position as possible. I look to them to educate our youths in the colony, and I hope in the course of time that the effect of that education will be felt through- out the length and breadth of the land. The school-teacher, to me, is the most important man in the colony, for in his hands is placed the training of those who afterwards will be- come our citizens, and if he trains them well I 