would be approached with a desire to make the scheme one that would be of great and lasting benefit. If such a scheme were in- troduced and submitted to the Railway em- ployes and for the consideration of members, it would possibly give rise to a great deal of criticism, and he hoped for favourable criti- cism. The scheme was of a comprehensive character, and was in the interests of the service ; but the matter should not be hurried. This being so, he trusted the honourable mem- ber would realise that his best course would be to withdraw the resolution, having given ex- pression to his views, and would trust the Government, as soon as they could see their way. to submit such proposals as would be in the best interests of the service and of the colony. If the resolution was not withdrawn be would support it, as it went in the same direction as he had all along been working for. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) was quite sure that whatever could be done in this matter was being done and would be done by the Minister. He felt quite certain his know- ledge of these matters would stand him in good stead. Several honourable members, actuated by the representations of constituents, had made representations to the Minister and had put questions on the Order Paper. On last Thursday's Order Paper there were no less than four, as follows :- (1.) " Mr. Hutcheson to ask the Minister for Railways, Whether it is his intention this session to bring in a Bill amending the Classifi- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 cation Act now in force ? " (2.) " Mr. Fisher to ask the Minister for Rail- ways, Whether the Government intend to pass the railway superannuation scheme and the amendment of the Classification Act this ses- sion ? " (3.) " Mr. Barclay to ask the Government, When the Government Railway Servants Super- annuation and Classification Acts may be ex- pected to be circulated ?" (4.) "Mr. Bollard to ask the Minister for Railways, When he intends to bring down the Railway Classification Bill promised by him last session ? " The member for the Wellington Suburbs did not do his business in the light of day, but by the back-stairs, which was more effective from his point of view. Mr. WILFORD .- Always personal. Mr. HUTCHESON said the honourable gentleman had himself to thank for it. When any one spoke in criticism of his words he usually interjected "Buncombe, buncombe." Probably the honourable member had not heard the origin of that word "buncombe." He would tell the honourable member. A small and obscure constituency in the United States had as its representative a self-sufficient bore. Nobody would listen to him, and when his fellow - members protested against his twaddle he said, "I am not addressing you ; I am talking to the electors of Buncombe," just as the honourable member told the House a few minutes ago he was talking to his con- in the galleries. Now, any casual visitor in the House to-night, watching the proceedings, would imagine that the member for Buncombe took an active, not to say a leading, part in the business of the House, and that he was always there. He generally managed to put in an appearance for a short time on Wednesday night, when there was a late train for his con- stituents to come and see him perform. But the rest of the time he was at Court work or Dix's, and, forsooth, he now wanted to assume the proprietary rights of this Classification Act. What right had the honourable member over the railway legislation any more than any other member of the House? He said there was a deputation of his constituents down there for the special purpose of seeing about these things. Imagine the Minister for Rail- ways so harassed by overwork that he could not within reasonable time see a deputation of members of the House on the subject, yet the honourable member could bring in a deputation of his constituents and settle it right off the reel. Fortunately, the forms of the House al- lowed every member an equal right to speak on every question that came before the House, and he was not going to sit by without protest and hear the cool and selfish suggestion made that the Minister should take into his confidence four members of the House, because, by chance, they happened to represent constituencies in which the workshops were situated. This Classification Act, he presumed, would affect more than the employés in the workshops. The Stationmasters, for instance, were notoriously underpaid. Sir J. G. WARD .- It applies to the whole of the service. Mr. HUTCHESON was exceedingly glad to hear the Minister acknowledge it. He felt sure that one of his troubles in connection with the drafting of a fair Classification Act was to mete out even-handed justice to all branches of the department. He had reason, however, to mark his disapproval of the selfish propositions that only one or two members of the House had any interest in railway affairs. Mr. WILFORD wished to make a personal explanation. The honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson) was personal, as he always was. Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER must ask the honourable member not to indulge in any remarks outside what is necessary to make his personal explanation. Mr. WILFORD said the honourable member made a statement that he (Mr. Wilford) was in the House when there was a late train so that his constituents might be present. His con- stituents were in the gallery of the House every night. He (Mr. Wilford), in attending to his constituents, was often away from the House. As many as eighteen times in a day he had to leave the Chamber to see constituents. The honourable member had said he was sometimes at Dix's. He admitted that he had been there, and had seen many a farce played there, and many a corner-man in that minstrel circle, and 