He would like to let the Council know who were the children of this woman Kauhoe. Her eldest son was this man Wahapiro, of whom he had spoken. Next to him came Kahiwa, and next to her was Konchu. Te Wahapiro married a woman from Kawhia. He was married before he came south from there. One of his wives belonged to the Ngaitahu Tribe, who were the original owners of the land which he conquered. By this woman he had two children, two daughters, Atiraira and Ngawaina. He would like to further explain this relationship, and to show where Huria Matenga, the present posses- sor of this land, came in. He had already told them of the children of Kauhoe by the first hus- band, Te Takau; but after his death Kauhoe then married Puoho, who was the elder brother to her first husband and was the father of Wi Katene, the father of Huria Matenga, who was possessed of the land. These were the reasons why the petitioners prayed to be allowed to go to the Court and to prefer their claims to this block of land. That was all they prayed for. He would not prolong his speech any further, because he wished to leave time for honourable members to address the Council on the subject. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND, in seconding the motion, said he hoped this case would be very narrowly looked into. The land in question was a large possession of thirty thousand acres, and seemed to have been awarded to a single individual ; and, knowing as he did something about Native lands, it seemed to him highly https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 probable that there might be in existence equitable claimants to this land. They knew, unfortunately, that the decisions of the Native Land Courts had not always given satisfaction to the Natives. Sometimes a Native Land Court would seem to have gone on the principle "that those who did not ask did not want." Many poor Natives in remote parts of the colony might not have an opportunity or the means of putting in an appearance at Native Land Courts-that it sometimes cost money to do so he had very little doubt. These Native Land Courts had been presided over by able men, some of them lawyers. They may have been perfectly conversant with Euro- pean law, yet not altogether competent, from want of sympathy with Native customs, to deal with Native land claims. These Courts had been in existence now for some time, but he believed, if the question were about setting up such Courts at the present day, we should hesitate very much about setting up Courts to be presided over by European Judges. They were now setting up Maori Councils, and, if the Natives were sufficiently intelligent to take part in these Councils, why should they not be able to take part in the settlement of claims for land by the Maoris? It would be very easy, if they were about to set up such Courts at the present day, to find intelligent and highly respectable Maori chiefs who enjoyed the confidence of their race to preside over these Courts, and he had no doubt their judgment would give satisfaction to Hon. Mr. Tomoana claimants to this land, or to any portion of it, their claims would be recognised by the Go- vernment, and that justice, even though it were tardy justice, would be done to them. He had much pleasure in seconding the motion. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said this matter was a very large one, and he did not think the Council should, by passing the motion in the form it was, admit that there were claims at all to begin with. He therefore asked the honourable gentleman now, when he had put on record his views on this question, to leave it in the hands of the Government to make such inquiries as they should think fit. That would not prejudice the case at all. The Government, he could assure him, would consider the matter, and if there were any reason why further inquiry should be made the matter would be dealt with in the way desired. He would give him his assurance that the Government would do that ; but he did not think there should be, in a large question like this, even the semblance of an admission on the part of the Council that there had been any wrong done. It was too large a question, and therefore he would ask the honourable gentleman to be good enough, now he had put his case on record, to withdraw the motion. The Hon. Mr. JONES said it seemed to him that this motion did not commit them to any- thing. All they would do if they passed it would be to press the Government to investigate the question whether or not there were other Natives having an equitable claim in this block of land. The Council would not commit itself to any statement in regard to the rights of the matter. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN said that, as the Minister had stated, this was a very large ques- tion. No doubt they were obliged to the Hon. Mr. Tomoana for the history he had given them ; but they had got this on record : that the party who owned the land now had been in possession of it for the last seventeen years. They had had a hearing of their claim, and a rehearing, and they had had a petition before the Council in 1899. If honourable members would only remember the trouble which the Native Affairs Committee took in inquiring into this petition they would see that it had had very close in- vestigation ; and he was satisfied, if unnourable members would read Judge Mackay's report on it, they would not seek to put the Government in the position this motion would do. Why should the Government interfere in a case when the aggrieved parties already had their petition brought before the Council, and had had a report which declared that they had no claim ? He understood now that all the petitioners but two had withdrawn their claims, and he thought, himself, it was a dangerous thing to commit the Council to a motion urging the Government to ascertain whether the Court had decided this question rightly or not. There was always the remedy of apply- ing for a rehearing of a case. Even at this late hour they could apply, he should imagine; and why, therefore, should the Council interfere in 