Stock Exchange we are scarcely justified in taking cognisance of their mendacious appeals. We should hesitate. My impression is that we have no right to be asked to give this money. Should a Bill authorising it be brought down I trust that it will be defeated. I consider this report from the Public Accounts Com- mittee should be remitted back to them ; and I may add that I am exceedingly sorry that a report of this character should have been brought down to this House at all. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- I have not had the privilege of listening to the whole of the long speech delivered by the honourable member who has just sat down, but I gather from it this: that he, as far as he possibly can manage it, will do an injustice to the debenture- holders. Sir, no sophistry on the part of that honourable gentleman will alter the fact that these debenture-holders were justified in be- lieving that they had first claim on those assets. He knows perfectly well that the Agent-General at the time had practically given the impri- matur of the colony to the securities. He ad- vertised it and took a prominent position, and never pointed out this clause barring their rights that was surreptitiously inserted into the Act. Had he done so, do you think these men at Home would have put their money into the security ? They would have done nothing of the sort. Yet the honourable gentleman calls them usurers and blackmailers. Who have been the blackmailers? Why, the Government of this country have done all they could to interfere with their investments. I suppose it was be- cause they did not agree with some deviation of the line along the south-west of Lake https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Brunner. Mr. HALL-JONES .- It was altered to suit the company. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Yes ; the reason why the opposition rose against the company was that it was not taken along the south- west side of Lake Brunner. We know per- fectly well what was the reason of it. The action of the New Zealand Government through- out towards the debenture-holders is not to their credit. The debenture-holders were justi- fied in thinking when they had advanced their money on the security that they had adequate security. The honourable gentleman says that 5 per cent. was a high rate of interest-it is, at any rate, the rate of interest the Government has been charging to the settlers of this coun- try for any money they require. I think the Government from the very first have en- deavoured by every possible means to prevent that company carrying out its work. Honour- able members know what was done in connec- tion with the land on its railway-lines-that all the most valuable country over the line of route was not permitted to be settled. An Hon. MEMBER .- NO. 5.0. Mr. T. MACKENZIE. - If the honourable gentleman knows anything about the country along the line of route he must know there was a great deal of the land de- clared to be auriferous, and the Government had the right to prevent the company from Mr. Hogg dealing with that land by temporarily declar- ing it to be auriferous. They prevented the company from operating, while at the same time the Government had no real knowledge that gold was there. The very fact of their being prevented from dealing with that land i must have seriously affected their finance. Sir, I think whatever proposal the Government may make in the direction of extending fair treatment to these debenture-holders should have the support of the House, and I hope the position which, I understand, the honourable member for Masterton intends to adopt to oppose it- An Hon. MEMBER .- A good many of us are going to oppose it. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- The honourable gentleman will oppose anything that has not votes hanging to it. If he and other honour. able members did not succeed in getting buge sums spent in their districts we should never see them on the floor of this House. Unless the colony is prepared to give these people some consideration for the security they themselves have taken over, you will find that this country will be in very bad odour in the money-market of the Old Country. Unfortunately, we know that now and again some very big transactions are performed by the commercial men of this country which cast a considerable amount of odium upon the reputation of this fair land. An Hon. MEMBER .- They have tried already to injure the colony. Mr. T. MACKENZIE. - If you think that people are likely to sit quietly without taking some action, when their money has been filched from them, you expect men to do what is contrary to human nature. But, Sir, I do not think there has been anything like a great attempt to interfere with the successful flota- tion of the colonial loans, as has been stated from time to time. I believe this colony can get any amount of money, and on very good terms. Whenever we want money from the Old Country, so long as the securities of the colony continue good, we will get our money; and I do not think the action of the debenture holders, except to a comparatively limited ex- tent, will injure the reputation of the colony. I believe that the proposal to extend some con- cession to these people will have the support of every right-thinking member of this House. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) .- Sir. I was rather surprised to hear the last speaker imply that the colony was doing some injustice to the debenture-holders, because he must know that the auriferous reserves to which he has referred were made according to agreement and in terms of the contract, and he must also know that at every stage the position of the colony has been maintained, both as regards its legal position and as regards the moral aspect. With regard to the credit of the colony we know that attempts have several times been made by interested parties to damage it ; but that has been done, I believe, without due consideration and with anything but justice to the colony. The honourable gentleman asks that justice should be done to the shareholders. Well, I 