days during the month next preceding the half- holiday, whether such employment has been on consecutive days or not, and whether the wage-earner has been continuously in the ser- vice of the occupier or not." Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) moved to strike out from subsection (2) " For the purposes of this section ' wage earner,' with respect to any specified whole holiday or half holiday, means any person who," and insert "This section shall apply to every woman or young person who " in lieu thereof. Amendment agreed to. Mr. MASSEY ( Franklin) moved to strike out "six months," and insert " four weeks." Amendment agreed to. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) moved to strike out "wage-earner," and insert "person em- ployed " in lieu thereof. Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 36. - " In every case where there occurs in a factory an accident causing death or serious bodily injury to any person employed therein the following provisions shall apply :- "(1.) The occupier shall forthwith serve the Inspector and also the medical au- thority with written notice specifying the nature of the accident, the name and residence of the person killed or injured, and the place, if any, to which he has been removed. " (2.) If the notice is not duly served as aforesaid within twenty-four hours after the accident occurred the oc- cupier shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding ten pounds. " (3.) As soon as practicable after receiving the notice the medical authority, and also the Inspector, shall proceed to the factory and make full inquiry into the cause and nature of the ac- cident, and the nature and extent of the injuries. " (4.) Within twenty-four hours after making such inquiry the medical authority shall send a written report thereof to the Inspector. "(5.) For the purpose of such inquiry the medical authority shall have all the po . ers of entry, investigation, ex- amination, and otherwise which by this Act are conferred upon an In- spector, and may exercise the same not only at the factory, but also in any room, building, or place to which the person killed or injured has been removed. " (6.) In respect of each accident inquired into and reported on by the medical authority he shall be entitled to re- ceive from the Board such fee as is pre- scribed by regulations under this Act. "(7.) For the purposes of this section the expression ' serious bodily injury ' means an injury which is likely to incapacitate the sufferer from work for at least forty-eight hours." to omit "twenty-four," in subsection (2), and insert " forty-eight " in lieu thereof. Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 59 .- " With respect to requisitions under this Act by the Inspector to the occupier of a factory, the following provisions shall apply : - "(1.) The requisition shall be in writing under the hand of the Inspector, and shall be addressed to and served on the occupier as defined in section two hereof, under his usual business name or style. " (2.) The requisition may be served either personally or by posting it in a regis- tered letter addressed to the occupier at the factory. "(3.) The requisition, when served as afore- said, shall bind every person who by section two hereof is included in the definition of 'Occupier.' " (4.) If the occupier considers the requisition to be unreasonable, he may appeal to the Stipendiary Magi-trate, by filing in the Magistrate's Courthouse near- est to the factory a notice of appeal in the prescribed form, setting forth with reasonable particularity the grounds of the appeal. "(5.) The appeal shall be void unless the notice of appeal is duly filed as afore- said within three days after service of the requisition. "(6.) Upon the notice of appeal being duly filed, the Magistrate shall fix a time for the hearing of the appeal, being the earliest convenient time, and the Clerk of the Court shall, by notice in the prescribed form, notify the appel- lant and the Inspector that the appeal will be heard by the Magistrate at the Courthouse at the time so fixed. " (7.) On the hearing of the appeal, the Magistrate may by order confirm, reverse, or modify the requisition as he thinks fit, and the order shall be final and binding on all parties. "(8.) When the occupier, not being the owner of the property, is required to make any alteration of the building for sanitary purposes only under this section he may recover the cost of the same from the owner thereof." Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) moved to omit "three," in subsection (5), and insert " seven " in lieu thereof. Amendment agreed to. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) moved the fol- lowing new clause in substitution for clause 17A as submitted in the Bill :- "17A. (1.) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a male worker shall not be employed in or about a factory,- " (a.) For more than forty-eight hours, ex- cluding meal-times, in any one week ; nor 