and " any member not attending in compliance with the order of a call of the Council without reasonable excuse shall be held guilty of con- tempt, and may be dealt with in accordance with Rule 240." Motion agreed to. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI was sent for, and, the honourable gentleman having re entered the Chamber, The Hon. the SPEAKER said, -I have to in- form the honourable gentleman that the follow- ing resolution has been passed : "That, the honourable gentleman having refused to with- draw the words used by him in debate when asked to do so by the Speaker, the said member be censured and suspended for the sitting." I can only express my great regret that such a thing as this should have happened in this Council. I am sure that every facility -so far as I know, at any rate-was given to the honourable gentleman for reconsidering the position in which he had placed himself ; and his long parliamentary experience must have convinced him that the words used by him were provocative of disorder, and that no honourable gentleman can be permitted to use language of that kind at any time. I trust the honourable gentleman will see fit, even yet, to express his regret for what has happened. In the meantime, the honourable gentleman is suspended for the remainder of this sitting. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI then withdrew. # MINERS' RIGHTS FEE REDUCTION BILL. On the motion to commit this Bill, The Hon. Mr. BONAR wished to say, before / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero the Speaker left the chair, that, while he did not want to oppose any reduction of the miners' rights fee, he still felt it was doing a great wrong to many bodies which were receiving these fees as part of their revenue. He spoke now from a Harbour Board point of view, and if they reduced the fee from 10s. to 5s. they were reducing the revenue of the Harbour Boards on the West Coast from that source by one-half. Already Parliament had thought proper to reduce rents in mining properties from 10s. to 2s. 6d. for the first year, 5s. for the second year, and 78. 6d. for the third year. This gave these bodies so much less money to spend and to pay their liabilities with, and on that account he simply wished to say that he entered his protest now to this reduction of their revenue. He did not intend to move any hostile motion, because he was quite willing to see people get miners' rights at the cheapest rates possible, but at the same time the Council should know that in reducing these fees they were reducing the powers of certain local bodies to pay that which they owed. The Hon. Mr. REEVES merely wished to say that to a great extent he sympathized with the Hon. Mr. Bonar in this matter. At the same time, they must recognise the fact that it was an unheard-of thing in almost any other country to impose these fees on gold-miners, and in 1885 the license fee was only 5s. Since VOL. CXIX .- 30. seem much in itself, it was a great hardship to men who were working hard for their daily bread. The whole difference it would make to the various local bodies would only be about $1,400 in the twelve months. Further than that, he believed a large number of miners who at present did not take out miners' rights because they could not afford to pay the 10s. would do so when the fee was reduced, and the increased number of rights taken out might make up a large portion of the revenue which it was feared would be lost. Bill committed, and subsequently reported, and read the third time. MONEY-LENDERS BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER. I beg to move, That the order for the third reading be discharged, and that the Bili be recommitted for the purpose of considering certain clauses. The Government are anxious that this Bill should pass, and I am sure the Council is equally anxious the Bill should pass, in as good a shape as possible, and there are one or two things that are required to make the Bill read with itself. An Hon. MEMBER. - What is wrong with it ? The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER -I will tell you if you give me time. In the first place, in clause 2 I propose to add, after the word "interest " in the 4th subclause, the same proviso that we put into the 3rd clause, that "interest " should include any payment or deduction by way of premium, fine, or foregift. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- Where do you put that ? The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- In the fourth line of subclause (4) of clause 2. Then, I promised to consider the matter of bottomry, and I propose to add an amendment to the end of that clause exempting dealers in bottomry bonds, whatever that trade is. In clause 3 I propose to take in as a proviso to that clause the new subclause (SA) on the third page of the amended Bill : "No person is entitled to apply to the Court to reopen any transaction unless application is made within one year of such transaction being closed." That ought to go in as a subclause to clause 3, as part of the con- ditions on which transactions can be reopened by the Court. I think that virtually covers all the amendments I propose, so that I would ask the Council to agree to the recommittal of the Bill for the purpose of reconsidering clauses 2 and 3, and this new clause, which I shall call 6A. The Hon. Mr. RIGG .- That requires notice of motion. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- What I was going to propose is this : to discharge this order and recommit the Bill, and report pro- gress as soon as we get into it, and then I will put the amendments on the Order Paper. The Hon. Mr. REEVES .- I should like to ask the Minister if he would in the meantime, between now and our further dealing with the Bill, take into consideration the advisability of exempting mining companies and dredging 