ing at the estimates, it did not appear that they were paid according to the amount collected. He thought there should be some arrangement for paying Collectors at the various ports ac- cording to the amount of work they did. Mr. W. FRASER (Wakatipu) said this was a matter in regard to which the Government ought to have given a lead to the House. He did not think it right that the House should, upon a side issue, decide the question as to the retirement of officers at a certain age. Mr. MILLS (Minister of Customs) said, With regard to the first question raised, about Mr. Rose, he would point out to the House that that officer was reduced in 1888, and he had never received any advance in his salary since that day. He was a good officer. Not having received a rise since that year, he thought the proposed increase might be agreed to. As to the question of retirement as provided for by the Act of 1866, he might point out to the Com- mittee that it had never been rigidly observed by any Government. It would be very difficult sometimes to fill a gap in the service caused by the retirement of experienced officers. In the case of Mr. Rose, if they retired him they would have to pay him a pension of £376 per annum, and it would be well for members to think over both sides of the question before voting on the amendment. With regard to the statement made as to young men coming forward, there certainly was reason in that ; but there were many of them who thought they should re- ceive certain positions who, it would be found on inquiry, were not entitled to them, even supposing the older officers were retired. Mr. Carter, the Landing Surveyor in Welling- ton, was senior in the service to Mr. Sibbald, who held a similar office in Auckland, Mr. Car- ter having joined in 1865, and Mr. Sibbald in http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero 1869. With regard to pensions, there were now eighteen officers in the department who were entitled to a pension, and the honourable member for Masterton seemed to find fault with these men. Why should he, seeing that the contract was made when they entered the service? And no Government could ignore these contracts. The honourable member for Kaiapoi had referred to the want of system about the salaries. In explanation, he might say that some of the figures in the estimates were probably somewhat misleading. they were framed some retirements had taken place, and the officers who had been appointed to fill the vacant positions were not entitled to such high salaries as the retired officers had been receiving. For instance the officer at In- vercargill, instead of receiving £425, was only receiving £380. With reference to the messen- gers, their pay had been increased this year. In the Customs Department they were paid for seven days a week, and therefore the pay looked smaller than it really was. With respect to the matter referred to by the member for Welling- ton City (Mr. Fisher), it was under considera- tion by the Government, and it would be decided in Cabinet whether to separate the Customs and Marine Departments or otherwise. Mr. Flatman Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said this latter information was perfectly satisfactory. But, to show to what an absurd degree this seniority idea was carried in the public service, he might state that there were seven officers on the list senior to Mr. Carter who were no more fit to fill these high positions than were the men at the bottom of the list. He did not want to give their names. Two of them were in Dunedin, one at Greymouth, one at Nelson, one at Invercargill, one at Auckland, and one at Port Chalmers. They were all higher in seniority to Mr. Carter, of Wellington, but not one of them was fit to fill a high position. He asked, therefore, whether the special fitness of an officer was to count for nothing. Of course, he knew the honourable gentleman could only answer in one way, and he did not want to press his question to the injury of any man in the service. Yet, here was an officer of Mr. Carter's ability, with a salary of £375, who could get no further forward because of the men of less ability who stood in his way on account of their seniority. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) believed this was one of the most important questions touched on that afternoon. As an able writer and administrator had pointed out, the bane of the public service in England was the ad- vancement of officers only by seniority. Would any private business firm or trading corporation follow such a method as that ? Certainly not. He altogether objected to increasing the salaries of those occupying ornamental positions, but he hoped the Minister would see his way before another year passed to recognise the abilities of the gentleman in charge of this department. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) asked, What was the position the Premier intended to take up with regard to this amendment ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said, the Govern- ment having had an expression of opinion from honourable members, he would now suggest to the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Fowlds) to withdraw his amendment. It was clear that the responsibility of any action in this connection must rest with the Govern- ment, and it was the intention of the Govern- ment that a large number of the older officers of the service should be retired. Discretion would, of course, have to be exercised. It was very hard on the junior officers when old men Since were kept on in the service and were not being retired as was intended by law. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) would support the increase to the Collector at Auckland, who he knew to be one of the most capable officers in the Customs Department. It must not be forgotten that about fourteen years ago Mr. Rose was receiving a higher salary than was proposed to be given to him to-day. At the same time he considered Mr. Sibbald, the next officer, was entitled to some increase of salary owing to the very large increase of business at the Port of Auckland. He believed that ability should govern promotion rather than length of service. He was not in favour of the compul- sory retirement of all officers at sixty years of age. He believed that a man like Mr. Rose 