throwing an intelligible picture on the screen for the Court to give its decision upon, but that the constitution of the Boards should be altered in the direction the Legislature is now about to do. That is my view of the matter, and I believe this Bill will enable that to be done ; and I feel the greatest solicitude for the success of this Bill in the direction of settling industrial disputes. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- Sir, there is no difficulty in definitely fixing the author- ship of the phrase that "the labour unions were riding the labour laws to death." That has already been done. All that was said by the honourable member for Riccarton in regard to the authorship of that phrase, and a good deal more, will be found in my speech on the third reading of the Factories Bill on the 14th October (Hansard, No. 30, page 377). I do not object to that point being made more definite, because somebody will have to answer some day for the difficulties that have arisen and the friction that has been created in consequence of the Premier having made that statement. He himself is endeavouring to escape by cast- ing the blame upon anybody and everybody else, and that kind of tactics he regards as manly and honourable. Before referring to the amendments made by the Legislative Council in the Bill I wish to say, in regard to the criti- cisms of the Wellington Board, that I am de- barred from defending or palliating the action of that Board for a very obvious reason. I am tongue-tied. Neither did I vote on clause 21, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the clause of the honourable member for Wa- nganui, which was adopted in Committee on the Bill on the 3rd October, for the same reason. At three o'clock in the morning there http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero were two divisions, one on the motion of the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson), "That no person in the employ of the Government should be elected a mem- ber of the Board or Court," the other on the now celebrated clause No. 21 proposed by the member for Wanganui. I abstained from voting on both. That prompts me to call attention to this point : That morning the House rose at half-past four, the members pre- sent being weary and distressed. Some weeks before the Government put before us for dis- cussion a useless measure like the Cook Islands Annexation Bill. We were asked to discuss that useless Bill in broad daylight, when mem- bers were awake, and had their wits about them ; yet we are called upon to discuss an im- portant measure like this until half-past four o'clock in the morning. Even now, here we are at the very last stage of the Bill, and the Premier is not in the House to watch its pro- gress through that last important stage. This remark will, of course, be repeated to him when he returns from the function which is being given to a distinguished visitor, and he will then, no doubt, complainingly ask why, if he wishes to attend a function given to a distinguished visitor, he may not be allowed to do so. The answer at once is that we all, as members of Parliament, will to-morrow meet luncheon to be given to him in these buildings. I say the Premier ought to be in his place to- night while we are reviewing the final stage of a Bill so seriously affecting the welfare of the working-classes. Now, Sir, if the Premier had laid down a definite line of action-if he had adopted and followed a straight course in regard to this whole question-I would have been with him all the time, but I cannot follow him in his ducking and diving from one position to another. The slipperiness of the eel and the diving of the shag are nothing to it. If he would say that he had got himself into a hole, I would help him out. But one day he says, "the labour unions are riding the labour laws to death," the next day he denounces the em- ployers, and works himself up into an unneces- sary state of fury, just as we have seen to-night. He tells us the employers are responsible for all the trouble that has been brought about. What are we to do? We are asked to de- nounce the labour unions ; we are asked to denounce the employers. We cannot do both. Now, just mark this : The Bill emerged from Committee at half-past four o'clock on the morning of the 3rd October, after the Com- mittee had passed the two clauses which the honourable gentleman has since so many times so furiously denounced-clause 6, proposed by the member for Palmerston, and clause 21, proposed by the member for Wanganui. To- night, again, he complains bitterly of the action of the House in passing those two clauses. Now, listen to this, Sir, and ask yourself whether you can think such things to be conceivable. Have we eyes? Have we ears? At four o'clock in the morning, after the Com- mittee had passed these very clauses, he con- gratulated the House upon what it had done. In summing up the debate on the motion for the third reading of the Bill he said (Hansard, No. 27, page 177) :- "I am in a position to congratulate the House on this occasion. I think our time has been well spent, and I am sorry that some of the speeches we had on the Bill in Committee were not reported, because I am sure they would have given to the world a general explanation of the labour laws, and would have met to a great extent the objections that are raised against their working." He congratulates the House, and says its time has been well spent ! Again I ask, Have we eyes ; have we ears? And then, speaking of the employers who come to Parliament to seek redress, he says, - "I say that Parliament is the high Court to which every person in the colony has the right to appeal." Contrast this with what he has said to-night and what he said at the Labour Day Demon- stration in Wellington on Wednesday, the 9th October. His speech on the third reading of the Bill goes on to show that he cheerfully accepted the amendments of the member for Palmerston and the member for Wanganui when the Bill was in Committee, for he says,- " I may say, too, that it does not encourage 