South Africa. Why should it be raised as an objection to America, when they could quote as a precedent what Britain did to the other in- vestors in concessions in South Africa? Surely if the British were right in taking the stand they did in connection with concessions in which American and foreign money was in- vested, we cannot complain if America treated British investors in Philippine concessions in exactly the same way. I do not know that it is really worth while to touch on any of the other points. I have already dealt with the ques- tion raised by the honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins), about Auck- land as a city going to burst unless this service is continued. I say it is out of the diseased imagination of the speakers who have spoken in that way that such an idea has originated. I never heard of it. It is simply because the people of Auckland realise, as the people of this country as a whole, I believe, realise, that this is the best and quickest mail- service we can have, and those opposed to it must be doing it for the purpose of injuring Auckland, and not that it is essentially of advantage to the northern City. It gives them certainly their mails a day ahead of any other of the main centres of the colony; but that must happen wherever the mails come to. Now, the honourable member for Christchurch City elaborated with great emphasis and fullness the fact that mails could be distributed quicker to all parts of the colony from Wellington than https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 from Auckland. That is all right if you can bring the mails to Wellington as soon as you can bring them to Auckland ; but under existing circumstances, and until you can change the geo- / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero graphy of New Zealand in its relation to America and the Northern Hemisphere, it will always be possible to bring the boats to Auckland and then land the mails in Wellington by a coastal steamer within a few hours of the time they could come direct to Wellington ; whereas if we had the railway, as we hope to have it before very long, we will be able to land them at Auckland and deliver the mails in Welling- ton two or three hours ahead of the time the steamer could deliver them coming direct to Wellington. I do not see the force of the argument of the member for Christchurch City about the port of distribution, and saying Wellington was the natural port. That is a matter I need not go into. If it were possible for the mails to be brought to Wellington and delivered to other parts of the colony in less time than by the steamer coming to Auckland I should not for one moment claim that the boats should come to Auckland ; but as it is we can bring the boats there and give the people of all the northern portion of the colony a day earlier in the delivery of their letters, and still deliver them at Wellington as quickly as if the boat went direct to Wellington. I see no reason why a change should be made in the port of call. Now, all the talk that has been made about subsidising a foreign country is to me so much rubbish. What is the nature of our relationship to America? So far as I United States of America than I have in the Old Land; and I believe a great many of the members of this House and the people of this country are in the same position. And what is more than that, the ideals of the two peoples are very much the same, and we want to try and increase this unity of feeling and unity of ideas. I have listened with sorrow to some of the speeches made by members of the Liberal party in this House to-night, and I have thought, almost with horror, of the possible suffering to the noble soul of our great Pro- consul, the late Sir George Grey, who was one of the first and most insistent advocates of promoting and maintaining a union of the two great English-speaking peoples. And I am perfectly satisfied that, whatever disadvan- tages some of the opponents of this service may think they see, that the influence it will have in binding these two branches of the English-speaking people into one will far out- balance any possible disadvantages that may occur through a few doors coming to New Zea- land that the honourable member for Welling- ton City (Mr. Hutcheson) says were made in the prisons of California-a statement which I doubt very largely. I have here a speech made by Sir George Grey in 1885 in which he says : - "To secure intercourse with any great men is a great advantage-in fact, to me it is an in- conceivable advantage ; and if I were told that a colony like New Zealand had determined, for the sake of saving a thousand or two a year, to rob itself of .intercourse with one of the great- est English-speaking populations that exist in the world I should think that it was incredible. I do implore honourable gentlemen, before they adopt a course of this kind, to reflect on the subject ; for I am satisfied that each man is doing what he thinks best for the interests of the colony ; but if they do reflect upon it they will not inflict what will be a severe injury upon the people of New Zealand. I trust that they will not pay attention to small ideas as to saving a few pounds, but that they will pay at- tention to those larger considerations that I now put to the House." An Hon. MEMBER .- The conditions were quite different then. Mr. FOWLDS .- Yes; there are more rea- sons why we should have this connection with the people of America to-day than in 1885, when Sir George Grey made the speech from which I have quoted. But I do not wish at this hour of the morning to detain the House longer. As I said before, I decline to go into hysterics on the subject. I feel satisfied that the good sense, the good judgment, the integ- rity and intelligence of the members of this House will decide that this is admittedly the shortest, quickest, and cheapest mail-service for New Zealand, and that it shall be con- tinued. My only fear is that the reduction made in the conditions may, after all, result in its being lost to the colony, and if so a very serious responsibility will rest upon the Govern- ment of the day. But that this House would 