for if we called the Bluff "Auckland " and Auckland "the Bluff " we should well describe Auckland's attitude. I should think the posi- tion of an Auckland member is very like that of the policeman in the comic opera-it certainly is not a happy one. But to go on : On the 15th September, 1901, the New Zealand Herald published what is practically their backdown to the statement they had previously pub- lished throughout New Zealand through their columns, with reference to the opinion alleged to have been given by Mr. Angus, the manager for Cook and Co., tourist agents. Now, I do not know whether it is so, but it looks to me as though that paragraph had been sub- edited, and also edited, and it looks as though Mr. Angus wrote and said, "I did not say any such thing as you have reported me to have said," and that the sub-editor pared it down, and the editor pared it down after him, until we get this correction, but, in spite of all, it is a back-down. Now, let us recall the facts previous to the time this subsidy came to be offered to Mr. Spreckels, and let us see whether it is not a fact that Mr. Spreckels has disregarded the conditions under which the House agreed he should have a sub- sidy, and whether he has not violated every condition of the resolutions passed by the House in the session of 1900. I propose first of all to refer to the document which was written by Mr. Spreckels to the Government, dated 30th September, 1899, in which he suggests to the Government of the colony a twenty-one days' service. He contended that https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 it was necessary to quicken the speed of the vessels, and he further, using his own words, said, "We must have a contract." He pro- posed that £30,000 should be granted by the http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero Government of this colony, or the other neigh- bouring colonies, by way of subsidy to his com- pany, and he said, " We must have a contract." The Government communicated with Australia, and the Premier of New South Wales refused to be drawn into contributing any proportion of the $30,000 suggested until, first of all, he had realised what the conditions of the contract were which it was proposed should be entered into between the colonies and the Oceanic Company. Now, it was admitted, and it is known, that, under the Hanna-Payne Act in America, any money which the Oceanic Com- pany received by way of subsidy is an annual appropriation by Congress. This is the only appropriation they have got to depend on ; and we are also aware that, under the navigation law of the United States, certain objections are made to the class of vessels that may trade between American ports, and the whole inten- tion and force of the navigation law is to exclude what is called a "foreign Power." Now, New Zealand, Australia, and 4.0. England are foreign according to the American law. We are foreigners when we touch their pockets ; but if a war comes it is well to remember the words of Rudyard Kip- ling, who is so often quoted by the honourable member for Bay of Plenty : " It is, 'Thank you. Mr. Wilford before the House, last year, I voted for the resolution, which meant the exclusion of the Union Steamship Company's " Moana," be- cause I believe it was the proper and only thing to be done under the circumstances and at the time; but let us consider for a moment the present routes open to the colony, and let me put before honourable members who have not gone into the matter the exact routes there are at present open. In the first place, Australia has got a service, which is worked by the New Zealand Shipping Company and Union Steam- ship Company, from Sydney and Brisbane to Vancouver. That service is subsidised by a vote of £10,000 annually from the New South Wales Government, and a vote of £7,500 annually from the Queensland Government. That is one line. Another line we have got, or rather Australia has got, is the Federal service, which we all know leaves Adelaide, calls at Colombo, and thence through the Red Sea route Home. That Federal line is subsidised, I understand-I am not speaking absolutely from the book -by something like £78,000 from the Federal Government ; and it seems to me that there are two avenues open to this colony rather than to adopt the principle of handing any sum of money to this Spreckels Company. Two alternative courses are open to us: in the first place, honourable members will understand that the mail that leaves Auckland now for San Francisco calls at Pango-Pango, after that at Honolulu, and after that at San Francisco. Now, within the last few months the Oceanic Steamship Company, instead of making their port of call Apia, as it was formerly, crossed over to Pango-Pango, and made it their port of call. That was no doubt done because Pango-Pango is the port of the American settlement, while Apia is Ger- man. Now, the first thing I wish to put before the House, supposing a route was arranged from Auckland,-and I am quite prepared to make Auckland the port of call for the Vancouver service,-is that the steamers should leave Auckland, call at Apia, then call at Honolulu, and then on to Van- couver, instead of stopping at Suva as at pre- sent. What would be the position then ? In the first place, if we call at Apia, which is in a German colony, could we not demand and obtain, without any difficulty at all, a subsidy from the German Government for carrying their mails from Apia ? Would a sum of £5,000 a year be an extortionate sum to expect the German Government to pay if we make Apia the port of call instead of Pango-Pango ? Mr. HERRIES .- I think it would be. Mr. WILFORD .- The honourable gentleman may think that, but I understand it is not an extortionate amount, and I am perhaps just as well informed as the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty is on that particular point. Furthermore, supposing Suva was left out as a port of call in the direct line, and the steamers went from Auckland to Vancouver, calling at Apia and then at Honolulu, that route would be 