given him an opportunity to repel the charge. So far as I am aware, the employers of this colony do not want the Conciliation and Arbi- tration Act repealed. They recognise this : that while there may have been mistakes in the administration, and advantage taken of some of the provisions of the Act, yet, as a method of settling disputes, it is infinitely better than the old method of strikes. I say again that, while in- dustrial matters have been in a state of ferment for some time past, they are beginning to settle down, owing to the fact that awards have been made extending over the next two years ; but the speech of the Premier to-night is calculated to again stir up industrial strife between em- ployers and employed, and was delivered, I suppose, for electioneering purposes during the next campaign. Again, the Premier referred to the fact that if the administration of any law of the colony by our Courts of justice was not satisfactory, that we would not repeal the law. I say that if the Courts of justice administered any law in the way the Conciliation Act is being administered by the Boards, there would have to be some amendment proposed by the Govern- ment. To ask the House to agree to the amend- ments made by another place in the way the Premier has done to-night is simply to incite the labour organizations of the colony to rise against the amendments put into the Act before they have had a fair trial, and to endeavour to have them altered during the next session of Parliament. It is pretty well understood in the House that the speech we have just listened to has been deliberately made with the object of stirring up debate and enabling the Hon. the Premier to attend a public func- tion during the continuance of the debate. And yet his speech will be telegraphed through- out the colony, casting a slur on the employers, and casting aspersions on members of this House, and all for what? I say that the Premier's statement that we are trying to do away with Conciliation Boards in an indirect manner is contrary to fact. What is the position in re- gard to these Boards? I am willing to admit that the Dunedin Board has done very good work. That Board from its inception has had the advantage of capable business-men being members of it, remarkably good representa- tives from both the workers and the employers. The consequence is that that Board has done good work. But where shall we find the next good Board? The Wellington Board? I ven- ture to say that the Wellington Board has done more to undermine the principle of the Conciliation Act than any one else in the colony. I confess that I did expect that there would have been a debate as to whether these amendments would be agreed to or not. The Premier himself created that impression by stating that another opportunity would be given for considering this measure before the amend- ments were hnally passed, and it was freely rumoured that he was going to oppose these amendments. I am delighted to find that the honourable gentleman has recognised that a majority of this House and the majority in to say that, if the course the Premier has taken to-night had not been followed, there would have been a considerable amount of trouble before him before the end of the session. With respect to the amendments, the Premier says we are trying to undermine and do away with the Act. I say that is incorrect. The Boards, speaking generally, have not the confidence of the people of the colony at the present time. What are the amendments we have made ? We have not done away with the Boards. The whole tone of the Premier's. speech was to the effect that we had taken conciliation out of the Act. I say we have conciliation in the Act in a more perfect form. We have left in the present Conciliation Board, and, in addition, we have put in special Boards of Conciliation. We have also given the right to go direct to the Court. What does that mean ? It means that if an industrial dispute arises we have given the disputants a chance of having the dispute promptly settled ; and is it not in the interests of trade, and of the employés as well as of the employers, that a trade dispute shall be settled at the earliest possible moment, and with as little friction as possible ? Then, many of the disputes are on technical matters that an ordinary Board would have very little know- ledge of. In that case, we have said that either party can apply for a special Board, and a special Board is set up. Is that taking away conciliation ? I say it is conciliation in a better form. The evidence that will be taken by the special Board, if the case goes to the Arbitration Court, will be of special service to the Judge of that Court and the gentlemen associated with him. I want emphatically to say that, so far as these amendments are concerned, I believe they will conduce to the better working of the Act. The Premier, in the course of his remarks, said -- it was almost in the nature of a threat- that the employers of this colony had better take care, and other remarks of that nature. I think the honourable gentleman would have been wise had he waited until the employers of the colony had shown a disposition to ignore the conciliation sections of the Act before he indulged in threats. From what I have seen of the Arbitration Court and its working, I ven- ture to say that if any section of the employers of this colony virtually ignore the conciliation clauses of the Act, and go to the Court without attempting to come to an amicable arrange- ment, Mr. Justice Cooper will have some very strong remarks to make. The amendments made in this Bill in another place have, I think, in many respects improved the Bill. The Premier has already indicated one or two of them, and I want also to refer to section 16 for a minute or two. The amendment made by the Council in reference to the enforcement of awards is that they have struck out the word "shall " and inserted the word "may." I do not know what induced them to make that alteration, except to give the Inspectors some discretion. I venture to say the employers of the colony are quite willing that the awards 