Government were sending Home. This tele- gram that he would read was sent at the expense of the colony on the death of Queen Victoria :- "Sad tidings reached us. Grief, profound :sorrow ; we must bow submissively ; God's will .be done ; terrestrial Crown surrendered ; assured Crown glory won ; heartfelt sympathy all peoples will go forth bereaved Royal Family ; earnest prayers offered our Divine Master ; strengthen them great hour trial ; they have lost loving mother, humanity true noble friend ; grief sorrow world-wide prevails irreparable loss. "SEDDON." The telegram was sent by the Premier from Melbourne or Sydney, and appeared in the London Daily News, and, presumably, in other English papers, though he had not seen it in the Times. He was not disposed to say anything as to the good taste or sincerity of this deplorable specimen of obituary elo- quence; he was concerned with it only in con- nection with the estimates from the standpoint of economy. It appeared to be one of the Premier's literary errors that every epithet -should be duplicated or triplicated ; "diabolical and wicked," " worthy and revered," "rejoice .and delight in," "grief and sorrow," were recent examples. Rhetorically the effect was weakening; economically it was very serious that such verbosity should be cabled at the cost of the colony. If the rest of our public telegrams were inflated in the same way we could reduce the item by 75 or even 90 per cent. without any loss of efficiency. On this https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 account he would vote for the amendment of the member for the Bay of Plenty. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) wished to make a few remarks on a previous item- namely, the item " Imperial Institute ex- http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero penses, $150." This was an effete moribund institution, and the expenditure was a waste of the taxpayers' money. He moved, therefore, That the item be struck out. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) asked what the nature of the £150 contribution was ? Was it in the nature of a subscription ? Mr. SEDDON said it was under an arrange- ment that had been going on for years. Sir J. G. WARD said it represented the New Zealand share of the maintenance and for attendance. Amendment negatived. The Committee divided on the amendment, "To reduce the item 'Payment to Reuter's Telegram Company for special telegrams, £300,' by £1." AYES, 12. Ell Lethbridge Rhodes. Hardy Massey Tellers. Haselden Monk Atkinson Pirani Hutcheson Herries. Lang NOES, 30. Allen, E. G. Field Hall Carncross Fowlds Hall-Jones .Carroll Fraser, A. L. D. Heke .Colvin Graham Hogg Mr. Atkinson Ward Parata Lawry McGowan Seddon Willis. Tellers. Mckenzie, R. Smith, G. J. Millar Collins Stevens Mills McNab. Symes O'Meara Majority against, 18. Amendment negatived. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) drew attention to the item " Purchase of an auxil- iary oil-engine schooner for Cook and other islands, £5,100." Was there any insurance on the vessel ? If so, how much, and in what office ? Mr. J. G. WARD said the vessel was insured at Lloyds for her value. The extras incurred increased the amount put down. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said that £200 was spent last year on " Sir George Grey's scholar- ship to each university." Did the Minister in- tend to continue that ? Sir J. G. WARD said that was on the Educa- tion vote. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) suggested that the vote for "contingencies " should be split up in future. He thought that Ministers' travelling-allowances and expenses should be shown separately. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) asked if the work entitled "The Early History of the Colony " was finished. There was nothing voted for it this year. Sir J. G. WARD said it had been brought up to a certain point and was stopped there. In reply to the member for the Bay of Plenty, he might say that the Government had given the details of all the "contingencies " votes. Mr. PIRANI drew attention to the item, "Expenses connected with Cook and other islands, £582." That amount was made up in this way: There was £77 10s. set down for medical comforts, £40 of which consisted solely of alcoholic liquors. Sir J. G. WARD said that referred to last year. There was no vote for this year. Mr. PIRANI said there had no doubt been a saving in the expenditure this year as compared with last year. This year they were only asked to vote £500, whereas last year they were asked to vote £1,000. There was no doubt that the Premier's pleasure trip was taken out of that vote. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) said it was obviously improper that there should be this expenditure upon certain photographs- and poor photographs-for the glorification of the Premier. He moved, That the item be re- duced by £161, being the amount of the photos taken purely for the Premier's glorification. He moved this in order to indicate to the Pre- mier that it was time that he left the tax- payers' money alone in respect to such matters as that. Mr. SEDDON said the attacks of the honour- able member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutche- son) upon him showed personal animus. He thought the honourable member, and one or 