the Government were entitled to credit for the admirable manner in which this item was worded - namely, "Miscellaneous entertain- ments, including Commissioners' salaries and expenses, also expenses invited guests from Australia and elsewhere, Press representatives, £12,153." Commissioners' salaries and expenses were part of the miscellaneous entertainments, just as corner men's salaries would be an item under the heading, " Christy Minstrel entertain- ments." So far as he could learn, this gentle- man had not done any work at all in any part of the colony that entitled him to such remunera- tion. Now, in the item the words " Salaries to Commissioners" appear. Did he understand the honourable gentleman to say now that there was only one salary ? Sir J. G. WARD .- There is only one Com- missioner and one salary. Mr. ATKINSON thought the sum of £350 paid to Mr. Holmes for three months and a half's so-called work was out of all proportion. His chief work seemed to be to send florid and verbose telegrams in the Premier's own style all over the country; the amateur Com- missioners drew no salary, and sent no tele- grams. Then, there was the item " Food," but he wanted to know where the grog came in, in these estimates. What was the cost of the liquid refreshment as compared to the solid in connection with this Royal visit? Under the item "Present," he understood there was a book of ferns and other presents included in that item. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Sir J. G. WARD said that representod a single present from the colony. Mr. ATKINSON wished to know, then, where all the other presents came in. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) believed Mr. Holmes had done some good work for the colony in connection with the Royal visit. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) said, After the remarks of the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay), he thought it was only due to the visiting Press represen- tatives to show what they had done in placing before the public the geographical features and the beauties of New Zealand. In Black and White, for instance, there was a reference to a lovely place in Tasmania, " Hobart Town, New Zealand, where their Royal Highnesses hoped to be next Tuesday "; and in another paper there was a reference to a charming townlet named Auckland in the Hauraki Gulf, Bay of Islands ; and it went on to say that after stay- ing there a day or two the Royal party would go on to the wonderland of Victoria, Rotorua. He was not joking ; it was absolutely true that those statements were in print. Nevertheless, taking the matter seriously, the visit of the illustrious representatives of the English Press had been of inestimable benefit to the colony. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked how many Press representatives were referred to in this item. Sir J. G. WARD. - There were, he thought, seven of them. Mr. HASELDEN (Patea) thought it was a colony, through the Government, had enter- tained the Royal visitors as they were entitled to be entertained, and it was not consistent with the dignity of the country to quibble over the items. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said, From the remarks of the honourable member for Napier one would think that the illustrations he had mentioned were the only ones published, and that that was the way in which Press re- presentatives were doing their work. Now, in the Sphere and the King there were some really splendid illustrations, which alone would do considerable good to the colony. Amendment, To reduce the item by £5, negatived. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) would like to know what was the meaning of the item, "Expenses under 'The Fine Arts Copyright Act, 1887,' £10." He asked this for a par- ticular purpose. Sir J. G. WARD said it represented fees under the Act in payment of the Registrar. Mr. WILFORD asked if the Minister would take an early opportunity of amending the copyright law. He would like him to carry forth his views mentioned at a meeting a short time ago in a Bill. He might point out that over in Australia the penalty for piracy-that had occurred in New Zealand once or twice- was imprisonment; and the Chief Justice had said that, as there was some uncertainty about the law, it required the attention of the Legis- lature. Sir J. G. WARD said he was of opinion that an amendment was required to prevent piracy, but whether they could give effect to legislation this session was a question he was not pre- pared to answer at present. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said that a few moments ago they listened to an unreflec- tive and thoughtless statement from the Pre- mier that he would set apart a day this session to discuss the Federation question. Mr. SEDDON said he promised at the com- mencement of the session to give an oppor- tunity to discuss it. Mr. FISHER said it was a little difficult to tell when the honourable gentleman was joking, for he usually buried his jokes so deep ; but he really wondered whether the right honourable gentleman meant to say that the Federation question could be discussed in one day. Did the honourable gentleman think the House could seriously and exhaustively discuss the question in a week? Would the honourable gentleman kindly say whether he was joking or not. Before dissecting the composition of the Commission, he would draw the attention of the Committee to the fact that the printing of the report and evidence alone cost $680, to say nothing of the shorthand-writing and secre- tarial fees. The total cost of the Commission, as the estimates showed, was £3,800, and he asked the Premier to tell the Committee, if he would graciously condescend to do so, what \--- justification there was for the appointment of the Federation Commission. The honour- 