the Government will not continue in the ascend- ant for very many years ; and I have a hope that the visit of the Premier to the Coronation next year will make him a convert to the de- sirability of exercising a little fair-play in the distribution of the moneys at the disposal of the Government. He was reasonable when he re- turned from his last visit, and I think for a whole night he was good-tempered in his dealings with the Opposition. Perhaps when he makes a trip next year he will be converted further to the de- sirability of that course, and while the estimates are under consideration will treat all parts of the colony according to their requirements, and not distribute public money because the mem- ber representing a district is compliant in his support of the Government. Mr. BENNET (Tuapeka) .- Sir, I intend to speak only for a few minutes at this late hour, and I may say I am sorry to see the opposi- tion shown by the Auckland members to the district I represent. I think the Auckland members have been very fairly treated. I do not say it would not be advisable to spend more money in their direction, if that could be done, but I think they have got more than their share. Certainly, on the Auckland-Wel- lington Railway they have got 60 per cent. more than the largest vote given to the South. The Otago Central Railway has only $100,000, and they have got for the Auckland line £160,000, so that their line, I think, is well provided for. As regards the money for roads, they have about three times as much as we have in the South Island. With reference to the Otago Central Railway, some members have been trying to belittle that line. Well, I do not says that it goes by really what is the best route that could have been got. I be- lieve a mistake was made there; but per- haps honourable members will be surprised when I tell them the quantity of goods carried during the last financial year. Although this line is not finished much more than half-way, it carried 23,450 tons. That shows whether it is wanted or not. In addition to that, about 7,000 tons was carried on the Lawrence Rail- way for Central Otago, which would have been carried on that line had it been finished ; and, of course, passengers are going up and coming down the line. I think that shows the railway will be a very valuable one when it is completed. I do not think there can be much doubt about that. Then, it should be remem- bered that it goes through a large mining dis- trict. I think that I have more occasion to grumble than any member of the House. Last year there was a vote of $5,000 for the exten- sion of a branch railway in my district. It was only a matter of six miles and a half, and the ground it goes along is about as level as the floor of this House, and runs through one of the finest agricultural districts in the colony, and that branch has not had a penny extra voted for it this year. I think more assistance ought to be given to the outlying districts, as there are about 700 tons of fruit come down from Coal Creek every year. At Mr. Pirani a distance of forty miles; and if this section were made it would shorten the distance by about twelve miles. However, I have no doubt the Government will be more liberal next year, and will make up for this. As to the disgrace- ful state of the roads in my district in winter time, I may state that it is like a ploughed field. The honourable member for Waihemo said that gold to the value of $400,000 was sent from this district last year. He was wrong in that statement, as gold to that amount was sold in the banks in Otago during the first eight months of the financial year, which would be equal to $600,000 for the year, and it would have been largely increased had the Clutha River not been so high during the whole of last winter. I do hope the good that that is doing to the colony will receive some considera- tion. The main road, as I have said, is like a ploughed field through the whole of the winter, and that is taking the place of the rail- way. The people have been agitating for the last thirty years to get a railway made up in that direction, and up to the present time no attention has been paid to them, so that I think that in the case of Auckland the members representing that provincial district have very little to grumble about, for it appears to me that no matter what you may do for the Auck- land members you cannot please them. All the same, I believe they really are pleased, but they do not wish to admit it. I think they must admit that they have received their fair share of the public expenditure. I believe the North Island has a great future before it ; but, of course, in the matter of public works expendi- ture the Government cannot do impossibilities. I shall not detain the House further, and I can only express regret that there has been so much discussion upon this question. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) .- I should be very sorry to do anything to cause ill-feeling between the representatives of the North Island and those of the South Island. I must say, how- ever, that I have some sympathy with the Auckland members on the question that has been raised. I do not happen to be an Auck- land member, and, as a Wellington member, I do not begrudge the southern members the money they are allocated for roads and rail- ways so long as that money is judiciously expended. But from what I have lately seen of the South Island-and I may say that I know as much of the South Island as I do of the North Island, and perhaps a little more -- I am strongly under the impression that a great deal of the money that has lately been voted for public works in the South Island is being absolutely wasted, whereas the money that is being expended both on roads and railways in the North Island is being put to reproductive account. We have, for instance, still under- going construction the most important line. I think, in the whole colony. Honourable members representing both Islands will admit that the North Island Main Trunk line is one of the most important of the unfinished lines in the colony. It will connect Auck- 