representing himself, with other aliases, as a | No, Sir ; none of that sort for me. Continuing, widow lady. The witness also gave a case in which a person had borrowed £60, had repaid 558 15s., and still owed $689. Having once borrowed money, in some cases escape was im- possible. In other cases clergymen and the like, rather than bear the shame of exposure, submitted to the most extortionate demands. He knew of an instance in which a clerk with a salary of £400 a year was in the hands of twenty - four money - lenders, having had to borrow from one to pay off another. The amount of salary this man had the enjoy- ment of was now $35 a year, and the time was coming when he would be unable to pay the interest on the accumulated debt of £1,129, and would assuredly be dismissed from his situation. Distraint was made upon the bor- rower's goods if his rent was in arrear, and the homes were quickly sold up on ruinous terms. Furthermore, by a trick, power to issue execu- tion was obtained by money-lenders. The Bills of Exchange Act was taken advantage of by money-lenders to prevent debtors from putting in a defence to the action." Then, the notorious Mr. Isaac Gordon, whose name has been published in our cablegrams in connection with money-lending operations, came before the Committee, and this is what occurs in the Times report :- ". The Chairman then called witness's at- tention to the case of a Mrs. Williams, of Liangollen, a dressmaker. She borrowed £50 from Edwards, of Chester, the charge for which was $20. After paying four monthly https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 instalments she defaulted, and obtained a loan of $70 from Spencer, of Liverpool, with which the paid off Edwards. She defaulted on the second loan, and borrowed $100 from Isaac Gordon, of Birmingham, to pay it off. Then she went into the Bankruptcy Court, and found that the three lenders were the same person. " Well, Sir, it is not a crime. "The Chairman : When she had defaulted on the first loan, were you aware that she applied for the second ? " Witness: Of course I knew. I instructed my manager, and furnished him with full par- ticulars, and told him to deal with the lady in the name of Spencer. " Do you call that legitimate business ?- In a certain way. If I risk my money and care to lend my money to that lady in forty different names 1 can do it. " The Chairman put the case of a Mr. Alfred Lewis, of Hereford, who between 1889 and 1-96 borrowed from Gordon £1,106 and paid aitogether £3,361. " Witness admitted the accuracy of the state- ment. He also said he was born at Leustadt, in Ru-sia. Isaac Gordon was his birth name. He was still a Russian subject. He did not deal ' with the ignorant, common class ' at all. " Mr. Warr: Do you deal with the profes- sional classes ? - What do you mean ? " With lawyers and clergymen ?- Oh, clergy- men! I have dropped them. They are an awful lot. (Laughter.) " With young officers and undergraduates ?- witness said that he had put out on loan per- haps £20,000. "Mr. Warr : Do you get security when you can ?- Not once in three years, because when people have security they know better than to come to me. (Laughter.) The ordinary form I use is a promissory note. " Witness said that as long as the law did not limit the rate of interest he was entitled to charge 5,000 per cent. if he could get it. He could not say that he had lent money at that rate, but he had at 3,000 per cent. He did not think whether the interest was reasonable or not, but simply whether the borrower could and would pay it. Like every other business- man, he wished to make as large a profit as possible. He would strongly object to the Courts having power to decide whether the rate of interest was reasonable. He would not take out a license. If he could not have a perfectly free hand in every way he would give up the business altogether. If the Court had power to review the transaction the business would not be worth following." Now, Sir, those extracts show what has been taking place at Home, and what takes place there would probably take place here, though, perhaps, in a minor degree. The same habit of borrowing is rife, and the same principles by which borrowers are treated are in vogue. Sir, the Committee, after taking all this evidence, and carefully deliberating on the matter, came to a conclusion, of which the 'Times writes in this way :- "The trend of opinion amongst influential members of the Committee appears to be against reviving the old usury laws, which limited and defined the amount of interest, it being thought that a more effective way of striking at exist- ing abuses would be to give County Court Judges an equitable jurisdiction in all money- lending cases.' An Hon. MEMBER .- That is what this Bill does. The Hon. Mr. JONES .- Yes, that is what this Bill does ; and I think that the clause which effects this reform is the wisest clause of the whole Bill, and if there were no other clause in the Bill, in addition to the necessary machinery clauses, it would be a good measure. I contend it will not effect any cure merely to restrict the interest, as there are so many ways in which a money-lender may extort unreason- able and ruinous payment for the service he renders. As the Hon. Mr. A. Lee Smith has pointed out, an indorser may be a party to a transaction, obtaining a large solatium for the use of his name ; and the Bill does not appear to deal with that phase, as previous speakers have already pointed out. The worst feature of the money-lender is that he can levy black- mail. He may get into his clutches a young man whom he has inveigled into borrowing sums of money, and then, having got him into his clutches, he threatens him with exposure if he does not pay his extortionate demands. I think that leaving full equitable jurisdiction to the Court would be beneficial, though there is this 