in receipt of $100 per month. He did not know for how many months, but he could only describe this expenditure of money as a wicked extravagance. It was surely quite unnecessary that men should be appointed at such extrava- gant sums as these to travel up and down the country. He had had some little experience of what the Commissioner did in Christchurch, and all he did was to supply them with news they already had from the daily papers ; and, As for the other work the Commissioner did, he (Mr. Collins) said that, so far as the people of Christ- church were concerned, they did not want any sbaking up at the instigation of any Commis- sioner. He could not understand this unwar- rantable extravagance on the part of the Go- vernment. He would like to know if these men received travelling-allowances in addition to $100 a month. He had nothing to say against legitimate expenses incurred in connection with guests invited to the colony from Australia or elsewhere. Of course it was only right that proper courtesy should have been extended to them. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked, Were the Commissioners appointed in the large centres paid salaries? Sir J. G. WARD said there was only one paid Commissioner. Mr. MASSEY said that was what he wanted to know. The total of £12,153 covered a num- ber of miscellaneous items, about which he thought the House should have some definite information. Would the Minister give the de- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 tails ? Sir J. G. WARD said that included in the total of #12,153 were the following :- d. B. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Railway fares and freights 3,700 0 0 Steamer fares and freights, &c ... 584 3 9 Food, camp utensils, &c. 2,571 9 5 611 Tents 2 3 .. 175 12 11 Travelling-expenses Rent. and nightwatchmen, Auck- 43 0 land 6 . Cartage, &c. .. 159 16 0 .. 47 0 0 Rent of paddock Labour, grand stand and race- 145 7 10 course Cutting raupo, firewood, clean- 0 0 86 ing. &c. Parliamentary reception (includ- ing luncheon and dinner) 1,848 0 0 .. Medais for school children 1,157 0 0 .. 1,050 0 Addresses, cards, &c. .. 0 .. 400 Kinematographs 0 0 .. .. 686 Ca-ket. and canoe 0 0 . Commissioners' salaries and ex- 467 0 0 penses Laying foundation stone, Rail- 900 0 0 way offices, Wellington .. The figures, as he had said before, might be decreased or they might be increased, as some of the accounts had not yet been settled. Amendment. To reduce item " £12,153" by £1.000, negatived. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) moved to reduce the item " £12,153 " by £5. He did so for about the items included in the total sum. Were the souvenir cards included ? Sir J. G. WARD said, Yes : addresses and cards were included, at a cost of £1,050. Mr. HERRIES said a large number of the souvenir cards had been sent out ; but many of the invited guests to whom they had been promised had not yet received them. Mr. SEDDON said that a number of cards had yet to be sent out to those who were entitled to them. Mr. HERRIES was of the opinion that some of the cards were very good, and a credit to any establishment. The Rotorua card, for instance, was an excellent production ; it was prepared by Mr. A. D. Willis, the member for Wanganui. At any rate, it had that honourable gentleman's name at the foot. Mr. SEDDON said the card was done at Mr. Willis's office ; but he was not the con- tractor. Mr. HERRIES said it was a fine piece of work, and a credit to -- well, he could not say to Mr. Willis, or he was afraid it would bring that honourable gentleman under the Dis- qualification Act. Sir J. G. WARD said he would do his best to see that the invited guests received copies of the souvenir cards. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) drew attention to the item for railway-fares and freights $3,700, and he said he noticed that there was also an item of £10,000 for the carriage of troops, cadets, veterans, and Maoris. He would like the Minister to state who were the persons for whom these railway-fares were paid. Then, there was another item of $724 for travel- ling expenses. Who incurred those expenses ? Then, there was the item £686 for presenta- tions. To whom were the presentations made, and what did they consist of ? Sir J. G. WARD said that was for the canoe and casket which was presented to the Duke and Duchess in Auckland. The amount set down for railway-fares included the fares of Maoris from Rotorua to Auckland, and also the fares of Natives from Wellington to New Ply- mouth. He might add that there was still a small amount to be charged for railage. The Government could not give the exact figures at present. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) said he quite ap- proved of the presentation made by the colony to the Royal visitors. He might mention, how- ever, that at Rotorua the Natives made pre- sentations of greenstones which were heirlooms of great historic value, and he did not think the returned presents made to them were at all creditable. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) asked if the Press representatives were passed free all through the colony; and whether all their expenses had been paid. He might state that it was thought their presence would mean a good advertisement to the colony, but, so far as he had seen, that expectation had not been fulfilled. 