prefer that this gift-because it is really a gift from the Colony of New Zealand-should be granted spontaneously, and free from anything that might cause heartburnings. Losers always feel sore, and many things said and done should be looked over. I say those connected with the carrying out of the works were greatly to blame, and those connected with the promo- tion of the scheme were too sanguine, and led those investors and persons whose savings are in the venture to expect too much, and natu- rally, of course, they feel sore; and the share- holders and debenture-holders in turn have put the blame entirely upon the colony and upon the Administration. I therefore say it is pro- bably wise, under all the circumstances, to be generous and forgiving ; end the trouble, and get the question out of the way. If we do not do that we shall have petitions coming every session, and we shall have some further ill- feeling engendered. We have referred the matter to a Royal Commission, and the Com- mission's report has told the world : gauging the value of the lines as they stand, and taking into consideration the amount the colony has contributed, we owe nothing. From the legal standpoint all the Courts have decided in our favour, and if we agree to the conclusions now recommended by the Committee it will have more weight, because it is a free gift from the colony ; and, under the circumstances, and much as I regret what was done by the deben- ture-holders in the attempt to injure our credit in respect to the flotation of our loans, still, I think, to do as I now suggest will be the best course. Now, the next question is as to the mode and method of doing it. I say we ought to see that there is no loophole left whereby this recommendation can be made simply the foundation for further consideration to follow. I say I would prefer to do nothing at all, and to reject this, and any or all applications, if the gift is not to be taken as final and conclu- sive. And in the Act to be passed authorising the raising and the payment of the £130,000, it should be set forth that whoever receives this money shall state it is accepted as final, and that there shall be no further appeal of any kind to the colony. Of course the Receiver is the sole person in whom rests the whole of the interest at the present time, and he could give that assurance that the moncy was received on that understanding. But, in addition to that, there should be a notification or some- thing in writing from each debenture-holder to say that he was prepared to accept the money from the Receiver on these conditions, or there should be duplicate vouchers-one to be re- tained by the Receiver, and the other to be sent on to the Government. Then, if, later on, either individually or collectively, an attempt was made, by petition or otherwise, to reopen the question, we could produce the statement of each person saying, so far as the colony was concerned, he had been fairly and generously dealt with. I lay very great stress upon this, because, were it not for clearing this out of the way once and for all, I should not advise the Mr. Seddon We shall probably be blamed by many people in the colony, and we shall be told in making this gift we are laying down a dangerous precedent-and I know there is a determined opposition to anything being done; but I would meet that by saying that we have to deal with every case as it comes before us and do what we think is right, feeling assured that the people of the colony will appreciate our actions. I have said myself in respect to this matter that we should do nothing ; but, looking at the question from every standpoint, I am not now, in the face of the report of the Royal Commission and the report of the Public Accounts Committee, prepared to ask the House to reject the resolution. I think probably it is a solution of the difficulty. There is a very large number of people in the colony who think we ought to give something ; and, that being the case, I think the best thing to do is that suggested in the report. I may say it will bring home in a manner little expected the action of those who tried to injure our credit when I inform the House that this payment will be made in 3-per-cent. debentures, which they must take at par. If they have succeeded in injuring our credit or lowering our 3-per- cents, such action will recoil upon themselves. However, I advise the House to let the report be laid on the table now, and be referred to the Government. We will later on prepare and introduce a Bill, and, on the second reading, if further details are wanted, I shall be most happy to give them. That is the course I pro- pose, and which I hope the House will accept. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- I will not detain the House more than a few minutes. The right honourable gentleman has said it would be unwise to have a debate now, because a Bill later on will come before us for consideration. I do not quite agree with him on that point. I think it is well to learn what the feeling of the House is now, because if the House is as decided against the recommendation as the Chairman of the Committee was there would be no need for a Bill. The Premier at least will gather from this discussion whether the House is prepared to accept a Bill in any form. I quite agree with the right honourable gentle- man that no one in the House or country-and I include lawyers-knows more about the Mid- land Railway question than the right honour- able gentleman himself, right from its incep- tion. I will not go back to the early days. because it will only cloud the issue we have before us at the present time. I almost regret that anybody has gone back to the past, although I should like very much to recall, I think, the occasion upon which I first made a speech of any length in the House. It was on the Midland Railway question, and I drew then upon myself the criticism of Sir Julius Vogel. It would be interesting now for honourable members to take up that debate of 1887 and read what some of the early history of this Midland Railway business was. It was a scandal to the colony from beginning to end : the preparation of the agreement was a scandal ; the advice 