some of their Hansard speeches quoted ? If, in the future, they should become the recipients of that hospitality for which our Northern friends and the people of the United States are celebrated, how would they like to be con- fronted with their utterances? Then, again, if we only place ourselves in the position of the people who are there, I ask, would we like to read a discussion of a similar character with regard to New Zealand taking place in America ? I think, Sir. we have had tolerably accurate information from the Postmaster-General with regard to the merits of the different routes. He has arrived at a fair estimate of the cost of each service. He has told us distinctly that from every point of view-in regard to time, expense, and efficiency-there is no comparison between the Vancouver route and the Federal line and the San Francisco line. The question then is this : have we sufficient confidence in the Postmaster-General to trust him with the negotiations ? The Postmaster-General ought certainly to have a tolerably free hand. It is right that this House should prescribe certain limits ; but in the meantime, with the informa- tion before us, I do not think we are justified in removing from his shoulders the responsibility that, on account of his position, he ought to accept. That is the position I take up. The Postmaster-General has given us the most accurate information at his disposal, and ac- cording to the information laid before the House -information that has not been controverted by any honourable member-the San Francisco https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 route is incomparably the best. The Hon. the Postmaster-General simply asks power to deal with the contractor in a legitimate way, and, if he can make a bargain that will be beneficial to the colony, he should be placed in a position to close with it. The Postmaster-General should have the responsibility of arranging the terms. Of course, the question of time is one of the main elements. We ought to have our mails carried from Great Britain to New Zealand with fair rapidity, but the matter of a few days is trifling as compared with the matter of regularity. We want a regular service. We should not look merely to our mails. We want our goods, especially perishable products, con- veyed with the greatest regularity and de- spatch. Of course, the amount of cargo car- ried at the present time is limited, but I hope we shall not always remain in that position. I hope to see a largely improved ser- vice - not altogether a mail service, but a ser- vice that will deal with our produce. That is really what is required, and for a service of that kind it would be money well spent if we paid double the subsidy now proposed. It has been submitted that the Postmaster-General should use only colonial-owned vessels. I ask honour- able members who are aware of the facts whether the Union Company can be called a colonial company? Are the principal 4.30. shareholders in New Zealand ? Where does the capital come from ? To whom do the vessels of that company belong ? Do they be- long to the people of the colony, or do they world ? It is all very well to talk about this being a colonially - owned company. I know something about the Union Steam Shipping Company, and I do not see why we should specially favour them. We are told that there is no friendship in trade, and if we can make better terms with Spreckels and Company, why should we not make them ? Mr. WILFORD. - What about the points under discussion ? Mr. HOGG .- Sir, I have no time to deal with the interruptions of the honourable gentleman ; they have no relevancy to the question before us. The honourable member has been talking about a weekly service to Melbourne. What will that do for the country ? Then he has been telling us that we are to go to Halifax. I believe honourable members have too much common-sense to go to Halifax at the sugges- tion of the honourable gentleman. The honour- able member simply opposes the proposals because he considers it undesirable to continue the contract with Messrs. Spreckels and Com- pany. If these contractors have given us a fair amount of satisfaction, and if they are carrying our mails for a moderate amount of subsidy or remuneration, why should we not make the best bargain we possibly can? I believe the members of this House have every con- fidence in the Postmaster-General, and after the statement he has made, and the very full and explicit information he has given, we shall be making a very great blunder if we do not give him the authority conveyed in these reso- lutions, to make the best possible bargain he can on behalf of the colony with regard to the renewal of the ocean mail-services. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- I hope that honourablo members, before they make up their mind on this question with regard to how they are going to vote-though I do not know there are many here who have not done so already-will put aside all feeling with regard to provincial jealousy. I am a resident in the Province of Auckland, and I am as free to admit as is any honourable member from the South that the Auckland people have been making too much of what, after all, is not a provincial matter alone. This is a colonial matter, and it ought to be approached in a colonial style, not in a provincial style. I may say that if this service is lost to Auckland and to the colony that will be largely due to the indiscreet utterances of the Auckland papers. and also of the Auckland members, or rather of one of the Auckland members. An Hon. MEMBER. - The "mailed fist ! " Mr. HERRIES .- Yes ; I quite agree with members who feel annoyed with these sort of utterances, but I earnestly implore them not to be swayed in an opposite direction to that which the utterances are meant to bring them to, but to approach the subject with a calm and judicial mind, looking only to that which will be for the benefit of the colony, and deciding which mail-route is really the best. An Hon. MEMBER .- When struck on the one cheek we must turn the other. 