Islands, the strong force of public opinion that was supposed to be in favour of annexation, the strong Imperial sentiment supposed to be be- hind it, were just as pure a fiction as any attempts to plant the white man's self- government among these islanders possibly could be. The honourable member for Hawke's Bay referred to the fact that there was but a bare quorum in the House during the greater part of this discussion, and I should like to point out that the bare quorum in the House during the discussion this afternoon is rather more than the average attendance of members in the first burst of enthusiasm with which we carried the motion last year. As the honour- able member for Haw ke's Bay has stated, there were thirty-eight members who voted against taking time enough to consider what it was they were voting upon ; and thirty-seven who, without taking any time to consider, and with- out considering at all - most of them, at any rate-voted for the motion ; but they did not honour the House with their attendance during nine-tenths of the discussion. I took a census, which I recorded at the time in the Hansard of last year, of what the attendance was, to show the interest the House was taking in this new departure in our foreign policy. The census was taken at about 11.30 in the evening. There were then nine Government supporters in the Chamber: three of them were sound asleep, one of them being a Minis- ter; three were hard at work writing ; two of them were listening ; and one of them was speaking, and he was speaking against the motion. This will illustrate the interest taken by those who voted against adjourning this dis- cussion-the keen interest taken by them in the very great question submitted for our con- sideration to-night. Now, that was while the dobate was proceeding : thirty-eight voted that we should not take time to consider the ques- tion, and thirty-seven voted, at 2.30 in the morning, that the motion should go through ; and the whole lot of them, by arrangement, turned up from the lobbies at the finish, and sang " Rule Britannia" and the National Anthem to celebrate this new departure in our foreign policy. Well, the whole thing was a per- fect farce, simply a preposterous fiction, and no foolery in the Cook Islands could be more trans- parently insincere than was our foolery on that occasion, or the action, I presume it was, of the Premier in cabling to the Old Country that we had carried this motion for annexing the Cook Islands in a burst of enthusiasm, with "Rule Britannia " and the National Anthem. There | of the petition, and, therefore, a condition was just as much "Rule Britannia " and the National Anthem in the hearts of members at that time as at the present moment while we are considering this Bill. The division-list on that occasion shows that there were four mem- bers who went into the lobby against the motion. The honourable member for Auck- land City (Mr. Napier) spoke about "little Englanders." I am no "little Englander"; but I am certainly a "little New-Zealander," if the test is one's attitude on this question. -the honourable member for Avon will correct me if I am wrong-is about 142 square miles. and there are about one thousand 5.0. eight hundred miles of sea between this and the rest of our territory; and if the test of the "little New Zealander " is whether or not you believe in such an extension, I plead guilty. Last year there were four " little New- Zealanders " who went into the lobby as a pro- test against the motion- no, only two actually went into the lobby, Mr. Hutcheson and Mr. Monk- and Mr. Herries and myself stayed outside to count them. I am glad to think we are likely to have a rather larger number on this occasion, or perhaps I should not re- joice. I am proud of that small minority. " We few, we happy few, we band of brothers," have a right to feel jealous at an addition to our numbers, which will diminish our indi- vidual share of honour. At first I had some doubts, which were not finally removed until the honourable member for Hawke's Bay spoke, as to whether or not I should support the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) in voting against the third reading -- for this reason : that, though opposed to the extension of our boundaries, I was inclined when he was speaking to think that, now we had got the new territory, it was our duty to provide for its government. An Hon. MEMBER .- You were a Government supporter then. Mr. ATKINSON .- Yes, when my colleague was speaking I was a Government supporter ; I was practically in the position of Mr. John Morley in regard to the war Budget at Home. The question was whether the imposition of heavy extra taxation, largely on the necessaries of life, should be sanctioned to pay for the war, and the attitude of Mr. Morley was that he was against the war, and always had been ; but the war was there, and, as it was there, they had to pay for it like honest men. And so he was driven to vote for the oppressive duties which were to pay for the war he did not believe in. In the same way I, at first, felt that I should have to vote for this Bill for the government of Islands I do not believe in. But I have seen various reasons since for changing that non- committal attitude, and the chief one was the argument adduced by the honourable member for Hawke's Bay when he compared clause 3 of this Bill with the clause in the petition from the Arikis of Rarotonga, upon which we acted when we passed the motion for the annexa- tion of these Islands. It was a prayer of the contract, that "the general laws of New Zealand shall only be introduced as re- quired and adopted by the Council of Arikis." This Bill is a direct violation of that contract, seeing that clause 3 provides " that the Go- vernor, by Order in Council, may from time to time direct that any of the laws in force in New Zealand shall be observed in the said Is- lands." The wishes of the Arikis are ignored altogether ; and I feel I should be guilty of a breach of faith if I voted for the Bill on the 