the premises -- in order that necessitous cases might be attended to night or dav ; but they had found that these cases were so few that it was hardly worth their while to make that pro- vision. He thought if there was some common- sense arrangement made by which some shops were kept open night and day, each taking his turn in the rota, there would be no more trouble. He did not, however, like the idea of absolutely closing all chemists for so many hours in the week, and saying that it was anybody's duty to attend to any special call. As regards the relation of this Bill to the Government Bill, he did not see any reason why it should not be proceeded with, at any rate, another stage. He hoped on the following day to be able to state what the Government intended to do with regard to the Shops and Offices Bill. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND thought that chemists, like doctors, should be always acces- sible to the public. They formed almost a close corporation, and the profits they made were unusually large-much larger than in any other business. There were very few of them that could not well afford, if disposed to take a holiday themselves, to keep some qualified per- son on the premises to be ready to meet the requirements of the public. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY said it would be as well to go into Committee on the Bill, because, so far as he could see, the questions being dis- cussed were Committee points. He was glad to hear the Minister say he was going to muster up sufficient courage to declare his intentions regarding the Shops and Offices Bill, because the nervousness with which he had approached it on the Order Paper had been conspicuous, and had raised a suspicion that he did not intend to proceed with it. He thought if the Bill were not allowed to go into Committee it would be unfair to the honourable gentlemen who had passed it through the Lower House. The Council divided on the question, " That the Bill be committed." AYES, 24. Reeves Arkwright Johnston Jones Rigg Barnicoat Smith, A. L. Kelly, T. Bolt Smith, W. C. Kelly, W. Bowen Feldwick Louisson Swanson Tomoana Montgomery Gourley Twomey Jenkinson Pinkerton Walker, W. C. Pitt Jennings NOES, 11. Taiaroa Baillie Morris Walker, L. Ormond Harris Williams. Scotland Kenny Shrimski McLean Majority for, 13. Amendment negatived, and motion agreed to. Bill committed and reported. STATUTES COMPILATION BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 1 .- Short Title. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN moved, That the Chairman leave the chair. Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker AYES, 15. Scotland Arkwright Kenny Louisson Shrimski Bowen Mc Lean Jenkinson Swanson Ormond Walker, L. Johnston Kelly, W. Pitt Williams. NOES, 13. Barnicoat Smith, A. L. Kelly, T. Feldwick Pinkerton Tomoana Twomey Gourley Reeves Harris Walker, W. C. Rigg Jones Majority for, 2. Motion agreed to. The Chairman left the chair. The Council adjourned at ten minutes to five o'clock p.m. # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Wednesday, 2nd October, 1901. First Readings - Unopposed Notices of Motion- Wellington Gaols-Medical Comforts for the Wel- lington Gaols - William Claxton - Habitual Inebriates-Grand Hotel Fire, Auckland- Raro- tonga Justices-High Commissioner's Court for the Western Pacific-M. A. Donnelly-Appoint- ments as Stipendiary Magistrates - Police- Sergeant Wright - Point Halswell Gaol: Es- caped Prisoners - Charges of Drunkenness - English Sunday-closing Hours, &c .- Australian Lottery Advertisements - Milk - testing-Otara Bridge - Maori Leaflets - Wire Netting for Settlers-Wellington Land Board-Lawrence- Roxburgh Road-Wellington Public Abattoirs -W. D. Leslie-Preservation of Scenery along Cheviot-Kaikoura Road-Crown Tenants' Reut Rebate Act - Farmers' Union-Forest Reserves -Sanatorium at Turakina-Waikakahi-Land for Workmen's Homes-J. W. Kayes - Levin Experimental Station-Poisoning of Poultry- Lime for Farmers-Mangaweka Bridge-Kirk's "Forest Flora " - Noxious Weeds Act - Epuni Settlement-Fair Rent Bill-Dairy Stud Stock -Veterinary Surgeons - Milk Tests in Dairy Factories-Kelsey's Bush-Maerewhenua Bridge - Waikato - Onehunga River Trade - Noxious Weeds - Reserves for Ngatihuia Tribe - Stud Horse for South Canterbury-Otekaike Estate -Mokau River Scenery-Money-lenders' Bill- Royal Visit Expenses Bill. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. # FIRST READINGS. Shipping and Seamen Bill, Crown Grants Bill, Egmont County Bill, Smoking by Youths Prohibition Bill, Law Amendment Bill. UNOPPOSED NOTICES OF MOTION. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) wished to ask why the unopposed notices of motion were not called on ? This deliberate and persistent setting aside of the Standing Orders was getting beyond all endurance. He had some notices of motion on the Order Paper which he knew to be unopposed. In connection with this matter of the refusal to allow these motions to be called 