"That the amendments proposed by the Native Affairs Committee be agreed to." AYES, 34. Flatman Millar Allen, E. G. Arnold Gilfedder Palmer Graham Barclay Parata Buddo Russell, G. W. Guinness Carncross Seddon Hall Carroll Hall-Jones Symes Ward Collins Hogg Witheford. Colvin Hornsby Houston Duncan Ell Kaihau Tellers. Field Heke McGowan Fisher Meredith O'Meara. NOES, 17. Lethbridge Smith, G. J. Allen, J. Atkinson Massey Tanner Fowlds McNab Thompson, R. Monk Herries Tellers. Rhodes Hutcheson Fraser, A. L. D. Laurenson Russell, W. R. Lang. Majority for, 17. Amendments agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 30 .- Partition of Arapaoanui Block declared void. On the motion of Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister), the second proviso was struck out. Clause 32 .- For hearing by the Native Appellate Court of the investigation of the Poukawa Block. On the motion of Mr. CARROLL (Native https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Minister), this clause was struck out. Clause 38 .-- Grant of land, Milford Sound, to H. K. Taiaroa authorised. On the motion of Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister), this clause was struck out. Clause 43 .- " Native Land Court Act, 1894," amended. Subsection (a) .- " A will shall not be deemed an alienation within the meaning of subsection ten of section fourteen thereof so as to bar the operation of the said subsection. Any decision of the Court or Appellate Court heretofore given to the contrary is hereby annulled, unless transmission under the will has been registered under the Deeds Registration or Land Transfer Acts, and the interest thereby created has in the meantime been dealt with." Mr. HALL (Waipawa) moved to strike out the words from "Any decision " to the end of the subsection. Amendment agreed to. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) moved to strike out the clause. The Committee divided on the question, "That the clause be retained." AYES, 32. Allen, J. Duncan Hall-Jones Buddo Field Heke Carncross Herries Fraser, W. Carroll Gilfedder Hogg Collins Graham Hornsby Colvin Hall Lang Russell, W. R. Willis. McGowan Mills Seddon Tellers. Smith, G. J. Fraser, A. L. D. Monk Palmer Thomson, J. W. Houston. NOES, 23. Allen, E. G. Russell, G. W. Kaihau Symes Arnold Laurenson Lethbridge Tanner Atkinson Mckenzie, R. Thompson, R. Barclay McNab Witheford. Fisher Tellers. Flatman Meredith Ell Guinness Millar Hutcheson Parata O'Meara. Majority for, 9. Clause as amended agreed to. Bill reported, and read a third time. RESERVES AND OTHER LANDS SALE, DISPOSAL, AND ENABLING AND PUB- LIC BODIES EMPOWERING BILL .. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) moved the second reading of the Bill. When the Bill was in Committee he would give any explana- tion that might be required of the various clauses. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) merely wished to say there were several clauses in the Bal which he would like some explanation of in Committee. They might be all right, but. on the face of it, there should certainly be some explanation before the House consented to pass them. Bill read a second time. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 7 .- Power to John Elliot to obtain fresh lease of land, Awakino. The Committee divided on the question. "That the clause be retained." AYES, 36. Mills Allen, E. G. Heke Herries Buddo Monk O'Meara Carncross Hogg Parata Hornsby Carroll Rhodes Colvin Houston Kaihau Seddon Duncan Thomson, J. W. Field Lang Fisher Ward Lawry Fraser, W. Willis. Massey Graham Tellers. McGowan McGuire Guinness Symes Mckenzie, R. Thompson. R. Hall Hall-Jones NOES, 17. Millar Allen, J. Fowlds Smith, G. J. Arnold Hutcheson Laurenson Tanner. Atkinson Lethbridge Barclay Teliers. Flatman Collins McNab Russell, G. W. Meredith Ell Majority for, 19. Clause retained. Clause 13 .- " Whereas section numbered 125 of suburban section numbered 1, of the Parish of Pukekohe, in the Land District of Auckland. containing four acres three roods twenty-four 