extent of over 100,000 tons a year, and that I am within the bounds when I say there is an estimated saving of from 5s. to 7s. 6d. a ton upon so large a consumption as that, they will see that it will be an advantage to us if we had a State coal-mine. Then, another position favourable to the Government is this : we hold the lands. The land upon which the coal is be- longs to us, so that all we are asking in this Bill is for the necessary authority. Probably there will be this objection, which I had better meet at once, namely : that as there is so much capital invested in the coal-mines by private enterprise, it is unfair that the State should now step in and open and work a coal-mine of its own. Well, I provide that there shall be no competition till our own requirements have been met. If honourable members look at the Bill they will see that it is only after the State requirements are met that we are to go into the market as vendors of coal. I would also say, further than that, that practically the first coal we should deal with would be bitu- minous or hard coal, and consequently other coal-mines would not be affected. But, even suppose they were affected, we have a duty to perform to the taxpayers of the colony, and that is to obtain our coal at a reasonable rate. Without rhyme or reason the coal proprietors of the colony-at least those who serve the State-took upon themselves to raise the price of coal half a crown a ton. Now, they were not paying a sixpence more for hewing coal, for the price of winning and hewing coal was fixed by the Arbitration Court, and the men cannot participate in this increased profit until the award has expired. And, on making inquiry, I find that there has been no increased shipping charge. There was no increase in the railway rate, there was no increase in the miners' rates for cutting and drawing the coal ; and I do not see myself any reason for the increase except this : that there had been such a demand for coal that it was the opportunity of the coal- mine owners, and on that ground they were within their rights in doing so. I do not ques- tion their rights. The Imperial authorities-the Admiralty-were sending steamers for our coal, and, as they were scarcely able to meet this de- mand, it was their opportunity, and they raised the price. For coal which I know positively was put on board the boats at Greymouth and West- port for 10s. f.o.b., and then at Greymouth, they were asking 17s. 6d. a ton, and the Government thought that too high a rate, because we know that the freight of the Union Company is 5s., and they ask £1 1s. 6d. and £1 2s. from the Government. I say that the profits from that coal are unusually large. The Government could put that coal on board the boat, and there would be a profit, at 10s. per ton. The cutting-rates go from 2s. to, I think, 2s. 10d. Then, of course, we have to allow for trucking and getting that coal into the wagons, and I put that down at 3s. 6d., making it 3s. 10d. The railway-rates should be about 2s. 6d. and 3s., but I put it at 4s., and thus you have 7s. 10d. There is then only the cost of putting per ton gives a fair profit. As I say, if you add 5s. for the freight by steamer, and charge £1 1s. 6d. and $1 2s., as far as the Govern- ment is concerned, there is a very good margin of profit. But when you come to the consumers in the colony-those who use coal for household purposes-and you find they pay £1 8s. or £1 10s., and as high as $2 10s. per ton, it must be admitted it is in those cases it strikes home. I wish also to put forward the broader ground that the time has arrived for us to open a State coal-mine ; and why? Because private enterprise has not met the demands of the colony. There is not nearly enough coal being won at the present time to meet the demand. There are demands for coal for export, and there is no coal to send away. If coal is sent away, then it means there is a famine in the colony-no coal for home consumption. These famines have oc- curred repeatedly, and the prices charged on those occasions have simply been famine prices. That has occurred in Christchurch. Wellington, and Auckland. An Hon. MEMBER .- Not in Auckland. Mr. SEDDON. - Yes, it had occurred there as far as the West Coast coal is concerned. Of course they have their own brown coal in that district. In Dunedin they are not so badly off, because there also they can get brown coal. Mr. MILLAR .-- The price for Westport coal is £2 2s. a ton in Dunedin. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes, $2 2s. a ton for West- port coal in Dunedin, and for cutting that coal the collier gets 2s. 10d. a ton, and by the time it gets to the consumer in Dunedin it is £2 2s. a ton. Mr. R. THOMPSON .- There is the cost of handling. Mr. SEDDON. - Yes, of course, there is a charge for handling the coal-so much per ton. Mr. W. FRASER .- Breakage. Mr. SEDDON .- Of course, there may be breakage as well. However, I am stating the facts ; and I say that, as the facts have been put previous to this, the sellers have never yet been able to explain the margin. However, the strong ground for which I wish to pass the Bill is this : that, as private enterprise has failed to meet the demands of the colony, the State must step in and do it. There is not enough coal won now to meet the demands of the Admiralty. Now, in my opinion there should be coal deposits in the colony available in case of emergency, both for the Admiralty and for the State. We have nothing of the kind at present. There should also be these coal deposits in the interests of the industries of the colony. If anything serious occurred, and cruisers blocked the coal ports, the in- dustries of New Zealand would be paralysed ; of course, they could not work without coal. That should not be so, and we ought to have deposits of coal to meet the emergencies. There are other nations that are prepared to come here for coal, but we have no coal to give them. Hence they are forced to go to Newcastle. Then, when I tell the House that last year 