Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) asked, What were the contingencies under the Native Land Court vote ? Mr. McGOWAN said they were as follows :- d. £ 8. Advertising and printing 6 31 6 Allowance to constable attending sittings at Ohacawai 0 5 17 Cartage of records, freight, &c. 31 15 0 49 Cleaning, &c. 12 0 .. Gas. fuel, &c. .. 1 10 7 . . Ink, stationery, tracings, &c. 10 5 2 Typewriters and supplies 21 0 0 .. £156 17 6 Mr. ARNOLD (Dunedin City) asked for an explanation of the increase in the item " Travel- ling allowances and expenses, $350." Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) wished fur- ther information with reference to the Law Draftsman and Crown Law Officers, as an amount of #123 appeared in the "Contin- gencies " just read out for Law Draftsman. Mr. McGOWAN said the travelling-allow- ances and expenses were for two Secretaries, and officers of the department ; and he presumed the Royal visit had something to do with the increased expenditure. He might state as to the Law Draftsman, that only a portion of the salary had been paid ; $650 was the salary which had been given for years to the Law Draftsman. Dr. Fitchett had been appointed Solicitor-General, and the position of Law Draftsman had not yet been officially filled. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) asked if the Law Draftsman would be appointed at that salary. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. McGOWAN said it was necessary the salary should be voted, no matter who filled the position. Mr. PIRANI asked who was to get the £4 " Refund of part of fine of $5 imposed for breach of . The Printers and Newspapers Regis- tration Act. 1868.' " Mr. McGOWAN said he thought that was the case of Mr. Grant. Mr. PIRANI said that for similar offences other newspapers had been fined 5s. in one case and #1 in others. He thought it was only right that a portion of the larger fine should be re- mitted. He would be satisfied if the Minister would promise to consider the matter. Mr. McGOWAN said he would make in- quiries. Mr. PIRANI said it was reported that the Government were going to reprint Captain Barry's book on New Zealand. He hoped there was no truth in the statement. Mr. ATKINSON asked for further informa- tion with reference to the item " Purchase of reports and treatises for Crown Law Office, $150." Last year only £42 was spent. Mr. McGOWAN said it had been found that this extra expenditure was required. Vote. $5,714, agreed to. Prisons. $30,886. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) desired to draw attention to certain discrepancies in the expenditure in the various gaols of the colony. The cost for medicines and medical comforts in the Wellington Gaol was very largely in excess of that in other prisons. For instance, it compared very badly indeed with Auckland. The cost for medicines and medical comforts in Wellington Gaol was £209 11s. 8d., as against £84 13s. 10d. in Auck- land ; vet the number of prisoners in the Wellington Gaol was less than the number in the Auckland Gaol, and the average on the sick- list was considerably less in Wellington than in Auckland. Mr. McGOWAN said the reason would be understood when he explained that the medical comforts used in prisons were not always what might be called medicines. They were classes of food, and prisoners who did certain labour- hard labour and so on-got food accordingly. An Hon. MEMBER asked, Are they all solid foods ? Mr. McGOWAN said some of them were liquids, but none of them were spirits. Milk was classed as a medical comfort, although, of course, it was a food. Tobacco, rice, sugar, cocoa, oatmeal, butter, cheese, and tea were all comforts, which were supplied under the head of "medical comforts." Mr. HUTCHESON asked whether the same conditions did not apply in all of the gaols ? Possibly they had a kind-hearted gaoler in Wellington. At any rate, he wanted to know something now about the clothing. He had looked up the records for the last ten years, and he found this : the average showed that for bedding and clothing, in the two prisons at Wellington and Auckland, the cost was 50) per cent. more in Wellington than in Auckland. How could that be accounted for ? An Hon. MEMBER .- The climate. Mr. HUTCHESON said there were a. lot more strange things to account for. He was not satisfied with the explanation of the Minister that rice, cheese, butter, and tobacco were classed as medical comforts. He would like to know if there had been anv check on these medical comforts by the medical officer in charge in Wellington. Surely, of all men, the medical officer in charge of the gaol should bo the man to make out requisitions for medical comforts. Had the medical officer in Welling- ton been in the habit of doing so. or had he even been given the opportunity ? The climate would not account for the increase of 50 per cent. between the cost of the two gaols. He knew something about the Auckland climate, and it certainly would not account for the great discrepancy. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) thought the honour- able member for Wellington City had rather understated than overstated the facts of the case. As far as he could make out, the differ- ence was not 50 per cent., but was in many cases over 100 per cent .- that was to say, the cost of bedding and clothing for each prisoner was more than double in Wellington what it was in Auckland. It was a state of affairs that really could not be accounted for. Take the year 1892 : The daily average number of pri- soners in Auckland was 134, and the cost £160; the daily average number of prisoners in Wel- 