almost perfect for the rearing of fish, and a site had been obtained there for the erection of the necessary buildings, and this vote was for the purpose of erecting the building. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) would like to ask the Minister if any regulations were likely to be made to regulate the distance from which trawlers should work off the shore. Mr. HALL-JONES said that this was one of the questions to be inquired into by the In- spector. The matter would be dealt with when his report was received. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) asked the Minister whether anything was being done to protect two or three aged fishermen who had been earning their livelihood at the mouth of the Wairau River for the last thirty years, and who were threatened with prosecution and the destruc- tion of their industry at the hands of the Acclimatisation Society, because, along with other fish, they caught a few vagrant trout which got into the nets, and which they could not keep out. Mr. HALL-JONES said that what he had heard from the member for Clutha and the last honourable gentleman was the first intimation he had had of any prosecution of sea-fishermen for finding trout in their nets. He would in- quire into the matter, and endeavour to have this grievance remedied. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) said that the vote of $150 for the collection and distribution of trout-ova was a ridiculously small sum for this purpose. Mr. HALL-JONES would like to interrupt the honourable gentleman to explain that when starting operations at the Hakataramea Salmon- hatchery applications were made by some accli- / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero matisation society for a supply of trout-ova, and they collected a great many thousands of trout-ova at this hatchery. This expense was incurred in doing that, but it would be recouped by the sale of the ova. Mr. WILFORD said he wished to refer to the general question. He understood it was the intention of the Government to foster by every means in their power the tourist traffic, and he would tell the Minister that people came from the whole of the British dominions and from English-speaking countries at the present time to enjoy the trout fishing of New Zealand. He knew instances of people coming from America and England for this purpose. He thought the country did not realise the tre- mendous asset it possessed in the trout streams of New Zealand, and that the Government did not realise the great impetus that could be given to the tourist traffic by some small assist- ance. He wanted to ask the Government if they would see next year that a sum of money was placed upon the estimates for the purpose of helping acclimatisation societies to fully equip and stock the various rivers in the colony. Experts recommended that the rainbow trout was the most suitable, at all events, for the North Island rivers. It increased very prolifi- cally, and provided splendid sport. Mr. Hall-Jones 8.0. supported the placing of a larger sum on the estimates for the introduction of salmon and other ova. If the Minister would confine his vote to such an effort as that it would perhaps be advisable. He should also use some of his trawling-gear on Lake Ellesmere, and clear it of the weeds that at present make fish- ing on it an impossibility. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) did not think the country had gained much by the trawling ex- peditions, except to prove that fish were no: found in the deep water in such quantities as was hoped ; nor yet had they found the new varieties that were expected. All the trawling had scarcely brought to light anything that was not previously known. The Minister, he thought, should ascertain how near to the shore trawling should be permitted. The breeding-grounds of the fish were really so limited that the Government should find out what extent of water adjacent to the shore should be reserved for breeding-grounds. Mr. LANG (Waikato) wished to impress on the Minister the importance of aiding acclima- tisation societies by granting a sum to help them in their work in distributing fish through- out the rivers of New Zealand. This was par- ticularly desirable in parts of the country that were not now settled, such as the King-country. On the estimates there was a sum for aiding the Hokitika hatchery, and he hoped the Minis- ter would see his way to put a sum on the supplementary estimates to aid the Auckland Acclimatisation Society in the way of stocking the various rivers in that province with fish. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) indorsed the re- marks of the honourable member for Waitemata with regard to trawling, and hoped the inquiry promised by the Minister would be carried out at an early date. There was no doubt serious harm was now being done to the fish by the trawling that went on in the harbours and close to the shore. Steam-trawling was at present prohibited in Ireland within three miles of the coast, and in Scotland the Fisheries Board had power to prohibit trawling within a certain distance of the coast, and, he thought, in all the harbours. He was inclined to think the sooner that was done in New Zealand the better. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) suggested the desirableness of importing the ova of deep-sea fish from the North Sea, such as herring and cod. If these fish were introduced to New Zealand waters they would be a source of great wealth to the country. Mr. HALL-JONES said the Government had written to the Agent-General, asking him to make inquiries with reference to the best class of deep-sea fish ova to be obtained, and as to the best way of obtaining it, and of forwarding the same to New Zealand. This vote was for the purpose of making the necessary prepara- tions for the reception of this ova. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) said he had no objection to a moderate expenditure for intro- ducing salmon-ova, but he thought the sugges- tion of the member for Lyttelton was far more important. If they could only introduce the 