down at £15,000. £2,000 was asked for this year, and he wished to know what was to be done with the £2,000. He wished to mention that the institution was splendidly conducted, and the children were happy, healthy, and well trained ; but it was positively immoral of the Government to continue to house them in a wooden building. He had on several occa- sions brought the matter before the depart- ment and before the House, and the anxiety to which the present conditions gave rise must be his excuse, if excuse were needed, for again referring to the matter. Mr. HALL-JONES .- Information had been obtained as to the most modern building for this class of school. The plan was almost com- pleted, and before they met again the building would be under way. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) alluded to the urgent need for a home for epileptics. It was a disgrace to the State that there was no such accommodation. Mr. HALL-JONES said, As soon as a site was selected, the necessary buildings would be started. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) drew attention to the state of the buildings at Caversham Industrial School, the old wooden buildings being nothing short of a death-trap. Mr. HALL-JONES was understood to say that if these were not required they would be removed. Vote, £30,000 agreed to. School-buildings, Special, £30,000. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) said, in connection with the Technical School at Christchurch, through some feeling on the part of a School Committee the sale of the school site had been put a stop to, and he wished to know whether any provision would be made by the Govern- ment whereby the Board would be enabled to purchase a site. Mr. HALL-JONES said he was not aware of any special provision being made for the pur- chase of a site at Christchurch, or whether a decision had been come to regarding the site proposed to be dealt with by the Canterbury Board. The question of the disposal of a site would be decided very shortly, and that, he thought, would also settle the matter of obtain- ing a new site. Mr. BUDDO said he understood it would be provided for. Mr. HALL-JONES did not say that, but be- lieved that an arrangement would be come to by which the Christchurch Board would be able to build the school. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) would like to know on what principle the £10,000 for technical schools would be allocated. Mr. HALL-JONES said the money would be distributed according to the Act, and under regulations. He was advised that the site on the Town Belt at Christchurch was not re- quired for public-school purposes ; and, if that was so, he did not see why it should not be used by the Canterbury Board. Vote, £30,000, agreed to. Vote, Hospitals and other Charitable Insti- tutions, £5,000, agreed to. CLASS XXIII. Vote, Lighthouses, £5,500, agreed to. Vote, Harbour-works, £7,527, agreed to. Harbour defences, £25,000. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) moved to re- duce the vote by £15,000. No less a sum than £420,000 was asked this year for defence pur- poses. Was it possible for the colony to main- tain this expenditure? It meant a charge of 11s. per head on the population for defence. This item was but a small one, and, as the liabilities were under £10,000, it was not handi- capping the Government to reduce the vote by £15,000. That would give sufficient to meet liabilities, and would be an indication that the Defence vote was to be reduced. Mr. HALL-JONES said the fact that the expenditure on this item was low was an indication that a greater expenditure would be required this year. At the present time works were going on in various places which must be provided for. If the money was not required it would not be spent. It would only be expended in carrying on work that was necessary. Every possible precaution should be taken, in his opinion, to make the defences of the colony as modern and efficient as the finances of the colony would permit. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) said it was abso- lutely monstrous that the Government should propose an expenditure of close on £450,000 upon the defence of the colony. The colony could not stand the strain; the money ought to be spent on roads and bridges. The Committee divided on the question, "That the item be reduced by £15,000." AYES, 16. O'Meara Arnold Herries Russell, G. W. Barclay Hogg Bennet Hornsby Tellers. Collins Lang Meredith Lethbridge Graham Millar. Hall Massey NOES, 28. Allen, E. G. Kaihau Smith, G. J. Buddo Lawry Stevens Carroll McGowan Thompson, R. Colvin McGuire Ward Duncan Mckenzie, R. Wilford Field McNab Witheford. Fraser, A. L. D. Mills Hall-Jones Parata Tellers. Heke Rhodes Carncross Houston Seddon Palmer. Majority against, 12. Amendment negatived. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) asked 2.0. what liabilities had been incurred that the Minister said this vote was required for. Mr. HALL JONES said they came up to very nearly the amount asked for. They were works that were being carried on at Auckland, Wel- lington, and Dunedin, and when these works were completed the vote would cease. 