attempt to do so. Why, in the bush districts the only time when the roads ought to be con- structed is the summer-time, and yet immedi- ately the summer comes round the Government slacken off and postpone works until just on the eve of winter, when it is almost impossible to get anything like decent work done at a decent price. In some of the settlements made by the present Government six years ago you will yet find it almost impossible in the winter time to get about without going up to the waist in mud. I know of one in particular that I am acquainted with-namely, the Te Kapu Block, in the Hunterville district. The settlers have been compelled to live on the land there for the past four years, yet they have got nothing but They are compelled a track to their holdings. not only to live there, but also to take their wives and families there ; and I notice that the Ministers never pay a visit to that block during their peregrinations. Mr. SEDDON .- Which way do you go to it ? Mr. PIRANI. - God only knows - with a balloon, I think. The best evidence of the un- satisfactory way in which the settlers there are treated is that every opportunity they get of selling out they do so, at less than they have spent on the land. Yet it is good land, and would make a splendid settlement if the Go- vernment would only make roads to connect it with the outside world, instead of compelling the people and their families, who are dragging out what is almost a miserable existence there, to reside. And that is going on in most of the bush settlements. What is the use of sending men on to the land without making any at- tempt to assist them in the summer-time. I do not understand why the Minister for Public Works does not pay a visit there. He went as far as Mangaweka last year, but he did not go off the beaten track. It is not as if the settlers were opponents of the Government. I noticed at the last election at that block that nearly all the votes in that settlement went to the Government. Mr. HALL-JONES .- That shows their good sense. Mr. PIRANI .- No; it shows their want of sense, because if settlers generally voted against the Government they would get their wants attended to; but as it is they vote for the Government, and the Government think they can do what they like with them. We were told to-night about railway expenditure being necessary on open lines, but some districts are not so well treated as others. We have a sample in Palmerston North of the necessity for more railway expenditure. The goods-shed there is not much more than big enough to accommodate one day's receipt of goods, and if the goods are not cleared out promptly the men have great difficulty in carrying on work until there is a clearance. There is plenty of land alongside, but the Government were too par- simonious to purchase it, although the necessity has been pressed on them year after year; and now the land has risen in value, and the Go- vernment will have to pay three times as much ago. In regard to the Gorge Bridge, and the Gorge Road, there is another evidence of the want of action on the part of the Govern- ment. We were told years ago that the Go- vernment would compel the local bodies to erect the Gorge Bridge and put the road in a stato of repair, but it is just in the state it was four or five years ago; and, instead of doing something in that direction, or making a good road, which could be made at a small cost, and diverting the traffic from the Gorge Road to Fitzherbert and over the bridge already erected, the Government have waited idly by until the road constructs itself. Another case of neglect in our district is the road between Palmerston and Foxton. That road was formed something like thirty years ago, and it is marked on a plan published in 1872 as a main Government road to be constructed. Over and over again the Government have been urged to complete that line of communication by making the Ngawakarau link, but at the present time it remains in the same state it has been in for years past. We certainly had a distinct pro- mise from the Minister of Lands that a vote would be put on the estimates to pay one- third of the cost of the road, but there is no money on the estimates for that purpose. Under these circumstances, what is the good of any Minister's promise if, after he has seen a place like that, having evidence brought to prove conclusively that the work is necessary, when the settlers are prepared to raise their share of the money, and when the money would be well spent, we find that when the estimates come down there is not a penny put on to carry out that promise? Then, we have another instance in regard to the Pal- merston Post-office. The Government have a building there of three rooms, to accommodate, I suppose, the largest postal department in the colony outside of the large centres. The postal work in Palmerston is not confined to Palmerston itself, but almost all the mails are distributed from there to the different morning trains as they leave for other parts of the colony ; and yet, with the enormous work they have to do the officials are confined to a three-roomed wooden cottage, while we are told that Hunterville is going to have a brick building at a cost of £1,500. An honour- able member suggests that an election in my district would perhaps have some effect. I was suggesting to some of the residents the other day that if the Premier would be willing I would resign, and the Premier could go up to Palmerston and contest it. If that were carried into effect, Palmerston might get very much more attention to its requirements than it seems to do at the present time. It is a sad thing to find while all these require- ments are necessary for the Government's own administration, they take a delight, I was almost saying, in depriving themselves of facilities for carrying on their own work pro- perly, because it might be thought the expendi- ture of the money in a district represented by an Opposition member would be a sign of weak- 