may include Taranaki as well, such is not the case. It can also be said that the Canterbury people, in regard to the typographical and other disputes there, settled their disputes in Canterbury. Now, there has been a great deal said about the Board of Conciliation in Wel- lington raising irritation, and some of the mem- bers fomenting disputes. My honourable friend who champions this Board must know, and if he is honest he must admit it, that one mem- ber of that Board went to the trade-union he belongs to and endeavoured to get the members of his society to break an award made by the Court of Arbitration because it did not fall in with the recommendations made by his Board. Mly honourable friend knows that is true. The Hon. Mr. RIGG .- No; this is the first I have heard of it. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- Well, then, I will relate the circumstances : One member of the Board of Conciliation here was disappointed at the award given by the Court of Arbitration, and he got the Typographical Society here to call a special meeting for the purpose of not ac- cepting that award ; but I am glad to say the good sense of the majority of the members of the Typographical Society of Wellington said, in effect, "No, we have fought our fight ; we have got an award, and, though we do not agree with it, we are prepared to accept it." This member of the Board, who should have been the last man to incite his fellow-workers, had only one or two followers to back him up. That is a https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 fact, and my honourable friend must know it, although he disclaims it. The Hon. Mr. RIGG .- I have already denied that I know the circumstance as related by the http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero honourable gentleman, and that is that I knew a member of the Board of Conciliation had in- cited his union to break an award. I deny I had that knowledge, and the honourable gentle- man has reiterated his statement that I had that knowledge. I deny it. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS .- I accept the Hon. Mr. Rigg's statement; but he must have noticed what appeared in one of the Wel- lington papers about this circumstance ; it was current talk here in Wellington at the time. 1 know the meeting took place-what is the use of subterfuge in these matters ? I have letters in my possession, which I will produce if neces- sary, showing that one member under this Act has endeavoured to influence the members of a union to break an award made in Auckland. Knowing these facts has made me take up this position. I hold that in labour matters there should be no cunning and trickery. I believe strongly and firmly in the Conciliation and Ar- bitration Act. I was one who took a great deal of interest in it when it came before this Council many years ago, and, though I was only a mere tiro then in political matters, I felt, at any rate, it was going in the right direction, as if rightly used it would be a boon to my fellow-workers. But the opinion now obtains throughout the colony, and this opinion was expressed by the large majority of the members of the repre- steps should be taken to prevent the friction and unnecessary irritation that are arising all over the colony. When this Act passed it was never intended, as my honourable friend claims, that every dispute should be taken before a Board or the Court of Arbitration. My view of law is this: that most people who have got any sense will keep out of it as far as possible. It is expensive in every way. This Act was intended to deal with large and grave issues, such as the maritime strike ; it was never in- tended to be an every-day occurrence. My experience-and I have had a little in appearing before the Court of Arbitration and the Board of Conciliation, and I believe I am expressing the opinion of those who have reflected upon the matter-is that people do not want to be put to the harassment, loss of time, and the expense of going to the Boards time after time. Now, with reference to clause 21 of this Bill : I know some unions have appeared before the Boards of Conciliation ; and it is an expensive matter to some unions. The unions have not accepted the recommendations made by the Boards of Conciliation, and have taken the dispute to the Court of Arbitration, where an award is given. Whether it is acceptable or not to the union, it has to be observed for a period of two or three years. After that award has expired, why should not the union, if it so desires, go direct to the Court ? There may be only one or two points to settle, and the unionists might say, " We prefer to go direct to the Arbitration Court, instead of having to put up with the expense and loss of time involved in bringing our unions again before the Board, for we know we shall have to go to the Court for a final settlement." I say it is a fair proposal, if the parties are desirous of going direct to the Court, because they have exhausted on previous occa- sions the chances of having the matter settled by the Board. Now, my honourable friend takes exception to clause 13-that is, in regard to the limitation of awards. Well, that is a point that has caused a great deal of thought throughout New Zealand. The ideal of my honourable friend and some of those who hold more extreme views than I do in regard to these matters was this : that when an award is made in Wellington it should apply to the whole of the colony. That view, to my mind, is impracticable. My honourable friend might as well assume that all the goldfields regula- tions in force throughout the colony should be similar, and should apply to all parts alike. If that were the case you would have a rebel- lion on the West Coast-if the law regulating the goldfields there was the same as that regu- lating the dredging operations in Otago and the quartz mining operations in Auckland and other parts of the colony. It is impossible to have the same conditions existing all over the colony -what suits one part of the country will not suit others. Again, a good deal of the unsatis- factory feeling that has arisen in regard to the Boards of Conciliation comes from this fact : that the Boards are composed of townspeople. People in the country districts, particularly, 