"'(a.) Land which, though owned by a Maori, has been acquired in fee-simple from the Crown or from any person other than a Maori and for any monetary consideration."" Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) moved to strike out paragraph (a), and insert in lieu thereof " Purchased land." Amendment agreed to. Subsection (11) .- " As to section twenty-nine thereof : By adding the following subsection :- "'(8.) At the expiration of any lease granted by the Council under subsection two of this section, the Council may, on the request in writing of the owners, transfer back to the owners the land comprised within such lease or any part thereof ; but if the land or any part thereof is subject to any right of renewal, charge, lien, or encumbrance, the Council may decline to entertain any such request."" Mr. KAIHAU (Western Maori) moved, after the words " As to section twenty-nine thereof," in line 52, to add the following words: "By adding the following words at the end of sub- section (1) : ' The Council shall have full power and authority, at the like request of a majority of owners, to set apart any portion of such land as a site for a Native township, and may do or cause to be done all things necessary for survey- ing such site, laying it off into a township, leasing, and otherwise dealing with the same, in like manner, mutatis mutandis, as Native land is set apart, surveyed, laid off, leased, and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 otherwise dealt with under 'The Native Town- ships Act, 1895' ; and '" Amendments agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) moved the addition of the following new clause :- "Section three of the principal Act is hereby amended by the addition of the following subsection to the interpretation of ' Maori land ' :- "' (d.) Any land as to which the owner or both owners, if two, or a majority of the owners, if more than two, has or have determined by writing under the hand or hands of such owner or owners that the said land shall re- main subject solely to the provisions of "The Native Land Court Act, 1894," and the amendments thereof ; "' For the purposes of this section " land " means any land in the colony owned or held by Natives, or by Natives and Europeans jointly, under any class of title, and includes any estate, right, or interest therein.' " The Committee divided on the question, "That the clause be read a second time." AYES, 10. Atkinson Massey Tellers. Field Fraser, A. L. D. Pirani Smith, G. J. Herries. Lang Lawry Tanner. Allen, E. G. Hall-Jones Parata Arnold Hogg Seddon Carroll Kaihau Stevens McGowan Collins Ward Colvin Mckenzie, R. Willis. Duncan Millar Tellers. Ell Mills Heke Hall Palmer Hornsby. PAIR. For. Against. Lethbridge. Mackenzie, T. Majority against, 13. Clause rejected. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) moved the following new clause :- "Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in 'The Native Land Court Act, 1894,' and its amendments, or in ' The Maori Lands Administration Act, 1900,' and its amendments, the Governor may by Order in Council except from the operation of sec- tion one hundred and seventeen of ' The Native Land Court Act, 1894,' any Native land for the purposes of alienation by lease for a term not exceeding twenty-one years, subject, however, to confirmation as provided in 'The Native Land Court Act, 1894,' and its amendments." The Committee divided on the question, "That the clause be read a second time." AYES, 7. Tellers. Atkinson Massey Field Fraser, A. L. D. Pirani. Lang Herries. NOES, 28. Kaihau Arnold Pere Carroll Lawry Seddon Collins McGowan Symes Colvin Mckenzie, R. Tanner Duncan McNab Ward Ell Millar Willis. Fowlds Mills Hall Tellers. O'Meara Hall-Jones Heke Palmer Hogg Parata Hornsby. PAIR. For. Against. Lethbridge. Mackenzie, T. Majority against, 21. New clause negatived. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) moved the following new clause :- "3. Section three of ' The Native Land Laws Amendment Act, 1895,' is hereby amended by omitting the words 'prior to the passing of this Act."" The Committee divided on the question, "That the clause be read a second time." AYES, 5. Field Tellers. Fraser, A. L. D. Lang Herries. Massey. 