chance to make up their work, which they would not have unless included in the Schedule. After they had worked the ordinary week pro- vided for in the Act, all after that should be paid for as overtime. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) said he was sure it was not the intention of the member for Egmont that the inclusion of that one par- ticular class in this unfortunate Schedule of exemptions would have the effect that it was clear it would have. Its harm was immediately perceptible, because there were dozens of these bush sawmills which had machinery for finish- ing timber for building purposes, for cutting architraves, mouldings, and every kind of dressed timber down to tongued and grooved stuff. When the city sawmill employés cite their employers before the Arbitration Court, the defence the city sawmillers would have was that they were subjected to the active competition of sawmill people engaged at the trade right at their very elbow, who were absolutely exempted from the obnoxious restrictions of the Factories Act. They were absolutely exempt so far as the hours of labour and payment for overtime were con- cerned, and this amendment would lead to the destruction of much of the good work of the Committee. It would certainly be most disas- trous to those employed in sawmills. He had stayed this length of time, although suffering from illness, to see this Bill through ; but in this particular instance what was done was a mistake, and it was done with the best inten- tions in the world, to effect a compromise between those holding different views in this Committee. It was a mistake to tamper with the Schedule at all, and the Premier must recollect, if he took his memory back to the time when the Eight Hours Bill was passing through Committee, that when they began to meddle with the table of exemptions it proved its un- doing. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) thought the confusion had arisen because a section 17A was originally printed in the Factories Bill. But that was not moved, and instead of it the new clause on Supplementary Order Paper No. 58 was moved. The original section of the Bill provided for the payment of overtime, but in the clause that appeared on the Supplementary Order Paper referred to that was taken out, and the overtime question was dealt with in the general question of the Bill. He under- stood the Premier was going to have the amendments printed, and he would like to have an opportunity of looking at the amend- ments made in Committee before the Bill was finally dealt with. He would also like to point out that, in the new clause 17A, provision was made for the Arbitration Court dealing with the various industries in the Schedule. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he was gene- rally of a practical turn of mind, and therefore he was about to suggest that the best way out of the difficulty was that some member should move the recommittal of the Bill in order to strike " sawmillers " out of the Schedule of the Mr. Symes they wanted to do, to exempt the sawmillers from the forty-eight-hours week. What they <!-- PageHeader="\- 1 had done now was to take away all payment 1" --> for overtime from the sawmillers. It was just as well to rectify that at once, and any mem- ber could move the recommittal. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) did not think the member for Egmont, in moving his amend- ment, desired to do bush sawmillers any harm at all. Mr. SEDDON would suggest to the honour- <!-- PageHeader="\---" --> able member that he should move the recom- mittal of the Bill for the purpose of considering this Schedule, and striking " Bush sawmillers " out. Mr. ELL moved, That the Bill be recom- mitted, with the view of considering the Second Schedule. Bill recommitted, to consider the Second Schedule. IN COMMITTEE. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) moved, That the words " Bush sawmills " be struck out of 1 the Schedule. <!-- PageHeader="1" --> Motion agreed to, and words struck out. Bill reported, with amendments, and amend- ments agreed to. # PATEA COUNTY PETITION. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- It is my duty to communicate to the House the fact that I have received this evening, from his Honour the Chief Justice, and Mr. Justice Williams, a certificate in the matter of the Patea election petition. The certificate is as follows :- "In the Supreme Court of New Zealand. "In the matter of ' The Election Petitions Act, 1880,' and of the election of a member for the House of Representatives, holden at : Patea on the 18th July, 1901. "WE, the undersigned, the Judges duly appointed to try the election petition filed by William Parker, a duly registered elector of the Patea Electoral District, and one who voted at the above election, do hereby certify to the Honourable the Speaker of the House of Re- presentatives as follows :- "(1.) That the petition of the said William Parker was duly heard at Wanganui, on the 7th, 8th, and 9th days of October, 1901, at the time and place appointed for the hearing of the same. "(2.) That we determined that Frederick Henry Haselden was not duly elected as & member of the House of Representatives for the said Patea Electoral District, and that the said election so held on the 18th July, 1901, was void. " As witness our hands this 9th day of Octo- ber, 1901. "ROBERT STOUT, C.J. "JOSHUA STRANGE WILLIAMS, J." Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- I would like, Sir, to call the attention of the Premier to the un- fair and unfortunate position in which the Electoral District of Patea is placed, that con- stituency being practically disfranchised. 