examine the mines or take such evidence as they could found the report upon which was placed before the House. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said, With regard to the Cardiff Mine, he noticed that in the " contingencies "' something was put down for a dam, which, he thought, ought to be charged to the company for which it was put in. He did not think they should find anything further for the Cardiff Mine beyond the £616 which they had already spent in extinguishing the fire. Mr. McGOWAN said, This was another dam altogether. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) had a griev- ance against the Minister for keeping back the evidence of the Commission, because it was absolutely useless unless it was laid on the table. He was informed that this report was a direct contradiction to the evidence supplied to the Commission. He hoped, therefore, before the session closed the Minister would give them an opportunity of perusing and discussing that evidence. He had asked for it on various occasions, and could not account for the delay in putting it on the table, unless it were in- tended to put it on the table after the House rose. He strongly approved of one recom- mendation in the report, and that was that a General Inspector of Coal-mines for the whole colony should be appointed. At present one Inspector had to travel the whole of Nelson, Marlborough, and Westland to inspect the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 mines in those districts, probably about a thousand in number. If he were travelling all his time it would be impossible to inspect them all. The greatest trouble was that there was no real practical expert head to the depart- ment, and, consequently, there was no one responsible, and there was no proper inspection of the mines. He suggested that it would be a good thing for the State to pay one or two men working about a mine a small amount annually for making reports direct to the Minister, and then if anything went wrong the Minister could instruct the Inspector to see that it was rectified. He hoped the Government would appoint a Chief Inspector of Mines as soon as possible, and he thought there ought to be separate Inspectors for coal-mines and for gold- mines. Mr. McGOWAN thought the honourable gentleman must have been absent when he ex- plained the position with regard to this matter before. Some members seemed to confuse the position of the Inspecting Engineer with the Inspectors of Mines. The former was a Go- vernment officer who had control of the ex- penditure of money in regard to bridges and so forth, and also in regard to the mines all over the colony, and saw that the public money was not wasted ; but he had not the position in law that the Inspectors had. They were em- powered to take action where necessary, and did take action. The proposal to pay men in the mines to give secret information to the Government was about the most absurd that was possible. The Inspectors of Mines were entirely free from the influence of any mine- manager or company, because they held their position by law, and could not be interfered with. He had already said it was the intention of the Government to appoint additional In- spectors, and that was the true way out of the difficulty. The colony was very well served by its Inspectors, who were well-qualified men. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) 8.0. wished to know the necessity for the further sum of £1,200 for the Rivers Commis- sion. Last year £500 had been voted, and £1,270 spent. Had the Commission finished its business ? Mr. McGOWAN .- Yes. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL asked, How was it, then, that another £1,200 had been run up in connection with the Commission ? Mr. McGOWAN said the Commission was a very important one. It had been in existence for two years, and had been operating over the whole colony. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) moved, That the item, "Expenses of Royal Commission on Coal-mines, £1,900," be reduced by £1. He did this in order to ask the Minister whether he would not give the House an opportunity of reviewing the report of that Commission, by either referring it to the Goldfields and Mines Committee, the Inspecting Engineer, or some Court outside Parliament. It seemed unfair that their re- port, which had the effect of destroying con- fidence in certain mines, should be allowed to go without opportunity of review. Mr. McGOWAN said the member for Bruce had hardly put the matter fairly in connection with the time occupied by the Commission in investigating the mine referred to, because, as a matter of fact, the Commissioners spent four hours there ; two hours and a half in inspect- ing the mine, and an hour and a half in taking evidence. In regard to the discussion of the report, he would not delay the House by dis- cussing it ; and, in regard to what had been said about the delay in the production of the evidence, he was not in charge of the Printing Office, and was not responsible. He had made application to the Printing Office, and had been told that it would be ready in a few days. In regard to sending the report to any Committee of the House, or any outside tribunal, he had no intention of doing anything of the sort. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he did not think it wise that gentlemen occupying the position of Royal Commissioners should be attacked by the honourable member for Bruce as they had been, as they held very onerous positions ; and it was also unfair to prejudice the position in the eyes of honourable members without having the evidence before them. He would say that the Government had had possession of the evi- dence taken by the Coal-mines Commission, and he had gone through it respecting the par- ticular mine to which the member for Bruce had referred ; and he was satisfied that the Commission could have come to no other con- clusion than that which they had come to. It 