themselves; and yet we propose to make a special Board of Maoris to administer Native affairs, a Board amenable to the pressure of those influences that most tempt them to go astray. I say, most of the worst faults and mistakes in the decisions made by Native Land Court Judges has been where the Judges have been influenced by Native Assessors. Now, with regard to a remark made by the honourable member for Riccarton, Mr. G. W. Russell, as to the Treaty of Waitangi. I believe in the Treaty of Waitangi, and I believe it is one of the most beneficent and generous measures that a dominant power could give the Natives, and, if anything more than another redounds to the credit of the British people, it is that when they were negotiating with the Natives for the sovereignty of this country, knowing at the same time that if the sovereignty was not handed over to them it would be all the worse for the Natives, and these Islands would have fallen under the control of other Powers who would not have given to the Natives that con- sideration which it has been the effort of the British Government to award to the Maoris. As far as the Government have administered the Treaty of Waitangi in using the pre- emptive power which it gave to the Govern- ment they were right; and had they acted with prudence and statesmanship, and had there been that sympathy between the Ad- ministration in the Old Country and those placed in power in New Zealand, the first thing that would have been done would have been to determine the boundaries of the dif- erent tribes, subdividing with the boundaries of the hapus, and to have granted a sufficient sum of money to have purchased from the Natives all the surplus lands they possessed, leaving them still in possession of ample for their maintenance. But what did our Govern- ment do subsequently ? They abandoned the Treaty of Waitangi; they surrendered the pre- emptive right, and introduced free-trade in Native lands; and if then they had only limited the area which the European could obtain from the Natives, subject to something of the same control as now applies to us in dealing with Crown lands, the measure would have resulted in nothing but benefit to the colony, and the Natives would not in any case have suffered harm. It is said, "They would have picked out the eyes of the land," but if the House would reflect on the condition of things at the time they would feel that it would be only right that the best land should be obtained by those who were doing the first pioneering work in New Zealand. But in obtaining moderate holdings of the land for small homesteads they would have given the Natives the highest market value, and there would not be the op- portunities for practising the chicanery which might take place. While the Government were obtaining 10 per cent. on all land acquired from the Natives by private purchase, they were receiving ample remuneration. But having once surrendered the pre-emptive right, given under the Treaty of Waitangi, they had emptive right without giving compensation for it ; and I charge the Government-whatever Government did it-with having perpetrated an outrage on the proprietary rights of the Natives. They had no right to do it, and if such an outrage had been perpetrated on a European he would have taken it to the Privy Council, and the Coun- cil would have upheld him. Honourable mem- bers can understand : if you receive a gift from any person-whether from the Government or a private individual-that gift has the same value as if you had paid for it in cash. But the Government took away the privileges from the Natives, and gave them no compensation for it. From that time the Governments have systematically been wronging the Natives. Un- der the free-trade system, at any rate, no Na- tives were made landless -the Trust Commis- sioner took care of that-but under the present regime the Land Purchase Agents have bought the last acre without word or question. I know that, within the last few years, the present Government have been buying land from the Natives, through their agents, in places where the value of land has risen, and have not given them compensation with any regard to the in- creased value which the settlement around it has supplied. But there is one thing I wish to call the attention of the House to. I do not think that this applies to the rough Native land which has been bought from the Natives ; for now, when the Government undertake to put settlers on bush lands, it takes £1 an acre, and in some instances more, for the cost of surveys and roading ; and this is a difficulty with which the Boards and Councils, which under this Bill are proposed to be set up, will be confronted. Are the Natives going to find the money ? No. I would be content to support the Bill heartily if the Government would con- sent to the insertion of a clause forbidding the Government from spending any public money in any of the operations of this Bill. But the honourable member for the Northern District wants a sum put on the estimates; he wants the taxpayer of New Zealand to vote a sum of money for these Councils to road the lands, and fatten them in their billets-and it is only what the Act provides shall be done ; and for what purpose ? In order to set up a Maori landlordism-to make the Natives landlords. Mr. HEKE .- They are entitled to it. Mr. MONK .- How are they entitled to it ? The honourable member knows nothing of the benefits conferred by the advent of the Euro- pean, because of his youth, which has been alluded to by his colleague in the Western District. He does not realise the privileges which the Natives have obtained in the settle- ment of the land by white people. I am speak- ing to-day as a Native; but these are just the sentiments which I have heard expressed by his forefathers, of which he knows nothing, but who were conscious of the privileges they got from the teachings of missionaries and settlers. He does not remember the old men who would tell of the time when they never moved without the spear at hand, or the mere slung on the 