and he thought he had stated in his reply that the matter was before the Actuary of the In- surance Department. An Hon. MEMBER .- Do you accept the first part ? Mr. SEDDON said, Certainly ; and the Go- vernment said so in the Governor's Speech, and his colleague had had the matter in hand for some time past. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) said he would like the point of order settled. It did not deal directly with the estimates, but purported to get the opinion of the House on a question ; but, if settled in the affirmative, it would still be in the power of the Crown only to place any sum on the estimates. If the Bills were carried into law it is true due provision would have to be made in the supplementary estimates. That was not making or suggesting any provision in the supplementary estimates, but that legisla- tion should be brought down. That legislation, if it came down and was passed by the House, or, if it involved further Supply, that Supply, would have to be made in the supplementary estimates. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the question raised by the Premier was whether this was in crder. His opinion was that the latter part of the resolution was not in order, because it directed that the necessary provision should be made on this year's estimates in order to give effect to the former part of the resolution ; and the House could not direct His Excellency the Governor to make any recommendation. There- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 fore that part of the motion which contained the words "in order that the necessary pro- vision should be made on this year's esti- mates," was out of order. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he did not want to take any advantage of the Speaker's ruling, and therefore he would not object to the honourable gentleman striking out the latter portion of his resolution, and then they could allow the first part to go on the voices, and let the House get on with the estimates. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) said he had no desire to embarrass the Government in this matter. He was quite willing to withdraw the latter part of his resolution, although the Premier would pardon him for saying that if the Govern- ment formulated a scheme they could get over the latter difficulty easy enough. All he de- sired was this: that the Government should bring down some scheme of classification and superannuation that would be satisfactory. He had been induced to move this because of the reply he got from the Minister for Railways the other day, which was not, to his mind, satis- factory. He thought he understood the Hon. the Minister to say that there were so many difficulties in the way that it was doubtful whether he could bring down a scheme this session. Now, he was satisfied the Minister for Railways wished to do what he could in this matter, and he believed the honourable gentle- man recognised that the men in the Railway service were underpaid. However, he begged to withdraw the latter portion of his resolution. drawn. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) was very sorry the honourable member had thought it necessary to move this resolution. He would endeavour to explain the position, and then, he thought, honourable members and those whom the classification and superannuation scheme more closely concerned would realise that the honourable gentleman in the course he had taken was really not furthering that which the Government and many honourable members were desirous of giving effect to. Now, when the honourable member moved the resolution and talked about a scheme being prepared, he might tell him that he had prepared a scheme long ago, and had also drafted a Bill ; but at the same time he could say that the whole subject was a very difficult one. There were many things to be considered. Mr. BOLLARD said it was three years ago since this matter was first mooted. Sir J. G. WARD said, Yes ; and the honourable member would be surprised to know that, since he had had control as responsible head of the department, amongst other things, he had been working steadily at this scheme during the whole time ; and, in addition, the matter had been before the Cabinet on more than one occasion. Necessarily, where so many men were concerned, it was a difficult and intricate scheme, one which required the most mature consideration on the part of the Government. Before he could come down and submit to the House a scheme which he believed to be on right lines his colleagues had, of course, to agree, and until they were perfectly satis- fied that the financial proposals his Bill con- tained, and which were required to give effect to it, were feasible he could not move any faster than he was doing. Members must know that when dealing with a matter like this it was not for one year, but was affecting men in the ser- vice for all time, and the scheme was therefore not such as would need to be amended or inter- fered with in its main features. Honourable members must realise that, no matter how anxious they were in regard to this matter- and he was very anxious to have it done -it was not a light thing to deal with, and, when the attempt was made that the Govern- ment should have their hand forced, he wished to say it was absolutely unnecessary. He could tell the honourable member the Go- vernment had had the whole scheme under consideration for many months, in addition to which, as he said, he had some time since a Bill embodying the whole scheme drafted, and it was from the causes he had explained that the whole scheme as embodied in his Bill had not been circulated long ago for the informa- tion of honourable members and those more directly concerned in the Railway Department. In a matter such as this the honour- 9.30. able member would realise that, as the responsible Minister of the department, he had, in conjunction with his responsible officers, to go into the whole of the schemes that applied 