House, and have a little less of party feeling, we should be better than we are and do more useful work. But it appears to me, Sir, that the moment a man gets up in this House to cross the path of the Premier, even in the slightest degree, the right honourable gentleman turns upon that man as if he were an enemy. Now, I say distinctly and conclusively this : that if to-morrow the existence of the party to which I belong were endangered you would find me fighting on the side of the Premier just as strongly as any of those who are supposed to be his particular friends. I would be found doing as good work as any of them for the cause I have espoused ; but, when I see fit to differ from the Hon. the Premier, I shall differ from him ; and, when I feel inclined to express an opinion in this House, I shall express it, regardless of whom I offend or of whom I please. Let me say this, in conclusion : that the Premier, though he may not believe it, though he may not take what I say as of any value-but I do say that he owes myself and a number of members of this House an apology for what he said to us the other night. I am aware he was excited. I am aware he was pos- sibly labouring under a good deal of feeling at the time; but I do say that in his calmer moments he ought to remember that we have our rights as well as he has ; that we have a certain amount of dignity and a position to keep up as he has, though we are not in so exalted a position ; and I hope he will take the opportunity to tender that which will not in https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 any way degrade him, that will not in any way take away from his position ; that he will hand- somely apologize for having compared some of the members of this House to men who are a menace to all organized society. Sir, to say that of any honourable member in this House is one of the most dire insults I have ever known hurled across the floor of this House even in the most bitter debates that I have listened to before I became a member. I have never heard a member of the House accusing his fellow-man of such an abominable crime as that of being a menace to organized society. feel it more than anything that has ever been said to me in the whole course of my life-and many cruel and bitter things are said of every public man - but that was the cruelest and bitterest thing that a gentleman occupying the high and responsible position of leader of the House could have said of any man. I have taken the earliest opportunity of replying to the unwarrantable accusations of the Premier, and so long as I have the honour to remain a member of this House, so long will I, in my own proper person, defend my proper rights, and when no longer able to do that I will resign my position and have no more to do with this House or political life. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington 8.0. City) .- I desire to say a few words at this stage of the Bill, not with the intention of further inflaming the Premier ; but I feel it is only due to myself that I should make some comments on the statements made regarding Mr. Hornsby rally. What offended me most was the expres- sion that the member for Wairarapa has taken so much umbrage at, and it was meant to have a particular and personal application to me. Last year, on the second reading of the Governor's Salary and Allowances Bill, the Hon. the Premier thus addressed me : " There are several honourable gentlemen here whom I do not expect to find supporting this measure ; they would have no Governor at all here ; it is against their principles to have a monarchy at all, though their principles are well cloaked." Then he proceeded to connect me with an act of indignity to the Governor, and at a later stage of the session he said that if proposals had been made for the pulling-down of the Constitution they would have received my hearty approval. He accused me by name of holding views of an extremely socialistic ten- dency, and barely checked himself in accusing me of anarchy. Personally I do not take the slightest umbrage at these statements, they are so pal- pably void of truth ; but I do object to it being said generally of members of Parliament. This is not a Parliament of turbulent men, holding extreme and revolutionary views. On the con- trary, it holds most correct and orthodox views. It is, in fact, a tame Parliament. The Premier has succeeded in so subduing the great majority of members that they are sufficiently tame to eat out of the hand, and, if it were not that his solecisms might gain credence amongst the uninformed, I would have taken no notice of it at all. I have not spoken at all upon this Bill until now; but, in his reply on the second reading, the Premier referred directly to me, and said that he had been led to believe-by some mysterious process unexplained - that the senior member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson) would give this Bill his support if- - Mr. SEDDON .- I have told the honourable gentleman before that he was misrepresenting me in this respect. I did mention his name, but not in respect to supporting the Bill : it was in respect to opposing the item on the estimates. I said it had been represented to I me that you would do so ; not that you told me. I never spoke to you. Mr. HUTCHESON .- I desire neither to mis- represent the Premier nor blame him unneces- sarily ; but I want to say as forcibly, yet in as mild language as I can, what I believe to be the case. If I am right in assuming that the information was conveyed to him through the member for Palmerston - Mr. SEDDON .-- No. Mr. HUTCHESON .- Well, I am not to be held responsible for any mysterious rumours about myself. Let me assure the Premier I never had any intention of supporting the Bill, even if he complied with the wish of certain members and removed the vote from the esti- mates and brought it down in the shape of a Bill, as he has done. And, further, I assure .... him I hold these opinions out of no disrespect at all to the representative of the King. But I held, and do hold, those views on the broad 