recent date, I would like to know what became of the other letter, and I know there exists a little note about his name not being disclosed to another party. If the honourable member presses for its production he will be obliged. The honourable member said he courted an in- quiry. Now, Sir, I shall be most happy to oblige him. He may name his own Magistrate, who shall go through the correspondence and over the accounts of the land that was sold, and consider the position taken up by the Board in respect to the matter and the posi- tion and action of the honourable member in respect to it, and the world shall judge. cannot say anything more clear than that. would not have brought the matter up at all, and should have treated it with silent contempt ; but when he used his position as a member of the House to bring pressure to bear on the Board, and accused the Board of not doing their duty with respect to realising the estate satisfactorily, he must take the responsibility, and as he has read part of the correspond- ence, I have completed it for him. Gene- rally at the wind-up of the session I have been able to shake hands with every member of the House. Whatever has taken place during the session, I have been able to part with mem- bers on the best of terms. I know in the heat of debate we often view matters in a different light, one from the other, but I hope that whilst we differ, we differ conscientiously, and that there shall be no personal feeling engendered. I have always managed to do that so far in my public life, and I shall endea- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 vour to always do so; but when a member studiously in cold blood seeks to cast a re- flection and becomes personal I must, per- force, protect myself. And I say the member http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero for Ashley next day deliberately, under the pre- text of correcting, brought up what appeared in one of the papers. When a member does that deliberately it proves vindictiveness, and having deliberately provoked he must take the consequences : there goes consequently on re- cord the statement of his peculiar attempt to obtain land cheaply-I cannot use a stronger term-I will say a desire to make a splendid bargain at the sacrifice of the Board and at the sacrifice of the honour, if I had been a weak man, of a friend and his own leader. Now, I will say this: I do not want to hold a position in this House and in the country unless in holding it I can at the same time hold up my head and defy any man to say I have been a party to that which would not bear the strictest scrutiny, and I say to have sold him the land at the price offered could not have borne scrutiny either with credit to myself or the member for Ashley. It is a good job for both of us I was a strong man, who would not be a party to sacrificing this property, which belonged to the shareholders of the Bank of New Zealand, and in which the colony is also interested, and of which I am a trustee. I maintained my integrity, and the member for Ashley became a candid friend from that time forward. Sir, I hope that these personal of my speech-there has been with some mem- bers during the session, and repeatedly, violent personal attacks upon myself. That has not been appreciated by the large majority of the members of the House ; and, when these per- sonal attacks are made upon one holding my position, it does not commend itself to the majority of the members, to the people in the colony, or to our well-wishers outside the colony. They do not appreciate it; and it recoils, in my opinion, more upon those who respect neither the position nor the man than I it does upon the man or the position. We should feel while we are here that we are I the representatives of the people, and for the sake of the people we should show forbearance and work together for the common good ; and, where personalities occur, those who send us here neither wish them nor do they respect us any the more for being parties to them. If that is borne in mind, and, what is more, if we feel we are only here for a time- and repeatedly occurrences take place which remind us we may wound and injure-then the time comes when as men we regret it. I hope, at all events, so far as I am concerned, that shall not be the case with me. I hope those who have differed from me will give me credit for having differed conscientiously. My colleagues and myself have to encounter very great difficulties ; we cannot see eye to eye with members with respect to matters of ad- ministration ; we cannot, of course, hold the same views with respect to legislation ; but I wish them clearly to understand that, whilst we differ, we differ on general principles, be- lieving the views that we hold are for the best interests of the colony ; and so far I think we may claim this credit : that our policy has been one which has promoted the well- being and the prosperity of the colony. There has not been a single experiment made to which exception can be taken or which we are asked to repeal. We have taken a step forward this session in respect to the State coal-mine. I feel as sure as I am standing here that that experiment will be a success; and to make that a success my colleagues and myself will use our best endeavours; and by doing this, and by bringing down the price of coal so as to place it within the reach of all, and by the saving to the State itself in respect to what we require for State purposes, by this time next year, and when I am in the same position of moving next year's Appropriation Bill, I hope then we shall be complimented on having successfully opened a mine or mines, and on having met success- fully what was a public necessity. Before concluding, I desire to express my pleasure and sincere hope that we may meet again. I re gret extremely that our worthy Speaker has, owing to ill-health, not been for some time in his place; and you, Sir, have had a very heavy strain placed upon you in the dual capacity in which you have been called upon to act. You have had also the able 0.30. assistance of the member for Wai- 