that in this Bill originally there were provisions that not even a liberal minded, humanely dis- posed man could accept compulsorily, and one was the payment for services never rendered. The other members of the Labour Bills Com- mittee will bear me out in saying that several employers of labour declared that, while they paid their employés the extra rate for all work done in overtime, they also paid them for all the statutory holidays, and all casual holi- days as mutually agreed upon in the locality. Now, these men said they would feel aggrieved if they were compelled to do that which they were hitherto voluntarily doing. This Act, imperfect as it has been in the past, has done more real good for the body and mind and the material welfare of the people, I believe, than any other legislation we have on the statute-book. It has removed conditions even during the short time it has been in operation which would scarcely be credited. In the City of Wellington, some very few years ago, men and women were working under conditions that now would cause the most anti-labour member in this House to shrink from con- templating. Men were working in a low shed with an iron roof, with no protection from the radiation of the sun's heat during the long summer afternoons, the roof not being 7 ft. from the ground level, on an earthen floor, and almost knee-deep in the debris of their trade- working their machinery just like other slaves, with an imperfect drain a few feet away, and insanitation of every description surround- ing them. Mr. TANNER .- We know. Mr. HUTCHESON .- I have been at it my- http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero self, and I know what I am speaking about. Now, every member of the Labour Bills Com- mittee agreed upon several crucial points, and I believe that they largely embodied the con- sensus of their views in the amended Bill. First of all, they agreed in striking out that restriction on the employment of adult males in the case of emergency for overtime work. They said that, as there was an Arbitration Court and a Conciliation Board dealing with these matters, they preferred to allow that question of overtime to be dealt with by those bodies. They also agreed, by a consensus of opinion, that there should be no departure from the restriction imposed upon the working of females and young persons in overtime. They also agreed that young persons and women ought to be paid for holidays, and that their working week should be restricted to forty-five hours, and that of adult males to forty-eight. Now, for the rest, there was really nothing of the new matter in the Bill to commend itself to the sense of the Committee or the House. I do not wish to seek to fit that mistake upon any particular shoulders, because the Premier has made his statement, and that is enough for us. But I rose particularly to-night to say that if the Premier had bestowed more personal care on this Bill it would not have shocked and out- raged the sense of justice of the employers of the colony and caused such an accession of indig- .Mr. Hutcheson and from every industry in the colony, to wait <!-- PageNumber="1" --> upon the Labour Bills Committee with fear and trembling that something disastrous was going to happen to the industries. I make bold to say that the enlargements of the present Act by the provisions I have referred to are all that the sense of the colony will stand at the present time in connection with the Factories Act. I myself have no objection to a forty-four hours week. I would as soon see that condition, as far as I am concerned, more universal in the colony than it is at present-sooner, in fact, because I believe it would give a large amount of relief to overworked employers, who very often do work, hour by hour and side by side with their own employés, in addition to the burden of management. I say, as far as I am con- cerned, I view with equanimity the advent of the day when the hours of work for factory employés will be reduced to forty-four hours a week-that is, eight hours on the five working- days and four hours on the half-day holiday, be it Wednesday, Thursday, or Saturday. But the difficulty which has prevented this coming about is, How many of these small industries which <!-- PageHeader="1" --> are not directly on all-fours with the principal established industries of the colony are to be brought in ? How many of them can economi- cally carry on their work within the limits of that hard - and - fast rule ? As the Premier pointed out in one case, it is utterly useless to trust to the magnanimity and the generosity of those employers who can only be compelled to comply with the canons of decency. The very fact that you have to legislate to bring them to reason by fear of law is proof positive that 1 they are neither amenable to the feelings of generosity nor of magnanimity, and so, perforce, the fair-minded and straight-dealing employer has to kiss the same legal rod as the least worthy in the community. But, notwith- standing that fact, I do not want to miss this opportunity of saying that the Factory Inspectors are in a large measure to be thanked for the smooth working of the factory laws already on our statute-book. I say, without fear of con- tradiction, that had the local Factory Inspectors chosen to exercise all the powers vested in them under the existing Factory Act they could have made the condition of employers intolerable throughout the whole breadth of their jurisdic- tion. I say they have shown a forbearance, together with a persistence, and a discrimina- tion, together with a strength of will, that have made the Factory Act up to the present time the success it has been. I make bold to say that there is not a single factory in this in- ! dustrial district in respect to which it would be impossible for an Inspector, thoroughly conversant with the powers vested in him by the existing law, to find some cause of complaint or another in the course of the year. Necessarily, there is the overlooking some little observance or other, constituting a misdemeanour under the law, which I will not say has to be winked at, but has to be passed over without complaint being made or lodged, a simple reprimand or reminder from 