traffic and the necessities that existed, he fore- saw that the House must find an increased capital account for the providing of rolling-stock and locomotives. When the present Minister for Railways brought down his Statement-that there was to be a sum of £2,500,000 expended for this purpose, covering a period of five years, which would average £500,000 a year for that time-it met with the general approval of mem- bers. There was no exception taken to it ; and I say, as exception was not taken then to this commitment of the colony, it seems to me childish in the extreme to start finding fault with it now, when you have the locomotives made and the rolling.stock made, and have got them practically here in the colony. What has happened, however ? Let me give some instances to honourable members. The old station at Mercer was burnt down, and we are putting a station there sufficient to meet pre- gent requirements, but a much superior build- ing in every way, and a much more expensive Well, the building than the original one. original value of the building will be deducted from the present cost, and the balance of the cost of that new station will be charged to capital account. I cannot see that members should object to that. Then, Sir, we have new station works at New Plymouth. We are re- claiming land there, and extending the station to such an extent as to be practically rebuild- ing it, because trade has increased there to such an enormous extent. In fact, we are doing there what we are doing in other places, and if we were to stop now and leave these works un- finished we should have the travelling public complaining about the railway management of the Government. I have to meet this year, I suppose, £15,000 or £20,000 for building new offices here in Wellington. Well, where is that to be charged to ? An Hon. MEMBER .- Public Buildings Ac- count. Mr. SEDDON. - It is to be charged against the capital account of the railways. It is a new building entirely for the railways, and therefore properly must be charged against the railways. Will any member say this is not necessary expenditure? Then, there are items for the new system of interlocking, and new block - working, in connection with which an expert has been brought from Home ; and all we charge against that this year will be about £8,000. I have gone carefully through each item, and I cannot understand where the mem- bers have got their information, and why it is they make the charges we have heard in respect to the amount charged to capital account. Sir, I may say at once, just to show what is going on, that I have in my hand a communication that came to the Minister for Railways to- day-it is one of scores he is receiving almost daily, and it is characteristic of what is required throughout the colony : - "Takapau, 26th October, 1901. "DEAR SIR,-We must again draw your at- tention to the scarcity of trucks at Takapau Station. We are cutting and sending down on the ground. If we cannot get trucks we will need to stop our wagons and eventually our mill. Trusting that you will see into the matter, -We remain, &c., "TAKAPAU SAWING COMPANY, per H. G. M. "The Minister, New Zealand Railways, Wellington." . Now, there is a specimen of what is coming in to the Minister for Railways. I may say, as Colonial Treasurer, that, with the very heavy charge under public works, I have been some- what diffident about increasing the expenditure. I have felt exercised in mind at the large amount which we have now reached, and I have endeavoured as far as lay in my power to curtail expenditure. But I find the country going ahead so much that the necessities for increased communication render it almost im- possible to comply with them. It is not the Government that should be blamed-no blame is attachable to any one. Members are the representatives and the mouthpieces of the people, and the people demand the necessary conveniences consistent with the development of the districts which they represent. The Government therefore bring down proposals. I would prefer the amount to be much less; but I am sure, if it had been, the country would have demanded more. That being so, members should not find fault with the Government, and ask why we do not go back to 1889 and 1890, when there was only $300,000-that was the expenditure of the Atkinson Government. Let any Minister come here and attempt it, even with a million and a half, and the country will not stand it. It is important, more especially with railway communication, that we should complete the railways and give producers opportunities of getting their produce to the seaboard at the lowest possible cost. That is an absolute necessity, and you cannot do that unless you spend money in doing it. I have known dis- tricts where settlers are living a life almost of penury, waiting for this means of communica- tion; and when we are doing it at a much more rapid rate than formerly, and we are found fault with, it is disheartening in the extreme. I am sure the life of the Minister for Public Works during the last few weeks bas been most unhappy ; and, as for the Minister of Lands, those members who require roads and bridges and means of communication with the back blocks have been the means of injuring his health. Captain RUSSELL .- The Minister expressed himself as feeling particularly happy. Mr. SEDDON .- The Minister for Public Works was happy because he had his sixth Statement to make; and it is a pleasure to any Minister to have that opportunity. In other words, he told you that he regretted that circumstances prevented him giving as much as members demanded. I do not think there is much more for me to say. I have been told that there used to be sums voted from the loan account in days gone by to the work- 