vernment had received any communications from the Conference of sawmillers. Mr. SEDDON said this was the result of that Conference. Mr. MASSEY .- Is this what they recom- mend ? Mr. SEDDON said, Yes ; and he might say that others who were able to advise were strongly of that opinion. Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER said he would have to rule that a resolution which would have the effect of imposing taxation must be passed by the Committee of Ways and Means. Mr. SEDDON moved, That the House re- solve itself into Committee of Ways and Means, with a view of adopting the Schedule to the Bill. Motion agreed to. IN COMMITTEE. Mr. MASSEY said he understood the duty was to be not more than 3s. per 100 ft. Mr. SEDDON .- It could be less. Mr. MASSEY said, If the House fixed it at less ; but, so far as he understood the resolution, the Governor in Council only had power to alter between 3s. and 5s. Mr. SEDDON said the resolution provided for logs, round or squared with axe or saw, and half-logs, 3s. per 100 superficial feet, or such higher duty, not exceeding 5s. per 100 superficial feet, as the Governor by Order in Council determines. Flitches of any particular kind, or pieces of such size as the Governor by Order in Council from time to time determines, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 3s. per 100 superficial feet, or such lesser duty as the Governor by Order in Council de- termines. Mr. MASSEY said, So far as he understood the provision, it was for logs, round logs, or squared with axe or saw, and half-logs, a mini- mum of 3s. per 100 superficial feet, or such higher duty, not exceeding 5s., as the Governor in Council determined. The provision for flitches was 3s. per 100 superficial feet, or such lesser duty as the Governor in Council de- termined, the maximum in the latter case being 3s. Mr. SEDDON said the House could fix a lesser amount in each case if it liked. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked the Acting-Chairman if he ruled that, when the Bill came before the House, it could be amended by striking out "(Governor in Council." He did not want "Governor in Council" here at all. The ACTING-CHAIRMAN said the House could amend the Bill, or reduce the amount proposed to be levied. Mr. HERRIES said it was unconstitutional to give the Governor power over the purse, and he must express his disgust at a Liberal Minis- try throwing away the rights of this House to levy taxation, and putting the power in the hands of the (Governor or Governor in Council. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) said the wonder to him was that the honourable member should so repeatedly make assertions that had nothing in them. If the honourable posed in the Bill, he would see it was the only way to conserve the interests of the country. If he would but recollect, so far the Customs tariff of Australia had not even been definitely fixed, and that it required to be reviewed by the Federal Parliament in Committee there. They might lower the duty on timbers from New Zealand, and, if they did so, it would not be necessary to fix a duty of 3s. on the export of timber from New Zealand. It might be that they would have to put on no duty at all. They were simply trying to protect the timber in- dustry, and at the same time to wait till they know what the duty in Australia would be. This was the only way to protect the interests of the colony. He would like any honourable gentleman to suggest a better way than the way proposed in the Bill. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said they gave the same powers to local bodies that the honourable member said should not be given to the Governor in Council. The power was given to local bodies to impose taxation. Resolution agreed to, and reported to the House and agreed to, and Bill read a first time. # ADJOURNMENT. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, That the House at its rising adjourn till eleven a.m. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) moved to strike out " cleven a.m.," with the view of ir- serting " half past two p.m." The House divided on the question, " That ' eleven a.m. ' stand part." AYES, 26. Kaihau Arnold Palmer Rhodes Lang Atkinson Seddon Buddo Massey McGowan Smith, G. J. Carroll Mckenzie, R. Ward Duncan Fraser, W. McNab Witheford. Meredith Tellers. Hall-Jones Mills Houston Collins Hutcheson Monk Hornsby. NOES, 11. Barclay Thompson, R. Lawry Lethbridge Ell Teilers. Pirani Fisher Field Hall Russell, G. W. Fraser, A. L. D. Majority for, 15. Amendment negatived, and motion agreed to. The House adjourned at seven minutes past five o'clock a.m. (Thursday). # LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Thursday, 7th November, 1901. First Readings-Second Readings-Third Reading- Victoria College-Companies Bill- Death of ise Hon. Mr. Bonar-Library - Factories Bill - Timber Export Bill - Nelson Harbour Paari Bill - Native Land Claims Adjustment stì LAWS Amendment Bill - Manawatu Railway Sale and Purchase and Empowering Ki .: - Public Works Bill-Victoria College Site Bili- 