duced the question of the increase of goods subject to Customs duties for the year 1900 as compared with 1899. I understand that the honourable gentleman spoke as a friend of the Factories Act, but I can see but little use in a member praising that Act in one breath and then quoting figures which those who read them outside this House will certainly understand as telling against the very legislation the honour- able gentleman has praised. I am willing to admit at once that the honourable gentleman has always been a friend of labour legislation, and I think he can scarcely have gauged the interpretation which, outside this House, will be placed upon the figures be has quoted to the House. What are we to understand, Sir? He has quoted a considerable increase of the Customs duties on a number of manu- factured articles. I take it, the only interpre- tation which can logically be put upon his speech is that he intended to show that the operation of the labour laws had gradually forced an increase of the imported article as against the manufactured article. If it did not mean that, it meant nothing at all-I mean, nothing in relation to the subject under dis- cussion-for we must remember we are discuss- ing now the Factories Bill. Now, I would ask the honourable gentleman to bear in mind that one might answer, or reply, to his contention by simply asserting that the goods noted by him have simply increased in volume in accordance with other increases - with the general in- crease : that they have simply increased as other articles imported have increased in proportion to the imports for the preceding year. But there is another reply. It was unfair to quote 1899 and 1900. What possible conclusion could one arrive at by the mere relative proportion of the amount of goods imported during the year 1899 as compared with 1900? The labour laws clearly had been in operation long enough to have quoted the Customs duties for years before these. Had the honourable gentleman shown that since the advent of the labour laws there had been a gradual falling-off in the manufac- tured article and a gradual and steady increase in the imported article, then he might have done some good ; but simply to show that, in a year of unrivalled, unprecedented prosperity, there was a greater amount of imported articles, and as a consequence an increase in the duties paid upon those articles, seems to me to show no- thing except the great prosperity of the colony, and, if anything further, that, although the manufacturers had increased and the number of workers also, then with an increase in the manufactures we were unable to supply the de- mand, and had still to make further demands upon the importer. Now, let us look at one or two of the items quoted. We were told of a cer- tain class of boots-0 to 3's were quoted-as rising from £1,389 in 1899 to £1,484 in 1900. But these are not manufactured within the colony. The same applies to gum-boots. They rose from five thousand to seven thousand, but they are not manufactured within the colony. Then, take the case of brass manufactures : if moment he will see that these are not manu- factured within the colony either. There are some, of course. But chandeliers, for instance, are not made in the colony, and an immense amount of this class of manufactures has of late been imported into the colony, consequent upon the lighting-up of so many places in our cities with the electric-light, which call for fit- tings and equipments that are not manufac- tured within the colony. Never, perhaps, more than last year did building operations in the colony proceed at such a rate, and never before were so many buildings fitted up with the elec- tric-light and other brass-work ; and this will account for the unprecedented rise in the Cus- toms duties upon these brass fittings. It was only last year that I asked the Colonial Trea- surer to agree to a reduction of the duties on these particular articles, which were coming into the colony in order to be used by our own tradesmen in our manu- factures. They were themselves asking for a remission of the duties on this class of goods which were not manufactured in the colony, but which were used in several of our industries. With regard to furniture, the in- crease is simply a witness to the increased prosperity of the colony. A great deal of this might have been made in the colony. Surely the honourable gentleman will see it is just as much an evidence of the greater purchasing power of the colony, and, certainly, as the figures only range over a period of twelve months, they cannot legitimately be used as telling against our labour legislation. With regard to the hosiery that is imported, it cannot be said that it would have been made in the colony. Nearly every thread of it is imported, and is not manufactured in the colony. I cannot speak with regard to leather. But, certainly, so far as dredging and mining machinery is concerned, this could not be manufactured in the colony at the rate at which it was wanted, and that undoubtedly accounted for the fact that so much was imported. Now, these facts absolutely destroy the honourable gentleman's contention that these figures-for I imply that was the honour- able gentleman's contention-tell against the factory legislation. Very well, then : from first to last the honourable gentleman has posed as a friend of the factory legislation. From first to last he has posed as a friend of the labour legislation. Why does he, with one breath, make it appear that he is a friend of the labour legislation, and then, in the next breath, go on to quote figures which, read outside, would create the impression that our labour legislation drove trade from the colony ? The honourable gentleman blew both hot and cold, and had it not been for that I should not have risen to speak. While I am on my feet, as a member of the Labour Bills Committee, I should like to disabuse members of the impres- sion which may have arisen in the minds of some that the credit for this Bill is due to any particular section of the House. I say with a great deal of pleasure that the Labour Bills 