honourable member makes a comparison be- tween our time and the Railway Commis- sioners' time. I repeat that the ordinary ton- nage carried by the Railway Commissioners over the railways was very little more than half what it is to-day. The last year they went out of office it was little more than half what it is at present. I am not able to put my finger upon the exact tonnage. An Hon. MEMBER. - They went out in 1895. Sir J. G. WARD. - Very well ; the total tonnage carried up to the 31st March, 1895, was 2,048,000 tons, and the total revenue was £1,150,000, as against £1,727,000 for this year, and honourable members know that we have reduced rates nearly $400,000 in the interval. So I repeat that the revenue, if we maintained the old rates which existed then, would have been over a million more than it was at the time that the honourable member referred to. We have added over 137 miles to our working railways. Last year and this year 136 miles will have been handed over by the Public Works De- partment to the Working Railways. Let us see what that means. It means this: that there has been handed over a length of rail- way equal to the line between Invercargill and Dunedin, and within fifty miles of the length of line from Auckland to Rotorua. An Hon. MEMBER .- That includes eighty- two miles of the Midland Railway. Sir J. G. WARD .- No, it does not. Last year there was handed over to Working Railways https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 twenty-five miles, and this year it is proposed to add eighty-six miles. If the honourable mem- ber will refer to the Public Works Statement he will find that the Minister for Public Works says that the department will complete eighty- six miles of railways this year. How do honourable members expect the Government to provide engines and carriages and wagons, and otherwise provide for that increased mileage ? The revenue continues to be much in excess of the expenditure. If you have a large and increasing traffic, then, you must provide for it. If you want to stop it the only way is to deny the people of the country that which they have a right to expect from our railways-namely, proper means for taking their produce and themselves from the interior to the seaboard, and taking goods and passengers from the seaboard to the interior, to enable the work of the development of the country to go on. The honourable member takes a very pessimistic view of the whole posi- tion of our railways. I cannot understand his doing so. I wish to point out to the House that since the railways were built in New Zea- land the respective Governments of this coun- try have had three times to relay the whole of the railways by a heavier system of rails, in order to meet the heavier engine-power necessi- tated by the growth of traffic. The honourable member referred to one of the tables, and he alluded to bridging and to other things which are put down to capital, and which he said ought to be debited to working-expenses. I say that a portion of that ought to be debited to on the Napier-Wellington line which was origin- ally constructed for engines of 25 tons, and, in consequence of the development of the traffic over that line, we have had to increase the weight of the engines to 64 tons - which .we have 'had to do-to meet the growing traffic ; if you remake that bridge, would the honour- able member say that the whole of the remaking of that bridge consequent on the in- creased traffic and on the enormous weight of .the engines to provide the necessary increased power to overtake the traffic passing over that-does the honourable member mean to say that all that expenditure should be pro- vided out of revenue? Why, the thing does not stand looking at. If as the result of the necessary increased engine-weight in order to meet the increased traffic that bridge should be rebuilt, I say it is a reasonable and proper thing to charge a portion of the rebuilding or strengthening of that bridge to capital ac- count. If it were a mere matter of renewal or repair of the bridge on account of age, that, of course, ought to be charged to working-ex- penses. Reference has been made to a table on page 26. Honourable members will find that every single item referred to from end to end of New Zealand which is taken out of capital is set out in detail. An Hon. MEMBER .- You could not get every detail into that page. Sir J. G. WARD .- No; but it is in detail in the several tables attached. I will give honourable members the particulars. I think it is only fair to the Railway Department to say that the information contained there is as I have stated. There are no less than sixty or seventy independent items in the one return, and the way in which each charge is made is set out in detail. Now, does the honourable member mean to say that in this Railways Statement for the year the responsible officers of the department have given details that would put them in the position of laying false infor- mation before the Government and before the House and the country ? Captain RUSSELL .- No. Sir J. G. WARD. - Well, the honourable gentleman refers to the strengthening of bridges and the relaying of rails, and if he says that not one of these different items should be charged to capital account, then they should not be included in that Statement. And when the responsible officers do include them in the Statement, and when we know that the system has been to allocate the loan-moneys fairly, and without interference by the Administration, what can be the motive to do that which is suggested by the honourable gentleman ? I say that the whole of the detail information is con- tained in the tables, and that it will not stand the view placed on it by the honourable gentle- man. I want now, in the limited time at my disposal, to refer to another matter. The honour- able gentleman read from the report of the New South Wales Railway Commission, and said they have in New South Wales provided 108 miles of rails out of revenue; and from the report 