hear the opinion of one who has not been a member of that Committee. I wish to say that the discussion I have just heard has been interesting and instructive, inasmuch as each member admits that there has been and is a necessity for a change and simplification in our system of local government; and, if we hark back to the position in regard to the Municipal Government Bill, we will recollect that it was recommended that this Bill should be sent to a Committee, in order that all the interests in- volved should be looked after and a good Bill reported to the House. The same course was recommended when this particular Bill was brought down to the House, and a large Com- mittee appointed ; and with what result? The only result has been that this afternoon honour- able members have blamed the Premier for not putting a better Bill before them. In other words, they have blamed the Premier for not having provided what they themselves ought to have provided in this Committee- namely, the suggested amendments and improvements which the Committee think should be in- corporated in the Bill. Now, the whole of the members of this Committee are men who are presumed to be well acquainted with the local government matters in the different districts ; yet these gentlemen, from some cause or another which I do not know, were not pre- pared to bring down a single resolution to wipe out any of the local bodies at all. They simply wished to throw the Bill back on the Premier, in order to provide what they call "assured finance." Why, there would be no trouble at all in dealing with a Bill of this kind if, first of all, there was an assured finance. A Bill of this kind is a difficult one to deal with, I think every one admits, and it is for that reason that http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero the Bill was sent to the Committee. Now, I would like to ask if the result is satisfactory. I do not think it is ; and I think, after all, the Premier will have to take this Bill over him- self, because it is quite evident the Committee chosen from this House has been incapable of dealing with the subject in the way the House desires, and the House, as a Committee of the Whole, will require to discuss the matter, in order that an acceptable measure may be presented to the country. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- I think that is hardly fair to the Committee. The result was this: The Committee dealt with the Bill, and put it in such a shape that it required redraft- ing altogether. Mr. Martin, who drafted the Bill, said it could not possibly be put in shape without starting ab initio, and that he would not have time to do it before the session ended. That is the reason why the work of the Com- mittee has been lost. Amendment agreed to, and motion as amended agreed to. EXCESSIVE DRINKING BY MAORIS. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) brought up a re- port from the Public Petitions M to Z Com- mittee upon the petitions of Edward Marfell and three others, of New Plymouth, and H. J. White and seven others, of Wellington, praying Mr. McGowan allegations as to the excessive drinking indulged in by Maoris in the Taranaki District at tangis and huis, et cetera ; and moved, That the report do lie on the table, and be referred to the Go- vernment for consideration. The report, which was read by the CLERK, stated that the evidence given before the Com- mittee showed that alcoholic liquors were largely consumed at tangis and huis by the Natives in the Taranaki D strict; that there appeared to be no difficulty in obtaining liquor in large quantities; that the orgies that some- times occurred at tangis and huis were disgrace- ful, and the general effects were physically and morally degrading ; wherefore the Committee recommended that legislation be introduced with a view of restricting the sale of alcoholic liquors to the Native race. Motion agreed to. ELEANOR WARD. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) brought up a re- port from the Public Petitions M to Z Com- mittee on the petitions of Eleanor Ward and A. Hattrick, of Wanganui, praying that a compassionate allowance might be granted to Eleanor Ward, widow of the late Judge Robert Ward ; and moved, That the report do lie on the table, and be referred to the Government for consideration. The report, which was read by the CLERK, stated that the Committee recommended that the petitions be referred to the Government for favourable consideration. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) trusted the Government would really take this petition into their favourable consideration. The facts of the matter had been fully set forth in writing and by evidence, and he was sure that the bulk of members of the House, if they made them- selves acquainted with the facts, would agree that this was a petition which most certainly ought to be favourably considered by the Cabinet. Motion agreed to. COMMONWEALTH TARIFF. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked the Premier, If he will inquire from the organiza- tions representing the small farmers their opin- ion regarding the Commonwealth tariff, as well as from the Chambers of Commerce, which largely represent the importing interests ? He need not speak of the importance at- tached to the Commonwealth tariff, so far as it affected numbers of the small farmers in the South Island ; and, as the Premier was making inquiries from the Chambers of Com- merce on the subject, his question was put with the view of insuring that, as far as pos- sible, the interests of the small farmers would be consulted through any organization there might be which specially represented them. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) would be only too pleased to hear from the farmers, either collec- tively through any organizations which existed or individually. It was his duty, as it was his desire, to gather as far as he could public opin- 