would look into the matter and subsequently give his ruling. He had looked into the matter since then, and he was clearly of opinion that clause 3 of the Bill was an appropriation clause, and therefore must be brought down by Governor's message in the usual way. The Bill would therefore have to stand over until that message was brought down. # ORDER OF BUSINESS. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said he had been asked by the Premier to make an announcement with regard to the date when he would permit Bills to be read a second time, committed, re- ported, and read a third time on the same day. He found that it had been the practice, when the House was within a fortnight of the close of the session, for Mr. Speaker to permit this privilege to be given with respect to Bills before the House. He accordingly gave notice that on and after to-morrow- Captain RUSSELL .- A little longer, surely. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said, Of course, if there was a strong objection on the part of a section of the House he might give an extra day's notice, but he would make the announce- ment he had done unless there was any good reason to the contrary. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) said, Before the House agreed to that which would compel them to sit all night at the discretion of the Premier, it seemed to him only right that the House ought to know what business they had to do. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said that he did https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 not rule that new business could be brought on after twelve o'clock, but that Bills which were on the Order Paper for second reading could be carried through all their stages at the one sitting. Mr. TANNER (Avon) asked if it was not usual to give more than twenty-four hours' notice of such an alteration in the procedure of the House. In former times the House had some days' notice. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said there was no particular time laid down by Mr. Speaker. Sometimes it was a day, and sometimes two davs. Mr. TANNER .-- I am not objecting. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER would then an- nounce that on and after Wednesday, the 23rd October, Bills could be taken through all their stages at one sitting. It would be necessary for the Premier to move a motion to suspend the Standing Orders, if he wanted to call on new business after midnight. # PUBLIC-SCHOOL TEACHERS' SALARIES BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - Mr. Speaker, holding as I do that the school-teachers of our colony have a grave responsibility cast upon them, I consider it is in the best interests of the colony, and more especially of the rising genera- tion, that we should have the best teachers procurable. I must say that I have often won- dered, considering the salaries paid, how it was l is no system existing at all. From 1878 to Mr. Deputy-Speaker and which, I believe, are not surpassed in any part of the world. The fact that they should per- form their duties so efficiently, in spite of the adverse circumstances under which they have laboured, is all the more to their credit, and will commend itself, I am sure, to honourable members. 'To a great extent the teachers of the colony, so far as the men and women of the future are concerned, have a greater responsi- bility than the parents themselves. The founda- tion of our everyday life is laid in the schools; and if you have good teachers who carry with them the children that are under their care, and who by precept and example show the children the way they should go, and what is for their good, the impression then lasts through life. That being the case, it is all the more necessary, I think, that we should have the best possible teachers available ; and if we ask all this from them, then, in return, it is not too much for the State to pay them a living-wage. I say that in the past our school- teachers have not received that living-wage. They have not, out of the salaries paid to them, thrifty though they may have been, had an opportunity of making any provision for after-life. I, therefore, Sir, with pleasure rise to move the second reading of this Bill. By passing such a measure I feel that we are remedying the injustice of the past ; and, although what is now proposed may not be perfect, yet it is a step taken-it is the laying of a foundation upon which we can build. Members have said, " Postpone this until a further opportunity is given." Some of the teachers of the country districts are dissatisfied, and they have asked for post- ponement ; but we must have a commence- ment, and, in my opinion, the country is ripe for, and Parliament is prepared to give, a colonial scale of salaries to the teachers of New Zealand. Now, it is scarcely necessary for me, I think, to point out the anomalies that exist under existing conditions. We have at the present time thirteen Boards of Educa- tion, and a system of staffing under each of these Boards which differs most materially in each case. Members will see by reference to the evidence given before the Royal Com. 1 mission what I now allude to, and they will recognise how unfair it is under all these cir- cumstances that this state of things should continue to exist. The Parliament, which represents the people, is paying an equal capi- tation grant, but when members come to look at the manner in which these moneys are dis- tributed, they will find that under the altered conditions that distribution is not at all fair or equitable. I may say at this stage that it is through no fault of the Boards of Educa- tion, because each and every Board and the members of these Boards desire to do what is just and right. But the conditions existing in the different districts, and probably conditions that have prevailed from a long time back, have forced this system upon the Boards, and it has gone on from year to year until practically there 