knew that in the large centres of population fish could often be obtained cheaper than it could in places near where the fish was caught, but that had been the fact from time imme- morial. But, with the facilities which they now had of keeping fish in cool chambers, et cetera, the distribution of fish was very much more easily managed than it was in years gone by. As regarded canning, where the fish was canned it was canned in large numbers, and in places where practically no means of distribu- tion existed, and the fish would have to be destroved or not caught at all unless it was canned. Therefore, he was quite certain that the canning of fish did not interfere with the food supply of the people, and in any case he thought they would find that most of the fish was consumed in the country-very little was exported. He trusted, therefore, that this Bill would be looked upon as a very fair measure. Bill read the second time. INSPECTION OF MACHINERY BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said it would be remembered that the Council passed a Bill last year by which they endeavoured to place on a proper foundation the inspection of machinery and the qualifications of those who were to pass Of course, in a matter of the examinations. this kind, experience taught those in authority that some amendments were necessary in cer- tain directions. It had been found in a matter of gold-dredging that it was a great hardship, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 where the work was going on continuously, that the dredge should have to be in charge of a highly certificated man. It was quite suffi- cient that there should be a high-class certifi- cated man in charge of a dredge, but it was thought that if they had men holding second- class certificates in charge of the engine at cer- tain times that would be quite sufficient. For instance, in the case of a steamer the first en- gineer was a highly certificated man and a man of great experience ; but in the engine-room he had under him men holding second, third, and fourth grade certificates, but who were perfectly competent under the supervision of the chief engineer, to attend to the engines. This Bill simply applied the same principle to dredges, and therefore he trusted it would be considered a per- fectly reasonable amendment to make in the Act. Clause 4 applied to the granting of certificates of the appropriate class to the holder of a cer- tificate either of a third class marine engineer, or a river engineer, or a marine-engine driver, or driver of a winding-engine, upon the produc- tion of "satisfactory evidence that the holder thereof has for not less than twelve months been in charge of an engine either on land or afloat with cylinders of the area prescribed for such class." That, also, was found to be a relaxation that should be made, and he be- lieved it could be made with perfect safety. The 5th clause related to giving certain oppor- tunities to certain holders of second class cer- tificates to claim the right to be examined for a first-class certificate under the Act. He could not go into the technical merits of the question, this relaxation could be made. He moved the second reading of the Bill. Bill read the second time. # INDUSTRIAL CONCILIATION AND ARBI- TRATION BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, in moving, That you do leave the Chair in order that the Council may go into Committee on this Bill. I do not think it is necessary to say a great deal on the subject, because the Bill does not introduce very much new matter. The principles of conciliation and arbitration have been accepted now for a good many years, and if there is any one thing I should be sorrier to see than another, it would be that this Bill should go in the direction of destroying conciliation, be- cause I believe the original intention was-and I think there is no necessity why the original intention should not be maintained in its fullest sense-that the first object of the legislation we have passed on the subject was that conciliation should first be attempted. There are two clauses I wish to refer to. One of them has been struck out, and the other has not been struck out by the Committee. I look on them both as very important. Clause 6 came down from the other House with a proviso that either party to a dispute could bring into the matter a special Board of Conciliation, and similarly in the 21st section it was provided that either party to an industrial dispute could pass over the Conciliation Board and refer the dispute straight to the Arbitration Court. I think that is a great mistake. In the first place, it is not fair that one party who wants conciliation should not get the full ad- vantage the Act gives him. On the other hand, it is not fair that the other man should pass over this Board and go to the Arbitration Court, and it is not fair either to the general interests of labour questions that the tribunal which. I think, it was the original intention of the Legislature should be the principal Court of the whole, should not be appealed to at once. and that inducements should be given to pass over the Conciliation Board. As to clause 6, evidence was adduced to the effect, in the first instance, that it was not satisfactory, as a rule, to workers that the Boards of conciliators should be set up. simply from the fact that, inasmuch as those Boards consisted of experts on both sides, the experts in a particular trade must be men who were, possibly, pre eminent in certain employments in that trade, they ran the risk of being singled out for punishment at the earliest possible notice at the hands of their employers. Now, I have heard in this Chamber such dan- gers as this absolutely scouted, and I have heard honourable members say that no artisan in New Zealand could ever be so cowardly as to be afraid of anything of the sort, and, in fact, that nothing of the sort ever happened. Well, it is a curious fact that just before this session certain affairs took place in connection with a certain mine at Waihi, where it is absolutely proved, as far as anything of the sort could be proved from motives, that certain dismissals 