from a fist full of mails into a mailed fist. What does the argument of the Auckland mem- bers amount to ? Simply that the San Francisco route is the quickest route, and nothing more. I admit it is the quickest, but I will prove that it is not the cheapest. Taking the average time of the mail leaving New Zealand from the Bluff to Auckland and going via Fr'isco and com- paring it with the Federal mail, the difference in favour of the Fr'isco route is exactly four days and a half. That is the difference in time. Now as to the other points. In the first place, we are asked to subsidise the Spreckels line be- cause if we do not they are bound not to make New Zealand a port of call any longer. Sir, honourable gentlemen who make this assertion do not know what they are talking about, and I say this with all deference. In the first place, the Spreckels line is paid by a subsidy from the United States of America for running mails from Fr'isco to the Australian Colonies, and one of the first conditions in their agreement with the Government of the United States is that they shall make Auckland a port of call on the down- According to the figures that are ward route. given us by the Postmaster-General, they carried in wards last year 319 passengers, and they carried out wards 533 passengers to and from Auckland ; and taking the average fares which those pas- sengers paid, that passenger trade gave them a revenue of $20,732. They brought, also, in- wards 5,141 tons of cargo, and carried out- wards 1,395 tons, making a total of 6,536 tons. The average freight is £3. The freight on https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 general cargo is $3 8s., but the average on the quantity I have stated amounts to £3 per ton. This gives them for cargo revenue the sum of $19,608-that is to say, that their total http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero revenue through making Auckland one of their ports of call, besides the subsidy from the American Government, amounts to $40,340. Now, J. G. Spreckels is not such a flathead as to omit this fact from his calculations, and we may take it for certain that he will call at Auckland whether we give him this contract or not. In fact, we have the game in our own hands, and we can make Mr. Spreckels come to our own terms, and need not go hat in hand to him and ask him as a favour to accept $15,000 odd a year from us. I should like to give some of the arguments that are strongest against the Fr'isco route, and which, after consideration, ought to present themselves to any reasonable thinker. The first thing, I think, we ought to oppose it for, is because we believe we can get better terms by refusing than by agreeing to the terms now submitted to the House. In the second place, because it is a dearer service than the proposed Federal service, and I will give figures to the House to prove this. The Federal service proposes to give us a fort- nightly mail for the sum of £19,000 odd. That is an average of $373 every time a mail comes in or goes out of New Zealand. And, mark you, that mail possesses an important recom. mendation which the Spreckels mail does not -it is a regular mail. The Spreckels is an irregular mail, and that to commercial people Mr. Laurenson more important factor than having your mail four days and a half quicker. It is a most im- portant thing to have a regular mail, upon which you can depend, and a mail coming and going at regular stated intervals. Now, that regular mail will cost us £373 every time it comes in and goes out. As against that we have the Spreckels line, which gives us a mail in and a mail out every three weeks, and which is to cost us, in round figures, £16,000 odd per annum ; and the net cost for every time that mail comes in and goes out of New Zealand is £479. So that we save #106 on every mail that comes in and goes out of New Zea- land, or £212 on every double mail, by adopt- ing the Federal service as against the Fr'isco mail ; and that disposes, once and for all, of the theory that the Fr'isco is the cheapest mail. Then, I want to point out another factor which, I think, we ought all to realise as a very important one. Included in the cost of sending the Federal mail is a sum of $10,000 which will be paid for the intercolonial service. That sum will be paid to the Union Company or some other company which will, in all probability, have its headquarters in New Zealand. When we are subsidising our own line of ships we are doing another important thing, as we are help- ing to make the freights between here and Australia cheaper. In doing that we are con- ferring a benefit upon every farmer and pro- ducer in New Zealand. Sir, one member for Auckland City (Mr. Witheford) said one thing that would happen through us continuing the Fr'isco mail would be this: that our farmers would, if we paid that subsidy, be able to find an outlet for their produce in America. Now, Sir, I do not think there is any need for me to refute this statement. It carries its own refutation on the face of it. But I want to point out to Mr. Witheford and the other Auck- land members whether this mail-service is in- creasing our trade with America or not. Our exports to the Australian Colonies and Great Britain we know are going ahead at a very rapid rate, and last year we exported to New South Wales and Victoria alone one million and a half pounds' worth of our products, whilst to the United States we exported #433,499, as against products worth $583,134 ten years ago ; so that actually our trade with America is steadily and largely falling off, and is likely to do more so in the time to come, while our trade with the United Kingdom and the Australian \-- Colonies is increasing, so to speak, by leaps and bounds. Mr. HERRIES. -- Against the tariff ? Mr. LAURENSON. - We have not had the effect of the tariff vet, but one of the ways in which we can counterbalance that tariff is to pay a subsidy to steamers of our own from here to Australia-steamers which would carry our productions to Australia, and which would at the same time connect our mails with the Federal line. I think that ought to come home to every one of us. I also want to point out to honourable gentlemen who are actuated by sentiment in this matter that if we sub- 