the game in respect to a less troublesome in- dustry than coal-mining, and with failure-so far, at any rate. I refer, for instance, to the State lime-kilns. The State has started a lime-kiln industry and lime-burning, and it is retailing lime at 12s. a ton. A return placed upon the table sets forth that it is costing the State 9s. 4d. a ton, and then it goes on to say, "We have not included in these charges any interest for capital," et cetera. I forget exactly what the details were, but cost of management. I think, was not included, and certainly not the interest on the cost of construction of the railway and the various other things, which, according to the return, made the cost up to 11s. 6d. per ton, the State retailing it at 12s. I think I know enough about the subject to say that the return is perfect nonsense, and that it is costing the State a great deal more than 11s. 6d. per ton ; and, in my opinion, we ought to have placed before the House, in connection with these lime-kilns, just such a balance-sheet as is provided for in this Bill in connection with the State coal-mines, so that we can see whether the State is making a success at the present time of the burning and selling of lime. That is one thing in which the State cannot make an industry succeed at present. Now, I say that all the Premier said with regard to the cost of production is assumption, and can be only assumption. What he ought to have shown the House was that there are facilities by which the State can mine for coal at a https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 cheaper rate than a private mine-owner can do. He has not shown that. He has not shown the House nor the country that the owner of any private coal-mine at the present time is making a huge profit out of his business. Mr. SEDDON .- They are not meeting the demand. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Is that the only argument ? Mr. SEDDON .- That is one. Mr. J. ALLEN .- The Premier had another argument, which he brought forward very forcibly, and appealed to the poor, who, he said, could not get coal at a sufficiently cheap rate. Now he wants to back down upon that. Let me keep him to it. He has to show that the State has facilities for winning coal and for . selling it at a cheaper rate than the private owner. I say that the private owners at the present time have been making no profit to speak of out of their coal-mines. I think there are only three coal-mines in New Zealand, so far as I know, that have made any profit at all. The Kaitangata Coal mine has made a protit, the Westport Coal-mine has made a profit, and one of the coal-mines in the North has made & profit ; but, so far as I know, those are the only three, and I know instance after in- stance in which, instead of a profit being made, there has been every year a loss. I know in- stances where those interested in the coal-mine industry to-day would be only too glad to get out of it if they could, but they are in and can- not; that is the fact. Now, the Premier, I say, ought to show that the State could mine ·coal cheaper than a private individual, and in that they have facilities for working cheaper ; and, secondly-and I think this is the great point of all - that they have facilities for cheaper and better management than private individuals or companies have. So far as my experience goes-and not only my per- sonal experience, but my reading on the sub- ject-I do not know of any instance at all, either here or elsewhere, in which the State has ever managed a concern at a cheaper rate Where a private than a private company. company is working good ground the State has never been able to work at as cheap a rate, be- cause of the direct personal interest of the private individual or company in the manage- ment. I say that that direct personal interest can never be had by the State. You have not watching over the management and working of a State concern those with a direct personal interest. In the case of a private company the owner is always looking after his interests to the best of his ability, whereas the State is not able to do so. So that, in these two particular in- stances, I say the Premier is not able to show us that he will be able to produce coal at a cheaper rate than private individuals. What was the other argument ? The argument he started with was that the private owner was not supplying the demand. Now, where does the demand come from? Does it not come very largely from outside the colony ? An Hon. MEMBER. - Hear, hear. Mr. J. ALLEN. - And the Premier desires that this demand from outside the colony should be met. Well, Sir, I am not at all sure that that is a very wise policy. It is not the policy that is adopted by the Home country. On the contrary, the Home Government this very last year has put an export duty upon coal. And why? Because they would not. if they could help it, supply to outsiders what they need so much for themselves. I do not think, with the supply of coal we know to exist in New Zealand, that it is a wise policy to en- courage a large export trade in coal. The Pre- mier has talked of the immense areas of coal we have in New Zealand. We had a report not so very long ago about the immense areas of coal on the West Coast of New Zealand, and they do not turn out to be so immense as the Premier imagines ; and I venture to say, with the faults that occur, if sufficient investigation is made into these coal deposits they would prove not to be so immense as the Premier has attempted to lead the House to believe. And then, with regard to the coal deposits in the South, although they are large, they are enormously faulty, they are very dangerous to work, and very costly to work, and they are not profitable except when worked on a very, very large scale ; and I do not think, in many instances, that the quality is as good as the Premier thinks, or as a great many people think. Therefore the supplies that may be expected from them will not nearly be as much as the House was led to believe. Now, Sir, the Premier has said that, without rhyme or reason, the proprietors have raised the price of coal. Well, I can only speak in this case, at any rate, 