For. Against. Fowlds Herries O'Meara Mackenzie, T. Smith, E. M. McGuire. Majority for, 13. Amendment negatived. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) moved the following new subclause :- " Every building, office, or place in which two or more persons are employed, directly or indirectly, by any Government department or officer in any handicraft, except as to payment of wages or any expenditure of money." The ACTING-CHAIRMAN ruled the clause out of order, as affecting the prerogative of the Crown. "(3.) Every building or place in which steam or other mechanical power or appliance is used for the purpose of preparing or manu- facturing goods for trade or sale or packing them for transit ; and also." On the motion of Mr. SEDDON (Premier), the word " them " was omitted in subclause (3), and "such goods " inserted in lieu thereof. "' Local authority ' means the Council of the borough or county or the Board of the town district in which any factory is situated." On the motion of Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston), the words " road or " were inserted before the words " town district." Clause as amended agreed to. Clause 8 .- " (1.) A person shall be deemed to obstruct an Inspector in the execution of his duties under this Act who- "(a.) Delays an Inspector in the exercise of any of his powers or duties under this Act ; or " (b.) Fails to comply with a requisition of an Inspector made under any such power, or to produce any document which he is required by this Act to produce ; or " (c.) Conceals or prevents, or attempts to conceal or prevent, any person from appearing before or being examined by an Inspector. " (2.) Every person who obstructs an Inspec- tor in the execution of his duties under this Act is liable to a penalty not exceeding five pounds; and, where an Inspector is so ob- structed in or about a factory, the occupier thereof is liable to a penalty not exceeding five pounds, or, when the offence is committed at night, not exceeding twenty pounds." Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) moved to insert, after " who," at the end of the first paragraph, the words " without reasonable cause." Amendment negatived. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) moved to insert "Without reasonable cause " before the word " Delays," in paragraph (a). Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 10 .- " (1.) Except as hereinafter pro- vided, it shall not be lawful for any person to occupy or use as a factory any building, office, or place unless the same is duly registered as a factory under this Act. mits a breach of this section is liable to a penalty not exceeding five pounds for every day <!-- PageHeader="1" --> during which the factory is unregistered." Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) moved to insert the word "knowingly" before "commits," in subsection (2). Amendment negatived. Mr. HOUSTON (Bay of Islands) moved to insert, before "commits," the words "after <!-- PageHeader="1" --> being notified by the Inspector." Amendment withdrawn. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, as a proviso to the clause : "Provided that, in the case of a first failure to register, no prosecution shall be instituted without the permission of the Chief Inspector." Motion agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 18 .-- " (1.) Subject to the provisions of this Act, no woman or young person shall be employed in or about a factory- "(a.) For more than forty-five hours, ex- cluding meal-times, in any one week ; nor " (b.) For more than eight hours and a quarter, excluding meal-times, in any one day ; nor " (c.) For more than four hours continuously without an interval of at least one hour for dinner ; nor "(d.) At any time after one o'clock in the afternoon of one working-day in each week as hereinafter mentioned ; nor " (e.) In the case of females, at any time be- tween the hours of six o'clock in the evening and eight in the morning : " Provided that, with the written consent of the Inspector, seven o'clock in the morning may, during such months as are specified in such con- sent, be substituted in lieu of eight o'clock in the morning, but so that the hours of work are not extended beyond eight hours and a quarter ; nor (f.) In the case of boys under sixteen years of age, at any time between the hours of six o'clock in the evening and a quarter to eight o'clock in the morning. "(2.) In order to prevent any evasion or avoidance of the foregoing limits of working- hours, all work done by any person employed in a factory for the occupier elsewhere than in the factory (whether the work is or is not connected with the business of the factory) shall be deemed to be done whilst employed in the factory, and the time shall be counted accordingly." Mr. PALMER (Ohinemuri) moved to add, at the beginning of subsection (c), " Except in regard to the working-day mentioned in sub- section (d) hereof." Amendment negatived. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) moved to add " and a quarter " after " four hours," in subsection (c). Amendment agreed to. 