church Borough Council - Messrs. Haskins and Murray. These two officers had spent a con- siderable portion of their lives in serving the City Council, and they were under the impres- sion that they were entitled to a retiring- allowance. At the time they retired the City Council passed a resolution to the effect that they were entitled to a retiring-allowance. But that allowance was not immediately paid. The advice of the Auditor-General was taken, and also the advice of Mr. T. F. Martin, the municipal solicitor of Wellington, and those authorities advised the Council that they could not legally make the payment. Section 171 of the Municipal Corporations Act would probably have effectually protected them from any con- sequences which might have resulted from illegally paying this sum so long as the pay- ment was made in good faith. But after the delay which took place, and after receiving the advice of the Auditor-General and the advice of Mr. Martin, municipal solicitor of Wellington, it was felt that the payment could not be made without some further legislation legalising the allowances ; and, as those officers, as he had said, had rendered good service to the Council for the better part of their lives, he thought it was un- fair that they should be cast adrift without a retiring-allowance. And their position was made all the harder by the fact that the Council had passed a resolution declaring they would be entitled to such retiring-allowance. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he did not in- tend to bring down an amendment of the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Municipal Corporations Act this session. was a matter as to whether the local authorities should give their officers retiring-allowance or otherwise. That was a question, he thought, which should be settled by the ratepayers them- selves. If the law was to be altered, there ought to be some indication in favour of the alteration on the part of those most interested -- namely, the ratepayers in the boroughs. He had not had any representations made to him. There might be, of course, cases where good and faithful service had been performed by the clerks of local bodies, and he thought that perhaps the better plan would be to pay suffi- cient salary to the officers so as to enable them to provide for their old age. He thought that that was a way out of the difficulty. However, he should be very chary in giving local bodies unlimited power to give retiring-allowances, knowing, as he did-for he had been for many years a member of local bodies-that it only required three or four members of the local body to put their heads together and they might give their Town Clerk a very liberal retiring-allowance. At all events, he did not in- tend to bring in any legislation of that nature this session. Mr. COLLINS said he agreed in the main with what the Premier had said, but these two men had been working for the greater part of their life on the assumption that they were to get a retiring-allowance, and the City Council could not now go back and pay the higher salaries suggested in lieu of retiring-allowances. Mr. Collins ing that they would be paid a retiring-allowance, and there was no doubt they suffered under a grievance. Mr. SEDDON said that the remedy was to petition the House to have a special Bill passed dealing with these particular cases. # MRS. JAMES MACKAY. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) asked the Premier, If he will, on the supplementary estimates for this year, continue to afford the same pecuniary aid to Mrs. James Mackay as was made last session ? His reason for putting this question was that last session the Government placed a sum on the supplementary estimates for Mrs. Mackay, wife of the late Mr. James Mackay, who, to his knowledge, had rendered very superior and special services to the colony. She was in such circumstances as would make a donation from the country very acceptable indeed. Mr. SEDDON said that last year the House voted £100, and now he supposed they were asked to give another hundred. He admitted that Mr. Mackay was one of the old interpre- ters, and one of those connected with the past history of the colony, and who had done good service. It was just a case whether those services warranted them giving a pension, for that was what was aimed at. The matter would be reconsidered by the Government, but they were not prepared to recommend a pension ; in fact, one could not be granted. # APPOINTMENTS TO LEGISLATIVE It COUNCIL. Mr. LANG (Waikato) asked the Premier, Whether, when making recommendations to His Excellency the Governor with reference to appointments to the Legislative Council, he will take into consideration the claims of the im- portant district of Waikato, which, since the re- signation of the Hon. J. B. Whyte, has not been represented in the Legislative Council? He would like to draw the attention of the Premier to the fact that at the commencement of the session there were forty-six members of the Upper House, and of those members twenty- eight represented the South Island and only eighteen the North Island. The North Island, therefore, had a claim for additional representa- tives in the other Chamber. And the Auckland Province had a particular claim ; and it would be interesting to show the number of people represented by each member of the Legislative Council from Auckland as compared with those representing provinces in the South Island. From Auckland Province there were seven representatives in the Upper House, and each one represented 25,134 people; Canterbury had nine members, each representing 15,893 people; Otago had twelve members, each re- presenting 14,428; Nelson had two, each repre- senting 12,638 ; and Westland had two, each representing 7,253. In other words, each Auck- land Legislative Councillor represented three and a half times as many people as the West- land representatives. He thought the Auckland 