Shrimski Louisson Feldwick Swanson McLean Gourley Taiaroa Montgomery Jennings Ormond Twomey Johnston Walker, L. Kelly, T. Peacock Kelly, W. Williams. Pinkerton Pitt Kenny NOES, 13. Smith, A. L. Arkwright Jones Smith, W. C. Reeves Barnicoat Tomoana Rigg Bolt Walker, W. C. Scotland Harris Jenkinson Majority for, Consideration of Bill postponed until after order of the day No. 7. MAORI COUNCILS BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- It will be remembered that last year we passed the Maori Councils Act, which we all hoped was going to do a great deal of good for the Maori race, and assist them in dealing for themselves in the matter of local government. I dare say many members of the Council have watched with great interest the way in which the Natives have endeavoured to cope with the questions that have risen up from time to time. They have been perfectly sincere, so far as I know, in every part of the colony in doing their best to elect their Councils and give those Councils that moral support without which it would https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 be impossible for them to do any good to their dwellings and kaingas. More than that, it was not considered sufficiently necessary or so important to the South Island that the Natives there should elect a Council, owing to the fact that the Natives live very much more among Europeans and in very much smaller numbers than they live anywhere else in the colony, and there they have per- ceptibly acquired more of the habits of health than the Natives who have lived in the larger and older settlements in the North Island. Yet these Natives in the South Island have been urging the Government that steps should be taken in order to provide them with the neces- sary machinery for electing Councils and govern- ing themselves, which all points to the fact that the Natives are quite alive to the beneficial purpose of the Act passed last year, and desire to make it a reality for their own benefit. Then, of course, during the last year there has been, not a schoolmaster, but there has been a doctor abroad, and he has been putting his nose into all sorts of places, and finding out what is wrong in the way of smells and un- pleasant conditions. The Department of Public Health has been exceedingly fortunate in get- ting the services of a young Maori who went to America and passed his examinations there as a doctor, and has now come back to practise among his own people in this country. That doctor has been able to use a great deal of in- fluence on the Natives in the North Island to live in a better sanitary condition than they did before, so that it is all very encouraging. The be studied and fostered as far as possible, and the most important clause in this Bill gives the Councils power to carry out their by-laws. By an omission last year, though the Council had power to make by-laws, the power of enforcing them was not inserted. Honourable members will be glad to know that the Act of last year was productive of much good, and I trust they will sympathize with the spirit of the Bill, and be pleased to pass the second reading of this amending Bill. The Hon. Mr. RIGG .- Sir, I intend to sup- port this Bill, but I rise to call attention to what I consider a matter that deserves some consideration at the hands of Parliament- that is, that the Registration of Births and Deaths Act is not enforced as regards the Native race. I am told by a high authority in Native matters that the Maori Councils Act of last session provided some means of enforcing the registration, but I have been unable to find provisions in the law dealing with the subject. Now, what is the position at the present time in regard to the Maori race? Children are born into the world without the attendance of a medical man, and they die and are buried without any medical certificate; and the same thing also occurs as regards adult persons of the Native race. It seems to me that this is a very serious matter, and one that should have been dealt with long ago by the Legislature. It has been reported, as a result of the last census, that the population of the Native race is increasing in the colony. Well, I have con- versed with those in a position to know, and I am informed that the increase is due more to the fact that there was better enumeration than in the past, and that there have also been cases where Natives have been enumerated by the enumerators of Europeans and also by the enumerators of Maoris. This has occurred in the case of half-castes, and helps to support the contention that the Native race is not in- creasing as shown by the last census, but, on the other hand, it has been decreasing. But I have noticed in the Maori Councils Act that, while there is no provision to enforce the regis- tration of the births and deaths of human beings, there is specific provision for the regis- tration of dogs. It was seen that there was a certain amount of revenue to be derived from that source, and this was considered a more important matter than that to which I have referred. Then we come to the question of Maori marriages, and under the Maori Councils, Act it is provided, -- "Nothing contained or implied in this Act shall be deemed to prejudicially affect any mar- riage of a Maori to a Maori according to Maori custom or usage contracted or solemnised prior to the passing of this Act, or the rights of any issue of any such marriage." The Native custom produces a state of affairs which, if it occurred in any European commu- nity, would be regarded as grossly immoral. Maori men can take a wife during their plea- sure and discharge her when tired of her, and they are not limited to one wife. In some cases 