proposals was brought before the House. An amendment was then moved to the pro- posals; to which I myself moved another amendment. The amendment I proposed last year was this : "That this House recom- mends the Government to open negotiations with the Governments of Australia, Canada, and Great Britain, with the view of establishing an all - British mail-service to England via Vancouver." That amendment was objected to by the Hon. the Postmaster-General, and he interjected whilst I was speaking, "I am prepared to negotiate," and when he came to reply he said, "I wish to say that the Govern- ment is quite willing to open up negotiations to see whether a service can be established which will be a more suitable service to this colony." I take it from that that the honourable gentle- man could see it might be possible to establish a more suitable service. Twelve months have elapsed since, and I am going to ask the honour- able gentleman now what negotiations have been opened up. I want to ask what inquiries have been made, and what further information there is to submit to this House. Sir J. G. WARD .- Why do you not read the letters ? Mr. COLLINS .- I have read the letters, but I say there is no new information conveyed in these letters. I am quite willing to admit that we have the very best Postmaster-General we could have ; I am willing to admit that, so far as the general postal arrangements of the colony are concerned, we have, perhaps, as fine a service as https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 could be found in any part of the British domi- nions ; but I do not see that I am bound to accept every arrangement the honourable gentle- man who is head of the department likes to http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero make; and I say we have not the information which ought to have been at our command in dealing with this matter ; and it must appear to every member of the House as though there was an underlying determination that, whatever Parliament might think or feel, this arrange- ment should continue with Messrs. Spreckels. I contend that we ought to have had much more information at our command. Now, Sir, the Minister of Mines said this was an Auckland question. Sir, I deny that it is an Auckland question ; it is a New Zealand question. Auck- landers have no right to speak as though this was essentially an Auckland question. Mr. NAPIER .- They do not do so. Mr. COLLINS .- I beg your pardon. If I may, I would, through you, Sir, inform the honourable gentleman that he, more than any other honourable member, is responsible for the idea that this is regarded peculiarly as an Auckland question. He has led the people to believe that the very existence of Auckland depends on the San Francisco mail-service. Through the injudicious writings and utter- ances of the honourable gentleman the idea has gone abroad, and he must take the responsi- bility for that impression. I was particularly pleased with the speech with which the honour- able gentleman favoured the House a few moments ago. It was a moderate, careful, and he has spoken, and written, and telegraphed on this subject before he delivered that speech was not on the same reasonable lines. Now, the Minister of Mines expressed the pleasure with which he listened to the speech of the honourable member for Hawke's Bay. The honourable member for Hawke's Bay always makes a good and a pleasant speech, what- ever view he may take. But the honourable gentleman said he regarded it as the best speech that had been delivered yet on this ques- tion. Well, Sir, how sweetly reasonable we always think those words are with which we agree. I can imagine that had the speech been equally good, logical, and brilliant on the other side, how scathing the terms of denunciation would have been that the Minister of Mines would have used with regard to the member for Hawke's Bay. But he said the only argument which had weight-and he admitted it was an argument which had weight- was the argument with reference to the American shipping laws, under which our ships were debarred from trading between American ports. Sir, I admit the strength and the validity of that argument, but I deny emphatically that that is the only argument that can be used against the pro- posals, and I shall try to adduce some argu- ments which I think have equal force. It has been said, and said over and over again, that we derive a great advantage from having the quickest possible service for our mails, and that we get our mails quicker by the San Francisco service than we could get them by any other route. Now, it is quite true that this route is the quickest route, and that we do get our mails a little quicker than we could get them by any other route. But what I want to deny is this: that this is an advantage which completely and overwhelmingly outweighs other disadvantages. I deny that there are no dis- advantages which more than outweigh the advantages of getting our mails in a little quicker time. I am inclined to agree with those members who suggest that, so far as the com- mercial world is concerned, our biggest business transactions are done by telegraph. There is no doubt about that. . What I want to point out is this : that there are no petitions to this House from commercial New Zealand to main- tain this route. As a matter of fact, nearly all those who represent the great commercial inter- ests of the country have voiced their opinions against maintaining this route. I say it is not to our interest, as outweighing all other interests, that this particular service should be maintained. Sir, it is said-and I can understand 12.0. how the words must have appealed with considerable force to some members-that this route brings us into touch with a great nation-a people, as the member for Auckland City said, who speak our own language, who are almost our own kith and kin, who have laws similar to our own, and who are like us in their modes of thought. Now, that is putting it in rather an exaggerated manner, but still there is something in it. However, what I want to point out is this : that the advan- 