tion. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) said, All the information he had been able to glean about this gentleman was that he had been a clergy- man and had augmented his income by teach- ing drawing in a school ; at one time he had been an engineer on a boat, and he was pretty good in modelling in clay. He had endea- voured to obtain employment under the Wel- lington Board, but had not succeeded. Mr. HALL - JONES said the honourable gentleman could see the gentleman's testi- monials at his office-he did not carry them about with him. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said the Minister's answer was not satisfactory in re- gard to these Inspectors. He said they were qualified men : in what way were they qualified ? He thought they were entitled to more in- formation in regard to these Inspectors. It seemed to him they ought not to blindly vote £350 each to two gentlemen of whose qualifica- tions they had a most vague idea. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) said, In regard to the proposal to sell the site of the South Belt School, he protested against the alienation of this very valuable education endowment in Christchurch. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said they had all the information the Minister felt inclined to give about the Rev. Mr. Isaacs, but they had no information in regard to Mr. Brown, and he thought they were entitled to it. He had been informed that Mr. Brown had not had the very slightest technical experience, or any experience in any way connected with mechanical matters. It was not the slightest use voting money for technical education unless they had good men to administer the department. Mr. HALL-JONES said he had special ex- perience in the London University. Mr. MCLACHLAN (Ashburton) said, If the South Belt School was absolutely useless for school purposes, and if the Education Board saw fit to sell the site and use the money for technical education purposes, what reason could there possibly be for complaint? Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) must say that the Minister had given an unsatisfactory reply in regard to these two Inspectors. It seemed to him, if this was the result of a con- centration of Inspectors in the hands of the central body, it was a very poor start, because apparently the two men appointed were but in- differently qualified. He said if they were going to do the work that had got to be done in con- nection with technical education, they must select men who were highly qualified and pro- perly trained ; and if this was an indication of the class of appointments the central depart- ment were going to make it was a very bad beginning indeed, if what had been stated in the House regarding these Inspectors was at all correct. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) would not say another word about those two Inspectors if the Minister would promise to take the earliest opportunity of laying on the table a copy of Mr. Massey the accompanying testimonials. Mr. HALL - JONES said, Mr. Brown won honours in the London University in science, and was second in scientific education. He had won certificates at South Kensington for draw- ing, and during the whole of these years had been teaching technical education, and recently in one of the high schools of the South. Mr. Isaacs was a civil engineer, and some years ago, when the Imperial Government set up a Com- mission to visit the Continent to inquire into technical education, Mr. Isaacs was one of the members of that Commission, and surely that showed he had qualifications for the positions. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) said, To say that because a man was appointed to a Commis- sion that went to the Continent to inquire into technical education was evidence of his fitness as a highly skilled technical teacher, was an argu- ment he hardly thought the Minister would use. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) would like to supplement the request of the honour- able member, that the applications and testi- monials of these two Inspectors should be laid on the table of the House, so that they might know the qualifications of these men. He said that the whole success of the Technical Edu- cation Department depended on having effi- cient Inspectors. Mr. GUINNESS (Grey) would like to know whether the two officers were advertised for in the usual way. Mr. HALL-JONES said, Yes; and they were selected as the best qualified. Vote, $13,950, agreed to. Miscellaneous Services, $5,052. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) said he wanted to take that opportunity of eliciting the opinion of members as to whether the Minister of Edu- cation should be a member of the Lower House or not, and with that view he would move a reduction of the vote by the sum of #1. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) wanted the Minister to give him some information about the item, "Flags for public schools, £1,500." Very few of the country districts in Auckland received these flags. Some schools made appli- cation, and were told they were not ready. Mr. HALL-JONES said it was not possible to get them in time, but they could be supplied now. The contracts were given to different firms, who had a difficulty in filling the orders, as there was a scarcity of material. It would be necessary for the schools to apply to the Education Boards for the flags. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) supported the proposal of the honourable member for Christ- church City (Mr. Ell). If there was any de- partment in the public service that required a real live man, and that the House required to be in touch with, it was the Education Depart- ment. He had nothing to say against the Hon. Mr. Walker, except that the portfolio of Justice, or Mines, or some other department, might be given to him in place of Education. Mr. HALL-JONES said the same difficulty would crop up, no matter what department was taken by the Hon. Mr. Walker. 