own constituents were very anxious to know how the amending Bill now before the House would affect them. In view of those facts he desired that the return should be laid on the table of the House before the debate was taken on the second reading of the Bill. When the return was granted the Government must have understood the reason why it was asked for. He would not expect the Government to agree to any absurd or vexatious request, but, as the return was granted as asked for, he must ob- ject now to the motion proposed by the Native Minister, which, if carried, would frustrate his main object in asking for the return. Motion agreed to. # DUNEDIN WATERWORKS EXTENSION BILL. On the question, That the Bill be read a second time, Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) said this measure took considerable powers, and deprived the suburbs of the City of Dunedin of privileges they had hitherto possessed. It took authority to increase the charges which the City of Dun- edin might impose upon the suburbs from 6d. to ls. for 1,000 gallons of water. Now, that was a violation of the covenants of the 1878 statute, and he felt quite persuaded that, if the honourable member in charge of the measure realised what was really proposed, he would agree that the original conditions of the Act of 1878 should remain and not be altered. If the honourable gentleman gave him that promise https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 he would be quite prepared to accept it, and say nothing more about the matter. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) said the posi- tion was this: Under the old agreement the water from the existing reservoirs had to be supplied to the suburban boroughs at 6d. per thousand gallons. Well, that would continue under the existing conditions ; but it was abso- lutely impossible, from the present reservoir, as the honourable gentleman knew, to supply the requirements of the higher levels of the suburbs of Dunedin. These suburbs of Dun- edin were not in a position to establish a water- supply of their own, and the city had been asked to erect a reservoir sufficient to meet the requirements of the suburbs on the higher levels. If the suburbs opposed the conditions contained in the Bill the city would not go on with the thing at all -and the honourable gentleman knew that- because there would be a dead loss. Therefore. as the honourable gentleman would see, unless power was granted under this Bill that the maximum should be 1s., it would be impossible for the city to go on with the scheme. It did not affect the exist- ing agreement at all, and it was only the higher levels which might take it hereafter that would be affected. Mr. T. MACKENZIE said the honourable gentleman stated that the water-supply from the present reservoir would be continued at the ordinary rates, but he thought if the honour- able gentleman would read the Bill very care- fully he would not discover this was so. The Bill took authority to increase the rates for water to the suburbs of the City of Dunedin to the extent of 1s. per thousand gallons. Now, he had objections from the leading residents of Mornington and Roslyn stating that they dis- tinctly disagreed with the proposal contem- plated in this measure. It was a violation of sections 3 and 4 of the Act of 1878. It was not his intention to unduly delay the House, but in Committee he would do his best to insist upon striking out that clause. Mr. CARNCROSS (Taieri) was exceedingly sorry indeed to find himself once more placed in opposition to a Bill introduced by the honour- able member for Dunedin City. It seemed very strange that all the Bills introduced by the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar), affected his constituency. We had a case of that kind yesterday, and now here was another Bill which largely affected a portion of his constituency, in the matter of taking land and water-rights. He had a petition signed by a large number of his constituents asking him to oppose it. He would not delay the House at this stage, but would endeavour to arrange with the honourable gentleman in charge of the Bill before it reached the Committee stage. Bill read a second and a third time. HOKITIKA HARBOUR BOARD ENDOW- MENT BILL. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) moved the second reading of this Bill. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) thought the honourable member in charge of the Bill should explain its provisions. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) asked the Deputy- Speaker to rule whether an honourable mem- ber could move his Bill without his authority ; he did not consider this Bill had been moved. Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER said the Bill having been ordered to be read a second time, and to-day appeared on the orders of the day, it was in possession of the House, and if the member in charge did not move the second reading any other member could do so. Mr. MEREDITH said he did not offer any objection to the Bill ; he merely wanted some information. The Public Works Statements of the last two years showed that an undue pro- portion of the public funds were allocated to the West Coast. Mr. SEDDON said the Bill dealt with a piece of land on the Spit at Hokitika which had been formed by the harbour protective works, and the object was to vest this land in the Harbour Board. In regard to what the member for Ashley had said, he might mention that all the money the West Coast got last year was $11,000. Bill read a second and a third time. CITY OF CHRISTCHURCH ELECTRIC POWER AND LOAN EMPOWERING BILL. On the question, That the House do go into Committee upon unopposed local Bills, Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) asked if the unopposed local Bills which had just passed their second reading were to be at once moved into Committee, before the local Bills on the 