men who from the very earliest times had taken an interest in this annexation question. The member for Masterton mentioned the name of Sir George Grey. Sir George Grey, when Go- vernor, with his great prevision, called atten- tion to the fact that these islands would some day become part of a great South Sea archi- pelago. But his view was not confined to these islands-the Cook Islands ; his range of vision extended from New Caledonia and the New Hebrides in the east to Tahiti in the west. Later in the discussion, the honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins) referred to Sir George Grey, Sir William Fox, Sir Julius Vogel, Mr. Ballance, and Sir William Fitzherbert as having taken part, at various periods of time, in the movement to annex the islands of the South Seas to New Zealand ; but he did not even once mention the name of the man who did more than all of them put to- gether in connection with the colonisation of these islands as part of a great British colony. That man was Mr. Coleman Phillips. Of course, the member for Christchurch City (Mr. Collins) could not be expected to know that thirty years ago Mr. Coleman Phillips promulgated a Poly- nesian scheme, which marked the possession by him of great foresight and grasp. It was a scheme which ought to have been taken up by the colony ; but the scheme was doctored by Sir Julius Vogel, and so doctored that that was the end of Mr. Coleman Phil- lips's scheme -the end so far as he was concerned. But then Sir George Grey again appeared on the scene, for at the instance of Mr. John Williamson, who was then Superinten- dent of the Province of Auckland, Mr. Phillips and Sir George Grey were brought together to discuss the scheme, and every act of those important negotiations is detailed historically in our own Appendices. I read the whole of the correspondence, voluminous though it is, at the time with great pleasure, and with the mind of & student, and my recollection of that reading is as vivid to-day as upon the day upon which I read it. I think it a happy incident that I should be here during this discussion this even- ing to do credit-aye, to do honour-to the man who did so much in the endeavour to bring about the colonisation of the islands of the South Seas. In regard to this proposal-my judgment will be taken for what it is worth-I take leave to think it a mistake. Additional expense will be charged to this colony, whose revenues are not more than are required for the actual necessities of the colony itself ; and why at this particular time we should add to our already heavy burdens is a thing which to me has not yet been satisfactorily explained. However, I do this: I give the Premier the credit for desiring to colonise these islands, and to benefit the native inhabitants; but as to the consequences, as to the results as they affect the Colony of New Zealand, I feel as certain as that I stand here that, while the con- nection which has been already established by the resolution of last session between these islands and the Colony of New Zealand may be Mr. Fisher of these islands, it will not be beneficial to New Zealand and to its people. If we say we will do all this from a purely philanthropic spirit, that is quite another matter. We have not means to expend in the colonisation of islands beyond the boundaries of New Zealand. We have enough to do in New Zealand with the revenues at our command. That is my view of the matter. I was not in the House when the annexation resolution was passed last session. I need not be reminded of that, but I feel bound to say that annexation having been effected, as I think without sufficient care and thought on the part of the Parliament as a whole, an un- necessary burden has been imposed upon the people of New Zealand. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - I must confess that I have sat here with mingled feelings throughout the debate on the second reading of the Bill. The last speaker disclaimed any re- sponsibility, yet he prophesied. Mr. FISHER .- Will the honourable gentle- man allow me. I should have said, when I spoke, that I was quite aware that to oppose anything proposed by the honourable gentle- man was to incur his displeasure. Mr. SEDDON .- Sir, I have no feeling in the matter at all. If the honourable member, as he oft-times claims, has a right to give an ex- pression of his opinion, and to freely criticize the action of myself or of the Government, the honourable gentleman should concede to me the same right and privilege. Whilst I differ, and intend to differ, from what he has said, there is no displeasure at all on my part in my saying so. I shall, I hope, meet. what the honourable gentleman has said in a reasonable way, and I wish to show how he has contradicted himself. The honourable member, in the first place, disclaimed any responsibility, because he was not here. Very well, this is the first opportunity of speak- ing on the question ; and what does he say ? He has told us of the gentleman who first propounded the idea that these islands should form part of the colony, and he has said that that scheme was one which would be to the benefit of our colony, and on that score he has given Mr. Coleman Phillips every credit for his foresight. The honourable gentleman said we must give him this credit, and he mentioned the name, not previously mentioned, of one who was entitled to credit for his farsighted- ness in propounding this policy. But after claiming this credit for Mr. Coleman Phillips he winds up by saying that, having done partly what Mr. Coleman Phillips propounded, we have placed a burden upon the people of the colony, and have done what we should not have done. An Hon. MEMBER .- We should then have had Fiji. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, but if it means a loss in part, it meant a greater loss as a whole .. You have now what costs you nothing, in re- spect to the Cook Group. That is quite true. There is the Island of Penrhyn. Danger Island, Pukapuka, and Palmerston Island-you have 