never been noted personally as a very liberal employer. You have only to take the case of the Private Secretaries who are engaged by the Premier, and take their hours of work, the work that is put upon them, the conditions under which their labour is carried out, and I guarantee that no other employés in the colony work where the conditions are so hard and where so little consideration is paid to the men, to their comfort, to their lives almost, as is paid by the Premier to those men who are im- mediately in his employ. It is very amusing to think that the Premier should pose in this House or outside of it as an employer of labour, and endeavour to cast ridicule and throw blame upon other members who are endeavour- ing to do their best in this question according to their lights. I trust that the amendments in this Bill will be found to work satisfactorily, and I feel sure that if they do not, then if any better proposals can be brought down this ses- sion the House is so anxious to see this Act work smoothly and well that there will be no difficulty in placing them upon the statute-book. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- It is a somewhat extraordinary position that, after this important measure has passed through both Houses of the Legislature, we should have had a discussion of the kind which has been initiated by the Premier. I should not have risen this evening, after the statement the Premier made that the Government propose to accept the policy of the Bill as it has returned to this House from the Council, which should be considered as closing that phase of the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 question, but for the somewhat extraordinary defence of the Conciliation Board, and the attack of the Premier upon the employers. There can be no doubt that within the last two or three months a very strong feeling has grown up throughout the colony against the Boards, or perhaps I should say against one of them. The member for Palmerston, in the statement he has made regarding the expenses of the different Boards, has given the cue to what is the position. He has stated that the Wellington Board, which naturally does its business under the very eyes of the Premier, has cost in twelve months more than the whole of the rest of the Boards in the colony. Why should there be this enormous increase in the expense in Wellington in the working of the Conciliation Board as compared with other centres? Members who come from Canterbury District know that the workers there have, in a legitimate manner, used the Board and the Court for the purpose of bettering their position. I believe that in the Province of Canterbury there are more unions and more disputes than in Welling- ton, and that there is a very active labour feeling. I repeat my question, Why in Wellington City has the Board of Conciliation cost more than the whole of the other Boards in New Zealand ? The reason can only be that in this city the Board has been used by certain persons connected with it for their own pur- poses, and that they have used it as a Mr. Pirani weeks ago a fire took place in a building on Lambton Quay in which the Conciliation Board held its meetings. The spectacle was described in one of the Wellington papers of three members of the Conciliation Board meeting on the doorstep of the burning build- ing and declaring that the case set down for that day was adjourned ; and they, of course, claimed their fee for that attendance. The Premier is a man whose eyes are wide open, and he has seen this kind of thing going on under his very nose. He has done more-he has spoken about it; and I say, if there is any one man in the colony who has done more than another to fan a spirit of discontent with the Boards it is the Premier. The Premier has made speeches which have created a feeling of dissatisfaction in this House, which was inter- preted by the member for Wanganui and the member for Palmerston in their objections : and the blow that was struck at the Boards in the Bill was the result of the spirit of indignation and contempt that had been created by the Premier. On the 31st July the Premier said,- "He thought that in respect to the Concilia- tion Board's proceedings there was room for improvement. In his opinion, so many cases and so many persons being cited meant riding the thing to death. He thought there ought to be more Court, less Board, and more con- ciliation." That quotation appeared in Hansard of the 31st July, 1901, page 89. A few days after that the Premier was waited on by a deputation of persons connected with some Wellington unions. At that interview he spoke his mind freely. He said,- "The Premier replied that it was with some diffidence he had to express the opinion that the way things were going, with so much work thrown on the Boards and the Court, there would ultimately be a breakdown. He went on to say that the other day he spoke very strongly on this matter "-here, of course, he was re- ferring to his statement in the House, which I have quoted-"and he had very good reasons for doing so, for that morning he had received a telegram stating that four hundred employers had been cited to appear in one dispute at Auckland. It seemed to him there was no necessity for that, and that it was riding the thing to death." Here, again, he uses the phrase, "riding the thing to death." But to proceed :- "Every employer was bound by an award, whether he was cited or not, and employers were not so stupid as not to know what was going on. A great deal of time was also wasted in duplicating evidence. In time both men and employers would get sick of it ; that was what was going to happen." But the right honourable gentleman went further. He said,- "It was more important to have industrial disputes settled, and get something like a rest. Employers did not want to be everlastingly in a turmoil, and what the country wanted was to have the awards made to go on working. As to 