should have supported it by some quotations from figures or facts, because I must say it seems to me a rather unpleasant suggestion to make about the young men of this colony. I can hardly believe that they have taken to this unfortunate habit. Mr. HORNSBY .- Yes, and both sexes too. Mr. HERRIES .- Well, that is a very serious allegation to make, and I am sorry that the member for Wairarapa did not support it by facts when he was speaking. I understand the youths of this colony are more addicted to smoking cigarettes, and there is a Bill in another place to prevent that practice, and now we have this Bill to prevent opium-smoking. I do not understand why there should be a clause providing for permits to be granted, and if the Premier makes any reply I shall be glad to hear why this is necessary. I do not know whether opium is used as a medicine or not. An Hon. MEMBER-It is one of the com- monest drugs. Mr. HERRIES .- Yes; but not the opium in the form used for smoking. Of course, I know it is an ingredient of many medical prescriptions, but that is not the drug used for smoking. An Hon. MEMBER .- Yes, the same opium. Mr. HERRIES .- Then, if that is the case, I think it is rather hard to say in clause 7 that it shall be absolutely unlawful to smoke opium. It may be ordered by a medical man; and I think a proviso should be put in to say " unless by the order of a medical man." With these suggestions, I think the Bill will meet all that is required ; but, as it has been put on record in Hansard that the young people of the colony http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero are addicted to this habit, I think the Premier should give some facts in support of the state- ment, because I can hardly believe that the young people of the colony have fallen so low as to consort with Chinese and take to opium- smoking. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) .- I desire to say a few words in respect to this measure, and I am, in any case, impelled to do so by the remarks of the member for the Bay of Plenty. I should think that anybody who had lived in either of the chief cities of the colony for any length of time would probably have heard, not once but over and over again, that opium-smoking was resorted to not only by the Chinese of the colony, but in some cases-a few only, it is hoped-by the European population. There is no question about it that some members of the European population have become addicted to the habit, and that it is growing, and is likely to grow, on the Europeans. The fact that such a large sum as £9,000 a year is collected in duty on opium shows the large amount that is consumed. To. judge by what I have seen, I believe that if the duty was doubled it would not reduce the evil. I was in Melbourne in January last, and I took the opportunity one night, in company with a detective, to go round the opium-dens of the city, and I saw quite enough that night of the hideous and degrading effects of the habit to satisfy me once and for all that no legislation was more desirable in this colony, or any other colony, than legislation to suppress the habit of opium-smoking. It is quite true that the Bill as at present framed has some slight defects, but I cannot agree with the member for Franklin that section 8 is by any means too strong. It seems to me that a constable should have power in the case of a Chinese habitation to enter without a warrant, and in the case of a European habitation to enter with a warrant, if he has any reason to suppose that opium-smoking is there indulged in. One defect of the Bill is in clause 7, which declares the smoking of opium to be unlawful, but provides no penalty. Under clause 6 a penalty is imposed, but clause 7 also should provide for a penalty, though doubtless of a lesser amount than in the case of an offence under clause 6. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I may say there is something in the request of the member for the Bay of Plenty ; and when I make a statement that a number of Europeans of the colony are addicted to this habit, and when I say it is growing, it is not necessary for me to give the names of particular localities, or particular parties, or anything of that kind. I am as- sured that that is so. I know myself that long ago, on the diggings, in some places the boys used to get to these Chinese quarters and get to smoking opium; and I also know that this does not wholly apply to boys, for I know that some of the other sex have also taken to it. Bill read a second time. The House adjourned at ten minutes past twelve o'clock p.m. # LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Thursday, 10th October, 1901. Third Reading-Industrial Conciliation and Arbi- tration Act - Assembly Library - Royal Visit Expenses Bill-Money-lenders Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. THIRD READING. Charitable Gifts Bill. INDUSTRIAL CONCILIATION AND ARBI- TRATION ACT. The Hon. Mr. RIGG asked the Minister of Education, If the Government will supply each member of the General Assembly with a copy of the volume intituled "Awards, Recom- mendations, Agreements, &c., made under the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act from 1894 to 1900"? He had no doubt it came as a surprise to members of the Council to know there was such a Government publica- tion in existence, and it was only while reading an article in an American paper dealing with the Conciliation and Arbitration Act that he became aware of its existence. He saw a note 