Corporal E. Massey, Oamaru, bronchitis and sore throat, convalescent. In addition to above there are several invalids who require watching. Surgeon-Captain Watt remaining in charge of invalids. " HARRY A. DE LAUTOUR, Brigade Surgeon. " Lieut .- Colonel P.M.O., Otago." Members would note the small number of cases of pneumonia. But it should be remem- bered that the pneumonia commenced on the ship between the Cape and Albany, and the record of the cases of it in the hospital proved that it did not commence between Albany and Port Chalmers. When he received a telegram from Dr. De Lautour to the effect that the overcrowding in the hospital was re- sponsible for the pneumonia, he ordered an inquiry into the matter, and he would like to know what else he could have done? The member for Bruce, however, had made certain charges, and now endeavoured to support them by the class of evidence he had brought for- ward. He mentioned the case of a man who had died in Auckland. Now, the fact was that that man fell from his horse and died from the injuries he had received, and in that connec- tion he had a letter from Mr. Spragg to show that when the man was in Wellington he was in perfect health. The honourable member had also quoted from newspapers, but he would give no names. Well, he (Mr. Seddon) would read a letter from one of the men who had gone to Sydney. This lad had written to him as fol- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 lows :- " I see by the New Zealand papers that your- self and Government are blamed in reference to the landing of troops, &c., by the transport 'Tagus,' thereby causing death and sickness which would not have occurred if troops had landed at a warmer port. Now, I was on board the 'Tagus' coming back with the Fifth Con- tingent, and I can inform you that it made no difference going to the Bluff to land, and the men did not suffer by it, but suffered the extremes before reaching New Zealand. We had to submit to the extremes at Worcester, our mobilising camp for all time-expired men belonging to New Zealand Contingents ; and also coming across from the Cape we had the ex- treme cold. I am sorry I am not in Wellington, or I would make it a point to give you full particulars and full details of this affair, and prove clearly to all concerned that you are not to blame. I am again returning to the front for active service, but will leave here on the 11th of October by the Aberdeen Line, and will be pleased to give you full particulars. What I refer to is the men sleeping out in the snow at Worcester for several nights after leaving the field, and going under canvas for about three weeks. This is what I call extreme .- I remain, &c., " HENRY NESBITT." Mr. J. ALLEN said he recognised the troopers had had a bad time at Worcester, Mr. SEDDON said the honourable gentle- certain facts within my knowledge. man did not know that the first time he made the charges ; he had found it out since. 'Tagus,' and he was my guest during his stay no difference to his case, because what he wished to say was that, notwithstanding the bad time the men had at Worcester, this trooper said the men were all well when the ship left the Cape. But, as a matter of fact, there were about twenty cases in the hospital when the ship left the Cape, so that the writer of the letter was wrong in his statement. How- ever that might be, it was clear that the men had recovered to a large extent when the ship left the Cape, and, that being so, how could the Premier say that Worcester was the cause of the trouble ? Mr. SEDDON said that the seeds of the trouble were sown at Worcester. Mr. J. ALLEN did not believe that was the case. The fact was that the seeds of the trouble were sown at Beira and other places the men had visited. The Premier was now blaming the overcrowding of the ship for the trouble, but members had not heard what was the nature of the report about overcrowding. From inquiries he had made he found the ship was a splendid one, and that the hospital accommoda- tion was ample; but as soon as the ship came near New Zealand the men went down five and six a day, and to some extent the hospital may then have been overcrowded, but that fact had nothing to do with the sickness. There was plenty of room to set aside for hospital accom- modation if it had been required. Had the medical officer of the "Tagus " reported that there was overcrowding ? Mr. SEDDON said that Dr. De Lautour had reported that the overcrowding was responsible for the pneumonia. Mr. J. ALLEN said that Dr. De Lautour was not the medical officer of the ship. Then, as to the difference of Port Chalmers and the Bluff, he wished to say that Port Chalmers was nearly as bad as the Bluff ; they were both bad places to bring the ship to. The ship ought to have come by a warmer route alto- gether. Sir J. G. WARD said that in his opening speech the honourable member for Bruce dealt with the question as between the Bluff and Port Chalmers. Mr. J. ALLEN said, No ; he never suggested that the "Tagus " ought to have been brought to Port Chalmers. He always held that the ship should have been sent to Auckland or Wellington. The Premier had fought for the Bluff all the way through, and it was against his wish the ship went to Port Chalmers, and therefore he had no right to take credit for the boat going to Port Chalmers. Mr. SEDDON said this was the letter he had referred to in respect to the illness and death of Trooper Wilkins, with which his name had been connected. It was as follows :- "DEAR SIR,-As there appears to be a mis- apprehension regarding the cause of the death of Trooper Wilkins, Fourth New Zealand Rough- riders, I take the liberty of informing you of " I met Trooper Wilkins on the arrival of the 