be asked to secure the sanction of Parliament to the payment of the £500 Watson fine to the Library Fund." He moved, That the report do lie on the table, and be referred to the Government for favour- able consideration. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) did not think the Premier had the resolution of the Committee in his hand, and he was not quite sure that the honourable member heard the report read. The report dealt with the report on the Bank of New Zealand inquiry, which report recom- mended that the $500 fine be paid into the Consolidated Fund. The Standing Orders of the House, as far as one could read them, pro- vided that all fines should be paid into the Library Fund. They did not specify the amount or nature of the fine, but simply that all fines should be paid into the Library Fund. This fine-as he had said-had been paid into the Consolidated Fund. An Hon. MEMBER .- The Speaker said it was too big. Mr. J. ALLEN said that did not affect the question as he read the Standing Orders. Even 80, he thought the Speaker ought to have com- municated his decision to the House. But, be that as it might, the impression of the Library Committee was that the fine ought to have been paid into the Library Fund. It could not now be paid into the Library Fund, as it had already been paid into the Consolidated Fund. There was a letter from the Premier saving it had been paid into the Consolidated Fund, and that without the sanction of Parliament that https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 decision could not be altered. The resolution passed by the Library Committee asked the Premier to secure, if he could, the sanction of Parliament to the payment of the $500 to the library. He imagined there would be no diffi- culty in getting that sanction, and that the sum would be placed on the supplementary estimates. He hoped the Premier would do so. He might mention that the library wanted money very badly. It was only right that this money should go to the library, and the Stand- ing Orders, he believed, directed that the money should be paid into the Library Fund. He hoped the Premier would consent to the sum being placed on the supplementary estimates. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) said that the $500 might very well be utilised in prepar- ing a catalogue of the books in the library. They had, of course a catalogue now, but it was a catalogue that would give them no real information as to what books were in the library. Stock had not been taken when pre- paring the last catalogue. Mr. J. ALLEN said that was going to be done next recess. Mr. T. MACKENZIE asked, Why was not stock taken before the country was put to the expense of £3.000 or €4,000 in the preparation of a catalogue listing all the books that had been in the library during the last twenty years or so ? If any member wanted a particu- lar book, and took the trouble to look up the catalogue, they could not understand really Mr. Fisher dreds of books catalogued had for years been lost. It had taken ten years to prepare a cata- logue which, for all practical purposes, was largely useless. He was astounded that the Library Committee had not taken stock of the books in the library before preparing their list. As he had said, they had listed all the books which had been placed in the library during the last twenty or thirty years, without any refer- ence whatever to the fact whether these books were still there. He was quite sure the Pre- mier would be willing to give the Committee this £500. The honourable gentleman was never anxious to swell his surplus with extra- neous sums of this sort. At any rate, if the money was required it ought to be devoted to this purpose. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) said, With regard to the unsatisfactory condition of the library there could be little doubt. There were about seventy millions of people in the United States of America, and the State Legislatures in that important country were constantly passing important laws, and yet there was not a single work in the library-not even a little hand-book-to inform them of what was being done in the States in these matters. They had the statutes of the States of Canada, but they had none of the statutes that were passed in the different State Legislatures of the United States, and he thought this was a matter which the Library Committee should take in hand at once and see that members get more up-to-date information as to what was taking place in that country. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said that the Library Committee had this £500 last year. Mr. J. ALLEN .- No. Mr. SEDDON said here was the item : " No. 23 : Parliamentary Library-Purchase of books, $500." They had therefore had $500 from the Consolidated Fund. Mr. PIRANI .- Is that Watson's fine ? Mr. SEDDON said, Certainly. To say they were going to particularly locate that €500 and identify it, after the lapse of these years, was nonsensical. The fact remained that the Library Committee had had many a $500 since that, and they must recognise that they had no right at all as regards any particular $500. If money was wanted for the library, and a good case was made out, it would be the duty of the Govern- ment to find it, but not to admit any special liability with respect to any particular $5000. According to the Standing Orders the fines that went to the library were -- Mr. J. ALLEN said, " All fines." Mr. SEDDON begged to assure the honour- able member he was wrong. Mr. ALLEN said, No. Mr. SEDDON said he was. Standing Order No. 435 said, " Any member adjudged by the House for any of the above mentioned causes guilty of contempt shall be fined in a penalty at the discretion of the House not exceeding 150." These were only fines. Then, Standing Order 436 said " All fines are applied to the Library Fund." 