The increase in the Governor's salary had no- thing to do with the Royal visit, but the £2,000 for renovating Government House was voted separately in anticipation of the Royal visit. As I have said, the increase is there for all time for the Governor, whoever he may be, and yet the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher), with an illogical deduction that is foreign to him, says that, when the Governor was travelling throughout New Zealand and drawing this $500, it was part of the £2,250 now on the estimates and under discussion. Now, how long was he travelling throughout New Zealand while the Royal party were here ? Under three weeks. What is the fraction of $500, even if his deduction was right ? But the Governor was travelling on the colony's busi- ness, as the chief representative of His Majesty the King. I say the quibbling over what has been done in entertaining the Royal visitors, over what has raised New Zealand in the eyes of the civilised world-I am not speaking of it in the way of an advertisement-is discreditable to the House and country. Our chief represen- tative, our chief host in New Zealand, surely must be the Governor, the representative of His Majesty the King, and he spoke, acted, and expended money on behalf of the colony. Are we now going to say that he should not have done so, and try to go behind it? My own opinion is this : that it is not creditable to us ; it is not pleasant. One thing I am pleased to see is that there is a certain section of this House who are silent on this question, and who by their silence indicate that they agree with https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 me in recognising that it is not creditable or honourable to now question this expenditure. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) .- I propose to say a few words in reference to the position. First of all, I desire, before going into the matter, to say that the remarks of the honourable member for Napier surprised me greatly. He prefaced his speech by saying that the time of the House was being wasted in a discreditable manner by discussing the visit of the Duke and Duchess of York, and in discussing the expenditure by His Excellency in enter- taining them : and yet four-fifths of the time the honourable member spoke was taken up in exactly the manner which he deprecated. I do not for a moment deny that the speeches on this particular motion are not the speeches one would understand should be delivered. And this is the first time since I have been in this House that I have had an opportunity of con- gratulating the member for Palmerston on the statesmanlike view he took on this question. I do not agree with his deductions, or the course which he suggested should be taken, but I agreed with the tone he in- 4.0. troduced into the debate, because he said the whole thing that had to be discussed was whether this money vote should be covered by Bill or left to the estimates. Surely that is the whole question now. I am not going to give honourable members any index of my feelings, nor shall I say at this stage whether I am going to vote for or against the amount on VOL. CXIX .- 3. I think we have to direct our attention at the present moment simply to the question as to whether or not this is the proper course to be adopted. I believe, myself, the proper course is that suggested by the Premier. I must really point out to the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) that while speak- ing he was a little touchy at some interjections made by myself during his discursion on the Instructions passed under the Royal sign- manual, as detailed in the book he had before him. I asked him whether he was reading from clause 9 or clause 6 of the Instructions ; and he answered quite pettishly, evidently annoyed at my interruption. He said he was reading from the Royal Instructions of 1879. I was reading from the Instructions of 1892, and the Instructions of 1892 amend the In- structions of 1879, although the words are almost identically the same. I feel sure, there- fore, the honourable member will at once admit that he was unjust, and that ho behaved in a pettish manner in answer to my interjections, which were simply made for the purpose of getting information. Mr. FISHER .- Will the honourable gentle- man allow me to apologize for my pettishness, and to accompany that apology with the request that he will inform the House that the words quoted by him and the words quoted by me are identically the same words-they do not vary in any respect whatever. Mr. WILFORD .- I accept the honourable gentleman's apology at once, and really the words are the same, and the honourable gentleman can understand my interjection when I asked him whether he was reading from clause 6 or clause 9. Now, surely the proper course to be taken is for a Bill to be introduced, and then the whole discussion as to whether or not this money should be passed can take place. Honourable members no doubt have made up their minds as to whether they are going to vote for the Bill or leave the sum on the estimates. Let us get to the vote. I intend to take no part in describing the Royal tour, or the enter- tainments at Government House and elsewhere in connection with the Royal visit, because I think that matter will properly be discussed when the Bill itself is being discussed, or during the discussion of the amount on the estimates. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) .- Sir, I agree with the last speaker that we should not treat this stage of the Bill as the second read- ing, and I am surprised that the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier), a dis- tinguished member of the legal profession, should not have been able to confine himself to what is the real issue before us. Professor Huxley made the remark that he found men to differ not so much in their liability to err as in their readiness to acknowledge error after they had erred. Now, the Right Hon. the Pre- mier constantly affords an illustration of that text. He makes just about as many mistakes as other people, but you will never find him acknowledging in words, even though he may 