epidemic of measles, or something of that sort, in a district will actually decrease the pay of teachers in a school, and we have in the measure before us an instance where a decrease of one in the average attendance will make a difference to the salary of one teacher of $75 a year ; and yet that is the scale the Government have seriously adopted as the acme of perfection in regard to the payment of teachers. It is not as if the problem were a difficult one to solve if it were approached in a thorough manner ; and . for that reason I cannot understand why the Government have not done something to solve the question of decrease in payment through intermittent attendance at many of the schools due to causes beyond the control of teachers or Committees. 1 have made a suggestion over and over again which I think to a great extent would meet the difficulty of giving teachers less than a living - wage. If, instead of paying teachers on the average attendance, they were paid half on the number of the efficient roll and half on the average attendance, then there would be something in the nature of a cer- tainty for the teacher's salary, and also an in- centive for the teacher to work up the school so as to increase the salary beyond what the certainty is. Another matter that has not been dealt with in the Bill, and which shows how carelessly the Government have dealt with the matter, is the question of the transfer of teachers from one school to another. It is the theory of the Education Act-but, unfortu- nately, it is not carried out-that Education Boards have the right to transfer a teacher who is found unfitted to take charge of a large school, but who would probably do good work in a small school, from one school to another. That is the theory ; but, unfortunately, it can- not be carried into effect, because, besides the Education Board, the consent of the teachers and of the Committee have to be got. I believe it is necessary, where you fix the scale of sala- ries under this Bill, that that power of transfer should be given to the Education Boards. Unless they have it you will find your system of classified school salaries will work very much worse than the present system. Then, we were told last year that the new scale of salaries would enable a larger allowance to be given to School Committees for incidental work ; but there is no such proposal in the Bill. In fact, under its proposals the Education Boards will have less to give in the shape of allowances to Committees than they have had in the past, and for this reason-I particularly allude to the Education Board I have had some connection with in the Wanganui District : We are paying something like #1,000 a year for relieving teachers, for which no allowance has been made in the Bill, and which will have to be paid out of the 11s. 3d. capitation allowance to the Education Board. If teachers were made of cast-iron this might do, but they allow under the scale only for one teacher in each position in a school. All teachers have to get sick-leave at some time, and unless something is done in many cases schools will be closed for months at Mr. Pirani vided in this measure funds by which Educa- tion Boards can provide relieving - teachers. During the last six months in the Wanganui Education District the sick-leave has amounted to close upon 10 per cent. of the total service. And yet this matter has been altogether over- looked by the Government. Then, there is the question of house allowance. The Board is compelled to pay house allowance, but there is no provision for the amount to be given to the Boards ; it is left to the will of the Minister. Unfortunately, I was not here when the Premier made his speech in introducing the Bill, but I understand he did not state that the Govern- ment intended to place a sum on the estimates to give effect to the clause which compels the Board to pay house allowance. He said the allowance could be paid out of the Building Fund ; but every one connected with education knows that the Building Fund is not half as much as it ought to be, and how are you going to pay out of that fund the large amount-which in our district amounts to $700 a year-for house allowance ? Then, another question not dealt with in this Bill, and one which involves extra expense in our. district, is that of the instruction of pupil- teachers. It is all very well to say that the head- teachers ought to give instruction without extra payment, but under the arbitration awards em- ployes are not allowed to work overtime without not only ordinary pay, but time and a quarter or time and a half. Yet here the most highly educated servants the State have are expected to work overtime without extra pay. There are no sinews of war provided for the instruc- tion of pupil-teachers, and, if they have to depend merely on a vote on the estimates for the establishment of schools of instruction at the will of the Ministry, when bad times come the grant will be cut off. Another feature of the Bill which I think is a bad one is this : Under the present Act a fixed capitation has to be paid to Education Boards. Under this Bill there is no such thing except in regard to 11s. 3d. capitation for incidental expenses. Another feature which I think is a wrong one is the basis of payment of house allowance to teachers. : No matter what the size of a teacher's family, his house allowance is regulated by the size of his school ; and I could name several cases where, for instance, a teacher who is single would get a large house allowance, while a married man with a family would only get £20. I say the question of house allowance should be based more on the necessity of the family than on the number of students the man teaches. I regret that the Government have 1 not dealt with this matter in a more compre- \--- - - hensive way, and that they have accepted entirely the conclusions of the Royal Commis- sion. This is the first time, I think, they have accepted the conclusions of a Royal Commis- sion on any question. In the case of the tariff ! they ignored the conclusions of the Tariff Com- mission, and allowed them to go by the board. 1 In this case they seem to have sheltered them- selves behind the Commission, and we have a scale drawn up in accordance with instruc- 