there was far too much circumlocution in con- nection with the work of this department. If an account was sent in to a Stock Inspector for 3s. for some service which had been rendered, it had to pass through so many hands, and under- go so much stamping, and such an amount of routine, that it cost the country about 15s. or El by the time the amount was finally paid. With regard to the increase to the Secretary's salary, it was wrong to be continually raising the salaries of these highly-paid officers. When this officer was appointed, Mr. Mckenzie said he could get one of the best men in the colony for $500, and that was all that was necessary to pay. Yet Mr. Ritchie was getting $500, and he was now being raised to £600, and most likely his salary was more than doubled by travelling- expenses. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) pointed out that this officer had the responsibility of dealing with some £92,000 a year. A number of highly paid officers had already left the colony and taken service elsewhere. However, he not only objected that heads of departments were underpaid, but a large number of their junior officers also. Mr. GILFEDDER (Wallace) recognised the importance of maintaining the efficiency of the department, but he believed that the present Secretary was not maintaining that efficiency, more particularly in regard to the administra- tion of the Rabbit Department. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) did not wish to criticize the ability of the officer in question. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 It was always a painful duty to meet heads of departments face to face in the House, and at the same time be compelled, in the interests of public economy, to endeavour to keep their / http://www.hathitrust. org/access\_use#cc-zero salaries within reasonable limits. If he voted for the amendment it was not because he was actuated by any wish to disparage the officer concerned or did not appreciate the work he per- formed. It was because he wanted to discharge satisfactorily his duty to his constituents. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) said this was one of the most important departments of the State, and if they had a thoroughly competent man at the head of it-and he understood Mr. Ritchie was a thoroughly competent man- the position was well worth £600 a year. Men occupying similar positions in the commercial world received far larger salaries. As far as he was concerned, he was opposed to voting large sums for persons occupying ornamental positions, but he had no hesitation in support- ing this vote. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister for Agriculture) said Mr. Ritchie was appointed head of the Stock Department ten years ago at a salary of £500, and between that time and the present the de- partment had grown enormously, and included the dairying, grading, and abattoirs sections, which were not in existence when he was ap- pointed. It took him ten years to get £50 added to the £500, and he was cheap at the money. During this last year he believed he had saved the colony thousands of pounds in the horse purchases alone. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) asked the Minis- ter for an explanation in connection with the administration of the department. He wanted to know how the Inspectors were paid-whether by favour, experience and knowledge, or by length of service. In Wellington the Stock In- spector received £310, in Napier the Stock In- spector received £300, and in Auckland £310. He could not help thinking that some of the officers of the department were favoured, to the great disadvantage of many of those who had been in the department for a long time, but, owing to being in disfavour with the head of the department, were kept back. Mr. DUNCAN said the Inspector in 11.0. Auckland was a man who had been for many years in the service, and was an efficient officer. He was well worth the money he re- ceived. The same might be said of the Wel- lington Inspector, who was in the service twenty years ago. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) said that a question put by the honourable member for Pahiatua had not been answered. The question was, Why the Stock Inspector at Napier was paid a smaller salary than was paid to the In- spectors in other large centres. The Auckland Inspector received a larger salary, and that dis- trict contained about one-fifth the number of sheep that there were in the Napier district, in- volving less responsibility. Upon what basis were the salaries paid? The difference, he ad- mitted, was not great, but it was a reflection upon a man who had the greater responsibility to receive a somewhat smaller salary. He would like the Minister to explain why these officers were not put on the same footing. Mr. DUNCAN said there were scarcely any rabbits in Hawke's Bay. The Auckland dis- trict was a larger district, and, in his opinion, the work of the Inspector there was more im- portant, as he had to overlook three farms there, and to report upon them from time to time. He considered the Auckland Inspector well worth the extra money. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) said he thought the whole question was whether the work of the department was being done efficiently or not. The department was a large and important one, and if the work was done efficiently then the salary of £600 was by no means exorbitant. The country members had repeatedly congratulated the late Sir John Mckenzie upon the efficiency of this depart- ment, and if the Secretary was efficient under Sir John McKenzie he was not likely to be less efficient because he had had two years more experience. He wished to know if the Minister considered that the head of the department was conducting its business to his satisfaction. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) said that whatever credit was due to the Agricultural Department in the last year or two belonged to the Secretary. The marvellous success of the dairy industry was in large measure due to the administration of this department. He intended to support this vote, and largely on the ground of the im- portance of the department. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) would like to have some further explanation from the Minister 