that England was never better prepared. Putting aside for a moment a reference he found in the criticism of " Nemesis" to the effect that the tactics employed by Methuen at the Modder and at Magersfontein were on precisely the same principle as that in vogue in Germany, he came to the prin- ciples of war, which might now be called ancient or antique, of General Sir Charles Napier, K.C.B. He found there a distinct and considerable divergence of opinion as to the tactics which should be adopted in warfare on land laid down by Sir Charles Napler as ap- plicable to the Peninsular War and the tactics prescribed for adoption by Mr. Napier in the event of England becoming involved in war. It was suggested by an honourable member that the presence of a celebrated general, Sir Hector Macdonald, who was now in New Zealand, might enable them to take his opinion on the scheme of warfare as submitted to the consideration of the people of this country by Mr. Napier. But, supposing the Government did not think it advisable to avail themselves of the opinions of the gentleman who was described as " Fighting Mac," a Commandant had been recently appointed by the Govern- ment-General Babington-who might very properly be asked to supply the Government with his opinions on the scheme laid down by Mr. Napier in the New Zealand Times. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said the honourable member referred to a distinguished general who had arrived in the colony that day. Mr. FISHER .- That is not answering my https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 question. It is the Review of Reviews over again. Mr. SEDDON said the honourable member had stated that it had been suggested to him that probably this matter might be referred to General Sir Hector Macdonald. He felt satisfied, if time would permit, that from the message which he would read to the House there was a possibility that they might have the services of this distinguished soldier. The communication was as follows :- " Your kind wire has given me great pleasure, and I thank you very warmly for the hearty welcome of the Government and people of New Zealand, which I fully appreciate and shall ever " MACDONALD." treasure. He thought, after what had been stated by the member for Wellington City, that Sir Hector Macdonald would come to the con- . clusion that he was not long in the colony before they found him something to do, which would be, he (Mr. Seddon) thought, an agree- able change-that was, from what he gathered as to the dining and feasting which Sir Hector Macdonald was to be given, and it was possible that an inquiry of this kind might be an agreeable change to him. When he saw this question on the Order Paper it struck him that what had ofttimes been said and written was not correct. He had come to the conclusion that there was something in a name, for the name of Napier was closely identified with Mr. Fisher honourable member was wrong in asking the Government to refer this matter to a military expert. They had what was known as the highest military authority of the Empire, known as the Defence Committee, at Home. If the honourable member had asked the question whether the Government were pre- pared to submit this matter to that Defence Committee, there would have been something in his question ; but he did not think it would be right to do what was asked, con- sidering the jealousy which he knew existed between certain members of the House and military experts outside -- that was, gauged by the writings he had seen on this matter. He thought, therefore, if this matter was to be referred to any one at all it must be referred to some authority with a greater knowledge than was possessed in the colony. Mr. FISHER said he had simply now to announce to the House, in consequence of what the Premier had said, that he would submit an amended question to the consideration of the House. EXPORT DUTY ON BALK TIMBER. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) asked the Colonial Treasurer, If, in view of the penal duties imposed upon New Zealand products by the Commonwealth tariff, he will submit to the House, at an early date, a proposal to impose an export duty on balk timber, so as to pre- serve to this colony the means of affording employment to an increased number of timber workers ? This was a question of great im- portance. It had agitated the minds of the timber merchants of the colony especially, and also of a large proportion of the working-classes. The proposal to impose an export duty on balk timber was not a new one. It was proposed in the House many years ago by a former Minister. The kauri forests in the North were being \--- rapidly felled and the timber exported, and the minimum amount of labour was employed. He thought the time had arrived-even if no fiscal hostility to New Zealand had been shown by the Commonwealth-for placing an export duty on timber sent out in logs and large flitches. He hoped the Government had con. sidered the matter, and that they would submit a proposal to the House at an carly date. Mr. SEDDON (Colonial Treasurer) said the Government had invited a conference of those engaged in the timber trade and those con- nected with timber, and that Conference would meet on Thursday next. No action would be taken by the Government pending the result of that Conference. He might say that the Go- vernment had been extremely well pleased at the manner in which the sawmill-owners and those engaged in the timber industry had responded to the invitation, and he believed they would have the best representative gathering of those connected with the timber trade that had ever been held in the colony. He thought it would be discourteous to them if the Government did not wait the result of the Conference. 