first, and then, on approval by the Governor in Council, it could take place. In fact, the Go- vernor in Council could act on their own, not- withstanding any objection the Maori Council might make ; and that was really a defect in the Bill, to his mind. By this legislation those Natives who desired to improve their lands could do so, but those who did not wish to improve their lands, but wished to get the benefits from their lands, could transfer them to the Council, and the Council could have them cut up into suitable areas and put up to auction for leasing purposes. Then, on the question of the in. dividualisation of titles, there was nothing to prevent the Natives from doing that now. The member for Napier referred to his (Mr. Heke's) attitude in 1894 in regard to the Native Land Court Bill of that year. His attitude on that occasion, and in regard to all Native legislation, had been in the direction of prohibiting Maori sales, and that the only alienation allowed should be by way of lease. That would be seen from his speeches in the House and from his views expressed in the public Press of the colony. He had also always urged that the Natives should be provided by legislation with means by which they could utilise their own lands His wish was that a system themselves. should be established to satisfy the Europeans who wished to become settlers, and to assist those Maori people who wished to use their own lands and work them themselves. He had always opposed the Crown's right of pre-emp- tion and the sending through the country land agents to purchase Native lands. The Govern- ment had now agreed, however, to cease pur- chasing Native lands, except in cases where the Crown had acquired interests in blocks previous to the passing of the Act of last session. He knew of no instance since the passing of the Act of last year where the Crown had started fresh negotiations in connection with Native lands. That went to show that the Government were going to see that the Act of last year was tested in a proper way. He might say, in conclusion, that he thought they had in the Act of last year and in the present Bill means by which we could, as far as possible, satisfy pretty well all parties in the country. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) said he gathered from all he had listened to that the time had arrived when they ought to sweep away from the statute-book all Native legis- lation, and begin de novo with a method more up to date, because the Natives were altogether different now from what they were years ago. They were now educated and abreast of the times, and wished to see their land dealt with much as European lands were, with cer- tain restrictions and reservations. He might say, in connection with the Native Office, that it was notorious that only certain individuals and firms could get their work through the Native Land Office. He did not know who was responsible for this. It was infamous and notorious. He might say that he could give the names of those who could get their work whatever, while other firms could not. It was a disgrace to the colony that that should be so. Sir J. G. WARD .- Who are they ? Mr. T. MACKENZIE said he would be pre- pared to give names to the honourable gentle- man. The consequence was that firms who previously enjoyed a wide Native business had lost it, because the Natives knew that they could not get the business through. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) said that what he rose to do was to record the fact that within the last half-hour a very lengthy and eloquent petition had been sent to the House signed by over thirteen hundred Natives praying that this law should not be forced upon them. Honourable members knew how many petitions had been sent to the House against the legisla- tion this House was about to impose upon the Natives in respect of their lands-petitions signed numerously by them, and all pleading that honourable members will withhold from them an enactment that they feel will seriously affect their welfare; and, in addition to that large number, this one has come to the Cham- ber within the last half-hour. It was an eloquent plea for the House to be cautious, and not to impose on the Natives legislation which, it was evident, must be dreaded by a very large number of the Natives themselves, when they went to the trouble to get petitions so nume- rously signed, and so eloquently and strongly pleading that it should not be forced on them. The petition was signed by Natives residing along the East Coast, and he would commend it to the thoughtful consideration of the House. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) said he had listened attentively to the speeches that had been given, and after having done so he did not think the Act would be complete without the insertion of an amendment in it in the direc- tion suggested in the speech of the honourable member for Waihemo. He therefore moved, That the Bill be recommitted for the purpose of inserting the following clause :- " Notwithstanding anything contained in any Act or regulations, it shall be lawful for any barrister or solicitor of the Supreme Court to appear in any Native Land Court, or Council constituted under ' The Maori Land Adminis- tration Act, 1900,' in the hearing, trial, or consideration of any action, suit, matter, or proceeding." He looked on a clause of the kind as abso- lutely necessary, because, in connection with complicated legislation such as that in the measure, it had been found that even those who were thoroughly versed in Maori customs - the pakeha - Maoris-differed among them- selves as to the interpretation of certain clauses of the Bill. He would like to say that all through the night they had listened to the iteration and the reiteration of the member for Napier-in fact, the honourable member's voice had become absolutely painful to members whose desire it was to improve the Native legislation so that the Native race might be benefited. He was especially glad to support the proposal that lawyers should appear in the 