selves and others think that things are very blue, or in some cases very black, they should take the average position of the people in all walks of life in this country to-day, in order to really and fairly judge whether any section of the community is really retrogressing in the way some of our friends indicate. Now, it has been asked whether the condition of the ploughman is fair as compared with the worker in the cities. The condition of the ploughman, with his £1 or €1 5s. a week, has been compared with that of the worker in the city. There are a large num- ber of workers in the cities who do not average $1 10s., or even £1 a week. It is the inevitable result of the aggregation of numbers of people that rents are higher in the cities, and the cost of living is higher than in the country ; and, if you institute a comparison between the ploughman, with his £1 or £1 5s. a week, and the worker in the city, the argu- ments are all in favour of the ploughman with his £1 or £1 5s. His condition is better in every respect. I maintain, with some know- ledge of the ploughman class, and the working- class in the cities, that the results at the end of a year will be as good, if not better, to the ploughman than to many of the workmen in the towns. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Then, why do not some of these workers go into the country ? Sir J. G. WARD .- A great many of them do. What I deprecate is the attempt to start this cry of town versus country, and make people run away with the impression that nothing has been done by the representatives of the towns in the House favourable to the farmers, or agriculturists, or pastoralists of the country. / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero The legislation passed during the last ten years, largely assisted by the town representatives in every instance, as far as the agricultural in- terest goes, has been in the direction of helping to better the condition of the farmer. That is a policy I have ever advocated and supported, and I say it has been very whole-heartedly sup- ported by the representatives of the towns ; and it is only fair that that assistance should be recognised. I do not believe in any attempt to raise anything in the shape of class prejudice, or attempting to have a cry of the workers in the cities doing better than those in the country, because when you come to analyse it there is not very much in it. What ought to be aimed at in this country is to lift all classes of the country up to a higher level than they occupy ; the aim ought to be to afford the opportunity for the workers to lift themselves to a higher position. That ought to be the aim and effort of every public man ; and why there should be an outcry in consequence of a fair rate of wages obtaining in New Zealand I am not able to understand. On the contrary, I believe very sincerely and honestly myself that if we had a low rate of wages it would be very much worse for all classes of the community. There should be a fair rate of wages paid to all classes of workers ; the worker is worthy of his hire, and a fair and reasonable wage paid to all classes of the country is what ought to be the aim do well, and see the workers amongst others better their positions, if it is possible for them to do so. It is all very well to talk about labour in New Zealand receiving a rate of wages beyond what ought to be paid, or beyond what some people consider should be paid, or the circumstances of the country warrant. It is well known to every person that the working- man with an average family has all his time to make the two ends meet. If he is in a casual occupation it is a most difficult matter for him to do so, and many of them in permanent occupations are unable to do it. And when it is admitted by the honourable member for Franklin and other honourable members that this Bill, which has occasioned such an outery from some members, is a good piece of legislation and a desirable piece of legislation, I have no hesitation in saying that the regulation of fac- tories by this Bill is in the general interests of all classes of the country, and that the Bill itself should be placed on the statute-book. I do not myself quite understand why an effort should be made to endeavour to accentuate the feeling which has been engendered by some people in the country between the agriculturists and pastoralists and the workers in the towns, because that is neither necessary nor desirable. I myself represent a farming constituency, and I am glad to be able to say it is a very pro- sperous district in every respect, settled by an intelligent and industrious class of people, and I have no doubt whatever that the great bulk of the farmers in my electorate-and, I believe, in other electorates-desire to live and let live. They believe in having a fair return for their own labour, and they are not adverse to extending to men in every walk of life the same advantages that they desire to obtain for themselves. . All they want is what is fair and just between man and man, and that, Sir, is all that I, as their representative, want. Speaking for myself, I have no hesitation in saying that some mistakes have been made in connection with our progressive legislation in this colony ; and I do not think there is any one who anticipated that there would be no mistakes made in respect to it, because in all things human there must be mistakes, and in legislation of this kind it takes time to discover wherein those mistakes lie. And, in regard to the position of the colony at the present moment, I am very glad to be able to say there is every indication of its continuing to be prosperous, and I believe its future will be prosperous. I did not intend to speak to-night, and I rose more for the purpose of dissenting from the remarks of my honourable friend opposite, not with any object of prolonging this discussion. I wish merely to say, in brief, that I think this factory legislation, which has called for this lengthy debate as the result of the criticism of my honourable friends opposite, has not only not done harm, but that it is most necessary and is in the interests of our country. If the debate has done no other good, it has caused honourable members to reaffirm its desirable- ness. 