clude inspection of freezing - works, for that work had just started. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked how much money the department received for the stock on the Levin State Farm when it was taken over. Mr. DUNCAN said no money was paid over. It was only an exchange on paper from one department to another. Mr. MASSEY asked what was meant by the item, "Refund of part quarantine charges on 129 rams. £40." Mr. DUNCAN said that was a refund given on account of these rams, a charge for which had been made for feed ; but, as they had been for so long running outside, the owners were given this as a refund. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) asked for an ex- planation regarding the item, "Compassionate allowance to the widow of the late F. Marshall, $8." Mr. DUNCAN said Mr. Marshall was a tem- porary man in the office, and that amount was the balance of his wages. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) desired to know something about the item, "Expenses of frozen meat exhibited at Earl's Court, £100." Why did the Government want to exhibit meat there, and not leave it for the meat companies to do? He would move, That the item be re- duced by £1. Mr. DUNCAN said the informa- 3.0. tion he had was that the exhibition had been held, and, so far as he could gather, it https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 was in connection with the freezing company and Nelson Brothers. Amendment, to reduce the vote by £1, nega- tived. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Vote, £34,663, agreed to. Mr. PIRANI moved, That progress be re- ported. The Committee divided. AYES, 15. Allen, J. Russell, G. W. Lang Bollard Massey Smith, G. J. Meredith Collins Tellers. Monk Ell Lethbridge Guinness Rhodes Pirani. Herries NOES, 26. Allen, E. G. Fraser, A. L. D. Mills Bennet Hall O'Meara Hall-Jones Buddo Palmer Carncross Heke Seddon Carroll Hornsby Symes Colvin Kaihau Witheford. McGowan Duncan Tellers. Field McLachlan Arnold Fowlds McNab Laurenson. Majority against, 11. Motion negatived. CLASS XIV .- DEFENCE DEPARTMENT. Defence Department, £11,557. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) asked the Premier who had got the bonuses in connection with the despatch of the contingents. There was an VOL. CXIX .- 28. nected with the despatch of the contingents. He understood that the men who had done most of the work had been almost entirely over- looked in the matter of bonuses, while, as a rule, those who had done least had the biggest bonuses. It was reported that the Commander of the Forces got a large bonus for the services he rendered in connection with the despatch of the contingents. It was also stated that bonuses varying from £50 down to $2 were paid to other officers. One man who got £2, he believed, bad put in five hundred hours overtime. Personally, he thought this payment of bonuses to any officer without stating it on the estimates was an improper thing. Mr. SEDDON said the bonuses given-he called them extra allowances for extraordinary services-were on one occasion £50 to the Com- mandant and £50 to the Under-Secretary for Defence. The others ranged from £30, £25, $20, and £15, and a large number at £10; others at .£5, and a large number got £2. Mr. O'Sullivan, of the Stores Department, only got £30, and he thought no one had rendered greater service than he had. The total amount. on the list quoted from was £667 for the whole of the contingents-less than £100 for each contingent. Knowing the work the men did, and the strain that was put on the officers downwards to the clerks, the money was well earned. And it was also to be re- membered that a large amount of this was. paid by the Home Government. More than that. the distribution was fair to all concerned. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) moved, That the first item of the expenditure in this department be reduced by £5, as an indication to the Go- vernment to take back the Defence estimates and reduce them by the sum of £50,000. Each of the departments of the public service had shown a very large increase, and members found it was no use attempting to reduce the estimates by small sums. There were obvious reasons why members hesitated to vote in the various divisions in the way of reducing the estimates by small sums. He did not move this amendment as a vote of want of confidence in the Government. If the Premier accepted it as such he threw the responsibility on him, and made no apology for it. His desire simply was to reduce this large item of expenditure under the head of " Defence." He was not opposed to a citizen soldiery. He was in favour of encouraging the Volunteering system to the utmost possible extent, and of encouraging our cadets ; and he was likewise in favour of establishing rifle clubs throughout the colony. But he was utterly opposed to a standing army, to a War Office, and to the mili- tarism which the Premier was forcing on this colony, especially during the last three years. He was opposed to this Imperial "jingoism," and hence his determination to reduce this vote. He would quote figures to show how enormously this defence expenditure had in- creased : In 1891-92 the vote under this head was £77,296; in 1892-93, £69,487 ; in 1893-94, £66,386; in 1894-95, £68,165; in 1895-96, 