with a conscientious feeling of the responsi- bility intrusted to them, and to make their pupils feel that they are only supplying them with the instruments-the key, so to speak-by which they should go on studying for the rest of their lives, and increasing the store of their individual knowledge for the social elevation of our commonwealth. How many teachers are there that feel baffled, leaving them no time for moral teaching, because of the cram- ming system which is forced upon them, and consequently necessarily foregoing what may be held to be the truer functions of the teaching service ! Can the thinkers and reasoners of New Zealand now claim that we have the cul- tured status and intelligence in the country which we expected would result when our education system was introduced? No doubt the Premier will say I am introducing poli- tics into this matter, but I say there is a want of political or social knowledge, taking the average people of New Zealand at the present time. I dare say the Premier would prefer this to be the case, and does not want them to be truly instructed, and to have that degree of perception which would enable them to grasp the true meaning and results of what falls from his lips. I consider the political conceptions now dominant in the people of New Zealand are not conducive to the ultimate wel- fare of this colony, and are not to the credit of a system that has produced no better results. I think we are altogether indifferent to the re- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 sponsibility of debt ; we are wasteful in ex- penditure of public money and other matters of that nature : and it should be in the province of the teachers of New Zealand to turn out the young people so that they will have a con- ception of the true principles of economic science. At the age of twenty-one, by reason of the universal franchise, they are potentially the rulers of our country, and are responsible for the character of its Government. I did not intend to speak on this Bill, and my remarks no doubt have been somewhat crude, but I have given expression to the conceptions which I had that the aspiration of this thing is right. The work of the Commissioners, though costly, has been very defective, and will not give satis- faction ; and, if we pass this Bill this session, possibly it may only perpetuate for too long a period what I consider will be a disas- trous influence on our country schools, and inflict a further injury in the future. If I were Premier I will tell you what I would do. I would insist on that Liberal maxim of which I have heard him say so much-that there should be a living-wage-and I would not have any teacher employed except at such re- muneration as would naturally lead him to feel an interest in his avocation. Then, another matter with regard to the country - I think every young man should have inducement to be married. I consider it would be far better if the teachers in the country schools, with their twenty or thirty pupils-some of them grown- up girls-were married men. If the salary is too low to enable a young man to satisfactorily life, there should be a special allowance up to a fixed maximum made to teachers in the country to enable them to be married. The city schools are able to look after themselves -their number and influence will secure them all they require ; but the attention of the states- man should be given to seeing that the country schools receive the best possible education suitable to their requirements. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston). - Sir, I quite recognise at this stage of the session that anything in the shape of a long dissertation . on educational matters is out of place, but I cannot let a measure of this sort pass its second reading without pointing out what, I think, are several defects in it. I am sorry the Govern- ment have taken the report of the Commission, as it were, holus-bolus, without exercising any discretion whatever about the details, because the Bill as laid before us differs from the opin- ions expressed hy Ministers only last session, more particularly with regard to the pay of women teachers. Last session Ministers said that one of the principles of the classification of teachers' salaries would be to put women on the same basis as men, and the Education Department carried this to such an extent that they had refused to assent to any regulations in regard to certain teachers unless the same rate of pay was given to female teachers as was given to males. Yet in the mea- sure before us this principle has been abro- gated. Now, in regard to the pay of women teachers, I say that if women are not suited for certain positions, then the Education Boards will take very great care they are not appointed ; but it is ridiculous to say that, be- cause many women are not suited to those positions, particularly gifted women, who are specially fitted for the very highest positions in educational circles, should not be paid the same as men. There can be no question about it that this Bill does not attempt to deal with many of the most difficult problems in our educational system in regard to the position of teachers. For instance, there is no other em- ployment in the colony in which the pay of those who are doing the work is based on such a bad system as the pay of school-teachers. If the employés in the Railway Department had their salaries based on the amount of work they did in a day, if the employés in the Postal Department had their salaries based on the number of telegrams which passed through their hands during the day, or if the salaries of the men in the Government Printing Office -which is also classified -were based on the amount of type each man set in a day, one could understand something of the principle which has been adopted in regard to the payment of teachers-the most capable class in the employ of the State. But there is nothing of the sort. Men are usually paid according to their abilities, according to the work they can do if the work is put to them, and there is no suggestion of increasing or decreasing the pay of any- body else in the Government service because of the variation in the volume of their work. 