ment when the statement was received that special assistance for gambling was to be given by the Telegraph Office. Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) might say, in the first place, that he was as strongly opposed to gambling in any form as the honour- able gentleman was, and he thought when the honourable gentleman heard his explanation he would see that he (Mr. Ell) was not justified in jumping to the conclusion that he had somewhat rashly arrived at in this particular matter. The whole question resolved itself into this: This colony had a public telegraph service for the transmission of messages through- out the country, and any person who desired to send a telegraphic communication on racing matters or any other matters had a perfect right to do so by paying the ordinary rates. The colony having adopted a public telegraph service, and gazetted the charges publicly, the wires were open to all classes of people who might desire to communicate on racing matters, or who wished to send money-order telegrams on race days, or to send telegrams for betting or any other purpose. It had never been sug- gested that the legislation bearing on the use of public telegraph wires should be of a restrictive character, and it had never been in accordance with public policy for the department to have the right to supervise people's telegrams ; and if the colony, by legislation, were to adopt the stringent and extraordinary course of super- vising telegrams, it would be a most dangerous power. He meant that they would have to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 specially appoint some one to see that a par- ticular class of telegram was not received by the Telegraph Department. An Hon. MEMBER -It would be wrong to do 60. Sir J. G. WARD said it would be wrong, and, as he said, a most dangerous principle, and the public would not allow the Legislature to give such an arbitrary power to the department to do it, even if it so wished. It would be practi- cally creating a system of censorship over the private business of all classes of persons in the community who wished to send their telegrams over the public wires. An Hon. MEMBER .- You have no power to do so. Sir J. G. WARD said, Excepting for the . prevention of seditious, libellous, and obscene messages, there was no power to do so; and when the honourable member now made such a suggestion he made what was a very serious proposal ; he ought to have first made inquiries and then well weighed the value of his words before doing so. He resented very strongly the suggestion that, in his official position as Minister in charge of the Post and Telegraph Office, he was giving special facilities to pro- mote gambling. He was doing nothing of the sort, and he would be no party to such a course. He wanted to point out to the honour- able member, and to members of the House, and to people in the country generally, how utterly impossible it was to do that which the honour- able gentleman suggested. The Post Office Act Mr. Ell regulate horse-racing. He would show what it was that had brought about an alteration of the money-order system. It was not for the purpose of assisting racing-clubs and people who desired to bet. It was entirely owing to the fact that on big race-days in New Zealand a block occurred in the general telegraph busi- ness of the colony in consequence of the number of racing telegrams sent over the wires. Under the previous system on race-days two separate telegrams were required to send a money-order telegram --- the one containing the advice and the other the authority to pay- and the resuit was that both commercial and Press business was blocked to such an extent that the public business could not be properly carried on. De- lays took place in connection with all classes of messages going over the wires on these race- days, and that was particularly the case in con- nection with the metropolitan race meetings at Christchurch and other large centres. These delays caused the department-not after con- ference with the racing people, as the honour- able member suggested, but in the interests of the users of the wires generally-to see what could be done to bring about a change for the betterment of the service generally to the public of the colony. Now, what the de- partment had done was to adopt a system similar to that which existed in the United Kingdom ; and the whole change was this: that, instead of sending two wires, as under the former system, for a money-order ad- vice and the money-order itself, both the advice and money-order were sent at the same time in one message, and by doing that saved two transmissions of actually the same message ; and when many hundreds and, aye, thousands of them were going across the wires to all classes of people, quite irrespective of racing messages, the honourable gentleman would see that, unless the department was able to duplicate or triplicate or quadruple the wires, and to also set aside some one specially to supervise the acceptance of the work for which the department was paid, the department could not do otherwise than bring about a change in the system of transmission and delivery of the messages so as to secure what was its bounden duty : to have delivery within a reasonable time. He could assure the honourable gentleman that that was all that had been done. He did not know what had appeared in the public Press in regard to the matter ; he had not read it him- self, but he was merely stating the cause of the change. Mr. FISHER said the club was opening up a "tote-shop " here. Sir J. G. WARD said he did not know any- thing about that. It was not the work or duty of the Telegraph Department to go beyond what was necessary to carry on the business of the public over its wires. It was for Parliament to stop "tote-shops." Mr. ELL said the honourable gentleman was granting special facilities. Sir J. G. WARD asked, Did the honourable member want him, as Minister in charge of the 