and vote against the proposed service until the bitter end. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- It is a pity that the honourable member for Napier is not more accurate when he quotes figures in this House. He told us that New Zealand has spent in ten years on the Fr'isco mail-service some #273,000. He forgot to deduct from that payment the amount of $108,000 received by New Zealand from other countries towards the Fr'isco mail-service. It is a mere trifle, of course, but if the honourable gentleman had only taken the trouble to study what has been paid for the mail-service between Auckland and Fr'isco he would have seen that of that £273,000 only $72,479 has been paid by this colony. The honourable member also told us that we were paying for cruisers to fight against us-a whole $15,000 a year! Why, it would not pay the cost of one cruiser for a month. Then, the honourable gentleman said a great deal, and a great deal that I sympathize with, in connection with the injudicious attitude taken up by the Auckland Press, and one Auck- land member in particular, in regard to this ser- vice. It seems to me that the Auckland member I allude to (Mr. Napier) is a sort of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde in politics. In the House he is everything that is nice and conciliatory, and that sort of thing, towards the Govern- ment ; but outside he never seems content unless he is condemning the Government, of which he is so faithful a supporter here, in un- measured terms, and unless he is pointing out https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 to the "democracy " how little constitutional some of the methods of the Government are. He is never pleased while he is here, unless he is expressing slavish adulation of the Govern- ment or its individual members ; . outside his language hardly does justice to his contempt for them. Now, I quite agree with what the member for Napier, has said as to the influence statements made by Mr. Napier outside the House must have on the result of this vote, for some members are so disgusted as to feel it would be a sign of weakness to act as he de- sires. Personally, I believe in the Fr'isco mail- service, and I support it because I see no alter- native presented to us. It is the fastest service that we can get now, and it would take a little more, perhaps, than the fulminations of Mr. Napier to prevent me casting my vote as I think right. I cannot understand the argu- ment of the speaker who preceded me, that because members of the House have been abused and asked to toe the line by newspapers outside the House, or because one member in his wrath has uttered some of the most ridicu- lous things that could come from the mouth or pen of any member, except one regardless of the consequences that for that particular reason we should cast our principles on one side and our belief in the right course to adopt, and vote, as a protest, not against the action of the Government, not against the proposals put before the House, but against the language and methods adopted by people to whom we arc in no way responsible. Now, I admit that Mr. A. L. D. Fraser judice these proposals than has been published in the Auckland papers; and while I think "the mailed fist" telegram is bad enough, there is some excuse for that, because he always endeavours to imitate what we are told are the worst traits in a British officer. We know, of course, in connection with the in- cident about saluting, what a stickler he is for etiquette ; and I have no doubt that in referring to the "mailed fist" he was only thinking of the olden times, when warriors fought their battles in coats of mail. And, I presume, that so far as he is concerned we may put his at- titude down as one of his idiosyncracies. But in the course of an interview with a representa- tive of the Auckland Herald he gave utterance to sentiments that were even worse than those contained in the "mailed fist " telegram. For instance, he accuses the Government, in re- ference to one clause in this resolution, of inserting it as " a mere sham, that could not seriously be discussed." In his opinion, the Government proposals breathe a spirit of hos- tility to the San Francisco route in every line. He says,- "The Government has yielded to the clamours of a narrow Southern parochialism, and ignores the commercial value of a speedy transmission of mail-matter between the United Kingdom and this colony." And the gem comes in here :- "The Ministry are like Chinese mandarins who want to shut out eighty millions of people from commercial intercourse with us." The idea of nonsense like that coming forth as a serious utterance of a meinber of this House ! He reminds me of the Scotch yarn about a number of recruits who were drilling. when the sister of one of them, who was named " Wullie," looked along the line and com- plained, " Oor soldiers are a' oot o' step but oor Wullie." And I think that members of the House can say with the Scotch lady that we are all out of step "except oor Wullie "-Napier. So far as the connection with Auckland is concerned, I think it is a proper connection. I think that Auckland's importance as a city and its magnificent resources as a district-a dis- trict, I think, which has been very much neg- lected by the Government in very many respects, a district which is worth developing and which would repay every penny properly spent in that direction-from its geographical position Auckland is essentially the point at which the mail-service to San Francisco should touch, and I do not believe there is anything in the tales told as to Southern jealousy of Auck- land in that respect. If we are to have a Fr'isco service, Auckland is the proper place at which the steamers should touch, and it is ridiculous to say that any opposition to this service comes from jealousy against Auckland by Southern members. I admit there is a stumbling - block in these proposals, in the fact that British vessels cannot be em- ployed in this service, but I do think there is a lot of "buncombe " uttered as to British vessels being excluded. Every one who 