works at Otago Heads were concerned, it was done by prison labour. Mr. HALL-JONES said there was the cost of material. Mr. MILLAR asked what material was going to run into £20,000. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) wished to know if this money was for works in the colony, or was it for material ordered from Home. Mr. HALL-JONES said it was for masonry, concrete-work, and water-supply. Mr. HERRIES considered the vote should have been divided into its separate headings. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said this vote for harbour defences was for the emplacement of the guns, and liabilities had already been in- curred to the amount of £8,398. The founda- tions and fixings for the guns were now in pro- gress. They were partly completed, and this vote was taken for the work now in hand. Most of the work was being done at Auckland, where a new fort was being constructed. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked if the Minister had reports from competent autho- rities as to the positions of the forts. They were often told by high naval authorities they were in the wrong positions. Mr. SEDDON said the highest naval authori- ties we had were the Imperial Defence Com. mittee, and they had reported on the forts. Everything relating to defences from one end of the Empire to the other was submitted to them for their decision. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) said it was a https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 fact that at Otago Heads the guns could not be depressed sufficiently to touch any hostile vessel that might be coming in. The money that had been frittered away might just as well have been thrown from the end of the wharf. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) did not attach much importance to the decisions of these high military authorities. They were liable to make mistakes, and we could best settle our defences for ourselves. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) said all the money that had been spent on the fortifications might just as well have been pitched into the sea. All the talk about an invading army was mere moonshine and nonsense. Mr. SEDDON said the forts at Otago Heads had been erected so long ago that alterations now had to be made. Vote, £38,027, agreed to. CLASS XXIV .- TOURIST AND HEALTH RESORTS. Vote, Tourist and Health Resorts, £9,350, agreed to. CLASS XXV .- IMMIGRATION. Immigration, £300. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) would like to know what form it was necessary to go through before any one could get this assistance from the Government in bringing out men from Home. Mr. HALL-JONES said the application had to be made to the Minister for Immigration, applicants were able to give. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL asked why it was, then, that he noticed in the Yorkshire Post, a statement by the Agent General, saying that people could apply to him for assistance. Mr. SEDDON said, In those cases we paid nothing at all. There was an arrangement with the shipping companies by which any one who had proved that he had a sufficient amount of capital and was an agricultural farmer would be brought out at reduced rates. Of course, the Government pay the difference. This vote on the estimates was to bring families together who were separated. Vote, £300, agreed to. CLASS XXVI .- CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE, AND SUPERVISION OF ROADS, BRIDGES, AND OTHER PUBLIC WORKS. Roads, Departmental, £24,178. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) wished to refer to the item, "Road Surveyor, Auckland, £325." He presumed that that officer was Mr. Wright, who had been in the service to his knowledge for the last twenty years, and he believed at the present time there was not a better officer in the service of the Government. He had lately been promoted, and was now practically head of the Roads and Bridges Department at Auck- land ; but his promotion did not appear to have carried with it any increase of salary, as he (Mr. Massey) thought it should have done. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) asked what steps were being taken to inquire into the very serious charges that had been made against the officers of this department in Auckland. The Minister had very serious charges in his posses- sion, and if one-half of them were proved to be true there must be radical alteration in the de- partment in Auckland. He did not wish to specify these charges, but, as honourable mem- bers insisted, he would say they amounted to little short of downright robbery, holding-back of money, et cetera. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) said he had never heard anything about the charges men- tioned by the honourable member. What he rose for was to support the honourable mem- ber for Franklin in his reference to Mr. Wright. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said that Mr. Wright was just doing the same work as he was before, and had not altered in any way. He did not do all the work in the Auckland District by any means. With regard to the charges referred to by Mr. Millar, a report had been asked for, and as soon as that was re- ceived the whole thing would be considered by Cabinet ; and, if it was necessary there should be an inquiry, there would be an inquiry. Vote, £24,178, agreed to. Roads, &c., £384,000. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) wished to point out how the lands of this colony were, or, rather, were not, a source of revenue to the people of New Zealand. Under the consoli- dated estimates they had voted £127,000 to the Lands Department, and the total vote now for 