from time to time direct that any of the laws in force in New Zealand shall be observed in the said Islands, either in whole or with such modifications as in his opinion are expedient for the good government and welfare of the inhabitants." Section 9 states :- "(1.) Subject to this Act, the Federal Council shall have power to levy and collect duties of Customs on behalf of His Majesty within their respective jurisdictions : "Provided that all goods exported from New Zealand to the said Islands shall be admitted free of Customs duty, and all goods imported from the said Islands to New Zealand shall be admitted free of Customs duty. "(2.) In the case of goods exported from New Zealand to the said Islands on which Customs duty has been paid on their importation into New Zealand, there shall be allowed a draw- back of an amount equal to the difference between the duty so paid and the duty payable at the said Islands in respect of similar goods imported from any other country or place than New Zealand." I am therefore carrying out what I believe to be a wide and proper course. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- How will that affect the revenue of the Islands ? Mr. SEDDON .- Well, unless you find a substitute for it, it practically takes away about That two-thirds of their Customs revenue. is the result of it ; and, if you do that, then you must pay your Customs duty-Customhouse officer and Postal officer-out of the ordinary consolidated revenue of the colony. Of course, they have the corresponding advantage, just as the people of New Zealand have the advan- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero tage. The products of the colony which are consumed in the Islands will give an advantage to this colony. In respect to other goods, if the duty is paid here it forms part of our revenue. You must either do that or you must take accounts, and if you take accounts of the dutiable goods that go to the Islands, it is really only taking money out of one pocket to put it into the other. At present there is a duty in the Islands, as I have said, of 10 per cent., while on goods from other colonies there would be under our New Zea- land tariff 25 per cent. payable on most of the goods imported into the Islands. At all events, I think it would meet with the ap- proval of members if we said, "Very well, these islands are now practically part of New Zealand. We will treat them as such, and have our free-trade between the Islands and the colony." I think the course I am proposing can- not cause any friction. If we have a differential tariff as against the other colonies or countries, it is bound to create friction, but if we say that the New Zealand tariff obtains over the islands which form part of New Zealand, they have no reason to complain; and I think that is the most statesmanlike course and the safest course to adopt. Section 11 gives power to appoint ports of entry and clearance. It would be impossible to have such ports at all the Mr. Seddon there shall not be more than two ports. I think that if Penrhyn were declared the port in the north, and Rarotonga the other port of entry and clearance, that is all that is wanted, and it would make all the traders come to a place where there would be proper supervision. Unless there is something of this sort I know from what is going on that the Islands will be decimated of their population. There is no use hiding the fact that this is now being done by the illicit trade that is going on at present. The class of articles taken to the Islands in exchange for copra and fruits is very injurious to the islanders, and it would reflect no credit on us, now that the Islands form part of the colony, if we allowed it to continue. In that respect I think there is room to do good. Another question that has been brought into prominence-a question we are now able to control-is the kanaka labour ques- tion of the present day ; and some of the other islands supply a very large amount of labour, and, with two other islands on which guano is found, are regularly visited by the labour vessels, and the natives are taken away for long periods. At present there is no proper regulation of this traffic. Take one of the islands in question-one that I am aware of, and have in my mind's-eye -and when you take 50 per cent. of the male population away for a couple of years one may imagine the state of affairs that arises on the islands. Many of the men never return, and there is a condition of things brought about that is most undesir- able ; and I say that if there is to be any traffic of this kind done at all it should be carried on under regulations. Only a certain number should be allowed to go, and when those who have been away for a time return to the islands they should be allowed to remain there and others be allowed to take their place-that is, if it is to be so at all. I am not sure it is a wise thing to do ; but if the present con- dition of things is to continue, then something is necessary, because these men earn a few pounds ; they are to a certain extent European- ised, and these few pounds they earn come in very handy for their families. But if we were to develop the islands themselves, by the growing of copra, coffee, cocoa, and vanilla, and oranges and bananas, you can keep them at home, and they can grow more and be more prosperous and happy than under existing circumstances. Mr. R. THOMPSON .- How are you going to do that ? Mr. SEDDON .- I have said the way it can be done. You would have to take from the power of the Ariki, who claims everything ; as I propose, you must locate the different tribes first, and after that locate them on blocks ; and to enable them to produce for themselves you must give them the young plants. Mr. R. THOMPSON .- That means that you must disarrange the whole communal system. Mr. SEDDON .- I speak with some experi- ence ; you must do that, but you must not do it in a revolutionary way. You can gradually keep them from considering themselves depen- 