the Minister thought the salaries of Inspectors of Machinery were sufficient. Mr. HALL-JONES said that this year they had been gradually increasing some of the lower salaries, and would continue to do so until they reached what was a fair salary. Vote, 4595, agreed to. Vote, Government steamers, £950, agreed to. Marine, miscellaneous services, 9956. Mr. MASSEY wished to know where the wharf in Manukau Harbour, $100, was to be. Mr. HALL-JONES said it was the Awhitu Wharf. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City) asked why the consolidated revenue had to bear the cost of a gratuity to some one in the employ- ment of the Westport Harbour Board. Mr. HALL-JONES said there was no power under the Westport Harbour Act to pay the money, and the department would pay it and deduct it from the money payable to the Har- bour Board. Mr. LAURENSON (Lyttelton) asked why $250, further compassionate allowance, was being granted to the widow of the late Captain Fairchild. Mr. HALL-JONES said Captain Fairchild was a very old officer, who received at one time a salary of $700. When he died he was receiv- ing $450, and his widow got a year and a half's salary. This sum was put on in view of repre- sentations made by several members. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) said it seemed to him the widows of Civil servants in Wellington were treated differently from the widows of Civil servants in other parts of the colony. He thought the system should be uniform. He referred to the case of Mrs. Lanauze, in which case a compassionate allow- ance was recommended by the Committee, but had not been granted by the Minister. He considered that justice ought to be meted out all round, and to test the feeling of the Com- mittee on the matter he moved, That the item, " Further compassionate allowance to the widow of the late Captain Fairchild, £250," be struck out. Sir J. G. WARD said that Mrs. Fairchild's case was a most deserving one. The Govern- ment had so decided after full inquiry into it. Her husband lost his life in the service of the colony, and had been a most faithful, zealous, and valuable officer. He had no doubt, from the facts stated by the honourable mem- ber for Avon, the case he referred to-that of Mrs. Lanauze-was also a case that was worthy of consideration. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) thought it was about time the Government made more generous provision in the case of widows who were left in poor circumstances and with children depend- ing upon them. Mr. TANNER (Avon) said, in the case he had referred to, no claim could be entertained for service or anything of that kind, but a petition was presented to the House and was favourably recommended by the Committee. He under- stood the matter was brought under the notice compensation, but a fair case for a compas- sionate grant. No notice, however, had been taken of it. When the petition came before the Committee again this year it was favour- ably reported upon once more, and he under- stood a grant was actually placed on the estimates, but had been dropped in the period that elapsed between the compilation and the publication of the estimates. The case he was referring to was that of Mrs. Lanauze. Mr. MILLS (Commissioner of Customsi said the case of Mrs. Lanauze was one that would be looked into. The Cabinet would give full and fair consideration to any claim there might be. Amendment negatived, and vote, £956, agreed to. CLASS VII .-- STAMP AND DEEDS DEPARTMENT. Vote, Stamp Department, €212, agreed to. CLASS VIII .- EDUCATION DEPARTMENT. Vote, Education Department, Head Ofice. $50, agreed to. Vote, Public Schools, £337, agreed to. Vote, Industrial Schools, $15, agreed to. Vote, School for Deaf-mutes, $56, agreed to. School for Blind, $24. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) under- stood a sum would be placed on the supplemen- tary estimates for a fireproof building for the inmates of the Blind Institution in Auckland. That promise had not been fulfilled. Vote, $24, agreed to. Vote, Miscellaneous services, £3,145, agreed to. CLASS IX .- LUNACY AND CHARITABLE DEPART- MENT. Vote, Lunatic asylums, £50, agreed to. Vote, Charitable, £324, agreed to. CLASS X .- DEPARTMENT OF LABOUR. Voto, Department of Labour, €2,250, agreed to. CLASS XI .- MINES DEPARTMENT. Vote, Miscellaneous services, £4,750, agreed to. CLASS XII .- DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE. Vote, Department of Agriculture, $533, agreed to. Vote, Miscellaneous services, £4,000, agroed to. CLASS XIII. - WORKING RAILWAYS DEPART- MENT. Vote, Working Railways, £33,352, agreed to. CLASS XIV .- PUBLIC AND SCHOOL BUILDINGS AND DOMAINS. Public buildings, $1,050. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) moved. Thx the item, "Fuel, light, water, &c., Guvern- ment Houses. $50," be struck out. Mr. HALL-JONES said this was an item that had always been charged against the colony, and had always been paid by the colony, and His Excellency the Governor was 