private individuals to have their houses con- | Office Savings-Bank. He noticed that at the nected with the exchange. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said that two years ago he had drawn the attention of the Minister to the fact that a number of positions as Postmasters in the smaller centres were daytime, and, if it could not be done in the vacant for a long time without any effort being made to fill them, and relieving officers not daytime, whether the Minister had under con- entitled to promotion were kept in those posi- sideration the question of increasing the staff tions, who, besides the salary, received an allowance of 7s. 6d. per day. This was not night-work. only unfair to officers entitled to promotion, but unfair to the taxpayers of the colony. The to avoid work of the character referred to by Minister had promised that the same thing would not occur in the future, but he was told that the same practice was still going on. There were also several instances of men who had been suggested. The instructions were to had been promoted to such positions over the avoid overtime if possible, and to have the heads of men who had been longer in the necessary work done in ordinary hours. He service, and were as efficient in their work, might add that the men were paid for over- but who had not political influence, or who time. were supposed to be connected with members of the Opposition. relieving officers were kept from month to Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) said month at vacant stations instead of permanent the particulars given by the member for Christ- appointments being made to those stations. church City were correct so far as he could It ought not to be a difficult thing to fill judge. The question of the reduction of any such vacancies within a reasonable time. rates was one which he would be glad to see Then, promotion in the service was not always done when possible. There had been con- made according to the Classification Act, but siderable expense incurred through the substi- went sometimes by favour. Those who had tution of copper wires, which had been found political friends who were able to get at certain necessary. He would be very glad to look into officers in the department could get promotion, the whole question of rates, with the view of whereas other officers who were more efficient seeing whether the Government could not do did not get promotion simply because they had something in the direction indicated. As to not friends shameless enough to push their the items on the estimates referred to by the claims. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 honourable gentleman, there were some below officers should get promotion according to the the amount fixed by the classification of last position they held on the classification list. year. For instance, in the linemen branch that was the case. It would be necessary to make glad if the honourable member would give him sme provision by legislation to get over the the names of the officers he referred to, and difficulty. He hoped there would be time to he would look into the matter. The effort correct that injustice during the present ses- had been to administer the Classification Act as Bon. These necessary adjustments were princi- fairly as possible. The desire was to give pro- pally in connection with the lower salaries. motion to those officers under the classified In reply to the member for Palmerston, he service who were entitled to it, and there was might state that the matter which the honour- no such thing as political influence creeping able member brought under his notice last year into this department so far as he knew. He had been given attention to. He could assure had made no promotions in the department honourable gentlemen that, as far as the ad- upon the representations of any one. ministration of the department was concerned, there was no desire whatever to give any undue preference to any one. The effort was to carry out promotions and transfers of officers through- to. out the colony fairly. He was bound to say, with reference to the statement made by two honourable members, that he had never had a tion of the San Francisco mail-service was case brought under his notice such as they had uppermost in the minds of some honourable referred to. Instead of the old system of ap- members. He could assure honourable gentle- pointing relieving officers, each of the central men that dealing with this item was not going offices now provide their own reliefs-that was to affect the matter one way or the other. It to say, different officers were from time to time would be very much better to wait until the given relieving duty. The old system of ap- resolutions were submitted, and then members pointing half a dozen relieving officers was now would have full time to consider them. He quite inadequate to meet the wants of the de- might mention that the resolutions would be brought down as early as possible. The item of partment. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) wanted £17,000 was partly for the payment of current to know what arrangements the Minister had accounts, and until the Government came down made with reference to the officers in the Post- with their proposals it was only beating the various balance periods numbers of these officers had to work a considerable amount of overtime. He wished to know if definite instructions had been given to the officers in charge that this work was to be done as far as possible in the so that the work could be got through without Sir J. G. WARD said, Wherever it was possible the honourable member it was avoided, but it would not be possible to overtake the require- ments by the appointment of extra officers, as Mr. PIRANI said his contention was that Under the Classification Act efficient Sir J. G. WARD said he would be exceedingly Vote, £257,636, agreed to. Vote, Telegraph cable subsidies, £250, agreed Conveyance of mails by sea, $51,732. Sir J. G. WARD said he knew that the ques- 