ACCOUNT. Vote, Land for Settlements expenses, £7,000, agreed to. PUBLIC TRUST OFFICE. Chargeable on the Public Trust Office Ac- count, £24,128. Mr. LANG (Waikato) wished to bring under the notice of the Premier the matter of a peti- tion that had come before the Public Petitions A to L Committee from a person who claimed £18 18s. 4d. compensation from the Public Trust Office on account of land being sold by the Acting Public Trustee without giving him (the occupier, who had been in possession for twelve years) the refusal of it, in spite of his distinct promise to do so. The Committee had gone carefully into the matter, and had taken evidence from the Public Trustee, and recom- mended that the sum claimed should be paid. He understood Cabinet had obtained from the Public Trustee a report to the effect that Mr. Dineen had no legal claim, but the Public Trustee admitted that the department had made a mistake, and that Mr. Dineen had a moral claim. If the Minister could give him an assurance that, under the circumstances, the amount would be put on the supplementary estimates, it would be simply an act of fair- ness to the claimant. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said he would go into the matter carefully prior to the supple- mentary estimates being submitted to the House. The honourable gentleman had made out a good case, but he would have to look further into it. Vote, £24,128, agreed to. GOVERNMENT INSURANCE DEPARTMENT. Vote, chargeable on the Government Insur- ance Account, $50,936, agreed to. GOVERNMENT ACCIDENT INSURANCE ACCOUNT. Chargeable on the Government Accident In- surance Account, £3,505. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) wished to know what arrangements had been made for carrying on this department. He would like to know if the Premier had gone into the ques- tion of rates. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the rates now in force were only tentative. It was intended to work the Accident Insurance Department within the lowest possible limits ; and he was of opinion that the Government Office could be worked lower than any private office. He was satisfied that the rates were too high. The Commissioner no doubt erred on the side of caution ; but, at any rate, it was a prudent course to adopt. Vote, £3,505, agreed to. GOVERNMENT ADVANCES TO SETTLERS. OFFICE. Chargeable to the Government Advances to Settlers Office Management Account, £68,514. Mr. SEDDON said the "Contingencies" were as follows :- Solicitors' costs 4 .. . Sundries 278 Telegrams 60 .. Interest refunded 4 Production fees refunded 3 Registration fees 5 .. i £354 Vole, £88,514, agreed to. Progress reported. The House adjourned at half-past one o'clock a.m. (Thursday, 17th). # LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Wednesday, 16th October, 1901. Third Readings-Shops and Shop-assistants Bill- Disorder in Committee - Miners' Rights Fee Reduction Bill-Money-lenders Bill. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half-past two o'clock. PRAYERS. THIRD READINGS. Shops and Shop-assistants Bill, Rabbit Nui- sance Bill. SHOPS AND SHOP-ASSISTANTS BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Progress reported. DISORDER IN COMMITTEE. The Hon. Captain BAILLIE (Chairman of Committees). - Mr. Speaker, I have been directed by the Committee to report progress in order to bring under your notice the fact that the Hon. Mr. Shrimski has used the fol- lowing words in reference to the Hon. Mr. Jones : That " the Hon. Mr. Jones is one of the worst ' sweaters ' in this country." I asked the honourable gentleman to withdraw the words, and he declined to do so. The Hon. the SPEAKER .- I think the words are unparliamentary, and the honourable gentle- man must withdraw them. The Hon. Mr. SHRIMSKI .- I beg your par- don, Sir, but I wish to explain the position. The honourable gentleman used certain terms in regard to myself. He told the Council, after I had spoken, that I had no heart, and that I wished to keep people's noses to the grindstone : and I say that I have just as much humanity \--- in my composition as the honourable gentle- man has; and I said, if ever there was a ' sweater ' he was, and I decline to withdraw the expression. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I am sorry at the present position. We, of course, have only the one desire-namely, to support the dignity of the Chair and the dignity of the Council. When matters get to this pitch it is necessary that some steps should be taken. Standing Order No. 150 says, " No member may use offensive or unbecoming words in reference to 