count of a mistake of a Returning Officer, or a Deputy Returning Officer, or a Registrar of Electors, I say the public should be responsible for the mistake of its servant ; and if the elec- tion is upset, the costs of the election petition and the legal expenses should be returned to the member unseated ; and I hope the Govern- ment will see to this, and in the near future some such provision will be made. It was an Opposition member on this occasion ; perhaps it will be a member on the other side next time. I do not intend to bring in any side issues, because there is not the slightest doubt that every member in the House has made up his mind how he is going to vote. I do not wish to reflect on any member on either side of the House. I do not wish to make party capital out of the matter. I simply say, speak- ing for myself, I do not approve of what is proposed, and intend to vote against the Bill. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City) .- I should like to say a few words on this Bill in explana- tion of the vote I shall presently give. It has been contended that the salary of £240 is in- sufficient for members of the House, and I do not propose to contend for the opposite view. The position, I take it, has been pretty gene- rally expressed by other speakers, that the members of this House were elected on the understanding that the salary for their term of office would be £240; and I cannot see my way to cast a vote to increase the amount during the currency of the present Parliament. I know it means a loss to most people when they enter Parliament. I am not sure whether the loss is not greater to those who are in business than it is to those who are in the position of workers or wage-earners. A large amount can easily be lost in a business through want of supervision by the head. I do not agree with the state. ments I have seen in some of the papers, and that have been made from some platforms, that the salary paid to members is at the rate of £80 a month-that only three months are given to session work for a salary of £240, or £80 a month. I do not know how it is with other members, but I can say that when I get back to Auckland my time is mostly taken up with parliamentary business. Except for the fact that I get home in the evenings, I have nearly as much public business to do in the recess as I have in the session. Therefore the contention that £240 should be divided over three months falls to the ground. During the time I am in Wellington certain gentlemen have to carry on my business, and, according to my view of it, I give those gentleman a very fair salary, but I can quite imagine that some of these gentle- men might take a different view of the subject, and think they do not receive sufficient salary ; and if I returned home and found they had increased their salaries during my absence I should feel somewhat irate. Well, I consider their position, if they did this, would be analogous to mine if I voted to increase my salary without the consent of my employers. That is the main reason I cannot support the were to raise it for the next Parliament the case would be different. If we passed a Bill raising the salary for the coming Parliament, then our employers, when they came to make fresh appointments, would be able to fix the terms on which we were to be paid. If they disapproved of the increase in the salary they could pledge the members they returned to reduce it, and if they did not do so then clearly their assent would be given to the proposal. But without consulting the people in that way I think it is wrong to increase the honorarium. That reason alone will decide me to vote against the second reading of the Bill. When the Bill, if read a second time, is in Committee, the proposal given notice of by the honourable member for Lyttelton, to make the Act apply to the next Parliament, will receive my support. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) .- Sir, I have on every occasion when the question of an increased payment of members has been before the House voted against it, and I shall do so on this occasion. I only rise now to say that there seems to be a view prevalent in the House which, to my mind, is an entirely erro- neous one-that is, that, on account of the expense honourable members are put to in the course of their election, and consequent on sub- scribing to many objects that are brought before them, we have therefore a right to be more highly paid. That seems to me to be a thorough fallacy. The Right Hon. the Premier commenced by saying that the cost of an elec- tion was so great to members it was necessary to add to our salaries. Sir, would we not then be placed in the position of making the colony pay the election expenses of those who are in Parliament to the great disadvantage of those who are outside? That seems to me to be the only logical deduction from the assertion that, because election expenses are large, members ought to receive a higher salary. We know there is a Corrupt Practices Act in the colony, and that canvassing has been prohibited by a recent Act ; therefore the cost of an election ought not to be very great, and if the cost is great it cannot be urged that sitting mem- bers should be placed at an advantage by receiving pay from the colony to contest elec- tions with other candidates outside for the maintenance of our seats in this House. The calls for subscriptions that are 11:30. made upon members have been al- luded to by the Right Hon. the Premier and by many other honourable members. No doubt it is often extremely irritating, apart from the mere fact of the disinclination to part with the money, when they receive a letter acquainting them with the fact that they have been ap- pointed vice-president of the so-and-so society, and that their predecessor had given them a cup. Of course, one cannot well refuse these requests ; but we know very often in doing so what we are liable to be charged with. We know we are always liable to be ac- cused of trying to bribe our constituents by the money we are giving them for these things. We can scarcely feel generous in giving the 