duced into amending Bills in their process through Parliament without the persons who introduced them knowing what their full effect would be; and that I consider a most dangerous proceeding. This Bill as it comes before us now contains some altera- tions in regard to awards, which I consider of a most serious kind, and which I will explain presently. But before coming to them I want to call attention to clause 2 of the Bill, which makes unions registered under the Trade Union Act amenable to the provisions of the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act. In the Act of 1894 trade-unions were bound by the awards made, or could be made parties to a dispute ; but they also had the right to initiate a dispute, and therefore it 'vas optional to a union to register under the Trade Union Act, or, if the members preferred, to be registered under the Industrial Conciliation and Arbi- tration Act. But under the Bill we are no . considering, & trade-union is to be made liable under the terms of an award, while it cannot lodge a dispute or take any part in the ini- tiation. I have not heard any reason why this important departure has been made. In the consolidation Act of 1900 trade-unions were excluded from the provisions of the Industri .l Conciliation and Arbitration law altogether, and I must say that such a pro vision has my approval. I do not know why the alteration was made. It seems to have passed, to some extent, unnoticed through Par- liament ; but I perceive that where you are deal- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 ing with an Act that is of an experimental character, and the usefulness of which might be wholly destroyed by a biassed President, it is advisable that the trade-unions should, after having fulfilled the terms of the award, have the right to cancel their registration under the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act, and yet preserve the corporate existence under the Trade Union Act. It has been said in the Labour Bills Committee that if this were done it would leave them at liberty to strike if they so desired. Well, that is perfectly true, so long as they were not registered under the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act ; but the fact remains that every trade-union and every worker would still be bound by the award which binds the employer. Now, I do not suppose there is one man in Parliament who knows this fact : that under the law, as it stands at the present time, a non-unionist is bound by the award while working for an employer who is bound by the award. But such is the law. So that, so far as registration under the Trade Union Act is concerned, the members of the trade- unions would be just as much bound as they would be under this Bill. But I hold, on prin- ciple, that if it is desirable they should be brought under the provisions of this Bill they should be restored to the position they were in in 1894. Then, we have a clause which provides that a special Board of Conciliators may be set up on the application of either of the parties to a dispute. Now, in all disputes there is on the one side the industrial union, and there Hon, Mr. Rug plovers, so that there are not two parties to be considered, as would appear, but a greater number of parties. Under the law, as it stands at present, if all the parties to a dispute agree, they may have a special Board of Conciliators, and that Board is set up in the same manner, and has all the powers of the ordinary Board of Conciliation. Here, however, it is proposed that any one party to a dispute a single employer-may demand a special Board of · onciliators. Now, the experience of trade- unionists in regard to special Boards of Con- ciliators is this: that if they take part in them they are afterwards discharged from their em- ployment, and are boycotted by the employers. This is a question which is disputed by many - not only employers, but others. But, while I am not prepared to put on record the list of names which I have been supplied with, men who have been so boycotted, I will, when the Bill is in Committee, read it to the members of the Committee, and show them that what I am saying is an absolute fact. Well, with that experience to guide us, does any one suppose that trade unionists are going to be foolish enough to take part in any special Boards of Conciliators, and have to put up with the con- sequences ? If they do, I can only say this : they do not really know the feelings of a worker who has been persecuted. But, in any case, I feel sure the result will be this: that the unions will refuse to nominate or elect their representatives to that special Board of Conciliators, and that it must fall through, because the Act of 1900 provides that for these special Boards of Conciliators the repre- sentatives on either side must be experts in the trade Therefore, if the workers refuse to be represented, I would ask, Where are you going to get their representatives from ? But in clause 21, to which I will allude later on, it is provided that any party may go direct to the Court of Arbitration in place of submit- ting the dispute to the Board of Conciliation. Well, what would happen if the Bill passed in its present shape would be this : that not only would the trade-unions refuse to set up the special Board of Conciliators, but if it were forced upon them they would take advantage of clause 21, and refer the dispute straight to the Court. This 6th clause, however, has been struck out by the Labour Bills Com- mittee, and I think rightly so; and I trust the Council will see its way to confirm their decision. Now, some of the provisions in this Bill that I view with most alarm are those which deal with the extension and limitation of the awards of the Court of Arbitration. As the law stands at present the award may be made to bind the whole of the people in a trade throughout the colony where the products of that trade are interchangeable in the mar- kets of the colony. That is a very wide, and the most extensive award that can be made. Next to that comes an award which may be made in regard to any industry in any in- dustrial district, and that award, by force of the Act, binds the whole of the persons em- - 