impossible for the Minister of Lands to carry out the Act, because in some parts of New Zea- land the noxious weeds were so thick that it would cost more to clear the land than it was worth. Now, in some districts there were places where the noxious weeds were not numerous, and if taken in hand at once these districts would be saved very great future expense. He was sure that if the honourable gentleman would bring in legislation to enable the work to be handed over to the local authori- ties, in some parts of New Zealand the local authorities would take the matter in hand and exterminate these weeds at once, and the country would be saved a great deal of future trouble. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said he would be very willing to do so, because nothing would give him more pleasure than to hand this work over. But the general feeling was that the local bodies would not, as a rule, administer the Act, because very often the members of these local bodies were the greatest sinners themselves. Mr. LETHBRIDGE .-- No. Mr. DUNCAN said it had been the case in some places, and information had been stated to him that they would not be the proper parties to administer the Act. But even as it was the Act would do some good, because it would keep people from growing these weeds up In cases where it against their neighbours. would take more to clear the land than the land was worth, the owners were not compelled to eradicate the whole of the weeds, but were only made to prevent them from seeding and to keep half a chain of land clear along the fences. such cases, if the people were compelled to wholly clear their land they would leave the land, and then the expense would be thrown on the department. It was a very difficult sub- ject to deal with, but he would see if the sug- gestion of the honourable gentleman to hand the work to the local bodies who would under- take to do it could be carried out. # EPUNI SETTLEMENT. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) asked the Minister of Lands, Whether the particulars in return 128c, showing the number of blocks of land acquired under the Land for Settlements Act re Epuni- namely, 100 acres 3 roods 14 perches ; cost per acre of each block, .99 2s .-- are correct ? If so, will he explain why return C .- 5c, estates pur- chased between 1st April, 1900, and 31st March, 1901, and signed by James McKerrow, gives the particulars of the same estate as 103 acres, price £9,146? Since he had put this question on the Order Paper another return had been laid on the table dealing with this Epuni Settle- ment, and he noticed that in every return the area of this particular block was given in dif- ferent figures, and the price was different. He would like an explanation of this, and why the acreage and price was stated as follows in different returns :- " 128c : Number of blocks of land acquired under the Land for Settlements Act, 100 acres 3 roods 14 perches ; cost per acre, $99 2s. Mr. Lethbridge " C .- 5c: Estates purchased between the 1st April, 1900, and 31st March, 1901, signed by . James McKerrow,' 103 acres ; price, #9,146 - i.e., £88 15s. per acre. "C .- 5: Land for Settlements Consolidation Act, 101 acres ; price, $9,146-i.e., £90 11s. per acre." Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said, The return 128c, ordered on the motion of Mr. Mere- dith, gave the cost of the Epuni Estate when the construction of roads and the cost of ad- ministration, advertising, et cetera, were added to the purchase-money. The area acquired was 100 acres 3 roods 14 perches, and the cost when the roads were constructed, et cetera, would pro- bably bo $99 2s. per acre, or thereabouts. The statement given by Mr. MeKerrow, and laid on the table of the House by the Right Hon. the Premier, was one given from memory, and was written hurriedly to give immediate infor- mation. There were two areas purchased : 98 acres 1 rood 34 perches at £90 per acre, and 2 acres 1 rood 20 perches at £120 per acre, to give better access to the first purchase. The actual area put into the market was 94 acres and 28 perches, the remainder being ab- sorbed by roads. The actual purchase-money was £9,146 12s. 6d. # FAIR RENT BILL. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Minis- ter of Lands, Whether it is intended to proceed with the Fair Rent Bill this session ? Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said he had some doubt about this Bill passing through the House this year. He had been making In inquiry, and found there was very little support for it. Therefore, when so much time had been wasted, he did not care to annoy the House for a night or two over a Bill that had no chance of passing. He was prepared to let it stand over until the people got educated up to it, and then, no doubt, Parliament would pass the Bill. ## DAIRY STUD STOCK. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) asked the Minis- ter for Agriculture, If he will provide stud bulls to be distributed among dairy-farming districts in the colony ? He thought it neces- sary to explain to the Minister of Lands the He believed if importance of this question. the Minister had full information on the sub- ject he would grant the request. As a matter of fact, the stock all over New Zealand was be- coming deteriorated, and he believed it would be very wise to adopt the suggestion. The cost would not be very great, and it would be of much importance in assisting one of the staple industries of the colony-the dairy industry He hoped to receive a favourable answer. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister for Agriculture) said they had done a little service in regard to this, but it was impossible to place these animals in every dairy district of the colony unless they had a tremendous sum voted for the pt. pose. He might also tell them that there was great difficulty in getting proper cattle. When Mr. Gilruth went Home he had great difficulty in 