by good judges that the imported horses were not of the class that any one would have bought except the Government. It was said the reason why they were so small was that the buyer was instructed to get them of a certain size. He wanted to know whether the buyer was in- structed from this end, or from the English end. As far as the pedigrees of the horses were concerned, they seemed to be fairly well bred. As far as racing was concerned they were not of a good winning strain. They were not meant for horoughbred mares, but only for half bred mares. It was an extraordinary idea that we should have small horses to get remounts. At any rate, the Government could have got just as good horses in Australia or New Zealand. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said the officer wanted a trip Home. Mr. HERRIES said that in Christchurch good judges considered third-grade New Zea- land horses were better than these imported ones. The Government should not compete with private individuals ; and, if they could only bring out weeds from Home, the sooner they closed this branch of the business the better. Mr. DUNCAN said the instructions given to their officer was to go to the War Office and get those that were in a position to guide him to select the horses that were most suitable. The officer knew the class of horses that was sent out from England to South Africa, and it was these low horses that were shown to be the best. None greater than 15.3 in height were taken to South Africa. He believed that https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the men who had condemned these horses in New Zealand were those who were anxious about racing, and, of course, it was not for this purpose at all that the horses were imported. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) was rather astonished to hear that when a Government agent was sent home to buy horses he was told to go to the War Office. Of all the things they had heard this capped the lot. Those who had followed the war in South Africa must be aware of the hideous blunders made by the War Office, resulting in enormous losses, and particularly through this question of horses. It was known that the best horses that were sent to South Africa were those sent from New Zealand. He wished the Minister to give him some explana- tion about the item, "Allowance for special services in connection with purchase and inspec- tion of horses for contingents, $500." He had noticed an advertisement the other day in the Wellington papers offering for sale a number of horses which had been previously bought by the department for the contingents, but the euphemism employed in the advertisement was that they had been " used for training the men sent to South Africa." As a matter of fact, these horses were bought for active service, were branded on the hoofs, and had to be rejected because a number of them were perfectly use- less, and yet as much as from £14 to $20 was given for them. Instead of a $500 bonus being given by way of allowance for special services in purchasing these animals, they should insist upon some refund of the losses occasioned to petence of the men who were sent out to make these purchases. He asked the Minister to ex- plain how many horses purchased for the con- tingents had to be rejected, and what was the loss on the horses sold the other day in Wel- lington. Mr. DUNCAN said only ten had been re- jected out of the whole lot, and, as far as he knew, none were rejected because of anything being wrong with them, but merely that they were under the height required ; and, as for the honourable gentleman's other question, no horses had been sold by the Government the other day. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) thought the Govern- ment had made a serious mistake in connection with these horses. It was not necessary to go outside the colony, and he did not think that what the Government were doing in importing thoroughbreds was the best way to improve the breed of horses in the colony. The Imperial Government gave a premium for suitable horses to travel in certain districts at a low rate, and such a system would be better for this country. He had long held the opinion that the revenue from the totalisator should be applied to some specific purpose, and it could serve no better purpose than providing prizes at the agricul- tural shows for the encouragement of horse breeding. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) would like some in- formation as to the "Experimental and stud stations, as under-Purchase of land, Kirikiri- roa, £5,520; purchase of stock, buildings, and working-expenses for ditto, £2,000; Wairangi buildings, working-expenses, and purchase of stock, #1,200; Momohaki buildings, working- expenses, and purchase of stock, £2,750." The Momohaki Farm had been in existence for some years and ought to be self-supporting ; and they ought also to have some information as regards the Levin Farm. Mr. DUNCAN said the Government were obliged to come to the House to ask for money to purchase stock in any case, and the best use had been made of the money spent. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) pointed out that the Government were importing Shire horses not to be compared with those imported by private individuals ; and, if they continued to import such stock in the way they did, it would prevent the commendable private enterprise in this direction that had existed in the past. Mr. DUNCAN said the horses alluded to by the member for Palmerston were from the best breeds. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) supported the proposition that the Government should give premiums for stallions, and thought it was a sheer waste of money to import the kind of stock which was being imported. He would like to ask the Minister about the credits under section 41 of the Public Revenues Act, £8.840. That should show the fees from inspection of meat at freezing-works and other things, and it would also be fair to include in the credit the sheep-tax. Mr. DUNCAN said the amount included 