Roval visit, it exceeds all principles of reason or extraordinary statement of the honourablo member for Eden, that the reception of the justice to ask the country to pay any part of that expenditure twice. It is said that His Ex- Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York, so cellency the Governor was responsible for the far as Auckland was concerned, was carried out purely for party purposes. I have no hesita- safety of the Duke and Duchess during their travels through this country. In the figurative tion in giving to that statement an unqualified sense he may have been responsible for their contradiction. The Government, so far as the safety; but he, personally, was no more re. reception of the Duke and Duchess at Auck- sponsible for their safety than I. The police land was concerned, had really very little to force of the colony and the special detectives do. The function was carried out by the selected by the Governments of other colo- Harbour Board on the Queen Street Wharf, and by Dr. Logan Campbell, the Mavor of nies- Sir J. G. WARD .- The menber for Waira- Auckland, and the Reception Committee, as TaDa said that His Excellency the Governor far as the city was concerned. went round the colony interfering ; and I said in reply to that that the responsibility for the Commissioners ? control of the visit of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York was thrown upon His House that the Commissioners had nothing Excellency the Governor, and in personally whatever to do with the reception of the Duke seeing to matters he had only done his duty. and Duchess at Auckland. There were three Mr. FISHER. -- The safety of the persons of gentlemen appointed as Commissioners, and the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York Mr. Holmes, the Travelling Commissioner, also Would no doubt be entrusted to His Excellency visited that city; but, as far as any initia- the Governor, but the arrangements for the tion of any portion of the ceremonies, or any active assistance in carrying them out protection of their persons and the expenses connected with all those arrangements have to was concerned, none whatever was given by be borne by the people of this colony, and those Mr. Holmes or the other three Commissioners. expenses are included in the sum of $70,000 They made certain suggestions, but the sug- which we are about to be asked to vote. gestions were received from them in their 1 wish, in all my references, to speak with the capacity as members of the Auckland Citizens utmost respect of His Excellency the Gover- Reception Committee. There was a meeting nor. It would ill become me, or any other of citizens, and a large representative committee member of this House, to speak in other was elected, and among the members of that language, but still, I say, in the plainest, committee were the three gentlemen who were simplest possible manner. that this is an nominated by the Government, and who were https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 unfair charge to cast upon the people of this termed " Royal Commissioners." The Govern- country ; and I give that not as an individual ment did not directly intervene in any shape or expression of belief, but as being founded on form, nor do anything except erect an arch, at the strongest basis of constitutional law as laid a cost of, it was said, $1,000, in Queen Street. down in the Roval Instructions. It is useless to play with words. The Royal Instructions, vernment platform ? placed in the hands of His Excellency the Governor by the King and by his Ministers the Government and by the committee. At in England, are clear, distinct, imperative, the Government platform all the front seats and ought to be inviolable. However, the were, practically, filled by Government oppo- bill, if passed, must be reserved for the nents, and I and other members for the city sichincation of His Majesty's pleasure, and and Government supporters had to take back will receive the gravest consideration at the seats. That is the way the Government in- hands of His Majesty's Ministers. I con- troduced the question of political colour as frey I am greatly surprised that the Govern regards the reception. With regard to the prin- ment should ask us to pass a Bill granting ciple of this Bill, I contend that the Governor the Governor $2,500 additional to the $2,000 was the proper functionary to entertain the Duke which we voted last year. I ask again, Who and Duchess of Cornwall and York. He was the entertained the Duke and Duchess of Corn- official agent of the colony. The honourablo wall? The people of this colony entertained member for Wellington City stated that the them, and it is the people of this colony who Governor had done this without any authority. will pay for that entertainment. I express the Well, Sir, it was clearly explained by the ommon that there are persons who have been Colonial Secretary that the Governor had been given credit for expending money during the requested to perform the function as the official visit of the Duke and Duchess to New Zealand head of this State, that he did so in that who never spent a single copper of their own capacity, and that this sum of money is to money. But we know who will pay. It is reimburse him for what he expended as the from the public purse that this expenditure official and accredited agent of the people of will be drawn, and it is unfair, it is unwar- this colony in entertaining the Roval visitors. hinted, and, in the face of the language of the Surely, then, the cavilling at this expenditure is R val Instructions which I hold in my hand, it unworthy of the dignity and self-respect of the is mivald and illegal. people of the colony. Where could the Royal Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) .- I would not pair have been entertained if not at the Govern- have intervened in this debate but for the ment House, both in Wellington and Auckland ? An Hon. MEMBER. - What about the Royal Mr. NAPIER .- I have already stated in this An Hon. MEMBER .- What about the Go- Mr. NAPIER. - A platform was erected by 