SUPPLIES FOR ROYAL VISIT. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) asked the Premier, If the statement appearing in one of the Dunedin newspapers on the 13th instant, that " none of the accounts due to local trades- men for supplies, &c., have yet been paid," such supplies, &c., being in connection with the Royal visit, and more particularly the veterans' luncheon, is correct? He felt it his duty to put the question, because the state- ments referred to had been published in a Dun- edin newspaper of the 13th September last. He quoted from the paragraph when discussing the estimates, and he would be very glad in- deed to learn that there was some mistake about it, and that the statement was not well- founded. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the honourable member would recollect that it was only last week the House passed the amounts, and he might say that, in anticipation, all the vouchers were sent out, and instructions in some instances \- to pay the accounts, and he believed several had been paid. At all events, it was his desire to deal with the complaint as soon as possible, although he did not think there would be very serious heartburning in respect to it, because the tradesmen smashed the price on he be- lieved, and could afford to stand a little while out of their money. # WAITAKI MOUNTED RIFLES. Maior STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Minis- ter of Defence, What is the reason for the delay which has occurred in gazetting the ac- ceptance of the services of the Waitaki Mounted https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Rifles? Earlier in the session the right honour- able gentleman had been good enough to in- form him that the services of the Waitaki Rifles had been accepted. No notification of http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero acceptance. however, had appeared in the Gazette, and as the official notification was naturally looked for, and a good many weeks bad elapsed, he put the question of which he had given notice in order to ascertain why the notification had not appeared. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said there was no reason why it should not appear, and he anticipated it would appear in the next Gazette. # RETURNED TROOPERS' MEDICAL EXAMINATION. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Minis- ter of Defence, Whether, in cases in which returned troopers have to be examined by a Medical Board, he will arrange for such ex- aminations to take place, wherever possible, in the towns in which such troopers reside, so as to avoid the expense and inconvenience which occurs under the existing regulations-e.g., troopers whose homes are at Oamaru having to be forwarded at the expense of the department to Dunedin, although there are several fully competent medical men resident at Oamaru who could conduct the examinations equally well? He had made a representation by letter to the Minister, who had been good enough to say that he approved 'the suggestion he had made, and that instructions would be given for the examination of returned troopers to be held in their own places of residence. He simply wished to know whether that promise had been carried out, and whether the promised arrange- ment was in progress now or would be so shortly. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said regu- lations were being drafted to obviate the neces- sity of men being sent away from their homes to go before the Medical Board for examina- tion. # WAIMATE COURTHOUSE. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked 4.0. the Government, Whether they will make the necessary provision this session for urgently needed repairs and renovation of the Courthouse buildings, Justices' room, and fence at Waimate, as recommended by the In- spector of Public Buildings ? The Courthouse in question was a very valuable and handsome building, and it was taken over by the General Government from the Provincial Government. Nothing had been done in the shape of repairs or anything of the kind for twenty-two years, with the exception of one occasion, when a leak was discovered in the roof. He was ad- vised that two years ago the Inspector of Public Buildings recommended the carrying- of out certain repairs, painting, et cetera, and the erection of a new fence. He was also \---- - informed that representations were made by the local Justices of the Peace some twelve months ago to the Justice Department as to the discreditable condition of the room set apart for the use of Justices. On making in- quiries of the Minister of Justice he ascertained that these representations, which were forwarded through the Stipendiary Magistrate, had mis- carried, and thereupon fresh representations had been made to the Minister. He hoped that provision would be made for the matters re- ferred to in his question. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) said he was obliged to the honourable member for drawing his attention to this matter. It was a desirable thing when there were good buildings to see that minor repairs were attended to. He would have further in- quiries made into this matter, and see if the urgency of the repairs made the work neces- sary ; and, if so, they would be attended to. # COMMISSIONERS OF EDUCATION RESERVES. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) asked the Government, Whether, when appointing Com- missioners of Education Reserves for the Pro- vincial District of Auckland, the claims of Whangarei and the Thames districts, both having high schools, will be duly considered, and that representatives of those districts will be appointed as Commissioners ? His reason for putting this question on the Order Paper was this : that in the Province of Auckland the Commissioners of Education Reserves, par- ticularly those reserves set aside for secondary education, were mostly gentlemen who lived in 