them. Sir J. G. WARD said, No, he would not turn the other cheek to them, but he would face them with the old front, and make proper representa- tions to the Imperial Government. It was as much the concern of the Commonwealth of Aus- tralia that they should be able to develop and to utilise the shipping trade to America and Hono- lulu as it was to us, and a united endeavour should be made to get this highway opened to the commerce of the colony, and there surely was nothing to find fault with in our invitation under clause (c) to Mr. Spreckels to work towards the same end. A good deal had been said about the Union Company in the course of the debate, but it occurred to him the time might arise when circumstances would compel that company to go for long-distance passenger traffic by sea, instead of merely keeping to the trade of Australasia ; and what more natural than for this country to ask the Commonwealth of Australia-which, he felt sure, was perfectly friendly to us, although some honourable mem- bers might not think so-to join in advocating and urging the Imperial authorities to induce the American Government to open this high- way to our shipping? The Government by its proposals was trying to bring about the in- clusion of one British ship in the service, and in doing that he believed they were doing what was best. They might not succeed, but that was no reason why they should not try. The honourable member for Franklin thought there should be two British ships included, and he https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 should be very glad to see that, if possible, but there was no use in suggesting any purely imaginary and impossible contract. Great in- ternational affairs of this kind took time. This country wanted a contract, and, though they would like to go a little further and have our own steamers, still in connection with the matter they quite realised that, in dealing with great countries such as the United States, they ought not to disregard future possibilities, but should make the best arrangements possible at present, and let the matter of getting better terms remain for the future. They ought, in consort with Australia, to ask the Imperial authorities to help them to open this highway for our shipping. Some honourable members treated this aspect of the proposal lightly, but he had no intention of dealing with it in that manner. There had been no such thing as light treatment at his hands. The Government were desirous of bringing about a better condi- tion of affairs if possible, and to restore that condition of things respecting this service, which for a long period of years had given satisfaction to many honourable gentlemen who were now opposing it-namely, to effect the inclusion of at least one British vessel. Of course, there were difficulties ; but it appeared to him that one of the grandest things in the world was to face what was apparently impos- sible, and to do one's best to overcome it. It was necessary that he should speak to the question at this time, because some honourable members had been rather scru- had not been enabled to speak in reply, and was now speaking, as it were, for the last time before a vote was taken. What he said was clearly having a mellowing effect upon the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) who would, no doubt, either soon re- tire home or else vote with the Government. He desired to say a word or two respecting what had been advocated by some honourable members : that they should have a direct sub- sidised service carrying their mails. If honour- able members would go into details they would see that it was a mistake to suppose an effec- tive Direct service could be arranged, and it was not possible to bring about such a service as the country required. There were difficulties in the way. He did not say there was not a possibility of their being able to overcome them, but it would be a most costly service. Had they been able to do it, he knew, from personal information from more than one of the responsible heads, that they would have had proposals of more than one kind to submit to us before now. Mr. BOLLARD (Eden) hoped honourable members would pause before they voted for this amendment. There was one feature of this question that had not been touched upon <!-- PageNumber="\-" --> by any other member, and it was this : that all civilised nations endeavoured to get the quickest mail-service that was possible. Now, what did the honourable member propose by his amend- ment to do? To throw away the opportunity of getting the quickest service that was within our means. Did honourable members want this colony to be covered with ridicule in con- nection with this matter ? Did they want us to be proclaimed slow coaches, and behind the times, by every nation we had anything to do with, by giving up a mail-service that was well within our means, and was the quickest it was possible to obtain for this colony? He never heard of such a thing. He did not know what members were thinking about. They prided themselves on being foremost in the van of pro- gress and in advance of every other nation, and yet certain honourable members suggested that they should give up the quickest mail-service it was possible to get for the colony, quicker by ten days than any other service they could esta- blish. And for what cause? Simply that there was a little sentiment attached to it. Did other nations object to their mails going through a . neighbouring country ? Not a bit of it. They wanted the quickest service they could possibly get. An Hon. MEMBER .- America does. Mr. BOLLARD said, Of course she would, and other nations in the van of progress would do the same. He asked members to hesitate before they cut this out. This San Francisco service had been said to be Auckland's "ewe lamb." The Auckland people did not care anything about the service beyond the fact that it was the quickest that could be got. If the Port of Auckland was the terminus. something might be said for the argument that it was all in favour of Auckland ; but Auckland 