the colony. People have told me that, as far as the North Island Main Trunk line is con- cerned, for years after its completion it will not pay for the axle-grease. Well, I do not believe that statement, and I discount alto- gether the testimony of persons who use it as an argument. 1. should like, before I conclude, to say a word in regard to the Minister for Public Works. It has sometimes been said that the Ministry who now occupy the Treasury benches is a one-man or a two-men Ministry. It has been the fashion to discount the work done by every Minister besides the Pre- mier and the Minister for Railways. I think, Sir, as far as the Minister for Public Works is concerned, a serious injustice has been done him in that respect. As far as I have been able to learn from observations and experience, the Minister for Public Works does his duty admir- ably. From north to south, from east to west, this country has been covered with works which will be a standing and lasting testimony to his skill, his ability, his industry, and his energy. As far as I can discover, the Public Works De- partment of this country is well and economi- cally managed. It is seldom that you hear of anything going seriously wrong in that depart- ment. The department has worked steadily on from year to year, and it is doing first-class work as far as I can gather; and I think it is high time that somebody at last paid the Minister for Public Works the compliment- though it is not really a compliment, it is but bare justice-of expressing appreciation of the work which he is doing, and expressing the wish that he may continue in charge of his depart- ment, and that he will go on doing in the future the good work he has been doing in the past. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City). - I 2.0. shall not detain the House very long, and especially at two o'clock in the morning, but I cannot allow this Loan Bill, which will increase the debt of the colony by $1,250,000, to pass without saying something upon it. The ques- tion now before the House is not only the question of the Public Works Statement, but the question of borrowing $1,250,000, which means adding about $50,000 a year to the tax- payers of the colony, because in the present state of the money - market, with interest charges rising, there is not much prospect of our getting it for less than $50,000 a year. Sir, we have had a good deal of provincial spirit displayed to-night-Auckland versus the South Island -and members have been discussing the large amount of money that has been ex- pended in the South. Well, that may apply so far as Westland, Nelson, Marlborough, South- land, and Otago are concerned, but certainly it does not apply to Canterbury. Although we pay as much revenue towards the government of the country as any one province, we have a paltry #22,000 to be spent in the Province of Canterbury. We do not complain, how- ever, of that. We see we must take a com- mon-sense view of it. Our roads are made ; our railways are also made for the most part, and Mr. Barclay be opened up. It is no use complaining that the railways, directly they are opened up, are not paying, because if we were to first ascertain the facts and to insist that only such railways as would pay working-expenses and interest upon the cost of construction right off the reel should be made-if we were to go on that policy I am afraid we would not have many railways made. The whole country must bear the burden and responsibility in the interests of the com- munity at large in constructing railways. These railways will all in time become profitable. There is no use in arguing against the con- struction of a line because it will not imme- diately pay working-expenses and interest on the cost of construction. There are plenty of lines in the North Island that do not pay. An Hon. MEMBER .- None in the North Island. Mr. ELL .- Yes ; there are some in the North Island that do not pay immediately they are constructed. It takes time and settlement to make a railway pay. If you go through the estimates you will find there some that will not pay interest and working-expenses ; though if you take a big section, and take them in con- junction with the main lines, then they do pay. There are just a few remarks I would like to make with regard to this Loan Bill. I think, seeing that more than the whole of the Customs revenue collected from the people is taken to pay the interest on our public debt, it is time the House should commence to think about finding some other means of obtaining cash credits than the means we now adopt of simply going to the English money-lender. I believe it is the duty of the House to set up a Committee, or a Royal Commission, to inquire into the question, and see if some means cannot be devised where- by we shall be enabled to provide the neces- sary credit for carrying on our public works without overloading the people of the colony with the payment of the interest, as we are now doing. I believe it can be done. I am astonished that so little interest is taken in this proposed Loan Bill of £1,250,000. Why, there was more whipping-up, and more discussion, and more work by members with regard to the expenditure of about £30,000 on the mail-con- tract than there is in the sanctioning of a loan of a million and a quarter, which may involve an annual interest-charge upon the community of £50,000 a year. As I have said, I think some means might be devised for reducing the rate of interest-charges. Some honourable members may regard it as a "fad " of mine, but if they will take the trouble to go through the pages of Hansard they will see that I have a good many " fads," and that I have not simply one idea in my head. I have a good many ideas as to what would be of benefit to the colony, and I think the time has now arrived when we should consider whether we cannot arrange for some other means of creating credit to carry on our public works. We must have our railways, roads, and public works. There is just one matter which I would like to speak upon, with respect to the purchase of land and the opening- 