of this country have been poor men ; some of those who have done the greatest good for the colony have been poor men. I carry my mind back to Sir Harry Atkinson, to Mr. James Macandrew, to Mr. John Ballance-men who sacrificed themselves- Captain RUSSELL .- They only had £100 a year most of their time. Sir J. G. WARD .- The honourable gentle- man will pardon me for saying they had in their time a great deal more. But I say they were greatly underpaid, and many others have been so too ; and I carry my mind back to the time they first came into Parliament, and they entered under great difficulties, at great cost to themselves, and both they and their families suffered by sacrificing that which the country did not provide for them. And I say it is no credit to the colony that men of that stamp, or those of the present day, should be sacrificed. And this is the experience of most of those who have been passing through the history of this country as representatives of the people. I re- member an honourable member-then a lead- ing member of the Atkinson Government, who had brought about the reductions-expressing the opinion, long after the reduction took place in the salaries of Ministers and the honorarium of members-I heard him ex- press the opinion that we had gone too far in that respect, and that a great mistake had been made in what they had done. I was then a member of the House; and I have no doubt whatever we did go very much too far, and the result was that when the turn https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 of the wheel came, the increases in various directions were greater than they would have been had we not gone so far in the other ex- treme. There is not much to be gained by going too far in anything, because when the tide turns and the floodgates are open the rush of water is so great as to carry with it what under more placid conditions and with quieter water would not be borne along the flowing stream. I have listened very patiently to the remarks of some members who were putting their views on record, and I could not help smiling when I heard the honourable member for Franklin, in his calm, dispas- sionate, deliberate way, arguing that we should not go in for increases in view of the fact that there was too great a tendency in that direc- tion. If the honourable gentleman would only give us example instead of precept --- Mr. MASSEY .- I always do. Sir J. G. WARD .- Well, my honourable friend is the biggest gourmandizer of excessive amounts of money for the northern part of the colony of any man who ever sat in Parliament. He stops at nothing; no amount is too big for him. I recognise that one must give an op- ponent credit for what be is endeavouring to do; but when I heard him get up in so bland a way and suggest that too great increases were taking place I could not help feeling that he should have given us example instead of precept, and ought to have consulted his constituents before he asked the House to vote the enormous Sir J. G. Ward He has never done so, and I think his con- science must be pricked in making that com- parison. I only want to say that, looking at the whole matter impartially, I believe sincerely that this colony does not want to have under- paid representatives carrying on the growing business of the country, and I am convinced that in recent years the demands made on members of both branches of the Legislature have been very much greater and heavier than at any time in the history of our colony. If the people want members to represent them on the system of payment which exists-and rightly so-the payment ought to be a fair one; and, though I am as deadly opposed to either extravagance or wasteful expenditure, either publicly or pri- vately, as any man in the House, I do not believe £300 is too much for any person to receive who is serving his country to the best of his ability. He has to keep up two homes for pretty well half the year. He must in the recess travel a good deal away from his home, and his hand must be in his pockets many times where it would not be were he in private life ; and he has to carry on the public work of his constituents during the recess. This must be taken into consideration. Believing that £300 is not too much, but is a fair and reason- able payment, I for one am prepared to support it; and I believe every right-thinking person will support a reasonable remuneration being given to the representatives of the people. Some honourable members say that £300 a year for one session of Parliament is a very large sum, but the length of the sessions are in- creasing, and it would appear to me the multitudinous duties thrown on the Govern- ment and those who support the Government, or oppose it, as members of Parliament-I say the multitudinous duties now asked for by the constituencies have become all-the-year- round work, and, with the many calls mem- bers have on their time and pockets which did not formerly exist, there has been a great change in that direction, and we ought to be able, in our places either on the platform or in the House, to place on record our views upon a matter such as this, and to put before the people, that as representation is on the basis of payment the payment should be fair, or else there should be no payment at all; and I say the latter would be most injurious to the people as a whole, while it might, of course, benefit & select few. If we go back to the old system of not paying members at all, what would be the result ? It would cost the people, indirectly, many thousands of pounds a year more than it does by openly providing for the payment of members to a reasonable extent such as that now advocated. On this question of a comparison with other countries, I wish to say that the amount paid in Victoria and New South Wales is very much higher than the amount paid in New Zealand. I am not going to say anything to create an impression in the minds of any one in this House or beyond this House that the members of Parliament in New Zealand are better than the members of 