sidered ? Was it consistent with their self- respect to pass these large items blindfold, especially after getting the plainest indication that the Premier had some strong motive for concealment ? The Premier's tactics showed that there was something very improper con- cealed in this vote. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked why the right honourable gentleman had given the Committee the names of certain officers who had received moneys as allowances out of this item, and yet refused to give the whole of the names. Then, again, if the sum of £800 was asked for for services unknown to members of Parliament, why should they not be asked for £2,800, or any larger sum? Where was the authority ? There did not appear to be any authority here. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked if any- thing more had been spent than the $667, the details of which the right honourable gentleman had partly given. Mr. SEDDON said he had given all that was on the list supplied, showing what was expended. Mr. HERRIES asked if the £300 the Premier had referred to was included in this £667. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) said, According to the Premier's statement over $400 of this £800 had been spent, but he (Mr. Pirani) believed that more than £400 had been paid. He thought it only right that the details should be laid on the table, and, in fact, he believed https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the officers who had received bonuses would be only too glad to have their names made public. He had frequently pointed out that no audit was so satisfactory as the publication of full details of expenditure, and they now had an instance in point. The Premier had managed to get these payments through the Audit, but he was afraid to publish them. The House was denied the right that its expenditure should be laid before them, because the Premier said he did not wish the names of the officers published. The reason why the particulars were denied was because invidious comparisons would be made by officers who did not receive a bonus. He felt sure there was something underneath the Pre- mier's refusal to grant the details of this expen- diture, and all sorts of illegal payments might be covered up in it. How did they know that Mr. Edwards, the Seddonian organizer, did not receive a share of this money, or that the ex- penses of the petitioner in the Patea election case were not paid out of it ? Perhaps the Pre- mier had some peculiar reason for not revealing the names of all the recipients of the moneys in question, otherwise his attitude was irrecon- cilable. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said the statement that members were finding fault with the bonuses given, or proposed to be given, was not correct, because they did not know to whom the bonuses had been given, and until they got the information it was impossible to find fault. He considered the House was en- Mr. Atkinson of the public money. This item was on a par with the details of "contingencies" which had been supplied in regard to every class of the estimates. Mr. SEDDON said he would give the amounts, but did not think it necessary to give the names. Mr. MASSEY did not see why they should not be supplied with the names. He thought they were entitled to the names of the persons to whom this sum of £667 was intended to be given. The Committee divided on the question, "That the item be reduced by £5." AYES, 20. Russell, W. R. Allen, J. Lang Bollard Lethbridge Smith, G. J. Ell Massey Tanner Mackenzie, T. Thomson, J. W. Hardy Herries McNab Teliers. Monk Atkinson Hogg Rhodes Hutcheson Pirani. NOES, 33. Gilfedder Mills Bennet Buddo Graham Napier Hall O'Meara Carncross Carroll Hall-Jones Parata Collins Hornsby Seddon Colvin Thompson, R. Houston Duncan Laurenson Ward Field Witheford. Lawry Fisher McGowan Tellers. Flatman McLachlan Palmer Fowlds Meredith Symes. Fraser, A. L. D. Majority against, 13. Amendment negatived. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked how many armourer-sergeants had been imported from England. Mr. SEDDON .- Two, I think. Mr. FISHER asked in what depot the men were placed. Mr. SEDDON thought there was one in Wellington and the other at Auckland. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) asked why it was necessary to import these armourers when in New Zealand there were men well qualified to perform the duties required in connection with such a position. He believed that one of these imported armourers was being placed over the head of Mr. Christie at Mount Cook, when Mr. Christie had really had charge of the ar- moury there for a number of years. He con- sidered this was a reflection upon Mr. Christie's abilities. Mr. SEDDON said, Taking into consideration the mechanism of some of the guns the depart- ment was importing, it was considered neces- sary to bring out men who were experts in that particular line, and men who had a knowledge of other armaments such as the men we had here could not be expected to have. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) moved, That the item, "Purchase of piano for Fifth New 