and that the retort was made in the same sense. Mr. HOGG .- Well, Sir, what I wish to point out is this : We ought to endeavour in every possible way to promote our manufactures and help our manufacturers ; and I would ask the trades-unions and our artisans to refrain from going too far. They have carried things a pretty good length in New Zealand, and I think this is an opportune time to sound a note of warning to them. I believe the time has arrived when they should feel satisfied with their achievements, and hesitate about going further than they have gone. Some of our manufacturers are not able to comply with the demands of the unions. I have been an em- ployer in the country myself, and I know that if I had had to comply with some of the de- mands of the unions I should have had to shut up my business. Such an effect 88 that is not only going to prejudice the em- ployer, but to terribly prejudice the employé. The state of the labour-market in the country is not what it has been. I was told by an employer to-day that there are a great many men now out of employment. I am very sorry to hear it, because the reverse has been the case during the last two years. Within the last day or two in my own district I have been waited upon by sterling working-men in want of employment, and this afternoon I was told by an employer that he was sorry to say there are a considerable number of men out of em- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 ployment at the present time. How does that happen ? I do not know that it is because of artisans losing their employment and being driven back upon unskilled labour. I should be sorry if that were the case ; but if manu- facturers have to dispense with their hands where are the men to go? They must go to the country, and, if so, employment there will become overcrowded. There is no need to try to keep up an artificial rate of wages in a colony like this where there is so much land ready for settlement. Let the people have access on reasonable terms to the land, and we shall always be able to maintain a fair and reasonable rate of wages for the labourer. With the land available as a regulator or lever, as long as a man has health and strength he has no need to fear that his wages will be brought below what is fair and reason- able. That is why I say the trades-unions ought to pause before they go further than they have gone already. The demands that are being made continually for interference under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act may well be allowed to rest for a season. We have a young country, we have any amount of splen- did natural products, and I only regret to find that, instead of their being exported in a manu- factured state, we are continuing to send them abroad as raw material, with the natural con- sequence that our chief staple export-the wool that we send to London-involving millions of money, owing apparently to the rings formed by purchasers and the combinations of manu- facturers, is being depressed to a price never say we ought to take steps to protect our pro- ducers, and to see that they realise a fair price for their products. I believe that we are capable of doing so-that we have the means within our reach ; and the time seems to me to be rapidly approaching when, instead of sending contingents to Africa to fight for the Empire there, we will require all our contingents within the colony to fight on the side of commerce in a conflict far more important and far more con- sistent with twentieth century civilisation than the mercenary and barbarous wars which are permanently disfiguring the pages of history, and disgracing the character of the enlightened age in which we live, in other parts of the world. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) .- Sir, I do not wish to occupy the time of the House very long, but I would not like to have this Bill pass its third reading without saying a few words upon it. From some of the speeches made to-night one might be led to conclude that labour required no legislation at all. Now, I think we ought to be fair-minded when we come to this House, and to deal out to every elector his just dues, and for that reason I have always looked upon labour legislation as being neces- sary. I agree with a great deal that has been said by the last speaker-that is, that the unions should not go too far. Neither should the other side go too far. We want to strike the happy medium and have capital and labour working together. I conclude we do not wish to let one get the upper hand of the other. Every one should receive consideration. With regard to the first Factories Bill that was circulated, I think it is a pity that that Bill was ever allowed to go out to the country. It cer- tainly created a deal of strong feeling, and it asked for more concessions than the labour representatives themselves were asking for. I do not know upon whom the onus lay for circulating that Bill, but I am very glad to see that it is modified ; and I do not think it will hurt any person in the colony, either employer or employed. What I would like to have seen in the Bill is that not less than three persons should constitute a factory. I believe two is too small. It really interferes with small busi- ness people-probably a small country boot- maker or blacksmith, for instance. I would like also to refer to some of the remarks made by the honourable member for Riccarton. By his speech he would lead the House and the country to believe that the Customs duties have increased in consequence of our manufactures falling off. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- No; because the importation increased. Mr. FLATMAN .- Quite so. The honourable gentleman infers, by the tone of his speech, that our manufactures are falling off. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- That they are not growing as fast as they should. Mr. FLATMAN .- Then, the honourable gentleman will admit that our manufactures are growing, in spite of the labour legislation existing. 