English bottoms. Now, with regard to some of the other islands, the Premier enlarged upon the great amount of money that we were going to get from the pearl-shell fisheries, and he especi- ally alluded to Penrhyn. Now, there are only two pearl fisheries of any importance in the islands we have joined to New Zealand - namely, Penthyn and Suwarrow, I am informed, and I believe it is true, so far as Penrhyn is concerned, the land is all in possession of the Natives. And we are bound by the terms on which we applied to have the islands handed over to us to respect all native rights in land. The natives have the rights of the pearl fishery, and, in the face of these rights, are we going to take away those rights and get an income from them ? Any income should go to the natives, and if we take it it would be wronging the natives, and I believe the contrary action would cause trouble in our new possessions at the start. Then, we come to the Island of Suwarrow, which the Premier is proposing, under clause 13, to hand over to the Admiral for a naval station. Well, Suwarrow is a fine lagoon harbour, but it is an atoll, or ring of coral, and a low island, and any hostile cruiser could shell the whole naval station from a safe distance without any trouble. Furthermore, the Island of Suwarrow belongs to a trading company. There is no Crown land on it, and we could not make it a naval station without paying compensation to that company. And they have labourers who are employed in pearl-fishing, and have all the fishing rights, so no income could be expected from this fishery. Mr. SEDDON .- You are misinformed. Mr. HERRIES .- My information is as good as that of the honourable gentleman's. Suwarrow is to be handed over to the Admiralty, compensation will have to be paid to this com- pany. Now, I come to the Island of Niue, or Savage Island. This is nearer Tonga than any of the other islands ; it is inhabited by quite a different population, who are more Malay even than the inhabitants of Rarotonga. It is a fertile island, but there is no good anchorage, so that it is not a good island for trading purposes. The Savage Islanders are the best people for labour ; they are the people who are employed in Samoa and other places for loading and unloading ships. They are the best labour people in the Southern Pacific, and the Premier will have to regulate labour from the island. In his speech on the second reading the Premier stated that he would not allow any more labour ; if that is the case, I think there will be trouble here from the start. The trade of Niue we shall not get at all, because it is mostly copra that comes from there, and that goes to Tonga, and is loaded in English bottoms ; or else goes to Sydney, and is loaded for Home there. There is no reason why it should come here, because we have no steamer running there. Mr. SEDDON .- We have a steamer running to the Tongan Islands regularly. Mr. HERRIES .- I am aware of that, but none of the Niue trade comes this way, except hats, I believe. The copra either goes Home Mr. Herries or to Sydney. Altogether we know little about \-- these islands, beyond the Cook Islands. We know a little more about the Cook Islands, as we have returns of trade in regard to those islands, since we had a British Resident, and it. does not show that we are likely to get any great advantage from joining these islands. So far as. I am concerned, I have always voted against it. It may be a good thing for the natives, but I 1 am sure it is not a good thing for our own people here. The Premier looks at it from an <!-- PageHeader="1" --> Imperial military point of view. How glad the English Government must have been to get rid. of them ; and how foolish they must have: thought us for taking them! We have ad- vanced our boundaries five or six hundred miles- nearer the French settlements, because Raro- tonga is about six hundred miles from Auck- land, and only two hundred miles from Tahiti,. so our country now marches with the French ; and, supposing our country were at war with. 1 France- and we have been on the verge of it more than once lately-our boundaries would ! join with those of a country with which England would be at war, and we should have to send a contingent to defend these islands. The probability is that next year's estimates will contain provision for a gunboat. or man-of-war to defend our new possessions. I join issue with the honourable member for Wellington City that it is a good policy for a sea-Power to take possession of outlying islands. I say it is far better to let the enemy have them ; and I think it will be readily under- stood by those who know anything about naval or military matters, such as the honour- able member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier), that it is nearly always the case that a sea- If Power, when war is declared, takes possession. of the outlying possessions of the enemy. A great sea-Power gets the trade anyhow from outlying islands, so should let the other nations spend money on them, and then, in case of war, take possession of them at their leisure. If they were at war with a sea-Power the holders of these islands would have to send out expeditions to defend them instead of at- tacking the sea-Power, so that, except to a sca- Power, they are sources of weakness. These islands are dotted about as a sort of hostages for inferior nations. If any one knows the history of England he knows that England possessed nearly every island in the world at one time or other, but in treaties of peace many of those islands were given back to other Powers. For instance, we formerly possessed Java, Sumatra, Cuba, Manila, and practically all the West Indies. An Hon. MEMBER .- Just the same as we gave up Samoa. Mr. HERRIES .-- I would ask under what conditions was Samoa given up? Is not the Transvaal of more worth than Samoa ? And does not the Premier think that it will be better for the Empire to get the Transvaal and the Orange Free State than to get Samoa ? An Hon. MEMBER .- How does that affect the matter ? \----- Mr. HERRIES .- If the Germans had joined 