we have been asked to vote this money, but, as a democrat, he was not going to oppose the Bill, as he would not allow any of the expense to fall upon the Governor. I wonder whether, as a democrat, he can allow any expense to fall upon the Mayor of his own city. I would like him to go round with the hat, or to propose to put a sum upon the estimates of the Christchurch City Council to meet the cost to which the Mayor had been put. I think he would get a very warm reception. In all seriousness, it seems to me that the maxim noblesse oblige should apply to His Excellency the Governor-I am speaking of the office-no less than to any other, and I fail to see why some honourable members referred to the expenditure of the Ministry in connection with the matter. Of course, these have been paid by the country, and I do not in this particular instance begrudge it to them. They, of course, have to incur a vast amount of legitimate expenditure when travelling round the country doing the country's business, and they should not be put to personal loss; but the analogy does not apply, for official hospitality is not a part of their functions, nor are they paid for it. But my point in regard to this particular vote, to put it shortly, is this: In the first place, it is a part of the Governor's functions to exercise hospitality on the part of the colony ; in the second place, we have given him a large increase in an improper way during his term of office, and one of the inducements which https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 led us to make that increase was the in- creased expenditure that he would be put to in connection with the Royal visit. The course we are asked to take now in reim- bursing the expenses that have been incurred officially as Governor is, in my opinion, im- proper and unconstitutional. Whatever the right honourable gentleman may say, it is perfectly clear that he sees that legally this is nothing but a donation we are asked to pass ; hence the procedure by a special Act, which is to be reserved for the approval of the Crown. Legally, therefore, it has put His Excellency in the position of coming to us as a suppliant and asking us to reimburse him for his expenses. The Premier says we cannot with self-respect refuse to pass this Bill. I fail, indeed, to see how any party to the transaction can fully pre- serve self-respect, whatever we do with the Bill. His colleague, the Minister for Rail- ways, said there appeared to be a prejudice on the part of some members against the King's representative. I have not heard a single senti- ment this evening or any suggestion of personal prejudice against the Governor. I think the Premier will acquit us all of that; but this kind of suspicion must arise when these Bills are brought forward in this way, in that they are in the nature of a personal benefit in the interests of the man for whom they are passed ; and opposition to the Bill is regarded as personal. I will say this in conclusion : with this kind of legislation going on very grave constitutional consequences may follow. If Mr. Atkinson certain that prejudice will be raised in this colony against-I will not say the King's repre- sentative personally-but, what will be a much greater disaster, against the office of a Go- vernor in this colony. In my opinion, that would be a very grave disaster indeed. The position of constitutional Governor, I am glad to think, is more firmly rooted in popular favour now than it was five or ten years ago. We hear less of an elective Governor than we did, but if this kind of discussion is continually taking place I am afraid the agitation in favour of that reform may gain strength again. I shall therefore vote against the Bill. Mr. SEDDON (Premier.)-I regret very much that any reply should be necessary in respect to this Bill. What has been the return I have received for meeting the wishes of members who suggested that I should withdraw this item from the estimates, so that the matter might be brought down in a Bill ? Who was the gentleman, amongst all others, who sug- gested the course now before the House ? The honourable gentleman who has just now sat down, supported by the member for Palmerston, and, I understood, his colleague for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson). This was represented in such a way that it should reach me, that if I took the course by withdrawing the item from the estimates and brought in a Bill it would prevent acrimonious discussion. What has happened shows me quite clearly that the constitutional phase of the question was only raised for the purpose of getting the Bill brought down, so as to make a more direct attack. All I can say is this : that, whilst I do not regret having changed the course because of adverse criticism outside the House, I am of opinion that, were it not for that, it was my place to have carried the vote on the estimates ; and I tell the honourable gentlemen opposite who have used this opportunity not only to assail the Government, but to assail the King's representative, that we will not stand it, either in this House or in this colony. Mr. PIRANI .- You have got to stand it. Mr. SEDDON .- There are some members in this House, and I regret to say it, whose views are inimical to organized society. Mr. MONK .- I ask that those words be taken down. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I cannot see anything unparliamentary in those words. Mr. SEDDON .- What have we had during this debate? We have had brought forward the remission of Customs, the increase of the Governor's salary, and we have heard it said here that that increase of salary, which stands not only for the present Governor, but for all Governors-we have been told that that was voted by members of the House with the view of meeting the extraordinary expenditure that would be incurred through the contemplated visit of their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York. I say, Sir, if any member will tell the House that,-whilst I must accept his statement,-I must say that the facts are against him ; and that the 