he had the greatest possible sympathy with the man who had suffered the loss of his sheep. However, as a member of the Railway Commit- tee, he thought it only right to say there was no evidence to show that there was negligence or carelessness on the part of the men in charge of the train. He objected, however, to the attitude taken up by the Chairman of the Com- mittee, the member for Motueka, who told the House just now that the member for Waihemo brought the matter forward in order to curry favour with the Farmers' Union. Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- I said his speech to- day was for that purpose. Mr. MASSEY said, Quite so. The member for Waihemo had now been a member of the House for a great many years, and long before farmers' unions were thought of or dreamt of. He thought honourable members generally would agree with him in saying that the honourable gentleman had been earnest and energetic in advocating the interests of the farmers, and looking carefully after the business of his con- stituents. He thought the statement of the Chairman of the Committee was quite uncalled- for. Mr. T. MACKENZIE asked the honourable member for Franklin to state whether that was not so. Mr. MASSEY said the member for Waihemo personally did not put it forward as evidence, but, so far as he could recollect, the honourable member read a letter to the effect that the drivers on this line were in the habit of reading / https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 newspapers, and that possibly the driver on this occasion was following the usual custom ; but when asked by the Chairman if he held by that statement Mr. Mackenzie said, " Decidedly not." Mr. T. MACKENZIE said the question was put to him in the Committee by the Chairman as to whether or not he adhered to the state- ment which was made in the letter regarding drivers reading newspapers, and he said, " No, certainly not," and this Mr. Massey, who was & member of the Committee, and who was present, corroborated. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) hoped the House would extend to the honourable member for Waihemo the customary courtesy by allowing the petition to go back to the Committee again. The honourable member for Waihemo had read from a letter he received from the farmer whose sheep had been killed. As many as thirty sheep died from the effects of the train running through them. The member for Parnell stated that the department said only seven sheep were kiiled, and the honourable member stated almost in the same breath that there was no evidence whatever before the Committee to show that there were any sheep killed at all. Therefore the honourable member for Parnell was not prepared to accept the statement of the officers of the Railway Department, nor vet the statement of the member for Waihemo. Surely, in the face of that, the House would agree with him that the petition should be seut back to the Committee to enable the the farmer, or any other witnesses he thought proper, to Wellington to substantiate the evidence he had given. He had no doubt the honourable member for Waihemo would be able to do so, and give a correct ver- sion of the case. He knew what it was to drive a number of sheep across a railway- crossing ; yet, at the same time, every farmer must know that if six competent persons were in charge of a mob of 1,000 sheep, with ordi- nary care on the part of the engine-driver in charge of a train, seeing sheep at a distance of 150 yards, he had power to slacken off and allow the sheep to be driven either backwards or forwards by those in charge. He thought there must be some neglect on the part of those in charge of the train. Mr. LANG (Waikato) would vote that this petition be referred back to the Committee, not that he hoped it would do a great deal of good, because even if the Committee reversed its de- cision the remarks of the Premier seemed to indicate that when it came before Cabinet the recommendation of the Committee would have little effect ; but he should vote in that direc- tion as a protest against the way in which the Railway Department treated settlers and others, not only in the matter of the loss of stock in this way, but in regard to loss arising from de- struction by fires caused by the railway loco- motives. He thought the Railway Department should fairly compensate the sufferers in such cases. He would give an instance : Some time since a settler's fence was destroyed by fire- Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said he must stop any reference to a question of destruction by fire. Mr. LANG would at once bow to the ruling ; but he was only going to give an instance of how damage had been done to stock. A fire had been caused by the locomotive, which burned done the fence. The cows of the settler then trespassed on the line, were destroyed by the engine, and the settler was fined for having cows on the line. The instance he desired to give had direct reference to the destruction of stock by a railway engine. The honourable member for Parnell had pointed out that this petitioner had no legal claim against the colony. But what reason would there be to petition the House if there was a legal claim ? No reason whatever. It was simply on the ground that there was a moral or just claim, though not a legal one, that a petition was usually presented to the House. Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera), as a member of the Committee, said that from the evidence before them they could have come to no other conclusion than this report submitted. He, however, had no objection to the petition going back to the Committee, more especially if there was fresh evidence to be submitted. The honourable member for Parnell was not quite right as to the number of sheep killed. The Railway Department had gone into the matter, and the General Manager had admitted that thirteen or fourteen had been killed outright, a good deal of damage had been done, and that 