would be justified in sticking up this Bill. Mr. SEDDON (Premier). - I am surprised. You may do your best to help the colony, and when you have an opportunity of a great saving and of doing business for the colony, which is in accordance with the wishes of the great majority of members and of the people, you are met in this way. I have here something to make known to members. Here is a para- graph which was prepared for insertion in the Financial Statement, - " Honourable members will recollect that an offer was made last year by this company to sell the line to the Government, together with all assets, on a 6-per cent. term basis, which would have yielded to shareholders about £1 15s. a share. The Government notified the company that they could not entertain the proposal at the price submitted ; that it would be cheaper to take over the line under the existing agreement; and that the Go- vernment would purchase it at a satisfactory figure. Recently the statement of assets and liabilities of the Wellington and Manawatu Railway Company has been submitted to the Government, and there was a prospect of the company being prepared to accept a payment equal to 5 per cent. upon the capital, equal to about £1 11s. 9d. a share, and it would be an advantage as compared with taking over the line under the original agreement. The Go- vernment, however, does not see its way to agree to take over the line on these terms; but the difference between the company and the Government is so small that there is every probability of the House this session being called upon to approve the conditions of pur- chase of the Manawatu Railway by the colony. The taking-over of the Manawatu Railway at the present juncture is somewhat inconsistent with the advice generally tendered throughout the Budget ; but there are exceptions to all rules. There can be no doubt that it would be an advantage to the colony if this line were secured. It is desirable that all railways in this colony should belong to the State, as they can be better controlled and regulated, and confer greater advantages to the public, than under private management and control." At four o'clock in the afternoon of the day the Financial Statement was delivered the Chair- man of the directors informed the Government that a majority of the directors would not sell at £1 11s. 9d. per share. Subsequently, they offered to take £1 12s. 6d. The next thing was, I made a statement when opening one of the bridges on the line, and said the Government had been prepared at the time to offer, subject to con- firmation by Parlament, $1 10s. per share. The next step was, that the company wrote to know whether the Government were still prepared to give 30s. per share. I replied, " Yes, subject to ratification by Parliament "; but I would not submit anything to Parliament until it was intimated to me that there was a prospect of this being agreed to. It was intimated to me that the majority of the directors were not favourable, but there was every reason to Mr. G. W. Russell would be prepared to accept an amount for the assets equal to #1 10s. per share. If, in the face of that, I had taken no action and nothing had been done, and it had leaked out that such an arrangement was possible, why next session I should have been accused of barring the way to acquiring the railway at a reasonable price. What am I to do ? Those who like to take the responsibility to-night, and let this opportunity go by, can do so, so far as I am concerned. I am prepared to do that which is in the best interests of the colony. The last speaker says, " How do we know the statement of the assets is correct ? Have the Government had no re- ports ? " The Government took this 6-per-cent. proposal and had it worked out by the Insur- ance Department, and we find it much better to purchase at the price mentioned in the Bili. and we get the land and all complete by paying a little more. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why not put the papers on the table? Mr. SEDDON .- How can we do that? It was worked out by Mr. Hudson, the railway expert ; and then we had the report by the Engineer-in-Chief and Mr. Napier Bell as to the condition of the rolling-stock and the con- dition of the line, and we were told that every- thing was in very good order. If that report had been laid upon the table of the House it would have fully justified us offering #1 10s. a share : and because I want to deal in a businessike way with a business transaction doubts are cast on the matter by the honourable member. You must rely on the Government of the day. and, if you cannot trust us on a matter of this kind when you require to have the exercise of business aptitude, I simply say you had better get somebody else. It is sickening, when en- deavouring to help the country, and to do the best in the interests of the country, to have these statements made. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - We have got our duty to the country as well as you have. Mr. SEDDON .- It is not your duty to asperse the Government. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I have not done so. Mr. SEDDON .- Probably the honourable member does not understand the English las- guage. I think, sometimes, he does understand it ; on this occasion he said it was his duty. as a member of the House, to stop this business going through. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Yes. Mr. SEDDON .- Why ? Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Give us the infer- mation. Mr. SEDDON .- I cannot with fairness to car officers and the colony give you the whole of the information-and even what I have already sali may have a construction put upon it, that the Manawatu shareholders may say, " We are not prepared to accept your offer." That is exactly the position that, perhaps, the honoursdie member wishes should obtain. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I understand you to say the directors say that now. 