the Boards so established that they would be above difficulties; and I have been endeavour- ing ever since to place Boards in such a posi- tion of satisfactory finance that they shall never again be obliged to resort to such methods as they have been driven to in the past. Of course, I do not refer to rich Boards such as the Hon. Mr. Montgomery used to preside over- the North Canterbury Board-nor to the Otago Board, because those Boards were enabled to assure themselves of their own finance. Because of the number of large schools they had they were able to absolutely make money out of the existing capitation of £3 15s. ; whereas if you went across the straits to Marlborough or down the coast to Grey and Westland, where there are very good Boards, which work very well, or if you went to the District of Auckland, which I think is the most notable instance, there you would find the largest district in area, with the largest number of schools, and the largest number of scholars, and the fewest number of large schools in proportion, where their finance was always in difficulties, simply because they had not sufficient large schools to assist the work of the small schools. In Otago and North Canterbury it was different. There there were a sufficient number of large schools to enable the Board to save money on the large schools to enable them to support the small schools. That was a happy state of things, even looking at it from the point of But when I came to view of finance. look at it still further I found that this was operating in a way very detrimental to the teachers, to the children, and to the general welfare of the community. It meant that in certain districts of the colony they could only http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero afford to pay small salaries. Other districts paid large salaries, and, of course, they got the best teachers ; but, on the other hand, the dis- tricts that could not afford to pay large salaries were glad to get the leavings of other places ; and, without in any shape or form reflecting on the teachers who have been serving and doing their best in the poorer districts, still I say it is not good for any service such as an Education service ought to be to have any part We of it labelled as anybody else's leavings. want our children in every part of the colony to be equally well taught. We want every part of the colony to be able to pay equally good salaries to what any other part of the colony pays ; and, with that certainty which I think I hold in my hand if this Bill passes, every school in the colony ought to be taught by a man quite equal to hold his own in any school of the colony. Then, another unfortu- nate circumstance has occurred in the past, and that is that Boards sometimes got into trouble financially. Many other associations and institutions get into trouble financially, but most of them have to get out of the trouble at their own expense. Education Boards, how- ever, had this peculiar compensating clause : that whenever they got into financial trouble they could always get out of it at the expense of the teachers. I do not think that is fair. the constable," and had overestimated some- thing, and that they had to draw in in one direction or another, the easiest way of draw- ing in was always to knock something off the teachers' salaries. I do not think that is right or fair. We know that has been done by a. colonial Government on a previous occasion ; but I do not think that the Government that did it felt very proud of its finance, nor do I think the Boards felt proud of having to do an action of that sort. It is because of these troubles that this reform has been brought in,. and why I am very glad it has been brought in .. I feel that this will do more to make our educa- tion system truly a national system than it has. ever been before, because our teachers have been divided up between district and district, and there. have been prejudices in certain districts as to the appointment of teachers from one part of the colony to another. I believe that will gradually disappear now that we have got all our teachers on one footing and on one esta- blishment. Of course, the difficulty of dealing. with this Bill is that the whole gist of the matter is in the schedule ; but I think the Council may rest assured that the schedule has been very carefully studied and very carefully. prepared. The Government, feeling sure that this was a question which should be settled as soon as possible, and required to be settled in a manner which would convince even those who were perhaps opposed to it, adopted the reasonable expedient of appointing a Royal. Commission to go into it. They did their best. to select representative men from every part of the colony, and I can only here in my place in the Council express my exceeding gratitude for the way in which those gentlemen per- formed their duties. I think they did their duties remarkably well. They spared no time and no trouble ; they went right up and down. the colony; they gave every education dis- trict in the colony an opportunity of being heard ; and the amount of evidence they collected is most instructive and, I think, con- clusive : and the result is this Bill. Not only this Bill in the shape which it meets us to-day is the result, because the tables attached to the schedules, if not compiled, were approved by the Commission ; but I feel quite certain that if it had not been for the work of the Commission this Bill would not have had so easy a passage in another place. I can only ask the Council to give the Bill every consideration ; in fact, I know I need not ask the Council to do that, because they are sure to do it by reason of the importance of the question. And I trust there are enough members of this Council anxious that the true interests of education should be fostered and encouraged in this colony to enable this Bill to go through. It goes without saying that if this Bill passes I shall be a very proud man. I beg to move the second reading of the Bill. Bill read the second time. The Council adjourned at twenty minutes to. five o'clock p.m. 