am quite willing that you should dispose of them as you please," and he might put a Government stamp on them. This will get over the difficulty in respect to the man who makes a business of selling Maori curiosities which are of no great value. It is not necessary for every member to rise to sing the praises of Mr. Hamilton ; but as that gentleman lives in my town, and is Registrar of the University there, and as I have the pleasure of his acquaintance, it may not be out of place if I add my meed of appreciation to his skill, his enthusiasm, and his unflagging industry in the acquisition of knowledge and the collection of everything available in connection with Maoris and Maori art. I sincerely trust that his know- ledge and ability will be taken advantage of in connection with this Bill, and with the other work which the Government very wisely is doing in connection with a permanent storehouse of Maori articles of interest. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) .- Sir, in com- mon with other speakers I tender my congratu- lations to the Hon. the Minister who has introduced this very desirable Bill, and I shall most cordially assist him, not only in the passage of the Bill, but also in every effort he may put forth with a view to preserving for all time the remains of that grand race which we are so proud to have associated with us in this colony of New Zealand. I think, however, Sir, that the honourable gentleman's Bill does not go far enough. In section 3 it is provided that it shall not be lawful to remove from the colony any Maori relics without first offering the same for sale to the Governor in Council for the benefit of the colony. Now, no doubt there is an implication that the Government will be prepared to purchase these articles for the benefit of the colony ; but there is no specific authority in the Bill enabling that to be done, and I would invite the honourable gentleman, when the Bill goes into Committee, to provide that specific authority ; and, further, I think, Sir, that he should follow his Bill up by placing a sum on the estimates to enable a beginning to be made. That sum could be renewed or If increased from year to year as required. he were to do that, he would then make his Bill immediately operative. If he does not do so, then the Bill is simply a sort of acade- mical expression on the part of this House of the desirability of something being done in the direction of its proposals. At any rate, that is how it appears to me. The honourable member for Wellington Suburbs referred to a very beautiful carved house which exists at Whaka- rewarewa. I think it is what is called-Mr. Monk will correct me if I am wrong-a " whare- puni." I understand it was intended to be used for a Runanga House or something of the sort ; but, at any rate, the carving of this edifice is said to be of a very excellent kind, and if that is so I think that certainly an effort ought to be made to acquire it for the colony. Then, Sir. I would like to offer this suggestion to the honourable gentleman-it perhaps may be con- sidered rather hypercritical, but it appears to what amended or enlarged. I do not think the word " relic " is the best word that could be used ; and if the honourable gentleman will look up the definition of the word " relic " in the dictionary he will find that it comprises these things -- namely, " that which is left after the loss or decay of the rest ; a remaining frag- ment ; the body of a deceased person ; some- thing preserved in remembrance; a memento, souvenir, or keepsake ; a bone or other part of saints or martyrs, or some part of their gar- ments." Now, Sir, that is not exactly what the honourable gentleman means by " relics," and I offer to him the suggestion that he should put in the word "antiquities " in substitution for "relics," or in addition thereto. I think that would not only provide a better title, but would also really enlarge the scope of the Bill. I am pleased to see this Bill emanating from the Go- vernment benches, and so very appropriately from an honourable gentleman who has the honour of being connected with the race whose "relics," as he calls them, he is so anxious to preserve. But I should like to see him go a little further. Not only do I think that he is entirely right in endeavouring to preserve the records of a past age, but I think also that he should extend his conserva- tive efforts in the direction of preserving the Maori terminology-the Maori names of places. I regard it as a disgrace to the colony that at our railway-stations and in public places we have painted up what are mere travesties of Maori words. We have numbers of stations, the names of which are displayed in large letters, but which names are not those of anything Maori, nor of anything I know of under the sun. The words do not belong to the language of any nation in the world. Some of them have impossible letters, like "1," in defiance of the fact that there is no such letter in the Maori language; and I think the honourable gentleman should urge upon his colleague who has control of the Railway Department the desirability of removing that scandal from New Zealand. It is a disgrace that visitors to this country should be misled by the mis- naming of places painted up in this way. A reference to this matter, I think, comes in very fairly in connection with the discussion of a measure to preserve Maori antiquities and relics, and I do hope the honourable gentleman will do something in this direction. Further, I would add that if he wishes to make his Bill operative, he should direct his personal efforts to the acquisition of Maori antiquities on behalf of the Government, and should follow up the Bill's proposals by placing a sum on the estimates to enable this to be done. Mr. MONK (Waitemata). - I feel myself rather unfortunate in having to speak after so many members who have dealt with features of the subject before us upon which I desired to offer an opinion, and my difficulty therefore in speaking now is to prevent myself from perpe- trating a mere repetition of previous speakers. I had marked, Sir, among the notes which I have made, to express some condemnation of 