House should be not to separate or to create independent parties, but to continue to work together in the interests of both, and especially for the general welfare of the colony. My opinion is, if the employers act with that judg- ment and wisdom they should do, they will not allow anything in the shape of feeling to cause them, in the first instance, to go past the Con- ciliation Boards should disputes require to be settled. They will be acting wisely, and to the best interests of the country, if they allow their disputes to go to the Conciliation Boards be- fore pressing them direct to the Arbitration Court. An Hon. MEMBER .- They continue to do that in Dunedin. Sir J. G. WARD .- And I hope they will do it here. If you have a wound, and if it is open at all, I do not believe in rubbing salt in. I be- lieve if we are to have peace upon the Concilia- tion Board here, and upon Conciliation Boards throughout the colony, we are not acting wisely unless we exercise a little forbearance, because the employers will also see that it is for the well-being of the colony, and therefore for them- selves, that the machinery of the Conciliation Boards should be used before taking disputes to the Arbitration Court. The seriousness of the whole question, so far as the colony is concerned, is very great. We have only to carry our memories back to the terrible consequences which followed the strike we had in New Zea- land in 1890. The result of that trouble re- mained in many families in this country for years ; and I say that a great amount of that trouble reacted against the employés and em- ployers alike, and it left a general desire to create a system for the settling of disputes which would supersede strikes. Sir, we have had such & system, and it has been carried out most successfully by the Conciliation and Arbitration Courts, and it would be ten thousand pities if, owing to the working of the Act by any particu- lar Board in the colony, we were to go back to the old system, which might bring about the disastrous consequences similar to those which existed in the colony previous to the passing of this Act. I do hope that those outside the House, as well as honourable members, who voice public opinion, and who have a consider- able influence in their constituencies and in the colony as a whole, although the legislation placed upon our statute - book as regards clause 21 is against the views of the Govern- ment, will use their influence in a soothing and healing direction, and do nothing to cause strife or heartburnings upon either side, but will, in the interests of the colony as a whole, do their best to have the Act worked without friction, or, at least, with as little as possible. I only make these few remarks because I felt, in the absence of the Premier from the House, it was my duty to say what I felt if he had been here he would have given expression to much more ably than I could possibly have done, and he would certainly have put himself right, as I have endeavoured to do in his absence, in reference to this particular matter of clause 21. I am Sir J. G. Ward of both sides being exercised in a way that will defeat the views of some who look for trouble arising in the future. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- May I correct the honourable gentleman in one re- spect ? He stated that I was one of the mem- bers who charged the Premier with inconsis- tency in connection with clause 21. I did not mention clause 21 in my speech. I made no reference to it whatever. Sir J. G. WARD .- I was not in the House when the honourable gentleman spoke, but I was informed that the honourable gentleman did so. I understood he criticized the Premier adversely ; but, as he says to the contrary, I accept the honourable gentleman's statement that he did not do so. Amendments agreed to. # DEATH OF THE DOWAGER EMPRESS OF GERMANY. A message was received from His Excellency the Governor, forwarding the following let- ters : - "RANFURLY, Governor. "The Governor transmits to the House of Representatives copy of a despatch he has re- ceived from His Imperial Majesty's Consul- General at Sydney, conveying His Majesty's heartfelt thanks to the honourable members of the legislative bodies of New Zealand for the kind sympathy shown on the occasion of the death of the late Empress Frederick. "Government House, Wellington, 1st November, 1901." " Kaiserlich Deutsches General-Konsulat für Australien. "Sydney, 23rd October, 1901. " My LORD,-The resolution passed by both the Houses of the Legislature of your colony, expressing their deep sympathy with His Majesty the Emperor, the Imperial Family. and the German people on the death of Her late Majesty the Empress Frederick, have been duly conveyed to His Majesty. "I have now been instructed by special order to transmit His Majesty's heartfelt thanks to the honourable members of the legislative bodies of New Zealand for the kind sympathy shown on the sad occasion, and I therefore have the honour to request that your Lordship will have the goodness to cause these expressions of thanks to be communicated to the gentlemen named. "I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to your Lordship the assurance of my highest consideration. " P. VON TRURI, His Imperial Majesty's Consul-General. "His Excellency the Right Hon. the Earl of Ranfurly, Governor of the Colony of New Zealand." Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) .- 1 move, That these letters be entered on the Journals of the House. Motion agreed to. 