that it is a splendid Act if it is properly ad- ministered, and I say still further that I think there is an excellent administrator at the head of the Arbitration Court at the present time. The greatest friend of this Act is the man who takes care to keep the aggressiveness of the labour party in check. I do not think the labour party are worse than any other people, but there is something in human nature which impels people to secure all the advantages they can for themselves. For instance, I got a cir- cular letter the other day from the Farmers' Union demanding that they should not be brought under the Workers' Compensation for Accidents Act. Now, that demand is more unreasonable than anything the trade-unions have demanded. The reason and object of that Act is to make every industry pay for its own accidents; and, that being so, why should the farmers demand immunity from its provisions? I only refer to that to show that, like every other body, the trade-unions are likely to ask for more than it is possible to give them. That is the point. They will ask for more than it is possible to give them, and the business of the Court is to stand up fairly between the two parties and hold the balance evenly and justly. In my opinion, those who will do that will be the best friends of the labour party and the best friends of the In- dustrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I suppose I shall be like other people-put down as a hide-bound Tory in this Council. Very https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 well ; it is hard for the man who tries to do the even, fair, honest thing to escape being called ugly names. When I vote for the Government measures I am called a sycophant. When I vote against them I am a hide-bound Tory, and so it is difficult for me to escape being called ugly names under any circumstances. The Hon. Mr. L. WALKER. - What is a Tory ? The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- I have not a dictionary handy just now, and am no good at giving definitions off-hand, but I think there is not so much difference between us on this point that we need start splitting straws on them. My conception of my duty is to try to do the best and most honest, the fairest and most just thing in the interests of all. I think it is the interests of all that we ought to study. I do not wish to see the hopes of the Hon. Mr. Rigg realised when he told us here yesterday that, after the next election, the labour party would monopolize -the whole of the other House, I suppose he meant. The Hon. Mr. RIGG .- I said the day is not far distant. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- Well, distant or not distant, I would regret to see any section or party or class monopolizing the making of the laws of this colony. There was a time when it used to be an axiom that it was better to be governed from the head than from the feet. This meant, of course, that it was better to be governed by an aristocracy than a democracy ; but, so far as I am con- cerned, I prefer a combination of the head shall exercise intelligence, and energy, and human sympathy. That is what I hope to see. I hope the country will not be so mad as to send in one class exclusively to Parliament. It would be a bad day for that class, and a bad day for the country, if ever such a thing came about. Now, there is no reason why that class should not be represented here; and, although the so-called labour members here, who are supposed to be exclusively labour members, are not so numerous, let us remember that a great part of both Houses of Parliament have risen from the ranks of labour at some time or another, and have not alienated their sympa- thies altogether from the labour body yet. So that at the present time labour is better represented in these Houses than appears on the surface. Now, Sir, I think that I have exhausted myself, and the only thing that I would ask honourable gentlemen to do is to give fair and reasonable consideration to the amendments that I have proposed, for I think they would be found a great improve- ment on the present law. They would raise the status of the Boards of Conciliation ; they would give people much greater con- fidence in them, and they would give far more satisfactory results. Of course, honourable gentlemen, I suppose, will not think that I expect the 1st clause to be carried in its present shape. I put it there to draw attention to the matter, so that if it was desirable it could be put in proper form and included in the Bill. My object is to draw attention to it, and I think that that would be the best system -- a system under which the Stipendiary Magis- trate presides over this Conciliation Board, and it would be more in conformity with all our other Courts than as it is at present. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON .- I have only a few sentences to say, but I wish not to be misunderstood. I may say I rather approve of the provisions of the present Bill, and for several reasons. I rather think that, as the trade-unions were really responsible for the legislation we have, they should not endeavour to take themselves outside the provisions of the Act. I think, Sir, all that is required to bring them under the provisions of the Act is to be- come registered as industrial unions, and surely there is no hardship in them doing that. If they are brought in now under this Act they are liable to the penalties, and have no right of initiation. They can easily gain for themselves the right of initiation by registering as indus- trial unions. They do that now as far as my knowledge goes, and no union I know anything at all about would care to free itself from this position, and wish to bring about a state of things which would be disastrous to trade- unions and the workers generally. I say, there- fore, I approve of this section of the Bill as far as it goes. With regard to myself, I have no wish to destroy the Conciliation Boards, but they are not Conciliation Boards as at pre- sent constituted. They are Boards of Concilia- tion with limited power. And if they are Boards of Conciliation with limited powers, why not 