our December number .- Yours, &c., "Review of Reviews Proprietary (Limited), (T. SHAW FITCHETT, Managing Director.)" To that the reply was,- " We have decided to have special notice in Review of Reviews, same as Queensland, on terms mentioned your letter, and wish to have articles on Islands by Chief Justice reprinted. We are now selecting photographs which we You arrange for Berry's wish to appear. article." The reason for the photos respecting the Islands was to illustrate the article written by the Chief Justice in respect to those islands. If we had not asked that the article by the Chief Justice should be reprinted we should not have troubled about the photos ; that will take from me any blame, and is a full explana- tion of the photos respecting the Islands. Then this will explain again about the photos :- "The Under-Secretary. "Thirty-one photographs have been selected by the Hons. McGowan and Mills, and they are forwarded herewith. The titles of the photographs are scheduled and numbered, and attached hereto. Ministers desire that pre- ference should be given to the photographs numbered 1 to 19, if space will not permit of the reproduction of the whole of them. Kindly request the manager of the Review of Reviews to return the photographs to this office at his earliest convenience. # " A. BARRON, Assistant Surveyor-General." Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- As a point of order, Sir, is the right honourable gentleman in order in reading the whole of the correspondence that has now been laid on the table, in order to put it into Hansard, when none of the matters have been referred to by the speakers to whom he is supposed to be replying ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The rule is that an honourable member must not read anything more than is necessary to answer anything that has been said. Mr. SEDDON. -- I will confine myself to the subjects in respect to which I am reply- ing. The photographs were mentioned by the honourable member for Palmerston. I am going to show the honourable member for Wel- lington City (Mr. Fisher), in respect to his criticism that we favoured Mr. Stead in re- spect to the matter, very conclusively, that it was nothing of the kind. We received a fur- ther communication from the Review of Reviews as follows :- " Melbourne, 28th June, 1901. " Dear Sir, - Several very complimentary notices of the article entitled "New Zealand at the Beginning of the Century," which appeared in the Review of Reviews for Australasia for January, have been published in the English papers. Seeing these, the managing director of the English Review of Reviews has written to us suggesting that no better service to New Mr. Seddon of the Rev. Joseph Berry's article in the English Review. His proposal is that we forward him the plates we used, and he will print a special supplement on art paper, and insert one in every Review of Reviews circulated throughout Great Britain, Canada, India, South Africa, and other parts of the Empire. This would mean a circulation of some hundred thousand copies of the article in question. We are advised that the cost of printing and insert- ing such a supplement as described would be £300. "An ordinary page advertisement in the magazine costs £25 per insertion. As the article, with illustrations, makes twenty-four pages, you will see that the ordinary advertise- ment charge would be £600. The charge of £300 for the printing of the article in the body of the magazine, and on special paper, is there- fore a reasonable one. We are given to under- stand that this proposal is made at a reduced rate, as the article will have considerable interest for English readers as an article pure and simple. "If this suggestion commends itself to your judgment, will you kindly advise us that you accept the proposal, and we will at once for- ward on the plates to London. Of course, any alteration of illustrations or matter you desire can be made .- Yours truly, "Review of Reviews Proprietary (Limited), (T. SHAW FITCHETT, Managing Director.)" The answer to that application was in the negative. When we were asked to issue it in the English edition of the Review of Reviews the Government declined. Mr. MEREDITH .- On what grounds ? Mr. SEDDON .- On the grounds stated by me. We were perfectly satisfied with what ap- peared in the Australasian Review of Reviews. We did not see our way to give it to the English Review of Reviews. I do not think the attack that has been made upon the Government, owing to our action, is at all justified. More than that, it is ungenerous, and founded upon a misapprehension of what are the real facts. We reckoned we were doing good service to the colony. For my own part, I never thought of myself in connection with the matter. It was a question of what we could do to help the colony ; and it does appear to me that, when we are attempting to lift the colony, and help forward the colony, there is a load to drag which makes it almost impossible to do any- thing in that direction. You want the world to know the beauties of our country, you want people to come here and see New Zealand, and to settle in New Zealand; and what has kept us back for so many years is the fact that we are not known in the outside world. We are generally spoken of and written of as a portion of Australia. I say we have our own distinctive features, and we have scenery unequalled in any other part of the world ; and if we desire to bring the colony and its advantages before the world one of the best ways to do that is the way we have adopted. 