Under " Protection of Fish and Oysters " the contingencies were £211, made up as follows :- Wages of temporary Inspectors 142 Travelling-expenses 44 .. .. Rewards 13 .. Sundries 12 .. .. £211 Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) said there did not appear to be anything on the estimates for the purpose of port signalling from lighthouses at the principal ports. Mr. HALL-JONES said the department had written to the Board of Trade asking for their advice as to the best class of rocket for fog- signaling, and he proposed, when the infor- mation came to hand, to place a sum of £200 on the supplementary estimates for this purpose. Mr. MILLAR thought the Minister would agree that it was necessary that all the light- houses for ports should be equipped with a proper method for signaling during fogs. Mr. HALL-JONES .- Yes; and it was pro- posed to supply the rockets to the stations where they were most required. Mr. ARNOLD (Dunedin City) noticed on the estimates some very small sums, such as £25, as he could in this very desirable work. $30. and so on, for salaries of signal-men. Surely this was not the total salary received by what had been done in regard to the fish- these men. Were they not employed in some other work by some other department for which they received pay ? Mr. HALL-JONES said the work of signal- had been the result of the experimental trawl- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 ing at places like Mokau and Opunake was ing, whether it had been satisfactory, and carried out by men who had some other avoca- tion, and this small salary was merely supple- mentary to what they received for their other also like to know if any regulations were to work. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) asked what steps the honourable gentleman was taking to put the dredging industry on a more permanent footing. Had the Minister any legislation in hand for this purpose ? He also wished to know if the Minister was taking any steps to have all accidents on board ships reported to the depart- ment. At present, unless a man was actually killed on board a ship, no report was made to the department. Mr. HALL-JONES said, With regard to the question of engineers upon dredges, he was inquiry, before which any person could give bringing in a short Bill which would get over in certain districts to stop trawling. He thought the difficulty, provided that a first-class en- gineer were placed in charge of each dredge. Then, in the Shipping and Seamen Bill, which was being circulated, there were very much done, and the report showed that in some parts more stringent provisions dealing with acci- dents on board ships. He hoped to get that Bill through during the present session. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) noticed that vate venture. He might explain that the vote there was a pound-for-pound subsidy paid to- wards the Hokitika fish-hatcheries, and that the sum of #46 was expended last year. He not proposed to take any vote for carrying on further trawling this year. With regard hoped the Minister would meet the claims of other places for a similar pound - for - pound to the Dunedin Hatchery, at first a site was selected at Purakanui, but the expert evidence subsidy. laid before him showed that the water there Mr. HALL-JONES said that any application was impure and unfitted for the purpose. Ex- from districts instituting new fish - hatcheries perts at Dunedin have since recommended a site would receive due consideration. Mr. J. W. THOMSON (Clutha) said it was. quite a common thing for fishermen carrying on their avocation at the mouth of some of our large rivers to find in their nets very large trout, weighing, sometimes, up to 20 1b. The regula- tions under the Fisheries Act provided that fishermen were liable to a fine if trout were found in their possession either dead or alive. He thought this was rather hard, as it was im- possible to prevent the trout getting into their nets. These large trout were full-grown, and the rivers were better without them. Mr. HALL-JONES said he would look into the matter, as he could understand that the law might be acting somewhat harshly. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said, In refer-' ence to the pound-for-pound subsidy for Hoki- tika Acclimatisation Society, he trusted the Minister would favourably consider the applica- tion of any other society for similar help. He believed that last year the Auckland society, which was doing very good work in stocking all the rivers in the King-country, and thereby increasing the value of the Crown lands there, applied for a subsidy and were unable to get it. He trusted if they made an application now the Minister would encourage them as much Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) would like to know hatchery to be established near Dunedin, and whether this vote of £1,000 was for that purpose. He would also like to know what could they expect in the future better fish- supplies owing to this experiment ? He would be framed to prevent trawling within a certain distance of the shore, as the fishermen com- plained that their work was being interfered with by the trawling near the shore. Mr. HALL-JONES said, With regard to the complaint that trawling had caused the de- struction of young fish, a report had been re- ceived from a Committee of the House recom- mending that careful inquiry should be made so as to ascertain whether damage had been done by trawling, and he had promised that Mr. Ayson should visit the districts and hold an evidence. In his opinion, it would be necessary the results of the experimental trawling had been satisfactory. Reports had been presented last year and this year showing what had been of the colony there were good fishing-grounds which would justify any one in starting a pri- before the House was for the payment of ex- penses incurred since the 31st March. It was 