asked for the amount of the valuation, and the Deputy Superintendent very reluctantly dis- closed the valuation that had been placed on this particular property by the valuer. The Deputy Superintendent said, "I may say, however, that Mr. Fraser's valuation of the im- provements on your holding was $225." And in the face of that valuation, given by one of its own valuers, the Board declined to make the applicant any advance. He had a letter here which also stated,- "After carefully reviewing the valuer's re- port and all other particulars connected with the application, the Board resolved that the circumstances were not such as would enable them to sanction an advance." That was the reply received in connection with an application for an advance. He would tell the Minister in charge of this department that he had almost daily complaints coming in from his constituents in respect to the adminis- tration of his office. There appeared to be a conflict between the Land Board and the Ad- vances to Settlers Office. Unless a guarantee was given to the Advances to Settlers Office that a lease would not be cancelled by the Land Board it was unavailing for any Crown lessee to apply for an advance. With respect to this par- ticular application, he knew the applicant. Per- sonally, he did not know the value of the pro- perty, but he recommended the applicant as a thoroughly honest man, to whom the Board ought to have had no hesitation in making an advance, providing the valuation was all right. \- This man would have been perfectly satisfied to have received one half of what he was entitled to by the valuation placed upon the property. He received another letter, which http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero stated, in respect to another application, that the value fixed upon this applicant's property -on a Crown lessee's improvements of £1,320 = $600-was advanced two years ago by the Advances Department. This left a margin of $120 they could borrow, so on the 1st August last they applied for a further loan of $50, expecting that they would get it without another valuation-fee, as the valuation already made would justify that advance. However, the Superintendent replied that a valuation-fee was necessary. It was paid, and on the 17th September the Superintendent sent another circular definitely refusing any further advance. Last night he received two letters respecting the administration of the Advances Office, and he would read the termination of one :- "We are all waiting patiently for the free- hold ; then we will be independent of the Ad- vances to Settlers Office." With respect to the valuation-fees, he might quote an instance where their own valuer stated the value of the land to be $225. Not- withstanding this, the Advances to Settlers Board replied that it could not advance any money on it. Under such circumstances, he thought the department would only be meting out justice to those applicants whose applica- tions had been refused, not through any fault of their own, and not through the value of the Mr. O'Meara action of the department itself. He thought the valuation-fees in cases of this sort should undoubtedly be refunded to the applicant, be- cause it was making false representations to the settlers of the country when the department told them it was prepared to advance one-half the amount of the valuation of improvements. provided, of course, that its valuer agreed to a certain valuation. Here they had a valuer agreeing to a valuation, and the department, in the face of that, declined to make any advance. Mr. MILLS (Minister in charge of Advances to Settlers Office) said, in reply to the honour- able gentleman's question, which the honour- \-- able gentleman had not referred to, he would like to explain that no amendment of the Act was required. The leaseholds in question already came under the heading of " eligible securities," but when the leases contained such stringent covenants as rendered them un- desirable and unsafe as securities the Board declined to grant loans. He might mention that most of the leases provided for absolute forfeiture in the event of the lessee committing a breach of covenant ; or, again, that compensa- tion for improvements was payable on expiry of the lease only in the event of an incoming tenant being found. Now, both of these con- ditions were quite sufficient to make any Board hesitate about giving an advance. Of course, there were cases where he had no doubt the securities were ample for the loan required, but under the stringent provisions included in these leases the Advances to Settlers Board had not considered it desirable to make advances. With regard to the other matter which the honour able gentleman had referred to, he might point out that it was quite possible, from the ex parte statement they had just heard, that there was another side to the question equally good. The honourable gentleman had never consulted him, and had not sent him these letters. Mr. O'MEARA .-- I did consult you. Mr. MILLS said the honourable gentleman did not consult him about the letters he had brought before the House that day, so he was at a great disadvantage in replying. As a matter of fact, the honourable gentleman acknowledged that he had only received them on the previous evening. Mr. O'MEARA said he had consulted the honourable gentleman respecting the lease- hold. Mr. MILLS said he was willing to give the honourable member all the information on the matter he wanted, and he had only to apply for it. The very fact of the applicant referred to going to the Advances to Settlers Department for a loan and being refused, then going to the Government Insurance Department and their finding that the security was valued at much lower than the figure of the Advances to Settlers Department, showed clearly that the honour- able gentleman had taken hold of the wrong end of the stick. In reply to the many charges the honourable gentleman had made outside of his question, it was incumbent on him (Mr .. 