out, and he felt that the colony was greatly indebted to them. Contrasted with 5.0. the cost in other parts of the country, this charge was the most reasonable of all, and it was too bad that they should call this matter into question. Mr. Rhodes said he had gone carefully through the accounts, and he (Mr. Seddon) was sure that he had, for he had called attention to two or three places where he thought the tradesmen had been putting it on a bit too much. These were the colony's lia- bilities, and the only way to reimburse Mr. Rhodes was by voting him the money in the way they were proposing. If the placing of this amount on the estimates had caused Mr. Rhodes any anxiety, or had subjected him to any adverse criticism, he could only say that he was very sorry for it. If the Government had paid the accounts in the ordinary way the Auditor would not pass them. That had been tested, and unless there was direct autho- rity for the work from the Government the Auditor would not pass the payment. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) said it seemed to him that Mr. Rhodes, who had behaved most generously in connection with the visit of the Royal party to Christchurch, was being dis- paraged through the action of the Government. The cost of these alterations should have been a charge on the Government, and not be made to appear as if it were a charge made by Mr. Rhodes against the country for the entertain- ment of the Royal visitors, as it appeared by the estimates. The alterations and charges forming this amount should have been directed by an official with a proper warrant for doing so, also directing the accounts to be made out against and in the name of the colony. http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero Sir J. G. WARD said the position was, that Mr. Rhodes, in a very praiseworthy spirit, placed his house at the disposal of the colony for the use of the Duke and Duchess of York during their stay in Christchurch. The neces- sary expense dependent on the stay of their Royal Highnesses was to be borne by the colony, and was being borne by the colony. The accounts which they were dealing with now were sent in to Mr. Rhodes himself, and Mr. Rhodes sent the accounts to the depart- ment ; they had to be paid. The Government could not pay them. The result was, in order that they should do fairly by Mr. Rhodes, the amount had to be put down on the estimates in the name of Mr. Rhodes. Take one item, " Table- linen, £53 5s.": the colony got the whole of that back again, and it would be re- sold. There was an expenditure far beyond the total amount on the estimates incurred in Mr. Rhodes's house, but the balance had to be pro- vided for out of the payment to His Excellency the Governor, and that was in the £2,250. What was on the estimates was only what Mr. Rhodes was billed for by those to whom the accounts were owing, and for which he ought to be reimbursed by the colony. The Government did not send the accounts to Mr. Rhodes, but, the accounts having been sent to Mr. Rhodes by the tradesmen, Mr. Rhodes ment, as had been done in other places. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) thought it would have been better if, in the first place, the Government had been candid and had made a clear statement in reference to this particular item, and he had no doubt that if that had been done the House would have passed it at once. The Premier had made one statement and the Colonial Secretary had made another statement. It appeared that the Mayor of Christchurch gave up his beautiful residence for the benefit of the Royal party. He did not entertain the Duke and Duchess of York ; he was not the host on that occasion. It appeared to him (Mr. Meredith) that the Mayor of Christchurch (Mr. Rhodes) must have allowed himself to be employed as a sort of agent for the Go- vernment for the purpose of receiving trades- men's bills respecting the catering for the Duke and Duchess at his private residence. It would have been better if the Government had made arrangements through Mr. Holmes, who was their Special Commissioner, and who arranged in the first place that Coker's Hotel should be secured on behalf of the Government. But, inas much as the Governor had taken the place of Mr. Rhodes, and taken his private residence and occupied the position of host on that occasion, these accounts had been sent in to the Governor, and should have been included in the £2,250. If they were not included in the £2,250, they were an additional claim on the part of the Government for £247. He did not see that Mr. Rhodes had anything to do with the Govern- ment, good, bad, or indifferent. Mr. SEDDON .- We are responsible to him as our agent, and he is responsible to the people who supplied the goods or performed the ser- vices. Mr. MEREDITH said he did not think the name of Mr. Rhodes should have appeared in the estimates at all. He might mention that he was informed there was another gentleman in Christchurch who offered to accommodate the Duke and Duchess, on this condition : He claimed that he should be the host, and that the Duke and Duchess should be his guests. That offer was declined. No blame in this matter was attachable to Mr. Rhodes. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) said, If he had been able to move an amendment he should have done so, but the Standing Orders would not permit him. He would suggest this: that the Government might consent to the item being struck out, and bring it down on the supple- He mentary estimates in a different way. thought the present wording was misleading to the members of the House and to persons outside, and he would suggest that the wording should be, " Expenses incurred in Christchurch on behalf of the Government." He understood that, with regard to this particular vote, some of the items which the Colonial Secretary had read out were already provided for under the grant to His Excellency. Sir J. G. WARD .- No; it is in excess of that. Mr. J. ALLEN said the amount he was particularly referring to was the amount for 