Government business only. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said that, before the motion was carried, the House should get some indication as to what Bills the Government intended to proceed with. The usual rule was that the first "slaughter of the innocents " took place before this motion was carried. Would the Premier not indicate to the House what measures it was proposed to proceed with, and what measures it was in- tended to drop ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) was pleased to see the unanimity with which the motion had been received. It was the first indication he had had that members wished to get home before Christmas. He thought members would recog- nise that by not forcing things, but by taking them quietly, the effect had been most bene- ficial on his own health and on that of his colleagues. He had not felt in such good trim at that period of the session for many years, and on looking round the House he thought he might congratulate members also on being very fit. As to the Bills the Government intended to drop, he wished to say there were several- more particularly the Bill dealing with local government -- that should be got through this session, and it would be his endeavour to get that measure before the House as soon as pos- sible. There were two or three other Bills of a very important nature which should also be passed. Some of the others had been before the House for a considerable time; and as members had, no doubt, looked into them and https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 formed their opinions upon them, they should not occupy much time. The Order Paper was not quite so formidable as it looked. At that stage of the session in previous years, he had seen the Order Paper much more formidable. Mr. HERRIES .- You had your estimates through then. Mr. SEDDON said the estimates did not trouble the Government much. No time had been lost so far, and he thought that members, after fairly criticizing the estimates, would allow them to go through without much alteration. He did not think that members should be de- terred from dealing with the legislation neces- sary. When they dealt with the estimates night after night they had a disturbing influ- once, and he thought it would be better to have them once a week, so that members could then come fresh to them. He thought, under the circumstances, he ought not to obtrude the estimates more than once a week. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked when it was proposed to bring down the public works esti- mates. Mr. SEDDON said he wanted to get the other estimates out of the way. The public works estimates were advanced, and if he had the general estimates through he could bring them down next day. Motion agreed to. SPRINGBANK ESTATE. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) asked the Premier, What is the result of the recent visit Mr. Seddon missioners to the Springbank Estate, Otaio ; and whether steps will be taken to acquire this very suitable property under the Land for Settlements Act ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said that the Go- vernment had made full inquiries, and did not think that the estate should be purchased at the price asked. COOLIE LABOUR AT COLONIAL SUGAR COMPANY'S FIJI MILLS. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) asked the Minister of Labour, If his attention has been drawn to the report that the Colonial Sugar Company are importing Parsee fitters, turners, blacksmiths, and carpenters to take the place of Britishers at present employed in their sugar- mills at Fiji ; and, if the report is true, what steps will he take to prevent a continuance of such an undesirable practice ? Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Labour) said he had received a communication upon this sub- ject, but, whilst he regretted very much that in Fiji, which was so near to our colony, these Parsee artisans were likely to be introduced, at the same time this colony was not entitled to interfere. The matter was engaging the atten- tion now of the labour unions of the Common- wealth, and, Fiji being & Crown colony, he did not think the Imperial authorities who were intrusted with the control of affairs at Fiji would do anything which must cause friction between the Commonwealth, this colony, and Fiji. # NORTH CANTERBURY VOLUNTEER OFFICERS. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) asked the Minister of Defence, Why the North Canterbury Volun- teer officers have not obtained their commis- sions, considering that they passed their ex- aminations on the 5th December last ? Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Defence) said the commissions of these officers were being prepared. Some of the officers were gazetted on the 2nd May, and large numbers of com- missions had been prepared and signed and were ready for issuing. OLD-AGE PENSIONS ACT. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) asked the Premier, Whether he will, in the Old-age Pensions Act Amendment Bill, amend clause 44 so that the local Deputy Registrar may, in lieu of the Stipendiary Magistrate, sign the warrant for payment of the pension to the person named therein for the benefit of the pensioner ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the amend- ments the Government proposed were in the direction of increasing the powers of the Deputy Registrars. # LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL APPOINT- MENTS. Mr. ARNOLD (Dunedin City) asked the Premier, If, in making further calls to the Legislative Council, he will consider the advisa- bility of appointing one or more representatives 