Railway which was obtained for the year ending 12th September, 1896, showed that the net revenue on capital cost for that year was only } per cent. ; and, although the traffic had increased to some considerable extent since that date, the department was satisfied that the line was not paying anything near 3 per cent. on the capital cost, and those results also were a further difficulty in the way of considering any excep- tional concessions to a line circumstanced as It was not the fault of the people that was. of the district, or the fault of the merchants of the district, or the fault of the Government, but there were the greatest difficulties in the way of attempting to make special concessions in the direction the honourable gentleman indi- cated. ORARI-TIMARU RAILWAY. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) asked the Minis- ter for Railways, When the public will be sup- plied with a better class of carriages than those at present attached to the train running daily between Orari and Timaru? It was two years since he had put a similar question to this on the Order Paper, and the then Minister for Railways promised, as soon as possible, to put better rolling-stock on this important line. He might mention that a fortnight ago he was down south, and had then ridden in a second- class carriage on this line. The discomfort was practically unbearable, the noise was so great passengers could scarcely hear each other speak, and it was simply agony to ride in the old rattle-traps of carriages that were not fit to be converted into cattle-trucks. He felt certain the Minister did not know the class of rolling. / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero stock that was on this line, or he would have better carriages placed upon it, carriages which would afford to passengers some degree of com- fort. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said he was quite sure, after the representations made by the honourable member, the condition of affairs to which he had referred ought to be remedied at the earliest possible moment. It would be some satisfaction to the honourable gentleman, no doubt, to know that the four- and six-wheel cars, right over the whole sec- tion of our railways, were being converted into bogie cars. He hoped at an early date to be able to remove the difficulty mentioned by the honourable member, and to give all reasonable comfort and facilities to passenger traffic on that line. MORTGAGES OF LAND BILL. On the question of the consideration 7.30. of the amendments made by the Legis- lative Council in this Bill, Sir J. G. WARD said,-Sir, the only amend- ment made by the Legislative Council in this Bill is in the Second Schedule, the 7th clause of which they have struck out, and have sub- stituted a new clause which is an improvement, and provides for two months' notice instead of the proposal contained in the Second Schedule that- " Seventhly, that where the mortgagor makes default for the space of two months in payment of the principal sum and interest, or in the observance of any other covenant expressed or implied in the mortgage, and at least one month's notice in writing of his intention to do so has been given by the mortgagee to the mortgagor, or is left upon the said land or at the usual or last known place of abode in the colony of the mortgagor, the mortgagee may sell the said land, or any part thereof, either altogether or in lots, by public auction or by private contract, or partly by either of such modes of sale, and subject to such conditions as the mortgagee thinks fit, and may exercise such other incidental powers in that behalf as are conferred upon mortgagees by 'The Land Transfer Act, 1885,' or by ' The Property Law Consolidation Act, 1883,' as the case may be." The amendment providing the two months' notice is, I think, an improvement, and I move, That the amendment be agreed to. Motion agreed to. FACTORIES BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Labour) .- Sir, I move, That you do now leave the chair, in order that the House may go into Committee on this Bill. I think I shall be consulting the wishes of members if I simply go through the Bill and point out the amendments of the existing law. It is, of course, mainly a consolidating Bill. Beginning with section 2, members will note that the Committee have made certain altera- tions in the interpretation of the Arbitration Court, and I may say that I propose to accept that amendment. I also intend to adopt the alteration in the interpretation of " District Health Officer " in regard to the sanitary pro- visions of the Bill. Mr. MASSEY .- Do you intend to adopt the alteration in the interpretation of "Factory "? Mr. SEDDON .-- Yes. In subsection (1) the alterations are in accordance with what I think is necessary. I may say that, practically, I ap- prove of the amendments made in this section. Members will note that there is a definition of " Young person," to mean a boy or girl under the age of eighteen years. The principle in our past legislation and in the law as it stands now is that women and children are treated differently from men in regard to concessions. As the Bill was brought down it caused some considerable criticism, as the word " person " was substi- tuted in lieu of " women and children," as the result of the operation of the Act of 1894 and the principal Act. I may say that was not done with my approval, because when I was made aware of the alteration that had been made I immediately notified that I should go back to the original law in that respect. The Bill provides for women and children the shorter period of forty-five hours a week, and forty- eight hours are fixed by the Act for men, and any concession from that period is to come from the Arbitration Court. There are no other material amendments until 