which have under thirty-five pupils - that is to say, a great deal more than half the schools in the colony have an attendance under thirty-five. The total number of schools in the colony is 1,673, so that if we have extended in- creases to women in all schools of under thirty it will embrace the majority of the schools in the country. I find that in the Auckland Pro- vincial District no less than 208 schools out of 354 have an average attendance of under thirty- five. Now, just before the supper adjournment I was about to quote the opinion of the leading women as to the position that the allowances to women should occupy. I put this question to Miss Lorimer, one of the ablest teachers that came before our Commission, if not the ablest :- "I assume that you are in favour of equal payment for men and women-at any rate, up to a certain standard of school ?" And she replied,- "No; I have not said that. I think the minimum salary for a woman should be £100, and for a man £110. "There should be a difference even at that point ?- Yes, I think so." Then, there are other opinions expressed of similar nature, but I have not time to give them now. As to the question of equal payment, of course, the female teachers themselves urged, and the Commissioners took, this view : that the responsibility of a man as the head of a family was very considerable, and that as his obligations required a greater income, you had to consider the family life of a teacher. And there was another view expressed : that if you raised the salaries of the women to the same http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero . level as those of the men, the men would very probably be selected to the exclusion of women, and there were other reasons which I need not dwell upon at the present time. There was, for instance, the question of the number of women who did not continue in the service. Men made a life - work of teaching, and it could not be said that the majority of women did. In the Provincial District of Otago, within a certain period of years, three out of every four women teachers had gone out of the service, whereas a very small proportion indeed of the male teachers had left the service. At the same time I took this view, which was opposed to the view of many of the male teachers : They urged that the women should not be intrusted with work beyond the Third Standard. I urged, and it has been adopted, that the head-teacher and the Boards should have the right to give a female teacher work up to the higher standards if she is strong enough and has the ability to undertake it ; and that has been given effect to. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about the pay- ment ? Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- The payment should correspond, of course. Then, the honourable member for Kaiapoi and several others alluded to what was suffered by schools of under fourteen. Now, let me say that I was exceed. ingly sorry to see schools under fourteen Mr. T. Mackenzie is adopted, then they will be much better treated, because Boards will then have funds to go and come on to do greater justice to these small schools. I did not agree that the schools of under fourteen in the whole of the Provin- cial Districts of Otago, Auckland, and Canter- bury, where the increase in the number of schools had not arisen as it had in regard to other districts, should be cut down as much \- - But let me say what as they have been. the difficulty was before the Commissioners in this connection. You have in Marlborough, Westland, the Grey, and Nelson districts an enormous number of very small schools, and if you fix a minimum rate of pay, then the money at our disposal is wholly inadequate to meet the difficulty. In Nelson, for instance, there are sixty schools of under fifteen pupils out of a total of 120 schools, and twenty-four of these have an attendance of under nine. Then we come to Marlborough, and no less than thirty-nine schools in that provincial dis- trict have an attendance of under nine out of a total of sixty-six schools-some with only two and three pupils. Therefore we say that, if we fixed a minimum salary for all the teachers of these schools, the money at our disposal was absolutely inadequate. If we come to the Pro- vincial District of Otago, which has been al- luded to by the honourable member for Bruce, who said it had suffered, we find that the pay- ment to teachers of schools of under twenty is £2,725 in addition to what is at present paid there. I will now give members some of the figures to show how the teachers there are affected :-- Schools under Twenty Pupils. Otago Board's Average Suggested Increase. Attendance. Scale. Scale. 3 3 £ 14 70 0 70 .. .. . . 15 5 70 75 .. 16 10 80 70 . 15 17 70 85 .. .. .. 20 90 18 70 .. . . .. 19 25 70 95 . . 30 20 100 70 .. .. . . From Twenty to Thirty Pupils. 20 15 85 100 . .. . . 21 85 1033 18} .. 22 107 85 22 . . .. 253 110} 23 85 . . 29 114 24 85 . . 32} 25 117} 85 .. .. 121 21 26 100 . . 24} 27 124} 100 . .. . 2.8 28 128 100 . . . . 29 131} 100 . . .. .. 135 35 100 30 . . An Hon. MEMBER. - What about country schools ? Mr. T. MACKENZIE. - I have just told you about the country schools. There are in the Pro- vincial District of Otago twenty-one schools of under fourteen, and, as two years will expire be- fore this Act can come into operation, it is hoped 