is making, because there is no intermediary. Mr. WILLIS. - Why is there such an enormous difference in the price to the ordinary consumer ? Mr. MILLAR .- That is where the good comes in from establishing a State coal-mine, and it is the consumer who will get the benefit of it. The surest proof of this is that when the Governor's message came down, and it was found to contain a reference to the State coal- mine, the price of coal suddenly dropped in Wellington from £1 12s. to £1 8s. a ton. An Hon. MEMBER .- No. Mr. MILLAR. - It was advertised in the papers the same week. Honourable members can look up the papers and see whether I am right or not. There is evidence that, once the coal-dealers thought the State was going into competition, they reduced the price so as to stifle that competition. An Hon. MEMBER .- There was a great fall in Australia at the same date. Mr. MILLAR .- Why, it was only about two months before that the Westport Coal Com- pany put up the price 2s. a ton. It did not run very long before they brought it down again. They put up the price six months ago, and it came down afterwards. But that is beside the question. As far as the principle of the Bill is concerned, I support the principle ; but I sincerely trust that the Government, if they get the Bill through, will take care that the best property that is available will be secured by them before they start this undertaking. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- I did not intend to make any speech on this Bill, but I could not refrain from congratulating the Go- vernment on the policy of the Bill, and in their having fulfilled the undertaking given in the Governor's Speech to introduce a Bill this ses- sion for this purpose. I think it is a pity that we have not before us the report of the Com- . mission on the State coal-mine. In the absence of that report members like myself, who under- stand little of the subject, are bound to accept the statement of the Premier that care will be exercised in the selection of the mine. That, of course, must be left entirely to him. But I feel bound also to say that the passing of such a Bill would put an end to the combinations and monopolies which have existed in this country to the detriment of the public in general, and particularly of the poorer classes of the community. I do not think it matters very much who is the originator of the idea of establishing a State coal-mine. Business took me to Westport in the year 1876, and I con- ceived the idea then that it would be an excel- lent proposal. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- Oh ! Mr. FISHER .- The member for Waibemo again. I am not claiming anything. I thought at the time there were great possibilities in the Mount Rochfort Coal-mines, long before there was a Waimangaroa Railway or a Denniston. I think the benefit to the public cannot be too highly valued. From the time that the Union Company acquired an interest in the West Mr. Millar very considerably against those manufactures which largely use coal, and the interests of the general public. I need not discuss the question at any length. I only wish we had the report of the Coal mines Commission before us. I congratulate the Government for introducing a Bill, and for fulfilling their promise given at an earlier period in the session. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City). - The honourable member for Bruce said that this was a new venture. He might have added that it was also an experiment. I am in- clined to regard it in the light of an experi- ment, and I am hopeful that it will turn out in every sense satisfactorily ; but I think the most sanguine member of the House would not say he was quite sure on that point. We are hope- ful. I am glad the Government has decided on this experiment, because I think it is one of the most important matters the Government could undertake. I differ somewhat from the honour- able member for Riccarton, who has drawn a parallel between the action of the Government in regard to a State coal-mine and the Govern- ment as being the sole possessor of the post, telegraph, telephones, and railways. I do not think there is a fair parallel, and, at any rate, I should hope there is not intended to be a parallel. If I thought this was a step in the direction of the Government assuming the sole ownership of the coal mines of the colony, I should oppose the Bill. If that is not the intention, then there can scarcely be a parallel between the Government being the owners of the railways, and post and telegraph systems, and the ownership of a coal-mine chiefly for State purposes. It seems to me that the post and telegraph and railways stand on a totally different footing from the coal-mines of the colony. It is true that coal is an almost uni- versal commodity, but I would hardly like to see the State take upon itself the sole ownership and working of the coal-mines of the colony. Now, Sir, I remember very distinctly the coal famine of 1900, to which the honourable mem- ber for Riccarton referred. I remember how seriously that prejudiced the particular city which I have the honour to represent. That city did not suffer alone, and I am pleased that this experiment is to be tried, if only in the hope that it will prevent the possibility of the recurrence of the difficulties that were en- countered by the consumers of coal a year or so ago. There is one reason, however, why this venture should prove a success. If the State can secure a good working coal-mine the battle is practically fought and won, because the State itself will be the chief customers. I would just like to draw attention to the figures which have been referred to, but not accurately stated, as far as the coal used by the Govern- ment is concerned. The coal used by the Go- vernment on the railways totals 113,772 tons, at a cost of £95,260. The coal used by the various Government departments, including the railways, amounts to no less than 124,717 tons, at a cost to the colony of $106,562. Now, when we remember that the gross output of coal 