but a three-weekly service, and he did not think the minimum of £15,000 was by any means too much. It had been suggested that the outward mail-matter was decreasing, but the fact was that it was increasing, as between 1900 and 1901 it is estimated there will be an in- .crease of 7,000 lb. weight of letters, and an increase in books and newspapers. The de- crease had been in the inward mails, conse- ·quent upon the Imperial authorities diverting .portions of their mails owing to the irregu- larities in the running of the service; but that was a matter over which we had no control ; and the carriage of the mails from England did not cost us anything. We had not to pay for the carriage of the mails from England, but only for the mails to England. The figures that had been given were based upon the -estimated weights, and he would suggest that the minimum be left. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) thought .it would be very unsatisfactory to fix the mini- mum at £15,000, because, whatever the cha- racter of the service was, then the Postmaster- ·General could be compelled to divert as much mail-matter as possible from the other services, in order not to lose on the minimum amount ·of the guarantee. He thought it would be inad- visable to make the minimum £15,000. Sir J. G. WARD said, if they fixed the minimum at £12,000 they might not be able to make the arrangement at all. As to divert- ing mail-matter by the Federal line, mail- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 matter would cost 12s. a pound by that route, unless we could come in on a population basis, and, as a matter of business, unless correspond- ence was specially addressed they would send it by the San Francisco route, paying 7s. 6d. a pound. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) said it appeared to him that if the amendment of the Post- master-General was carried it would neutralise the effect of the following subsection- (c). " Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) moved, That " £15,000" be struck out, in order to insert " #12,000." Words down to "minimum " inserted. The Committee divided on the question, " That ' £15,000' be next inserted." AYES, 38. O'Meara Heke Allen, E. G. Palmer Allen, J. Hogg Hornsby Pere Bennet Pirani Houston Bollard Russell, W. R. Kaihau Carncross Seddon Carroll Lang Thompson, R. Colvin Lawry Thomson, J. W. Lethbridge Duncan Ward Massey Fowlds Witheford. Fraser, W. McGowan Tellers. Hall Mills Monk Field Hall-Jones Herries. Napier Hardy NOES, 26. Buddo Fisher Arnold Collins Flatman Atkinson Fraser, A. L. D. Ell Barclay Graham Meredith Tanner Laurenson Parata Wilford. Mackenzie, T. Rhodes Tellers. Mckenzie, R. Russell, G. W. Hutcheson McLachlan Smith, G. J. Millar. PAIRS. For. Against. O'Rorke Guinness Smith, E. M. McGuire Willis. Hanan. Majority for, 12. " £15,000" inserted, and the following words also inserted ; "and the maximum £20,000 per annum." Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch 12.30. City) would like to know what sort of accommodation had been provided for the mail-agent and his assistant on the new boats. He said the accommodation in the " Alameda " and " Mariposa " was a disgrace to civilisation, and he would like to see provision made in the contract for suitable and decent accommoda- tion for these officers. Sir J. G. WARD could assure the honourable member that on the new steamers the accom- modation for the mail-agents was first class. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) said that in the previous contract there was a provision that the ruling rate of wages should be paid. He wished to know whether a similar provision had been made in this contract. Sir J. G. WARD said that we could not regu- late that matter. The difference now was that we had no British-owned steamer in the service. Resolution agreed to. Resolution No 2 .- " That, in the event of it being found impracticable to arrange a contract for the three-weekly San Francisco service on the foregoing terms, this House authorises the Government to enter into negotiations for esta- blishing a three-weekly or a four-weekly Van- couver mail-service, subject to the following conditions." Sir J. G. WARD moved, That all the words down to and including the words "foregoing terms " be struck out. Amendment agreed to. Resolution 3 .- Federal mail-service. Agreed to. Resolutions, as amended, reported to the House. On the question, That the resolutions as amended be agreed to, Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said,-I wish to say only a few words which I deem to be fitting to such an occasion. It is right before the subject finally closes that we should pay a tribute to the member for Franklin, Mr. Massey, for the valuable assistance he .has given to those interested in passing these resolutions through the House. Without his assistance the resolutions could not have been carried, and it is well now to contrast his action with the action of others, whose advocacy would have damned the proposals outright. I op- posed the proposals in toto, and I know who were our really formidable opponents. The 