paid a fee for so doing according to scale under the Land Court Act, are going to do that work for nothing for the Maoris. I can quite conceive that many an old Native who is now receiving a pension is doing so as a result of the efforts of the Native interpreters. It is true there has been an inducement to cause the Native interpreters to take the trouble to inform these Natives that they had a claim under the law ; but still I believe the result has been beneficial, and many Natives would never have received a pension except for the efforts of the interpreter. I do not believe in people charging a Maori for merely procuring a pension ; that, I think, is wrong ; but where an interpreter does that for which he could claim payment if the work were done for a European he should be placed in the position of charging for similar services ren- dered to the Native. In Committee I shall endeavour to amend the Bill in such a way as to meet the case I have stated, and trust I shall have the support of the Council. Bill read the second time. # INDUSTRIAL CONCILIATION AND ARBITRATION BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I feel sure, Sir, the Council will agree to further postpone the consideration of this measure, as I have not yet had an opportunity of going through the Bill as amended in Committee. If they will do so I will promise to make the third reading the first order of the day for Thursday next. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 I move, That the third reading of the Bill be postponed till Thursday next. Motion agreed to. ## PUBLIC-SCHOOL TEACHERS' SALARIES BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, in moving the second reading of this Bill, I feel it difficult to express my satisfaction that the measure has reached its present stage, because it has been in my mind for several years. Twelve months ago I could hardly have hoped that I should ever have had the chance of pro- posing this measure on the floor of the Council. It is a measure that has been at my heart for a long time, and I am happy to say-because I could not have done it unless I had been backed up by my colleagues-it is a measure that my colleagues also have supported in Cabinet and out of Cabinet, and have done their best to help through the House. Now, there is one matter which is perhaps personal, although it is at the same time official, and it also relates to the Legislative Council. I do not wish to refer in any way whatever reprehensively to any honour- able member of another Chamber who may have reflected upon the inconvenience of de- partments such as the Education Department not being represented there. I admit, of course, so far as members in another place are con- cerned, that it would be very much more to their benefit and to their satisfaction if they were face to face with the Minister and could get from him his mind and his replies, and Hon. Mr. Rigg may wish to bring before him. But I would point out that the same might be said with equal force as regards any Minister administer- ing any department of the public service. I admit that it is a disadvantage not only to the body politic but to the Minister himself not to be able to meet his opponents in the gate ; and, in spite of the able way in which my colleague replies for me, and of my being well supported and well represented by my colleague in the other Chamber, still, at the same time, there is a human feeling which makes me think very often that I would sooner answer those questions and meet my parlia- mentary critics myself personally if I was en- abled to do so ; so that I quite sympathize with those who state it is a matter of regret that the Minister of Education is not present in the Lower Chamber to defend his measures or to propose his reforms. On the other hand, how- ever, I say that would apply to any other port- folio which exists at the present time. And I do not think, perhaps, it is altogether unfor- tunate that a portfolio like that of education should be, so to speak, taken out of the hurly- burly of party strife-not that I wish to avoid it, because I am always quite ready and willing to discuss these matters with persons who have live opinions to give on such subjects ; but still I admit it is unfortunate, perhaps, in some ways. especially as the time has arrived when it is necessary for us to make changes. Ever since I have been Minister I have felt there are certain things to be done to make our education a live system. I was able to bring about the first large departure since I became a Minister simply by an Order in Council. That was the matter of classification. I was able to do away with that, and I consider that was a very great improvement on what was going on before, and it was simply following up the experience of the Old Country and other countries in the matter of classification. But when I was face to face with this large question of a colonial scale of salaries I really did feel I had a very large task to perform ; but still it was a task that was imposed upon me simply by the nature of the position. From the day I came into office as Minister-and that is some six years ago now-every year I have had put be- fore me by members of different Boards-I might say members of almost every Board up and down the colony-applications, either per- sonally or by letter, pointing out particular reasons why that Board should get special consideration in certain directions. The Hon. Mr. MONTGOMERY .- It was a matter of money. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I can assure the Hon. Mr. Montgomery, who knows a good deal about education, that there vas always something to be said in favour of every application that came before me, because each Board could show a special reason why that particular Board was in difficulties, or had a difficulty to overcome ; and therefore the more I thought of it the more I came to the conclusion that for a colonial system it was 