" SIR, - I have to thank you for copies of my letters addressed to your Board during the year 1898. Will you be good enough to forward me, not later than Wednesday evening next, copies of your letters to me in reply to my letters of 1898 ?- Yours faithfully, "R. MEREDITH. "The Manager, Assets Realisation Board, Wellington." " Assets Realisation Board, Wellington, 5th November, 1901. "DEAR SIR, -As requested in your letter of yesterday's date, we enclose copies of our letters to you, dated 26th April, 1898; 19th May, 1898 ; and 3rd June, 1898 .- Yours faithfully, "W. C. CUFF, Pro General Manager. " R. Meredith, Esq., M.H.R., Wellington." "Tullamore, Springbank, 8th April, 1898. " SIR,-Will you be good enough to inform me if your Board will sell me from 500 acres to 1,500 acres of the Glentui Run, partly pastoral and partly agricultural? I am aware that to- wards the close of last session of Parliament you signified your intention of having the Glentui property cut up and offered for sale by November of the present year ; I therefore anticipate your subdivision by approaching your Board at the present time. Please give me full particulars as to locality, acreage, price, &c .- Yours faithfully, "R. MEREDITH. "The Chairman, Assets Realisation Board, Wellington." " Assets Realisation Board, Wellington, 26th April, 1898. " DEAR SIR,-Glentui Estate : I have to ac- knowledge the receipt of your letter of the 8th instant, in reference to the purchase of portion of the above estate. We are quite willing and are desirous to sell, but at the present time the difficulty is that we have temporary license over the leasehold only, the time of which expires very shortly. As long as we hold that pastoral country we need the whole of our freehold in case of bad winters. Still, I should be sorry to miss a chance of a purchaser, and if you will point out to us the country you re- quire we will, if possible, endeavour to meet your wishes .- Yours faithfully, "WALTER G. FOSTER, General Manager. "R. Meredith, Esq., Tullamore, Springbank." "Tullamore, Springbank, 12th May, 1898. "DEAR SIR,-In reply to yours of the 26th ultimo, re the purchase of a portion of the Glentui Estate, I regret that I was in the most distant portion of my electorate when your letter reached my address. " We (myself and son) have been this day at Glentui, and went over a considerable portion of the freehold, and have decided to apply to you for that portion of the estate extending from the Ashley Gorge Bridge, and bounded on the north by the main road, at the east by the road running from the said main road to I you 25 per cent. cash, balance in three years, at Mr. Meredith by the River Ashley, containing about 500 acres, and marked on the enclosed plan, " No. 1A," in red. This block has had some surface-sowing of cocksfoot, varies very much in quality, being patchy ; some fair land, including about 40 acres of swamp, with stony flats containing large boulders predominating, largely covered with gorse, broom, and couch ; all the fences out of repair ; purely sheep country. We also apply for 500 acres, or any less portion, to the east of the road forming the eastern boundary of Block 1. This block varies very much in quality, from swamp land to light stony land, and is not improved other than a few drains in the swamp, and the fences being in fair condi- tion. There is a small whare on Block No. 1. No buildings whatever on Block 11. Block 11 does not include any of the English-grass pad- docks. So far as I could judge, not any of the land I am applying for has ever been broken up. I enclose you my map, as it enables me to define what I want. " Will you now be good enough, as you have given me the hope you will offer me the land, to state the value you place on the land, and the terms and conditions on which you are pre- pared to sell? This land would suit me, as my home is situated only a few miles from the place, and I could work it for sheep in conjunc- tion with my agricultural homestead. " If convenient to you, or to one of the mem- bers of your Board, I would suggest, in case you are not conversant with the land in ques- tion, instead of leaving the valuation to an out- sider you might come and see the property yourself, and I would arrange, if necessary or desirable, to meet you .- Yours truly, " R. MEREDITH. " W. G. Foster, Esq., General Manager, Assets Realisation Board, Welington." " Christchurch, 19th May, 1898. "DEAR SIR,-I am in receipt of your letter of 12th, and am intending to bring the matter before my Board at next meeting, with a view of fixing reserves in the various portions of the estate. " We are having many inquirers for farms on the Glentui, and it may be that the Board will decide to adhere to its usual practice of first offering by auction. I will, however, give you early advice in reply to your inquiries .- Yours faithfully, "WALTER G. FOSTER, General Manager, Assets Realisation Board, Wellington. "R. Meredith, Esq., M.H.R., Springbank." "Tullamore, Springbank, 28th May, 1898. "SIR,-Re Glentui Freehold : In reference to my former letter applying for about 1,000 acres of the Glentui freehold, and your reply to the said letter, I may state that I am now pre- pared to make you a definite offer for the land as described by me in my former application to purchase. I will give you the Government valuation with 5 per cent. added ; I will pay 