friend the member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson) has said. He wants to meet Mr. Spreckels on equal terms. It is a splendid sentiment that, and one I agree with ; but if he wants to meet Mr. Spreckels on equal terms in this contract he requires to produce £50,000. He would then be on equal terms wi h America. If he is prepared to pay $50,000, a sum equal to that which the Senate pavs, he ould be on equal terms as far as that service is concerned. Mr. FISHER .- The American Government does not contribute to hat service. Mr. McGOWAN .- They contribute to the line of boats. It is not for the mail-service at all, but for the trade, and I say we would be on equal terms if we should offer a contribution of a simi- lar amount. We are not in a position to do that, and it would not be worth it if we were. I am not going to overrate this service, but I want it to be considered on a fair footing. Now, the only sound argument used against this mail- service. and it has some weight and I am quite prepared to allow it all the weight it is entitled to-is the American Shipping Law. Every one who is a British subject in a case of this kind, I think, naturally feels displeased at any such law, and if he had the means of alter- ing that law, so that that condition would be taken away, he would do so. There is a great deal in that. Our seamen and ships should not be debarred from trading with the coast of America ; but I would like to know whether the very gentlemen who make use of this argument are not themselves standing in American-made https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 shoes? If you go through this country, what do you find ? Reapers-and-binders and the whole of the farm implements are American- made goods. http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero An Hon. MEMBER. - Plenty of them are Canadian. Mr. McGOWAN. - Some are Canadian, of course ; but there is comparatively little trade from Canada, and the goods you are using now are probably all American-made. I have no particular leaning towards Mr. Spreckels, but, at the same time, the service, in my opinion, is a useful service, and one that it will pay the colony to maintain ; and we should endeavour to keep that service at as cheap a rate as we possibly can. Auckland has come in for one or two very severe rubs. The honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) referred to this particular City of Auckland, and said that it had comparatively little trade, while in the Port of Wellington there were to be seen five or six steamers larger than any of the boats that visited Auckland. Take the tonnage of Auckland, and where is Wellington? Take the Customs of Auckland, and where is Wel lington? I do not say this with a view to belittle Wellington. Every one is proud to see the shipping that is going on here. But, at the same time, while you may be proud of the shipping that is going on in Wellington, it is no reason why an attempt should be made to belittle another city which is progressing and has been progressing during the last ten or fifteen years at a very rapid rate. If Auckland in the way of opening up roads and bridges throughout the back-blocks, it would progress still further, and it will yet be the richest city in the whole of New Zealand. There is no doubt about that, because it possesses a fine climate, and much of its land is good ; it has also an enterprising people, and, having these qualities, it is bound to go ahead. Now, Sir, I had no intention of saying one word on this subject. only I could not help putting the matter in what I believe to be the right light. We are not in a position to go where we like. We have the right, of course, to decline making any agreement with Mr. Spreckels to carry our mails ; but I think the proposals made by the Postmaster-General ought to meet with the approval of the greater number of the members of this House, because they are reasonable. It is a service that the colony has maintained for a great number of years. It is the most useful and regular service, and the best service we have ever had In regard to this matter I would also like your ruling, Sir, upon this point, as I think it was mentioned before: I notice that in 1897 similar proposals were brought up in the House, and, if the system then adopted is carried out now, it will be the means of saving a lengthy discussion in Committee. I would just like to read this :- " Mr. SEDDON .- I move that this House do resolve itself into a Committee of the Whole to consider certain proposals relative to the San Francisco mail - service and the Vancouver mail-service. I propose, Sir, to take on this motion the debate on the proposals. "Mr. SPEAKER. - The usual course where the matter involves the expenditure of money is that the debate should take place in Com- mittee; but if the House prefers to take a debate while I am in the chair, of course I am in the hands of the House. "Mr. G. HUTCHISON. - But although we may take the debate now, we may afterwards consider the matter in Committee of the Whole. "Mr. SPEAKER .- The debate that may take place in the House will in no way restrict dis- cussion in Committee. " Mr. SEDDON .- There is only this differ- ence : that what is said now will be reported, and what is said in Committee will not be re- ported. That is the only difference. There was no lengthy discussion in Com- mittee, and that is proved by the record, because the divisions only were reported. If this prac- tice is adopted now, I think we shall be able to come to a decision on these proposals without much loss of time. I merely wanted to draw the attention of Mr. Speaker to this fact, as I think some members are under the impression that, this being a question involving money, the speeches in Committee will be reported in Hansard. The position is as I have laid down here. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .. I have ruled on that point, and cannot go back on that ruling. I should mislead honourable members if I did. 