any private estate within their locality, and thereby the machinery is set into motion. Thus, on the same principle the power of the initiative under this Bill is put into the hands of any number of the owners from ten upwards. When they have so initiated proceedings by requesting the Council to accept a transfer from them, then the Council proceeds, as I have said before, in the manner herein set forth. An Hon. MEMBER .- I think this might be dealt with in Committee. Mr. CARROLL .- That is what I propose to do. I think we could discuss this in Com- mittee more fully than now, and I should prefer to defer any further remarks until then. When in Committee we could deal with each clause on its merits, and take the general debate on the third reading. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- After you have made your amendments. Mr. CARROLL .- The amendments can be discussed and each clause dealt with in Com- mittee much better than in any other way. I move, That you do now leave the chair, in order that we may go into Committee on this Bill. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) .- I think it my duty to move the adjournment of this debate. I have very pronounced views upon the question of the administration of Maori lands. I am convinced that the policy which we passed last year has proved an entire failure, and that all the tinkering with it in this Bill is not going to do any perma- nent good. Well, I do not feel capable now, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 after two long nights, of addressing myself properly to the subject. There is before the Native Affairs Committee a Bill containing fifty clauses which is of the utmost importance to all those honourable gentlemen who, like my- self, take an interest in Native matters. We have to attend regularly every morning, day after day, but it is not possible for us, if we sit here night after night until four o'clock in the morning, to attend the Committee and to do our work intelligently and properly. Sir, so that I shall not forfeit my right to speak on the subject I will not go into the merits, but will now simply move, That the debate be ad- journed. Mr. CARROLL .- I do not wish in 2.30. any way to prolong the business. We should have dealt with this matter the other day, and probably have finished it before now, but, unfortunately, the motion to go into Com- mittee was intercepted-by whom I need not say. At any rate, Sir, I feel now that it is about time we should " get a move on " with this Bill. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) .- This is not a question of dealing with a technical amend- ment brought down by the Native Minister, but dealing with the whole question of that abor- tive legislation introduced last session, which has been admitted by the Native Minister at Rotorua and other places is absolutely unwork- able. Mr. Carroll member must not discuss the main question on the motion for adjournment. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- The reason why I think we should have an adjournment is that the whole House should know the reason we disapprove of the legislation brought down last session and the attempts to patch it up by these amendments. The Native Affairs Committee have been sitting every morning this week from eleven to one o'clock licking another Native Bill into workable shape, although the House has not risen usually till about four a.m. And when the Native Minister knows we are doing everything we can to facilitate legislation in this House he should agree to meet us by ad- journing the debate. He simply wants to stifle criticism on this matter by pushing it into Committee. In view of all the circumstances, it is not fair to an important measure that we should be called upon to go on with the second reading at this time of the morning. Motion for adjournment negatived. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) .- In dealing with a Bill of this sort I think more time should be given to the House to consider it. I, as one member of this House who has Natives residing in his electorate, look upon it as my duty to see that the interests of those Natives are properly safeguarded. I have had experience on the Native Affairs Committee, and the matters that came before that Committee were worthy of great consideration on the part of members of this House. Considering, however, the lateness of the hour, I do not think it wise to detain the House any longer on this question, and I shall have another opportunity of speaking on this very important Bill. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- After consultation with my colleague who is in charge of the Bill, I think it will be in the interests of the Bill and of the Native race if we adjourn the de- bate. I move, therefore, That the debate be adjourned. I may say it is the intention of the Government to have the measure passed this session. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I protest against the Premier taking this unjustifiable manner of adjourning the debate. I can give half a dozen rulings against what the Premier is doing now. The proper course would have been to allow some other motion to intervene and be nega- tived, when the adjournment could be moved in proper course. It is such a funny way of carrying on the business of the House that I think it only fair that some protest should be made against it. Mr. SEDDON .- As a matter of personal ex- planation, I say my action was taken simply because there was a general feeling amongst members that the debate should be adjourned. Debate adjourned. The House adjourned at ten minutes to three o'clock a.m. 