the despatch of public business-commercial, Press, and otherwise ? The department was not granting special facilities for this particular purpose. Again he asked : Did the honourable member desire the adoption of a system of viseing over a particular class of wires in the colony? People who paid the ordinary rates had the right to send wires, and, unless the colony passed a law to say the department was not to allow these messages and money-order telegrams to go over the wires, he was bound to see that proper facilities were given for the transmission of them. It was not a question of affording special facilities for gambling ; it was a question of carrying out the law, and allowing those who paid for telegrams to have them conveyed in a proper way. He did not know where the honourable member had got his information from ; but he was telling the honourable member what was the cause and necessity for the change. The honourable member was jumping to a conclusion when he said this was for the purpose of facilitating betting. It was nothing of the kind. He re- peated he was as strongly opposed to gambling in any form as the honourable member was, although he did not talk so much about it. If the honourable member was Minister in charge of the Post and Telegraph Department, and did not see that the business of the department was carried on when people paid for the con- veyance of telegrams-either money-orders or general messages-over the wires, the honour- able member would not be doing his duty, and he would very soon hear about it. The depart- ment must make proper provision for carrying out all classes of work for which it was paid, and that was all the department was doing. / http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero While the honourable member took exception to the fact that the business of racing-clubs might be facilitated, he overlooked the fact that, so far as the Telegraph Department was concerned, it was in existence for carry- ing on public business of all kinds, and all it was trying to do was to facilitate its own business in the transmission of all messages. This matter had been brought under his notice, not by outsiders, but by the responsible officials of the department itself. It had not been brought under his notice by anybody connected with racing-clubs, either directly or indirectly, and he had made no representation whatever to the department about it himself. It was simply in conse- quence of the responsible head of the depart- ment officially informing him that the public business could not be carried on properly, and making a recommendation to bring about an improvement in the system, that the change had been made. He looked on the gambling evil as one of the greatest curses in this or any other country, and he would be glad of any- thing that could be done to put it down. Mr. ELL said he had stated that special facilities had been given, and the Minister had not denied that statement ; and that was further emphasized by the statement that these rules were to first come into operation at the ap- occasion of the New Zealand Cup, and after- wards at the spring fixture of the Wellington Club. Sir J. G. WARD said he reaffirmed what he had stated. He had had no consultation with any racing-club or any one connected with a racing-club, either directly or indirectly. The racing-clubs had made no representations to him ; but, as he had explained, in consequence of the block of business on race-days, the de- partment had to do something .in order to enable the business to be carried on. The statement furnished to him by the responsible head of the department was as follows :- "The alterations, which apply to inland money-order telegrams only, provide for the private message from the remitter to the payee forming part of the official telegram advice, assuring both the order and message being delivered simultaneously, to the benefit of all sections of the community alike. At present the private message is sent separately from the money-order telegram. A somewhat similar system to that proposed is in operation in the United Kingdom. "The frequent ' blocks' on racecourse tele- graph - wires, delaying important telegrams, made some change imperative so that the heavy traffic might be more promptly over- taken, and the users of the wires at the same time afforded a more reliable service. The department having undertaken to provide tele. graph-communication with racecourses, it was incumbent that it should provide a more effec- tive service to meet the growing traffic, which, under the existing conditions, is not practi- cable. The new arrangements more imme- diately affecting racing-clubs provide that their telegrams, on race-days, instead of being wired to the racecourse office, shall be delivered from the city or town telegraph-office to the repre- sentative of the club, for the purpose of being scheduled, and then telegraphed to the secre- tary of the club at the racecourse in one message, some time before the starting of each race. This change is one originally introduced by one of the principal racing-clubs, and will not only facilitate the money-order telegram business of the racing-clubs, but saves the transmission of the original telegrams to race- course-offices. This is a material gain to us, besides directly assisting to keep the wires clear at more frequent intervals for general telegrams." That had been done because they could not carry the ordinary traffic over the wires. What had been done was done simply to facili- tate the despatch of public business between the main telegraph-office and the telegraph- office on the racecourse. AUCKLAND-WAIKATO RAILWAY. Mr. LANG (Waikato) asked the Minister for Railways, Whether, when making alterations in the time-table of the Auckland-Waikato Railway, he will make provision for a daily express train between Auckland and Frankton, and also a daily train between Frankton and Poro-o-tarao, connecting with the express 