Transfer Acts of 1870 and 1885 respectively up to the 31st March, 1501 ; (2) the total amount paid away in satisfying claims against such Assurance Fund ; (3) in what manner the moneys at any time to the credit of the said fund have been dis- posed of or applied ; and (4) the amount at present to the credit of the said fund. He moved for the return because he thought it would be found when it was laid on the table that the amount to be contributed to the Assurance Fund under the Land Transfer Act was larger than necessary. When a similar Act was first introduced into the Australian Colonies the idea was that an indefeasible title should be given to land under the Act. That was the case now, he believed, both in South Australia and Tasmania, but it was not so in New Zealand, the object gained under the Land Transfer Act here being that the title is clearly explained in a single document. In bringing land under the Act the expense had been considerable ever since the Act of 1870 until the amending Act of 1889. Every person who brought his land under the Act had to pay a halfpenny in the pound on the value of the land towards the Assurance Fund. A similar payment was re- quired again in the event of land being devised to any person who was registered as proprietor, or who became entitled to the land under a settlement. In 1889 the liability for the second payment was repealed. The object of the Assurance Fund was to protect the department against claims in reference to the land of any person being erroneously dealt with. But, as he had said, the title was not indefeasible, and the New Zealand Act contained so many pro- visions by which mistakes might be corrected that comparatively few claims against the Assurance Fund had been successfully esta- blished. Some years ago the Government of the day had appropriated a considerable sum -some $15,000 or $18,000 of the amount to the credit of the fund -- for colonial purposes ; and, so far as he could see, there was no objec- tion to their doing so, because the money be- longed to nobody, and it was not likely that many claims would be made upon it. As he had said, he was moving for the return because he thought, when laid on the table, it would show that there was at present a very consider- able sum lying to the credit of the fund, and he hoped that the Government and Parliament would see, through that fact, that the amount now required to be paid to the fund could be very advantageously reduced, and therefore per- sons bringing their land under the Land Trans- fer Act should be required to pay much less than at present. It might be that the Govern- ment were now able to use the fund for colonial purposes, the colony being liable to make good any claim against the fund. He ventured to think it was a taxation upon a particular por- tion of the community which was not wholly required, and much less taxation in that direc- tion would be sufficient. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER had no doubt the question was a very pertinent one-namely, as to whether the amount of assurance paid to Hon. Colonel Pitt small number of claims on the fund. He saw no reason why the Council should not agree to the motion so far as clauses 1, 2, and possibly 4 were concerned, but he was informed that the information required by clause 3 of the motion would be very difficult to embody in a return. It would take a great deal of time to compile, and possibly would not be complete when supplied. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN presumed the Hon. Colonel Pitt wanted by clause 3 of the motion to ascertain how the money was disposed of- what the Government took from the fund to go towards revenue. He did not think there could be any difficulty in getting that, because what had been taken had been taken in a lump sum, and there could, at any rate, be only two or three entries. If that was what the honour- able gentleman wanted by No. 3, he did not think there could be any trouble in supplying the information. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- The motion does not say that. . The Hon. Mr. McLEAN thought it did. The Hon. Mr. JONES said it seemed to him that question No. 3 was one of the most per- tinent of the series of questions put in this motion, and he could not understand why it was the Government could not give an answer to it -why there should be a difficulty in ascertain- ing how these moneys had been devoted, and what they had been invested in, or if the Government had taken possession of them as revenue. No. 3 question should certainly be answered. The Hon. Colonel PITT said the Hon. Mr. McLean had correctly interpreted the intention of this motion. He did not think there would be any difficulty whatever in supplying the in- formation asked in No. 3. So far as he had fol- lowed the matter, he thought there would turn out to be but one taking of the moneys cre- dited to this fund by the colony. That was in the year 1881 or 1891 ; he was not sure of the exact year, but he thought it was taken in a lump. He was not asking the Government to say how the moneys had been applied in satis- faction of claims. All he wanted to know was the total amount to the credit of the fund now, the total amount paid away in satisfaction of claims, and how the money to the credit of the fund from time to time had been applied. He understood that it had really been applied in aid of revenue. It was in the first place paid into the Land Assurance Trust Fund. How that trust fund was dealt with he was not quite sure. It might be that it was appro- priated as a part of the Consolidated Fund and paid into that fund. If it was, he did not of course want the money traced through- out the fund, but it would be a sufficient answer to say that it had been applied in that particular way. He did not want the details of it at all, but his real object in moving for the return was that he thought when supplied it would demonstrate that an excessive con- tribution was now required from persons bring- ing land under the Land Transfer Act. He 