barristers had trained minds. They had a reputation, and if they committed any indis- cretion they were immediately hauled over the coals by the Law Society. As far as Native agents were concerned, however, they could do as they liked, and for the safety of the lands administration the solicitors of the colony should be enabled to practise in every Council or Court. Notwithstanding the strenuous op- position levelled at the Bill by a few members, the amendments that had been made in it were such as would be perfectly useless-in fact, they might have been left out of the Bill altogether. He thought members had been unnecessarily taxed in patience and in time by two members who objected to the measure, all of whose efforts had been absolutely futile. Therefore it would have been much better, if this Bill was so obnoxious to the Natives and to these gentlemen as they stated it was-it would have been more to their credit if they had stonewalled it so as not to allow it to be placed on the statute-book at all. He thought the Bill was a good one so far as it went. One or two clauses were probably defective ; but he thought if members of the legal profession were present at the many investigations that took place in the Maori Courts and Councils many of the difficulties that now existed would dis- appear altogether. That was the reason why he moved the amendment. The honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson) quoted a letter he had received, and which he was allowed to make any use of he deemed proper. He found in this letter the following statement :- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 " A few days before the hearing Mr. Sheridan informed us that Mr. A. L. D. Fraser was the only man who would be able to get the order made, and said that he must be employed to apply for the order, or it could not be obtained. He further said there would be no trouble about it if Mr. Fraser was employed." What was the meaning of that letter? That one of the most respected and best-known firms of barristers and solicitors in Wellington applied to the Native Court for an order, and the reply they had received was what he had read. He hoped members would agree to the suggestion he had made. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) had much pleasure in seconding the amendment, because he thought it was in the right direction. He trusted the Bill they were now discussing would be passed, in the interests of Natives. He under- stood the Act of last year was unworkable with- out it, and doubtless the House would have done good work when they had passed this Bill, although it had taken many weary hours to do it. He thought it was difficult for those who did not understand Native legislation to ascer- tain whether they were voting right or wrong on these questions. Since he had been in the House he had always desired to support every- thing in the interests of the Native race. It had been said that the South Island members were responsible for so much bad legislation being passed, for the simple reason that they Mr. O'Meara sideration. That charge against the South <!-- PageHeader="\-" --> Island members, made by Mr. Fowlds, mem- ber for Auckland City, was unwarranted, and he might say that such a charge could scarcely have been expected from that honour- able member, who usually talked common- sense. As to the statement of the member for Waitemata, that a huge petition had just been received against this Bill, signed by about thirteen hundred Natives, he might say, from his long experience of petitions, they were of very little value. It would be quite easy to get that number of signatures in a very short time where the Natives resided, by some smart man. In regard to Native legislation, on every occa- sion when a Native Bill had been introduced since he had been a member of the House the Native members were themselves divided on the question, so that it could not be said that the South Island members had voted against the wishes of the Natives as a whole. When the Natives were divided in opinion it was very difficult at times to understand which was the right course to adopt. It was for the Native Minister to guide them on this occasion, and, as he and other Native members had shown that this Bill was necessary, in spite of any petitions that might be sent against it, he thought it was his duty to vote for the third reading. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) said the amendment at first sight might appear to be a desirable one, but members must not forget that in former days the Legislature intentionally excluded professional gentlemen from the Court on the ground of the indefinite extension of time of the Court which their presence would bring about. Members ought to consider care- fully before dealing with the point. What had caused him to rise was the somewhat unjust attack made on the honourable member for Na- pier by the member for Pahiatua, who said that members had been unnecessarily kept up during an all-night sitting by two members, and he alluded more particularly to the member for Napier. No one more than himself (Captain Russell) disliked an all-night stonewall, which exhausted men physically and intellectually, and almost invariably achieved no other result; but it was wrong to put blame on the member for Napier in this instance. The House, he might say, had abrogated its powers and functions. For some years past they had not insisted that the Standing Orders should be observed, or that due time should be given for the consideration of any particular measure. Bills were brought down to the House, and members were not afforded the necessary time to study them-often not even to read them -and, in fact, the House was informed not un- frequently that they must pass them in half an hour. The member for Napier had taken the only course that was open to a member who held the strong convictions which he did in respect to the Native-land legislation. The honourable member was determined that an opportunity should be given to the people of the colony to know that this Bill was being improperly forced on the attention of the 