been voted for workshops. While he would not wish the works to be reduced, he could not agree with the remark made by the Premier objecting to the introduction of locomotives from America. It was a good proposition, on the one hand, to do as much work as we could in our colony ; but on the other hand the manu- facture of locomotives in this country cost about £1,000 to £1,200 more than they could be imported from America, and that was really too much of a concession merely to secure the work for this country while we had such demands for labour as we had at the present time. He thought the Premier was somewhat inaccurate in the statement he made last Saturday in the Petone workshops about men in this country being able to do as much work in eight hours as they could do in ten hours in the Old Country, and for this reason: they depart- mentised all the parts of a locomotive in the Old Country, and no doubt if one man was kept continuously employed at one particular piece of work he acquired a dexterity that could not possibly be acquired when the locomotive was passed through one shop and only a small num- ber of workmen were employed on its various parts. He believed in placing our locomotives as far as possible in this colony, but he did not think, with regard to increased locomotive plant, it was a practice the taxpayers could afford, con- sidering there was such an amount in excess of the cost of importing them. His opinion was that it was far better for the Government to concentrate their efforts on what they thought https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 were the most necessary lines, and prosecute some of them to a finish, and then concentrate their efforts on others, because the Government could then make some of the lines profitable and http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero productive to the country. As it was now, this large amount of money was distributed over the various works of the colony, and they were not devoting enough energy to any one piece of line. New works were distracting their efforts to the neglect of old claims. He recommended this to the favourable consideration of the Go- vernment. Resolution agreed to, and reported to the House and agreed to. On the question that the Bill be read a second time, Mr. HALL -JONES (Minister for Public Works) .- It has been suggested that by taking the second reading of this Bill and the debate on the Public Works Statement at the same time, a saving of time would be effected, and two debates on exactly the same subject would be unnecessary. I therefore move the second reading of the Bill. Members have the esti- mates before them, and will recognise that provision has been made for the various needs of the colony up to the time when we shall have an opportunity of dealing with the matter again next year. I will not take up time any further, as I know members are well satisfied with the provision that has been made. I there- fore move the second reading of the Bill. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) .- I had hoped we should have had some further ex- Mr. Monk the Premier as to the reason for the increase in the amount of the Loan Bill. I am a well- known advocate of going gently. I have en- deavoured to put into practice the precepts which the Right Hon. the Premier has so con- stantly and consistently preached before the House, but has so constantly avoided putting into practice. It appears to me, if we consider the whole question of public works expenditure and loan-money, we really ought to have an alteration in our whole system of public works accounts. As was said just now, the Public Works Statement and estimates are brought down, and a Bill is put into our hands, and amendments are made to them in such rapid sequence that one gets almost perplexed in the vain endeavour to grasp what the Government means. Pervading the whole system of our finance seems to be an intricate system of book- keeping, so involved that it is impossible that the ordinary layman can make head or tail of it. Why it should not be possible to place the figures exemplifying the financial position of the colony before us in a thoroughly simple manner I really cannot understand; but it seems to me throughout, in perusing the public works estimates, in looking through the Railways Statement, and in comparing that with the Budget, one finds one's-self absolutely unable to ascertain what money is spent on any par- ticular branch of expenditure-that is, what sums are capital, what sums are loan-money, and what sums properly belong to the Consoli- dated Fund. Now, it seems to me that it is essentially the first duty of the House to insist that there should be placed before us some system of accounts in connection with our public works expenditure which shall be abso- lutely intelligible, and about which there shall be no difficulty whatsoever. And, in addition to the ordinary accounts, there ought to be a balance-sheet put before us, so that we may understand exactly what position our railway in- vestments are in at the present time. Nothing approaching to a balance-sheet is ever put before us, and it is absolutely impossible to understand what the true position of the Public Works Fund really is. We have what professes to be a balance-sheet, but so inconsequent and so ill-considered that it virtually may be called no balance-sheet at all. Without this balance-sheet it is impossible that we can regulate what charges should be on capital account and what on working-expenses which come in the various branches of the Public Works Department, but more parti- cularly in the matter of our working railways. and in the cost of the construction of our rail- ways. I have given as much time as I have been able to afford to comparing the public works estimates with the various tables which are set out in the Railways Statement, and I admit that at the end of such perusal as I have been able to give I have been abso- lutely unable to ascertain what money has been spent out of loan, what money has been spent out of Consolidated Fund, and what has been spent out of money which has been 