as his own speech. Here it is, on page 231 of Hansard for that year. He even had not the ability to alter the wording of it, because I find that on page 231 he says,- "Sir, a few days ago I observed, among the parliamentary items in one of our newspapers, a short paragraph stating that the Native mem- bers were strenuously opposing and stonewalling, before the Native Affairs Committee, the Native Bill wherein the Government propose to resume to themselves the pre-emptive right over Maori lands. With your permission, Sir, I desire to say something on this question-a question, I venture to say, too lightly treated, and a ques- tion that is not approached with the considera- tion and seriousness it is entitled to-for there is no subject before our legislators of greater importance, influencing as it does the two races, and with them the whole colony. But, first, allow me to preface my remarks with a little -- I hope, pardonable-egotism. Firstly, I have never had, nor do I expect to have in the future, any connection with Native-land transactions ; secondly, I am far from an opponent of the present Government, and but for abusing the secrecy of the ballot I could say more ; and, thirdly, I do not believe the expressions of opinion I am about to give you because I write them, but I write them because I believe them." And so on for many pages of Hansard he gives word for word the views I had written and claims them as his own ; and yet now he has the temerity to flout my opinion. An Hon. MEMBER .- Did he not put it in as a https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 quotation ? Mr. HEKE .- It is not as a quotation at all. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- I have the proof of it. I leave honourable members to decide whether this is the speech of the honourable member, or whether it is a letter he is read- ing :- "I do not believe the expressions of opinion I am about to give you because I write them, but I write them because I believe them." Now, will any honourable member listen to this, and, remembering that Mr. Heke was then on the Opposition benches, have any doubt that what I say is correct ? "Firstly, I have never had, nor do I expect to have in the future, any connection with Native-land transactions ; secondly, I am far from an opponent of the present Government. and but for abusing the secrecy of the ballot 1 could say more." This is the speech of the honourable member, reading my letter that was to have been pub- lished in the Wellington papers against Govern- ment legislation. Mr. WILLIS .- What volume are you quoting from ? Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- Volume 86, page 231, 1894 ; and then he goes on to quote from news- papers that existed only in name at the time, but were preserved in my scrap-book. He quotes from the speech of the Hon. Mr. Carroll in 1887 against the pre-emptive right, and then he quotes from the same gentleman at Gis- borne, and again from his report to the Royal Mr. A. L. D. Fraser Commission ; and this is the honourable gentle- man that to-night comes in and disputes and questions my views upon the Native-land ques- tion. 1 ask honourable members what his opinions were. Let us see the somersaults he has turned. There is one thing that may be said about my views on the Native question, and that is that they have never altered, and my most excellent schoolmaster was the present Native Minister. Well, in 1894 the honourable gentleman, Mr. Heke, was on the Opposition benches, and now he is sitting on a rail -that is, if he is anywhere; but what the honourable member said in those days is to be found on page 977, Volume 86 :- "He contended that the Natives, where they had their title established to them in severalty, ought to be allowed to deal in the same way as Europeans. They were liable to suffer in many respects under Acts passed by the House-such as the Rating Act and other Acts which im- posed taxation on them-and he thought it was only fair that Natives holding their title in severalty should have an opportunity of dealing with them in the way Europeans were allowed to deal. They had a provision in the Bill that any Native could apply to the Land Board ; but he contended that it cost too much for any individual to apply to the Board to have his land disposed of, and the only way in which any individual would be able to dispose of this burden placed upon his property under the Acts he had mentioned was to allow them to deal with their lands as Europeans." Now, there is Mr. Heke in 1894, when he was sitting on the Opposition benches. You have heard him to-night when sitting on the rail. Absolute inconsistency! The honour- able member also suggested that I had a per- sonal interest in this matter, and he said that my profession prompted me to fight in the way I have. If Mr. Heke credited me with that, I hope and sincerely trust there is not another honourable member who supports him. What has the honourable gentleman been doing himself? Why, to my own knowledge, for the last eighteen months he has been touting for retainers to appear in the Native Land Court. He lived in my district for five months, and the Natives would have nothing to do with him, and yet he says I am opposing this legislation because I happen to be a Native agent. I would warn him not to go too far, because I have such cards to play that he might regret the hour he attempted to malign or misrepresent me. Now. we have also heard that the petitions presented to Parliament, which the honourable member asserts were signed by the same hand- Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) .- I rise to a point of order. I wish to ask, Are honour- able gentlemen entitled to use expressions cal- culated to intimidate another honourable mem- ber by suggesting that the honourable member had better be careful, because he has a certain number of cards to play which he could play ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - I do 1.0. not think there is any intimidation in that remark. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- I will explain to the 