ward the work as rapidly as possible. Regular traffic is carried on by the Railway Depart- ment as far as the Poro-o-tarao Tunnel-the watershed between the Waikato and Wanga- nui River systems - and from that point to Kawakawa or Ongarue the rails are al- ready laid, and the ballasting and erection of station-buildings is in progress. The plate- laying party is still at work, extending its operations towards Taumaranui, to which point the formation - work already extends, and bushfelling is in hand beyond the cross- ing of the Wanganui River. The railway at the northern end, therefore, has commenced to tap the celebrated Waimarino Forest. A contract was let in May last for a steel and timber bridge, 465 ft. long, over the Wanganui River at Taumaranui, and contracts have also been let for the steel girders for the three bridges over the Ongarue River. The majority of the piers of these latter bridges will be of timber, and a contract has been let for the supply of the iron cylinders for the remaining piers. At the southern end of the line the earth- works now extend nearly to Turangarere, & distance of thirty-nine miles from the terminus of the opened line at Mangaonoho, and sixty- one miles from the commencement of the rail- way at Marton. Considerable progress has been made with these works during the year, but still greater progress would have resulted if the roads in the district had been in suffi- ciently good order to admit of heavy carting being done in the winter. As much carting as possible was done during the summer and autumn, but it was impossible for the whole of the plant and supplies required during the winter months to be carried up in advance. Advantage will be taken as the weather im- proves and the roads are again fit for carting to send forward the necessary plant and ma- terial for the work. Total length of railway, Marton to Te Awamutu Length open for public traffic .. Additional length on which rails are laid Further length on which formation is practically complete Still further length on which work is in hand .. Making a total length finished or in progress of .. Of the remainder a final survey has been made .. Total Date of authorisation of railway Amount expended to 30th September, 1901 .. Estimated amount required to complete Number of workmen now employed I informed Parliament last session that, if ways and means were provided from time to time as required, this railway could be com- pleted and opened for traffic within about four years from the end of last session, and I see no reason to suppose that that expectation is not still capable of realisation. The total expendi- ture on the line during last financial year, ex- clusive of the cost of rails, sleepers, and other pletion. A view of the structure appended to this Statement will show the position of the work at a tolerably recent date. Platelaying between Makohine and Mangaweka is about to be proceeded with : practically all the rails and sleepers required for this section are now on the further side of the Makohine Ravine. A loco- motive and a train of ballast-wagons have also been arranged for, and are now in process of being conveyed to Pawerawera. I fully expect to have engines running over the Makohine Viaduct by 31st March next, and hope to have the whole section to Mangaweka ready for traffic about the same time. The Mangaweka Viaduct is in hand, the con- crete foundations being in progress at the site, and the ironwork in course of manufacture at the Makohine workshop. This viaduct, though. longer than Makohine, is not so high, and not nearly as difficult or expensive a structure. With favourable weather its erection will pro- bably not take more than four months from the time the finished materials can be railed through from the Makohine workshop, so that at a comparatively early date after the opening of the line to Mangaweka it will be possible to proceed with the platelaying beyond that town- ship towards Taihape. Contracts have been let for the steel super- structures of the bridges over the Toi-toi Creek and the Hautapu River, and all the steel and iron required for the remainder of the bridges up to Ohakune has been ordered from England. Instructions have also been issued for the heavier portions of the earthwork on the Muri- mutu and Raetihi Sections to be taken in hand when the necessary plant and supplies can be conveyed thither. Viewing the North Island Main Trunk Rail- way as a whole, the position of the works at the present time is as follows :- 210 miles. .. .. 69 miles. 18% .. 194 .. 30} .. . . 138 miles. . . . . 72 .. .. .. 210 miles. .. . . . . 10th November, 1884. .. £871,667 .. $986,000 . . 1,166 .. permanent-way materials supplied, was £109,832. This year a larger amount will be required, and an authorisation of $160,000 is accordingly pro- posed for it. Rimutaka Deviation. The detailed survey of the proposed deviation of the Rimutaka Railway between the Upper Hutt and Woodside, via the Tauherenikau 