done it. I felt he had given the show away, and was very sorry. Nor have I at any time given the member for Palmerston, or the Premier, any indication that I should refrain from debating the question on its merits if it came down in the shape of a Bill instead of on the estimates. Nay, I said on the first reading that the Premier was enlarging the opportunities of debate instead of restricting them by the course he was taking. Then, the Premier misrepresented me, and put very offensive statements in my mouth, in accusing me of saying that His Excellency was prodigal in his expenditure. I acquit the honourable gentleman of any intention to misrepresent me. I saw how he fell into the error. The actual word used by the honourable member for Mas- terton was "unsparing," and it was an inference from that when I said that the member for Masterton said that His Excellency had been prodigal in his expenditure on this Royal visit, and the Premier did not see that I was para- phrasing the honourable member for Masterton and turning his own words against him. Heaven forbid that I should speak in that way on my own motion of His Excellency ! Then the Pre- mier said I was a foe to organized society. Mr. SEDDON .- I did not mention the honourable member. I did not mention his name; I said there were certain members who held views inimical to organized society. Mr. ATKINSON .- I was one of the gentle- men plainly indicated by the Premier. I con- sider it my privilege and my duty to criticize quite plainly the policy of the Bill now before us, but I may be allowed to say that I am no foe to organized society. I maintain that the integrity of the Empire is essential to the well- http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero being of organized society, and that the main- taining the dignity and independence of colonial Governors is a necessity of the maintenance of the integrity of the Empire. In standing up for the independence of the representative of the Crown in the colory I am therefore, to the best of my ability, promoting the best interests of society as I interpret it. Then, the Premier said that I reflected on His Excellency in the matter of the increase in salary. My argu- ment was that, in passing the increase as we did, the salary was given to a person as well as to the office-that is, by making the increase take effect during the currency of his term, we were giving him a personal benefit by the vote, and to that extent bringing him on to the floor of the House in an undesirable way. I was en- deavouring to avoid any reflection on His Excel- lency personally. Mr. SEDDON .- I accept the apology of the honourable gentleman, because his explana- tion is nothing more nor less than an apology. The honourable member will not deny what I did say. I said that the honourable gentle- man said that the Governor, in respect to this Bill now before us, was a suppliant. I made that statement, and I stand by it. Those were the words used by the honourable gentleman. What he said was that the Governor had not been unsparing in other respects in the manner Mr. Atkinson respect to spending his own moneys he had not been so prodigal, inferring that with our moneys he had not been so careful. I will ask the honourable member-I believe he is fair -to look at his Hansard proof when he gets it. Mr. ATKINSON .- I should not object to what you say now. That is not what you said before. Mr. SEDDON. - The honourable member said this-of course, he had taken the remarks of the member for Masterton as a text-but upon that he founded his criticism : that His Excellency the Governor, in the manner in which he had gone through the country on trains, and he had gone by steamers, and exerted himself personally, he had acted un- sparingly; but the honourable member did not infer, on the other side, that he would have done very little if it had been at his own ex- pense. The inference sought to be drawn was that there had been extravagance. The honour- able member now says he was quoting the honourable member for Masterton; who, how- ever, said nothing of the kind. I will only say this: as far as the representations have been made to me, I repeat again, that when invited to change the item from the estimates and put it in a Bill, I made that in good faith, because I thought it would prevent acrimo- nious discussion. There was not a single mem- ber of the House, the members for Wellington City included, who, when I made that state- ment on the first introduction of the Bill-and you, Sir, will bear me out-questioned it; and I ask why should it be questioned now? The honourable member laughs; but you can get people to laugh when they have little to laugh at, and when they should rather blush. If the honourable member refers to Hansard he will see that what I have said as to the reflection on His Excellency is correct. In reply to a statement made by the member for Welling- ton City (Mr. Fisher) in regard to His Ex- cellency the Governor, I take the responsi- bility for the course we are now taking. I felt sure that we could carry the vote on the estimates, but I thought it would prevent an acrimonious discussion if we introduced this Bill ; that there were a number of members who, if this course were taken, would probably not take the course which they might other- wise take in respect to a vote on the estimates. I say that what we have done has been in the best interests of peace, and to avoid His Ex- cellency's action being the subject-matter of adverse criticism, and in order to prevent this House from bringing discredit on the colony and to some extent detracting from the splen- did reception given to our Royal visitors. The House divided. AYES, 38. Allen, E. G. Heke Duncan Field Herries Bennet Buddo Flatman Hogg Fowlds Carroll Kaihau Collins Hall Lawry Colvin Hall-Jones Lethbridge 