fied from all suits, claims, and de- mands by any person in consequence of any injury suffered by any person in consequence of the passing of this Act, or of any order of the Validation Court made under its provisions. " (j.) All lands mentioned in the said Third Schedule, or any portion thereof, which are not found by the Valida- tion Court to have been purchased from the Native owners as aforesaid, or in respect of which any applica- tion shall not have been made as aforesaid within three months after the passing of this Act, shall vest in the Public Trustee in fee-simple under ' The Native Reserves Act, 1882,' and it shall be the duty of the Registrar of the Native Land Court to forward to the District Land Registrar a list of any lands so vesting, and the Dis- trict Land Registrar is hereby em- powered and directed to issue titles to the Public Trustee under ' The Native Reserves Act, 1852,' for all such lands. Such titles shall be issued subject to any leases granted by the Public Trustee." Amendments agreed to. Mr. DUNCAN moved the addition of the following new clause 21A :- New clause 21A .- " All rents derived and to be derived by the Napier Borough Council from the Meeanee and Papakura Domains, situate in the Provincial District of Hawke's Bay, as are https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 not actually from time to time expended under section seven of 'The Public Domains Act, 1881,' may be applied and administered by the said Napier Borough Council upon the improve- ments of the Botanical Gardens and other public gardens and public reserves within the Borough of Napier." Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) moved to insert, before the words " Borough of Napier," the words "County of Hawke's Bay and." The Committee divided. AYES, 19. Russell, G. W. Hutcheson Atkinson Buddo Russell, W. R. Lethbridge Meredith Carncross Tanner. Monk Fisher Fowlds Palmer Tellers. Fraser, W. Parata Allen, J. Heke Rhodes Massey. NOES, 29. Allen, E. G. Millar Guinness Arnold Mills Hall O'Meara Hall-Jones Barclay Carroll Hogg Seddon Hornsby Collins Smith, G. J. Duncan Lang Ward Ell Laurenson Willis. Field Tellers. Lawry Flatman Mckenzie, R. Fraser, A. L. D. Graham McNab Symes. Majority against, 10. Amendment negatived, and clause added. Mr. Duncan following new clauses :- New clause 37 .- "Whereas subsection num- bered 2 of section numbered 3 of the Town of Carterton, containing one acre three roods ten perches, is a portion of a reserve set apart for public buildings and other public purposes on the seventeenth day of February, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three : And whereas it is expedient to change the purpose of the afore said portion of the reserve to municipal purposes. and grant the same to the Corporation of the Borough of Carterton : Be it therefore enacted as follows :- "(1.) Subsection numbered 2 of section num- bered 3, Town of Carterton, contait- ing one acre three roods ten perches. is hereby changed from a reserve fer public buildings and other public purposes to a reserve for municipal purposes. " (2.) The Governor may grant in fee-simple. without power of sale, the said suo- section numbered 2 of section num- bered 3 of the Town of Carterton, to the Corporation of the Borough of Carterton as a reserve for municipal purposes." New clause 38 .- "Whereas Harry Slade, of Mokihinui, coal-miner, was killed in an acci- dent at the Blackball Coal-mine in the veir one thousand nine hundred, leaving bis widow and four children destitute, and it is desirable that some provision should be made for them : Be it therefore enacted that the Public Trustee may, out of the moneys in his hands to the credit of the Coal-miners' Relief Fund. make such provision for Rose Marion Slade. the widow, and Ralph Slade, Grace Dempster Slade. Elsie Slade, and Leslie George Haywood Slade. the children of the said Harry Slade, as be thinks fit." Mr. DUNCAN moved, in clause 38, That "Minister of Mines and " be inserted before "Public Trustee." Amendment agreed to, and clauses added. Mr. DUNCAN moved the addition of the following new clause :- "Whereas the land described in the Twelfth Schedule hereto is a portion of land vested in the Public Trustee under the provisions of ' The Auckland Hospital Reserves Act, 1%-%. for the purposes of and subject to the tras's therein mentioned : " And whereas such land is required for a show-ground for agricultural and pastoral pil ?. poses, and it is desirable to set it apart fr such purposes and to grant other land is exchange therefor : Be it therefore enacted as follows : - "(1.) The reservation of the land describe in the Twelfth Schedule hereto, under and for the purposes of 'The Auckland Haspe Reserves Act, 1883,' is hereby cancelled. and the Governor may grant it for an estate in ke- simple, freed from any mortgage or other charge, but subject to any lease or tenancy then existing over the land, to the Auckland Agricultural and Pastoral Association, withce: 