total anything, except apparel and slops, that for a moment could be supposed to be prison- made. The bulk of the imports into New Zea- land from the west coast by the Ffisco steamers are fruit-bottled fruits, raisins, dried fruits, apples, and pears. An Hon. MEMBER .- And timber. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I will deal with timber pre- sently. Timber does not come in anything like the same quantity from the west coast as do fruits, the total value of fruits being about £21,000. Does any one for a moment wish to argue that it is not a reasonable thing that fruits of this kind should be brought to New Zealand? I do not think that there is any harm in such fruit being brought into this coun- try. Duty is paid on those fruits-25 per cent. on some, 2d. per pound on others, and other charges on others. We get revenue out of them. These American tinned fruits are, I think, of great service to us, and I do not think that the ships bringing those fruits here do any harm to us. These are certainly not prison-made goods. They are fine, healthy food, and I do not think there is any harm done by those steamers bring- ing them here. The next large item is printing- paper, to the value of $18,000. It cannot be presumed that printing-paper is prison-made, or that there is any harm in bringing such printing- paper into this country. Then, there is the item, apparel and slops, to the value of £6,000. Whether that is prison-made or not I do not know. From inquiries I have made I under- stand that it is not prison-made. So far as I https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 have ascertained, there is not one article in our imports which can be supposed to be prison- made. I have been looking back in the course of this debate at the history of the Fr'isco ser- vice. I recollect in the year after I came into this House-in 1888-listening to a debate in which the present Postmaster-General made his first mark in the House of Representatives. I remember the speech he then made upon the Fr'isco service. He condemned the Frisco mail-service hip and thigh ; he had not a good word to say for it. I will read one passage from his speech. He said, "The Premier [Sir Harry Atkinson] is no doubt an advocate for the continuance of the San Francisco service. I am not." He used stronger language, but I have not time to make further extracts from his speech at the present time. What I want to say, however, is this: that the pre- sent Postmaster-General was, in 1888, opposed to the San Francisco mail - service. At that time the Fr'isco service was, practically speaking, a British service. But to-day the Postmaster-General is in favour of the con- tinuance of the Fr'isco service when it has gone out of British hands and is in the hands of Americans. It is quite possible that the Postmaster-General, with all the responsibilities upon him now, has changed his mind, and I will give him credit for changing his mind upon this subject. An Hon. MEMBER. - What did you do then ? Mr. J. ALLEN .- I have always been of opinion that the Fr'isco service should be con -! But there is one point with regard to the. Federal service which, I think, honourable members have lost sight of. The Common- wealth of Australia has placed a tariff upon our goods of which some indication has been given to us through the newspapers, which will undoubtedly be a high tariff, and a tariff which will affect the trade between New Zea- land and the Commonwealth of Australia. It will be a tariff which we may ex- 9.30. pect, at any rate, will lessen the amount of sea trade between Australia and New Zealand. I am told that one of the measures that is suggested from the Govern- ment benches is to put an import duty upon coal from Australia. Other duties, no doubt, will be suggested and brought forward by the All this Government by way of retaliation. tends in one direction-to decrease the amount of sea trade between here and Australia. Now, if that be the tendency I would ask, Why, at this particular moment, when there is a pos- sibility of our trade with Australia being de- creased, we should attempt to set up a Federal mail-service ? I could understand a Federal mail-service being established if we were going to increase our trade with Australia. If there was a necessity for having our boats running at a fast rate, running weekly and regularly, then there would be some reason, I say, for imagining that there was a possibility of satisfactorily setting up a Federal service. But, with a decreasing trade, I venture to say that the Union Steamship Company would be unable, unless we are wrong in our ideas about the trade, for the £10,000 to contract for a fast service of such a nature as would be satisfactory to New Zealand. At any rate, I say the time has not yet come when we are able definitely to say that such a fast service can be established between here and the Commonwealth ; and it is better for us, whilst we have a bird in the hand, to keep that bird in the hand, and, later on, when we do know what the Australian tariff is, and what its effect will be upon our commerce with Aus- tralia, we may take into consideration the set- ting-up of a Federal mail-service. I only hope we may be wrong in our ideas as to the restric- tions of trade, and that we may find our trade increase rather than decrease, and that it will lead up, by the aid of, perhaps, a reasonable subsidy, to establishing a fast weekly service between here and Australia, and so connect with the Federal service Home. Sir, I am not going to-night into the question of cost. Honourable members have been over that, and the question of time. There is no doubt the Fr'isco service is the shorter service and that it is the cheapest service, and it is useless to again go over the argument which honourable members have been over so many times during the course of the debate. But there is one other point, which it seems to me has been to some extent lost sight of. We have been told that these navigation laws are hostile to the commerce of Great Britain and the Colony of New Zealand, and I admit that to be so. 