various matters in which they were interested, and, joining a general conversation, I had tea and proceeded to the train, which conveyed me to Dunedin before seven o'clock. I was not outside the inn at all haranguing the people, nor did such a thing occur within the inn. So that the honourable gentleman's state. ment is absolutely without foundation. think when an honourable member makes a statement in connection with another member, especially on so melancholy an occasion as that, the honourable member should adhere to what is strictly accurate. It is true I did meet some of my constituents who were there, and who had to see me about a matter of business ; but the whole description given by the honourable gentleman is drawn from his imagination. Had it happened in connection with any other event I would not have risen ; but, as it was in connection with a gentleman whom we all respect, I deem it my duty to say what I have. He also said I had infringed the Corrupt Practices Act. The honourable gentle- man should know that we are permitted to expend a sum of money to cover the cost of an election. The amount that my election ex- penses came to was considerably within the amount, and there was not one item that was not correct in every shape and form. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) .- The honour- able member on the occasion in question was in a very merry mood, and probably forgets the subject of the conversation that night with his constituents. I am in a position to con- firm all my statements that the honourable gentleman was representing to his constituents https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 what he had done and his achievements in London. Mr. T. MACKENZIE. - It is absolutely false. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I must ask the honourable gentleman to withdraw that ex- pression. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- I will not withdraw it. It is absolutely false. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable member must conform to parliamentary prac- tice, and that statement must be withdrawn. If he wishes to correct any statement of the honourable member which he thinks is mis- leading he will have an opportunity of doing 80. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- I shall withdraw in this form : As the Chair requires me to with- draw the expression ; but I shall not withdraw the expression that what the honourable mem- ber says is incorrect and false. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The word "false" is entirely unparliamentary, and must also be withdrawn. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- It is incorrect, and the honourable gentleman knows it. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The statement " false" must be withdrawn. Do I understand the honourable member has withdrawn that expression ? Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- I stated that I with- drew it because the rules of the House require Mr. T. Mackensie the honourable gentleman himself is refusing to accept my statement. That is the position. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I will deal with the honourable gentleman in regard to that afterwards. If the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) is challenging a statement made by the honourable member for Waihemo with regard to the conduct of the I honourable member, the honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) must accept the statement of the honourable member for Wai- hemo as to what he has said. The rules of the House are that a statement with regard to an honourable member's conduct made by himself must be accepted by every other mem- ber in the House. Mr. NAPIER. - I accept the honourable member's statement that he has no recollec- tion of what he said. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- I rise to a point of order. The member for Waihemo said flatly that he did not make the statement, and did not say that he had no recollection ; and I ask you to direct the honourable member for Auck- land City to absolutely withdraw from the position he has taken up. Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER. - I think the honourable member for Auckland City is now implying something worse than he said before. by not accepting the statement and by making an insinuation that the honourable member did not recollect what he was doing. That remark is unparliamentary. Mr. NAPIER .-- I am not making that sug- gestion at all. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - It is open to The honourable member that construction. for Waihemo said that the statement attributed to him was not correct, and you must accept his statement on that point. Mr. NAPIER .- Well, Sir, I heard with my own ears the honourable gentleman's speech- if I may so call it-at Palmerston South that night. He made about half a dozen little speeches to small groups of people, and I heard some of his remarks ; and I cannot, of course, state that what I heard with my own ears and recollect is inaccurate. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- You have heard the honourable gentleman say he did not make use of the expression attributed to him, and it is not in order for you to say that the honour- able member was in such a mood that he could not recollect it. Mr. NAPIER .- I did not intend to imply that at all, Sir, because the honourable member was very clear-headed on the occasion, and in a very happy condition. I do not say that in any wrong sense at all, nor did I intend to do so. I had a conversation with him for two or three minutes, and can bear testimony to the fact that he was very clear-headed and very quick- witted. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- Sir, I re- main entirely untouched by any motive that may be cast upon those who are known to be in favour of this Bill; and, indeed, I wonder why we cannot discuss a question of this nature 