read. Mr. PIRANI .- Should I be in order in moving that the document the Premier has quoted be laid on the table ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- It is not usual to compel the production or laying on the table of confidential communications that have passed between the Crown Law Officers or departmental officers and the Government. Mr. PIRANI .- But it has been read by the Premier. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- What has been read the Premier can please himself about, but it would not be in order to move that the document be laid on the table. Mr. PIRANI .- The point is that the Premier has kept back the best part. Mr. SEDDON .- I have left that for the second reading of the Bill. Motion agreed to. Bill referred to Committee of the Whole. Recommendation that provision be made accordingly agreed to and reported. Bill read a first time. ## SUPPLY. CLASS II .- COLONIAL SECRETARY. Miscellaneous services, £81,398. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) said that as a Bill was introduced dealing with the item, " Grant to His Excellency in reimburse- ment of expenses incurred by him, £2,250," he moved, That the item be struck out. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Motion agreed to, and item struck out. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) wished some ex- planation of the item "Grant to Ministers and their Secretaries in reimbursement of expenses incurred by them, including £150 for ordinary travelling - allowance, £350." He understood this was in connection with the Royal visit. Ministers had an allowance of 30s. a day for every day they were absent from Wellington, and besides that they were paid ordinary travel- ling-expenses ; but evidently that was not suffi- cient. The Royal party was in the colony for three weeks, and for that time the Ministers and their Secretaries required an additional $350 as travelling-expenses. Unless some good reasons could be given for the retention of this item it ought to be struck out. He would like to know how much of the expense related to the Secretaries and how much to the Ministers. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) wished the Minis- ter to explain why the money put down for the reimbursement of expenses incurred by Mr. Rhodes, the Mayor of Christchurch, £247, should be voted. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) might say at once that Mr. Rhodes had incurred expenses in con- nection with the Royal visit which it was only fair and reasonable the colony should bear, though they had, in the first place, been charged against the Mayor of Christchurch. They were tradesmen's bills for alterations made to his premises, and so on. These expenses were in- curred on behalf of the colony. Everything had been done in the most careful and business- House what Mr. Rhodes had done. That was the only way the liability could be met. It would be necessary to take another vote for accounts that had since come in. There had been strict economy, and no unnecessary ex- pense incurred. The manner in which the colony had been treated by Mr. Rhodes in re- spect to the Royal visit was deserving of every credit. Mr. RHODES (Ellesmere) said it appeared there must be some misunderstanding in regard to this item. He understood it was the Govern- ment that incurred the liability, and not the Mayor of Christchurch. Mr. SEDDON .-- No. Mr. RHODES said he had telegraphed to the Mayor about the item, and had received the following reply : "Government arranged all expenditure here. Do not understand the item." There was evidently some misunder- standing. He would like the Minister to explain the item. Mr. SEDDON said there was a letter from Mr. Rhodes which accompanied the accounts. Mr. J. ALLEN .- What are they for ? Mr. SEDDON .- The food, amongst other things, supplied to "Te Koraha " during the Royal visit. Mr. J. ALLEN .- He did not order it. Mr. SEDDON said, All the accounts were sent to Mr. Rhodes - ordinary tradesmen'g accounts, and also accounts for furnishing, et cetera. Mr. Rhodes was liable in the first instance, although it was only nominal, for the colony was the host, and the accounts paid or hereafter to be paid would be reimbursed him. Sir J. G. WARD said he had in his hand a letter from Mr. Rhodes to the department, which the honourable member for Ellesmere could read. He would not read the details of the accounts, but the items which the honour- able member for Bruce said should be read were as follows : - d. 55 19 Servants' wages 6 1. Groceries, provisions, &c. 178 14 11 .. 50 14 0 Gas and electric light fittings 5 0 Table-linen, &c. 53 20 0 0 Decorations and flowers .. Fuel and light 19 11 7 14 Band (music) 5 0 Sundries 30 13 10 . Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said it would be as well that this matter should be cleared up, as there had been a great deal of criticism out- side the House regarding it. He understood the position to be that Mr. Rhodes vacated his house-handed it over to the Royal party - and this #247 was in payment of expenses incurred by the Royal party while staying there, and that Mr. Rhodes had nothing to do with it. Mr. SEDDON said that was so. In regard to alterations, for instance, the Government had advised that gas should be installed as well as the electric light, in case of accidents. The accounts were sent to Mr. Rhodes, while the work was really done for the Government. Mr. and Mrs. Rhodes had given the Government 