sale, shall be deemed to do so as the occupier of a factory, and the provisions, obligations, and penalties of that section shall extend and apply accordingly." Mr. HOUSTON (Bay of Islands) moved to strike out the clause. The Committee divided on the question, "That the clause be a clause of the Bill." AYES, 28. Fraser, A. L. D. Seddon Allen, E. G. Hall Smith, G. J. Arnold Hall-Jones Barclay Tanner Bollard Hardy Ward Wilford Laurenson Buddo Carroll Mckenzie, R. Witheford. McNab Collins Millar Duncan Tellers. Hutcheson Mills Ell Field Napier Stevens. NOES, 8. Flatman Lawry Tellers. Monk Houston Fowlds Massey. Willis. Heke Majority for, 20. Clause retained. Clause 28 .-- "In order to prevent persons being employed in factories without reasonable remuneration in money, the following provi- sioos shall apply :- " (1.) Every person who is employed in any https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 capacity in a factory shall be entitled to receive from the occupier payment for the work at such rate as is agreed on, being in no case less than five shillings per week for boys and girls under sixteen years of age, and there- after an annual increase of not less than two shillings weekly till twenty years of age. " (2.) Such rate of payment shall in every case be irrespective of overtime. "(3.) Such payment shall be made in full at weekly intervals. \*\* (4.) If the occupier makes default for seven days in the full and punctual pay- ment of any money payable by him as aforesaid, he shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding five shillings for every day thereafter during which such default continues. \*\* (5.) Without affecting the other civil reme- dies for the recovery of money pay- able under this section to a person employed in a factory, civil proceed- ings for the recovery thereof may be taken by an Inspector in the name and on behalf of the person entitled to payment in any case where the Inspector is satisfied that default in payment has been made. " (6.) No premium in respect of the employ- ment of any person shall be paid to or be received by the occupier, whether such premium is paid by the person employed or by some other person ; and if the occupier of this subsection he shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding ten pounds. " (7.) In any case where a premium has been paid or received in breach of the last preceding subsection, or where the occupier has made any deduction from wages, or received from the per- son employed or from any person on his or her behalf any sum in respect of such premium or employment, then, irrespective of any penalty to which he thereby becomes liable, the amount so paid, deducted, or received may be recovered from the occupier in civil proceedings instituted by an Inspector in the name and on behalf of the person concerned." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to strike out " weekly," in subsection (3), and insert " not more than fortnightly " in lieu thereof. Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Clause 31 .- " (1.) Nothing in the last pre- ceding section shall be deemed to prevent,- "(a.) Any person being employed in a print- ing-office up to the hour of half-past four of the clock in the afternoon of the half-holiday for the purpose of printing or publishing an evening newspaper ; nor " (b.) The substitution of other working- days as whole holidays in lieu of Easter Monday and the Sovereign's birthday, in the case of persons em- ployed as type-setters ; nor "(c.) Any boy being employed on the half- holiday in the publishing or delivering of a newspaper. "(2.) For the purposes of this section ' news- paper ' means a paper containing public news, printed for sale and published in New Zealand periodically, or in parts or numbers at intervals not exceeding twenty-six days between one publi- cation and the next." On the motion of Mr. PALMER (Ohinemuri), it was agreed to delete the words " the last pre- ceding section, " and substitute " this Act " ; and, in subsection (a) of such subsection (1), to delete the words from and inclusive of " up to" till "afternoon of, " and substitute the word "on " ; and in subsection (b), after the words "Easter Monday," to insert the words " Labour Day "; and in same subsection (b) to delete the words "as type-setters," and substitute the words " in the printing and publishing of nowspapers." Clause as amended agreed to. Clause 32 .- "(1.) Wages for each whole or half-holiday shall in the case of each woman or young person be at the same rate as for ordi- nary working-days, and shall be paid at the first regular pay-day thereafter. "(2.) For the purposes of this section ' wage- earner,' with respect to any specified whole holiday or half-holiday, means any person who is paid by time-wages, whatever the time, and has been employed in the factory for at least twenty days during the six months next pro- 