cisco without waiting for our mails. Now, a remark was made by an honourable member that the Oceanic vessels were not in good work- ing-order, and were not keeping to the contract time. I would point out, Sir, that the " Sierra," in the August trip of the present year, notwith- standing that she was detained forty-one hours at Honolulu and Pango-Pango, was only twenty- eight hours late in reaching Auckland. That is to say, she was thirteen hours ahead of her contract time, allowing for the island delays. The average speed of the vessels for the last three trips has been sixteen knots right across the Pacific. It has been said that the state- ment that this service would be of value in time of war is ridiculous, and the observation has been subjected to cheap sneers. I would like to quote as an authority a gentleman who is now in this House, and was in it in 1885-that is Captain Russell, the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, who, I think, will be admitted to be an authority in this House. He said in 1885 :- "There are one or two reasons why it is extremely desirable that the San Francisco route should be continued. The question of the possibility of war with Russia I will not go into again, but it is a point which struck me the very instant I knew that the question was to be brought under discussion. It must be evident to every honourable gentleman who takes an interest in European politics that war with Russia, though it may not be very pro- bable, is yet quite within the bounds of pos- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 sibility; and, as we saw in the American war how one ' Alabama' almost destroyed the commerce of the States, and though the navy of England may be sufficiently powerful to sweep the seas of nearly every privateer, our mail-service could be endangered by one single privatecr. And supposing such a dire calamity as war with Russia should happen, I believe it would be an infinite advantage that our mails should be carried by American bottoms and through California. If it were on that ground alone I should be glad of the continuance of the San Francisco mail-service." Now, what does Sir Julius Vogel, formerly Premier of this colony, say of the service ? And there was no more level-headed man in the House, as far as business was concerned, than he. He said the matter was absolutely beyond the reach of controversy. In proposing, in 1885, a resolution in this House to renew the San Francisco mail contract, with a subsidy of £30,000 per annum, he said :- "I must therefore speak upon the subject, although there should really be no necessity to speak upon it, for a more successful mail-service or one of a less costly character it is not possible to conceive." I give these views for our guidance, because it is desirable that the younger members of the House, of whom I am one, should know what the experienced statesmen, the men who have been the pioneers of this colony, have thought on these questions. There are several other quotations I should have liked to make. There' Mr. Napier 1885 by the late Sir George Grey, a speech that is full of eloquent appeal and potent arguments, but time will not permit me to read any portion of it. Captain Russell in those days predicted that it was within the bounds of possibility that the service could be done in thirty-five days. Now, here we have a twenty-six days' service, or nine days better than the service the honour- able gentleman dreamt was within the bounds of possibility ; and we are getting it at a less cost than was paid in those days. The trade with America is constantly growing, and its expansion during the last few years has been very considerable. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - Time is up. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) .- Sir, I feel that the question has been so thoroughly debated there is extremely little I can add to the arguments put forward in favour of the San Francisco route. I have been extremely in- terested by the speech of the honourable mem- ber for Auckland City (Mr. Napier), to hear the words of wisdom to which I gave utterance so far back as the year 1885. I confess I had forgotten I had spoken on the subject so long ago. However, I am nothing if not consistent, and therefore I am glad to find that after an interval of nearly twenty years, I hold practi- cally the same views on the subject as I did so long ago. I have no intention of trying to thresh more grain out of the straw which has already been threshed. But I shall refer to one or two other subjects in connection with the San Francisco contract that have not been alluded to, and I will also explain the way in which the question presents itself to my mind. I think the first question I ask is : Do we want a regular service of mail delivery in the colony ? I suppose everybody will agree it is desirable we should have a regular service of mail-delivery, and, if we are to have a regular mail system, most will add that it is essential it should be one of the greatest rapidity. I admit that on that point I have my doubts. I am inclined to believe with those honourable members who hold that the most important business must be done by cable, and, therefore, that the question of an extremely rapid mail communication is not of vital importance. But common-sense also teaches me that the country will not be satisfied unless it has as rapid mail communica- tion as can possibly be got, so that, whether my views on the subject of the inutility of rapid mail communication are right or not, it is certain the country will demand a rapid steam communication with the ends of the world. 'Then, if that is the case, I would ask which is the quickest route by which we can communi- cate with Europe? There can be no question about it that, until either the canal through the Isthmus of Panama is completed or the system by Nicaragua is inaugurated, the route by San Francisco must be the quickest route; and, as neither the Panama nor the Nicaraguan routes can be available for a considerable num- ber of years to come, we may put them on one side, and agree that the San Francisco route in the meantime must be the quickest. 