were not paid canvassers employed-paid out of the people's money-to tout for votes in favour of the Government. Mr. HORNSBY .- I can deny that, at all events, as far as my district is concerned. An Hon. MEMBER .- And I too. Captain RUSSELL .- You cannot deny that it was so in the past. An Hon. MEMBER .- What about Armstrong ? Captain RUSSELL said, Yes : what about Armstrong ? What about the Appropriation Act? It had been notorious that it was the case, and that the canvassers were paid, al- though they said they were not touting for the Government, but were simply getting names on the roll. It was a disgrace to Parliament more than it was a disgrace to Ministers that they should tolerate such things. If members had the spirit of men he did not believe this wretched condition of things in connection with our electoral system would be allowed to continue for another moment ; but honourable members were prepared to swallow everything that was attempted to be thrust down their throats, and the way in which our elections were tampered with for the benefit of the Go- vernment was a standing disgrace to the whole colony. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) said it was very extraordinary to hear the statements just made by the honourable member. Captain RUSSELL said he had made them half a dozen times before. Sir J. G. WARD said he meant in connection with this particular matter. Now, the facts were these : During the passage through the House this session of the Colonial Secretary's estimates, on the question of Returning Officers, the then member for Patea, Mr. Haselden, com- mented on the undesirability of the local Post- master, who was the former Returning Officer, being continued in the position in which he was, although he (Mr. Haselden) said nothing against him. He referred to the fact that it had been said that, in the event of the election resulting in a tie, the Returning Officer would be afraid of doing his duty for fear of getting into displeasure with those who were over him-namely, the Government of the colony. He (Sir J. G. Ward) then said that, while he did not believe-and neither did Mr. Haselden himself believe-that this officer would swerve from doing his duty, yet that steps would be taken to have a fresh Returning Officer appointed for the next election. He then did not know, nor, of course, did any other member of the House know, that the seat would be declared void by the Electoral Court; and the statement was made then publicly by him that a change in the Returning Officer would take place in consequence of what the member stated. And he might add that Mr. Haselden, when he spoke, did not in any way reflect on the Returning Officer. But, in consequence of what the member said, he (Sir J. G. Ward) stated that the Returning Officer would be changed. Honourable members were now trying to make out that this was a pre- meditated delay in the issue of the writ in order Captain Russell to help the Government. It was nothing of the \- kind. It was a regrettable thing that the mo- ment anything was done by the Government suspicions were at once created in the minds of certain honourable members who looked at the whole thing from a prejudiced party point of view. A tender was accepted for the printing of the roll a week or two ago-some time be- fore the election was declared void. They had not yet got the roll to go on with. The Returning Officer would be appointed to-morrow, and it would be unfair to both candidates for the seat not to have the rolls ready for them as soon as possible. He had stated what was the sole cause of the delay, and upon that text the honourable member for Hawke's Bay had entered upon discursive matter regarding the last Auckland elections. He (Sir J. G. Ward) assured the House that in this matter nothing whatever was attempted to be done other than that which was right. They accepted a tender for the printing of the electoral roll at Wanganui about a fortnight ago, and he had not got the roll yet ; and it would be an improper thing for the writ to be issued before even the Returning Officer was appointed. The honourable member was entirely mistaken in the supposition that it was with the view of enabling Ministers to go up and take part in this particular election that the issue of the writ was delayed. Ministers intended to do nothing of the kind, and from all they heard the seat was particularly safe for the Govern- ment. He regretted exceedingly that, while the necessary departmental machinery had to be turned round so as to get things into a proper position, because of that these charges were sprung upon them as if something extra- ordinary and unfair were intended to be given effect to by the Government in connection with the matter of the election. He could assure honourable members that nothing of the kind was intended. If it had been possible to have the necessary machinery ready they would have had the writ issued, and then there would have been no reason for any delay whatever. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) rose again to point out to the Colonial Secretary what he had stated half a dozen times previously : that if the system used by the Wellington Registrar in connection with the electoral rolls were en- forced throughout the colony, almost any roll could be completed in two days after the writs were issued. It was a system of cards, and a very good system ; and over and over again he had endeavoured to get the Government to adopt it in the districts of the colony. He had received a promise that it would be done, but he supposed these promises were, like pie-crust, only made to be broken. Now that the Colo- nial Secretary was acting for himself, perhaps he might be induced to make inquiries and get that system enforced. Mr. SEDDON .- That is the ticket system ? Mr. PIRANI .- Yes. Mr. SEDDON .- It is a very good system. Sir J. G. WARD (Colonial Secretary) would make inquiries into the matter. 