too fast, and that we require to curtail the deter the proper development of our coalfields, expenditure, and curtail the departmental ex- penditure-I agree with the honourable gentle- man there, and every member of the Ministry desires the same-in the same breath he urges the obtaining of millions of borrowed money, 1 so that more land may be acquired for the , The honourable gentleman was so very un- settlement of the people. Well. as I have said, I interesting in the latter part of his speech that you cannot do all these things at once. To do . he has not much right to be fastidious. Then all this within a year or two would require an extraordinary expenditure-a sum we would not be warranted in asking the House to assent to. So, while he deprecates the increase of our indebtedness and says we are going too fast in one direction, he urges that we should proceed very much faster in two other directions. Therefore he is clearly most inconsistent. In carrying on the land-settlement policy the Government must proceed as they have pro- ceeded during the last eight or nine years- vigorously but prudently ; and as land is being obtained we must road it as far as possible, and that policy we must and will carry out as far as it is in our power to carry it out. We conceive that to be our duty, and we are doing it now, although not so fast as we ourselves desire. We are carrying on our railway-lines throughout the colony, and employing on those important works a very large number of men. Work of that kind, however, is in time bound to come to a diminishing-point, and it is well that the Government should acquire lands in various parts of the colony, not only for fresh settlers from outside to come to our colony and take up, but so that these men now employed making our railways may also go upon the land if they choose; and in that way they would be absorbed, and would not, when our railway. con- struction ceases, come into the labour-market. If the honourable gentleman were to take an impartial view of what the Government is doing, instead of being hypercritical in his criticisms, he would wear a happier aspect ; he would be bound to honestly admit that the policy of the Government was a good one for the country as a whole, and that it had added and would still add materially to its prosperity. My honourable friend would to-day have looked much happier and much more pleasant if he could put his hand on his heart and say that he himself occupied his old position. But he has drifted off, and he knows not to where he is drifting. The honourable member, in the course of his speech, did say one word of congratula- tion, and in respect to that I echo the senti- ments which he gave utterance to. He con- gratulated the colony upon having decided to acquire a State coal-mine. I think it is a great thing for the country that we have decided to acquire a State coal-mine, and that will assist us in carrying on the great departments which largely utilise coal. This policy will assist us not only in obtaining our own fuel, but will, I think, have the very desirable effect of steady. ing the price of coal in New Zealand, and prevent any undue rise owing to rings, combinations, or other causes in the different centres of the colony such as apparently there has been in the past, aud which must have done so much to VOL. CXIX .- 81. and also to restrict and interfere injuriously with some of our manufacturing industries. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- How much longer are you going to speak ? Sir J. G. WARD. Until I have finished. he said something about the £442 paid to the Federal Commissioners who are members of Parliament. I think he said he would have preferred to see the Disqualification Act amended. And so would I have preferred it. An Hon. MEMBER .- Why is it not ? Sir J. G. WARD. - " Why is it not ?" The honourable member might as well call for the moon. In the first place, it was during the recess that the Federal Commission was set up, and the honourable member knows per- fectly well-at least, I hope he will see upon mature consideration-that we could not then have done anything in that way. We could not have made provision in any other way than we are now doing. There is no member of the House who, outside the House, has suggested that the Disqualification Act should be amended, and we could not have asked for consideration to members of Commissions excepting to those who went across the sea. There is no member of the House who has voiced the proposal in the direction now indicated, and yet when the Government make a fair proposal to meet in a proper manner an unusual position they say, "Why did you not amend the Disqualification Act?" An Hon. MEMBER .- The Premier promised it early in this session. Sir J. G. WARD .- I am asking what any honourable gentleman who now complains of this has said outside. What has he done on the platform ? An Hon. MEMBER .- None knew that this money was appropriated. Sir J. G. WARD. - Well, I say, let them go out on the platform now and do so. Mr. HUTCHESON .- I will. At least, I will condemn this Bill. Sir J. G. WARD .- I have no doubt the honourable member will. It is the easiest thing in the world to condemn anything. I have gone along a street more than once, and, looking up at magnificent piles of buildings, have thought what an easy thing it would be to pull them down. I know there are men who, when they look at such things, think that this and that can be altered ; and what damage such inen would do if they were only given the opportunity, just because they think they could do work so much better than others have done. It is easy to criticize and to pull down. It is much more difficult to design and construct. I have been referring briefly to the different points touched upon by the member for Riccarton. The honourable gentleman says it is a good job that party ties have not the same hold as formerly, and that members of the House are not marionettes. Now, since I have been in the House-that is, 