our nose to spite our face, or allow any wrong or misguided feelings to actuate us in dealing with this matter, even although the development of trade has not been so great as we should have liked to see it during the running of that ser- vice. We ought not to cut off our connection with a British-speaking country which we have every hope will come closer to the Old Land. If troubles should arise with other countries, we shall find Great Britain and America standing shoulder to shoulder ; and we in this country are much concerned, and the ties of kin- dred between our American cousins and Britain are of great moment to us. Honourable mem- bers, however much they may be disposed to criticize details, or however much they may feel that they have not been treated so gener- ously in the North as they ought to have been ; however much they may resent or dissent from the imputation of unworthy motives, I believe every member has an earnest wish to do what they believe to be best in the interests of the country ; and the proposals of the Government are made in the sincere desire to keep up a service which has done a considerable amount of good to the colony in the past, and I believe will do a great deal more in the future. I trust members will take a proper and a broad view of the matter, and give a hearty assent to the proposals submitted by the Government. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) .- I desire to congratulate the Postmaster-General on his statement of the case he has endeavoured to make out for the San Francisco mail-service. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 But, after carefully listening to it, it appears to me that the honourable gentleman is trying to place us in the same position as he did twelve months ago. Honourable members will re- member that in Committee, when the House was strongly opposed to the service, the honour- able gentleman asked us to give him twelve . months to negotiate with other firms for a mail contract with New Zealand. And what has been the result ? With the exception of one or two letters sent to the Vancouver Company, we have not seen the slightest negotiation till to- day, when Spreckels has taken the colony by the throat. It is not fair to the House that when a resolution is carried and an indication given to the Ministry they do not carry it out. Look at these resolutions and what do you find ? There is a certain amount of padding put in about Vancouver and a Federal service, but the whole thing hangs on Spreckels refusing to accept the contract. The resolutions ask the House to pledge the colony for three years to the Fr'isco service. If honourable gentle- men will read the resolutions they will find that this House is asked to authorise the Government to negotiate for a three years' contract with Spreckels, subject to the following : "That in the event of it being found impracticable to arrange a contract for the three-weekly San Francisco service on the foregoing terms, this House authorises the Go- vernment to enter into negotiations for esta- blishing a three-weekly or a four-weekly Van- couver mail-service." But this House is not Sir J. G. Ward Federal or Vancouver service until Spreckels has refused the contract, and I say there is not a chance of his refusing the 7s. 6d. proposed by the Postmaster-General. I am surprised <!-- PageHeader="\--- -" --> at the change of opinion on the part of the Postmaster-General, for if there was one thing by which that honourable gentleman first made his mark in the colony, it was by his opposition to this service. In 1888 he disagreed with the Premier ; here are his own words An Hon. MEMBER .- Who was the Premier ? Mr. MILLAR .- Sir H. Atkinson. He said,- " I take a somewhat different view from the Premier as to the course this House ought to pursue in considering the several resolutions which the Government has submitted to us. The Premier is no doubt an advocate for the continuance of the San Francisco service. I am not." And he went further, and moved an amend- ment to the resolution that the subsidy be discontinued. Sir J. G. WARD .- Will you read the resolu- ! tion I proposed ? It is on the same lines as I am going now. Mr. MILLAR .-- This was the resolution he moved, that the words " the subsidy to the San Francisco mail-service should be discontinued " be added to the end of the resolution in lieu of words struck out. Sir J. G. WARD .- I was opposed to the sub- sidy, and I was advocating payment by weight. I was in favour of taking the two alternative proposals, as I am now. Mr. MILLAR .- At that time the honourable member moved and carried his resolution in this House, and the very same arguments are advanced now as they were then ; and appa- rently the members from Auckland were in the same state of ferment as they are now. But I think the honourable gentleman himself has given us the very strongest reason why we should not accept his proposal. Can the honourable gentleman point to another self- governing colony that has ever given a subsidy to a foreign company? I say it is that very fact that has altered the feeling of the people in this colony. I want to try and meet this matter in a fair and impartial manner. I want to look at this mail - service from all points of view, and see whether it is in the interests of the colony that we should go into it. It seems to me, judging by the ex- perience of the past, that this service is of very little consequence to the colony. If honourable members remember, for thirty years this Fr'isco service has been esta- blished, and for the last thirty years what do we find has been the value of that service either from a passenger or a trade point of view. When I called for this return I had a fair idea of what the position was, although I never dreamed that the service was of such little value to the colony as this return proves. I desired to have this in the hands of members, so that when we discussed this question we should know of what value it was to the colony. These figures are for the past ten 