ments of the past, and said the principle of Committees and Land Boards had been tried and found wanting. The honourable member would lead the House to suppose that it was really the case as he had declared ; but he knows as well as I do that in last year's Act the Land Board was constituted for the first time as a real live experiment, and we have yet to wait results to judge thereby. All the tribunals the honourable member re- ferred to had no power whatever; they just had the mention, and no more. They had no administrative power, and no judicial power. This is the first time in the history of this country that we have armed a Native Land Board with administrative power, and judicial power only when the Chief Judge of the Native Land Court so directs. That is clear and simple, and the honourable member, if he had been frank, would have explained that to the House. Now, he and the honourable member for Hawke's Bay, when referring to the Maori member for the East Coast, did that honourable member a serious injustice. First of all, the honourable member for Napier stated that the honourable member for the East Coast had no land whatever, and that he was only waiting to have this Bill passed so that he could have a cut into the lands of others. Sir, I must give an emphatic denial to that statement. The Maori member for the East Coast is far above any possible conduct of the kind. He is honest and straightforward in this matter, and well would it be if others had less cause to defend them- selves. The honourable member for Hawke's Bay said that the trustee system had been https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 tried over and over again, and had proved to be a failure, and he went back to the Act of 1865, when the law only allowed ten owners in a block of land, to demonstrate his case. They were not trustees at all, but absolute owners of the land. At any rate, to compare that system with the system we have now under the Act of last year, with all its safeguards, is absolutely absurd. Now, in support of the trustee system, let me give one or two instances under the Act of 1897, which goes to show the fallacy of the honour- able member's argument. Under that Act we gave power to the Native owners not only to incorporate, but to appoint trustees. I may here mention two blocks of land that has been dealt with to show how successful the result of that law was. The Opuatia Block was ad- ministered under that Act under the trustee system, and this is how it has panned out in respect to the portions cut up and let to Euro- peans :- Opuatia No. 4 .- 4,500 acres, 1s. per acre. 1,975 9d. 6,475 Opuatia No. 5A .- 2,500 1s. 8,975 The above was cut up into allotments, which are now held by thirty-nine settlers, in areas of from sixty to 260 acres, on lease for twenty-one years, with right of renewal every twenty-one Mr. Carroll Settlers paid cost of subdivisional survey and survey of roads, cost of leases, Native duties (7) per cent. on rent), and are forming the roads through their Road Board. Previous to 1897 nothing could be done with that land. The Public Trustee collects the rents, which are all paid up to the 1st December next, and deducts 74 per cent. and train fare of Mr. War- ren to Tuakau to distribute. The only com- plaint is in the long delay in distributing rents, which are not paid out at regular intervals. Now, I will take another block of land situate in Gisborne, called the Mangatu No. 1 Block. Under the Act of 1897 trustees were appointed with power to lease, raise money on the land, and do other things set out in the deed of trust ap- pointing them. Now, the position is as follows: Mangatu No. 1: Area, 80,226 acres, of which area 26,597 acres are leased to eight lessees, average 3,324 acres ; present annual revenue, £1,059 6s. 9d., being two-thirds of yearly rent in accordance with conditions of leases and payable for seven years ; second period of seven years at full rent of £1,412 9s. annually ; third period of seven years at full rent plus one-third. or #1,765 11s. 3d. annually; average rent per acre, 9&d. ; cost of administration about $2.3. now practically borne by lessees, to which add cost of survey. Now, these are large blocks of land, having a large number of owners, dealt with under the trustee system, and I challenge honourable members to say whether they could have been as effectively dealt with under any other system-free-trade especially. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- What is the neces- sity of the present Act? Mr. CARROLL .- It makes it general. Those are individual cases that I have taken, and I say, when you can prove conclusively that the principle has been successful in blocks of land brought under the administration of the Act of 1897, who is to say it is not going to be successful under the larger scheme we have under the Act of last year, with its wider and more elaborate machinery ? We owe a duty to the country and to the Natives, and it is our place to treat the Native land question on a broad basis, and see that their lands are pro- perly utilised-first of all for their own use and maintenance; secondly, for their own farming: and thirdly, for leasing to the general public. through a Board, on the same lines as Crown lands are leased to-day. What objection can there be to that, except individual objections. and what are individual objections except 3 proof that they are being raised to suit private interests? But so far as doing good to the Natives as a whole, and contributing to the welfare of the colony, you must adopt the principle we have embodied in the Act of last year, and which we propose now to improve by this Bill. The House divided on the question, "That the Bill be now committed." AYES, 25. Allen, E. G. Ell Carroll Carneross Hall-Jones Collins 