legislation-or else gazette regulations, which he believed they could do-and which would get over the present difficulty. Motion agreed to. # LAND SETTLEMENT. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) asked the Minister of Lands, If he will introduce an amendment to the present Land Act substituting improve- ments in lieu of residence ; and, if so, will he introduce the amendment this session ? He would like to point out to the Minister the importance of this question. He did not know if he was correct in stating emphatically that the Premier, when speaking on the public platform, had said that he was prepared to amend the law in this particular. If it were done it would enable persons who were in busi- ness to obtain sections of bush land, and, after they had made sufficient money in business, to enable them to retire from business and to go to their farms. It would enable persons em- ployed in businesses of many kinds to secure land and become seitlers in the country. Em- ployés in the Government services could apply for land, and in this way obtain it. He thought the question could be easily dealt with, and that it would be more satisfactory than the present system if they would accept double valuation of improvements in lieu of residence. He hoped the Minister would see his way to amend the Land Act in this respect ; and he felt sure that in doing so it would give very great satisfaction not only to those engaged in busi- ness, but to many others who were desirous of going upon the lands of the colony. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) might say at once that he did not see his way to grant such an amendment as was asked for by the honourable gentleman, and he would tell him why. They had not land enough now ready for settlement to supply the demand of bonn fide settlers and those who were prepared to go at once upon the land, and, if people were allowed to take up sections on the terms sug- gested, it would prevent those who were ready to go and settle upon the land from doing so. They would be kept away for a still longer time. As he had explained, there was not sufficient land to supply the demand of those who desired immediately to settle upon it. He thought it was better to leave the matter as it was. They had a reasonable amount of settle- ment going on, as the land came in ready for occupation. If they went in for this alteration he was sure it would lead to no end of trouble. Any one would apply, and they could not pre- vent them, even if they were millionaires, from getting it, because they could hold the land and still go on with their ordinary business. He did not think the change was at all a desir- able one at the present time. BURNING FALLEN BUSH. Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) asked the Minister of Lands, If he will give effect to the promise of the late Minister of Lands to obtain informa. tion by a Commission to enable him to intro- Mr. Massey fallen bush and rubbish ? This was a very im- portant and a very serious question. He would ask the Minister to refer back to the replies which had been given by his predecessors. One reply had been given by the Hon. Mr. Carroll, who was then acting for the Minister of Lands, and he had also a promise recorded in Hansard from the late Sir John Mckenzie, both agree- ing that legislation in this respect was neces- sary, and that they would obtain information so that such legislation might be introduced. He hoped the Minister, in giving an answer, would not content himself with a simple nega- tive, but would give a favourable reply, and would see that the promise was carried out. The cost would be small, and the advantage to the settlers would be very great. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) might telb the honourable gentleman that he had given notice of an amending Land Bill, and that in that Bill there was a clause dealing with this matter. When it came up for consideration it would be for the honourable gentleman and others acquainted with this phase of the matter to see that the wants of their constituents were met. CROWN TENANTS' RENT REBATE ACT. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) asked the Minister of Lands, If it is his intention to amend the Crown Tenants' Rent Rebate Act . this session, as promised in the Budget ? This was a very important question indeed. An amendment of the Act had been promised in the Budget. The Colonial Treasurer said that the Act had not. worked satisfactorily. Well, it was very easily shown that it had worked very unsatisfactorily, and that the very people who should have got a. rebate under the Crown Tenants' Rebate of Rent Act were those who had not got it, and that the very people who ought not to have got it, and whom they have been told did not want it, were those who had got it. The Crown tenants in Canterbury had all had a rebate of 10 per cent. given to them; while in the whole of the Taranaki bush districts, where this was absolutely necessary, only four tenants had received any relief at all up to the present time, but not one tenant had, at the end of the financial year, received any benefit under the Act. The four, as appeared from the- return laid upon the table, had been relieved in different degrees. One man had been allowed 5 per cent., another 2}, and the other two- 10 per cent. each. In the Wellington District there were also great discrepancies, ranging from 2ª per cent. to 10 per cent. The Bill of last year was an abortion. Mr. DEPUTY.SPEAKER .- The honourable- member cannot discuss the Bill. Mr. SYMES .- At any rate, this was a very important question, and affected a large num- ber of Crown tenants. So far, it had worked very unsatisfactorily ; and in Taranaki, where it was absolutely necessary that the Crown tenants who were settled in the bush should have relief, they got no relief at all. Ho trusted the Minister would give him his assur- 