moved last evening, as, if they had gone on & in honour of the dead, should give more than a little slower, I might possibly have come to a mere pittance to mitigate the anguish of those close, and you would not have now the infliction who have lost those who were dear to them. Mr. WITHEFORD (Auckland City) .- I com- of a second edition of my speech. However, honourable gentlemen will, I dare say, notice pliment the Premier upon the introduction of this Bill. I shall support it, believing it to be that since then I have put some amendments on the Order Paper, which I think, if carried, in the right direction. That is all I think it is would greatly improve the Act. The first one necessary for me to say. is as follows :- Bill read a second time. The House adjourned at twenty-five minutes refers exclusively to the election of the Chair- past twelve o'clock a.m. man of the Conciliation Board is hereby re- pealed, and the following substituted : 'The Chairman of every Conciliation Board shall be # LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. a Stipendiary Magistrate.' " Friday, 25th October, 1901. clause, and ought to be acceptable in its present form. But, putting that point aside, of course, First Readings-Third Reading-The Watson Fine of £500-Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration honourable members will see that what I am Bill. aiming at is to place a Stipendiary Magistrate The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at as Chairman of the Board of Conciliation. I half-past two o'clock. think that those who are in favour of retaining these Boards ought to vote most heartily for PRAYERS. this clause, for the reason that it will raise the # FIRST READINGS. status and improve the position of the Boards. Patea Harbour Bill, Coal-mines Bill, Pariroa At the present time the State has no voice in Native Reserve Bill, Templeton Domain Board these Boards, only that it pays all the expenses ; Empowering Bill, Borough of Mornington and where the State has to incur the expense Tramways Bill, Dunedin Waterworks Extension it appears to me to be fair and reasonable that Bill, Lyttelton Borough Council Empowering the State should have some officer in connec- Bill, City of Auckland Loans Consolidation and tion with the institution. That is one of the Auckland City Borrowing Bill, Kairanga County reasons ; but perhaps the greatest and first is Bill, Hokitika Harbour Board Endowment Bill, the fact that the Stipendiary Magistrate would Featherston County Bill, Wesleyan Church have no inducement to prolong the sittings. Reserve Vesting Bill (No. 2), Ocean Beach We know what human nature is, and at the Public Domain Bill, Borough of Mataura Loan present time it is a great temptation to human Validation Bill, Greytown Reserves Vesting nature to prolong the sittings for the sake of and Disposal Enabling Bill, Canterbury College the remuneration connected therewith. Now, the Stipendiary Magistrate would have no Empowering Bill, Palmerston North Reserves Bill, Kiwitea County Council Offices Bill such temptation. He would have an annual Egmont County Bill (No. 2), Gore Cemetery salary, and he would not be dependent Reserve Vesting and Enabling Bill, Masterton on the fees obtainable from those sittings, Public Park Management Bill, Inch Clutha and consequently he would do his best to Road, River, and Drainage Bill. expedite matters. Then, the Boards would have the advantage of a gentleman accus- # THIRD READING. tomed to take evidence in a proper way, and to Inspection of Machinery Bill. sift and weigh it carefully, and he would be more likely to be removed from prejudices and THE WATSON FINE OF $500. to conduct the proceedings of the Board more The Hon. Mr. RIGG asked the Hon. the carefully than an ordinary layman would. I Speaker, If a reply has been received to the understand that in some cases-Dunedin, for instance-the Chairman of the Board of Con- following resolution of the Council of the 10th October : " That the Right Hon. the Premier ciliation is a lawyer, and I am told that that be asked to secure the sanction of Parliament to is a model Board. Well, no doubt, honourable the payment of the £500 Watson fine to the gentlemen from Dunedin who have experience library " ; and, if so, will he inform the Council of this Board will probably think that it is of the nature of the reply ? better to retain their better system than The Hon. the SPEAKER might state the the innovation which I propose. Honourable gentlemen will not, I hope, disregard the honourable gentleman's resolution was for- rest of the colony because things have been warded in the usual way according to Standing done so successfully in Dunedin. What we Order No. 73, but no reply had yet been re- want is that the whole of the colony should ceived. have a proper system, and that system we INDUSTRIAL CONCILIATION AND would have, I think, by appointing a Stipen- ARBITRATION BILL. diary Magistrate. Then, Sir, I come to the 2nd clause which I am going to propose :- ADJOURNED DEBATE. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- Mr. Speaker, I dare say honourable gentlemen will regret the hereby amended as follows :- " Every section of the principal Act which That, I think, is a strong and vigorous "6B. Section fifty-one of the principal Act is 