who does not realise that amongst our many re- sponsibilities one of the chief is to see we have the means of defending our shores, of protect- ing our families and our homes, in the event of trouble arising; and it is our bounden and solemn duty to see to the proper defence and maintenance of our country. It will be of no satisfaction or avail to us, should the day ever arrive when the future destiny of our country is assailed, to then lament our want of foresight in being found unprepared. No one can discount the fact, which is every day arising, of the increased value of our great colony, and the inducement it, among other advantages, offers as a base, at some period in the future, of operations for those who want to get close to our neighbours of the Australian Commonwealth. And, while the critical may deprecate the increase of defence expenditure, which they would be perfectly right in doing if it were of a wasteful or unnecessary character, I say it should be the duty of every true well-wisher of this country for years to come to see that within our own borders we have the element of a system that can be relied on for the purpose of maintaining the position of our country, and that this important fact should be apparent to the eyes of the world. In doing that we are only doing that which may be said to be providing an insurance fund for a valuable asset in our pos- session, not for ourselves alone, but for those who for generations to come will follow us. I quite agree with the honourable member when https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 he says, instead of endeavouring to foster a military spirit, we should endeavour to promote the more peaceful arts of agriculture and matters of that kind. I am as strongly opposed to a spirit of militarism spreading through our country as any one ; but I am not foolish enough because of this to allow it to dim my vision, and therefore not be able to see that we must protect our shores and our people. Does the honourable member mean to tell me that the farmers of this country have aban. doned any of the peaceful arts to which he has alluded in the last few years ? Some of their sons may have done so, and an odd farmer here and there may also have gone to fight in South Africa; but the farmers them- selves, as a body, have not given up in any respect the great industry in which they are concerned in order to take part in what the honourable member refers to as a military spirit which was being created. They have, it is true, and to their everlasting credit, given their sons and their means to assist in main- taining the integrity and the power of our Empire. I say that we in New Zealand ought not to attempt to inflate ourselves with any- thing in the shape of militarism, but we should try to impress upon the farmers and all classes that, while we are prepared to assist them in maintaining the great industry of agriculture in this country, we are also alive to our great and growing responsibilities as a portion of the British Empire. To say that the farmers are desirous of abandoning that industry on account of a military spirit is an insult to them which able member referred to a branch of the service which I at present administer. He got back to his old theme of the Minister for Railways, and he deprecated the expenditure of $576,000 for increased rolling-stock, and $125,000 voted on the supplementary estimates in connection with the necessary railway rolling-stock upon our lines. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- I said " importa- tion." Sir J. G. WARD .- Well, it is not all for im- ported stock; but we are ordering no outside rolling-stock this year at all. Both the Premier and myself have stated in the House, and out- side the House, that the Government were op- posed to the importation of any material from beyond the colony ; but, Sir, the circumstances of the colony were such that we could not supply our lines or carry on the business of the country unless we had the assistance of mate- rial from outside the colony. Although this was necessary owing to the rapid increase of traffic, we decided to import the material greatly against our will, and we have all along said it is not our intention to continue to import ma- terial from outside the colony. Then, he said that no declaration had been made in reference to increasing the railway workshops and in- creasing the plant, and he found fault with my- self for not having, eighteen months ago, when it was found necessary, then made arrange- ments to meet these growing requirements. I am now going to refer him to an important public document, and honourable members will be able to gauge the value of the criticism in regard to what he says was the position eighteen months ago, and what ought to have been done. If any member would turn to D .- 2, page 10, of the Railways Report submitted by me last year, he will find that there is set out for the years 1891 to 1895 an expenditure of $2,500,000 upon additions to open lines, at the rate of $500,000 a year. What is included, among other things, is "Workshops, additions, #12,000 for each year," or £60,000 for the period ; and last year we spent over that sum in connection with the work- shops. I did not fail to grasp the position at all, as the figures indicated in the Statement clearly show, and the whole programme set out there will be found to be,- Additions and improvements to sta- 3 .. 250,000 tions Rebuilding and strengthening bridges 100,000 Improvements of line (curves and .. 100,000 gradients) Signals and telegraphs .. 200,000 Dwellings, additions and improvements 22,000 60,000 Workshops, additions .. . . Relaying 120,000 .. . . Respacing sleepers .. 40,000 .. Fencing 35,000 . . Wharves, additions and improvements 47,000 Ballast plant and ballast sidings 45,000 . . Water-services 9,400 . . Additional locomotives 196,861 .. Additional cars and cost of conversions 182,268 Additional wagons, brake-vans, travel- ling cranes, and cost of converting 