time. Division after division on important sub- jects will be found recorded where my single vote, and sometimes, perhaps, one other, may be claimed to have kept the Government in office. I know that the Opposition side of the House will bear me out in what I say. And I go further, and say that it was because of con- tinued promises made and held out to me by the Government, to the effect that if I would support them they would do something for my people to put them on a proper footing, that I was so consistent in my support. It is not that I want them to do anything for myself person- ally ; but, Sir, I desire to redress the wrongs that oppress the people who elected and sent me here to be their representative. And I have not the slightest fear in voicing my opinions in this House, and in saying whatever I believe to be necessary, because it was not the Govern- ment who put me into this House; though since I have been in this House I have faith- fully supported the Government, and continu- ally during my period of membership I have besought and importuned the Government to do something for my people. The original Maori Council Bill was considered by the Pre- mier and the Ministers and myself for a long time. It was gone into most exhaustively, and most carefully weighed and considered. I felt very much in love with that Bill, and I thought the Government were also in love with it. Sir, this Bill was as a mutual sweetheart of ours ; but, Sir, when we married this cherished mutual sweetheart instead of her giving birth to the child we expected, when her child was born, Sir, it was piebald. And we are in this https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 position now that what was expected to be a child of the Maori people is not of the colour anticipated ; it is neither black nor red-it is, in fact, Sir, so peculiar in aspect and appear- ance that we hesitate even to touch it with our hands. Sir, in conclusion, I desire to thank the House for the consideration extended to me in allowing me extra time in which to express my views on this measure. I feel that it is a compliment that has been paid to me, and as there are, no doubt, many other mem- bers who desire to speak I will not take up more time. Mr. HEKE (Northern Maori). - Sir, the member for the Western Maori District has apparently been directed by his people and also by Mahuta to take an occasion during this session for replying to a speech that I formerly made in the House this session. By way of passing, he went on to explain to the House the reason why his people up in the Waikato had the right of appointing one of their number as king over them, and he goes on to quote two verses in Deuteronomy ; but it is a most pecu- liar thing that the following two verses throw a further light on the subject. One of them reads in this way : " But he shall not multiply horses to himself, nor cause the people to return to Egypt, to the end that he should multiply horses : forasmuch as the Lord hath said unto you, Ye shall henceforth return no more that way." Then, the next verse goes on to mention a condition that the king chosen Mr. Kaihau by the honourable member's people has violated, for it reads in this way : "Neither shall he multiply wives to himself." Now, that is a condition that was violated by Tawhiao. Sir, it is not my intention to go fully into the question which the honourable member for the Western Maori District has devoted so much of his attention to this evening-tha: is, to combating a speech of mine which I made in this House-because that would only bring about one result: it would create ill-feeling among the tribes and revive tribal jealousy, à feature I sincerely wish to avoid, believing, as I do, in the good principle of cementing the love of the people rather than causing friction. I can only say this in reference to the whole of his speech : that the northern people have never countenanced the making of this king- that, in fact, the idea was repugnant. So far as the condition of the Native chiefs throughout the colony is concerned, we all recognise this among our customs: that each tribe has its own head, and that there are chiefs who are on a par with one another, but that no one can claim to be more than another except where strength of arms comes in, and by the supe- riority of arms they loom higher than others. But that is not a question to be discussed, fc: it simply raises a lot of tribal jealousy. I desire to devote the whole of my time to the discussion of the Maori Lands Adminis- tration Act of last session and the amending Bill now brought before us. The honourable member for Napier made a lengthy speech, full of words. He harangued the House durin the whole time ; but what does the speech of the honourable member amount to ? Did it go to show anything in condemnation of the Act of last year or the Bill now before us. Cer- tainly not. What did he refer to ? He traversed into the back ages from 1858 up to the present time ; but he showed nothing condemnatory of the Act of last year. He simply condenined the system the Government had adopted by lens- lation-that is, he condemned the Crown's right of pre-emption over Native land. There was nothing at all to explain that he had a scheme which would solve the Native difficulty. He called the attention of members to an inter- view which the Evening Post gave. What was in that interview ? Nothing ; simply a repeti- tion of speeches and statements he had already made over and over again in reference to the action taken by the Native Minister during the early years. Now, when the honourable mem- ber says that the principle which is laid down under the Act of last year and in this Bill bas been tried before he is entirely wrong. He went on to say that under the Act of 1858- passed by Sir George Grey- this system was tried. Nothing of the kind. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- What was in the Bill ? Mr. HEKE .- The honourable member did not go any distance to explain the provisions of the Bill. He simply made a statement that the system was tried in 1858. The 1858 Act was a civil Act, and allowed the people to appoint Magistrates ; but, as far as any conditions in 