impossible without money to carry the opera- tions of this Bill into effect. An Hon. MENBER .- You want the building first. Mr. WITHEFORD. - I suppose $50,000 would buy the relics, and the building, of course, would be a secondary consideration. At present the question is chiefly a sentimental one. It is not a business question, except in so far as it is one of those measures which tend to interfere with private enterprise and restrict business operations. And, looking at it from that aspect, I must confess I do not like the Bill. But, when the Minister in charge tells us he will be glad to moderate the clauses so that they shall not press unduly on private enter- prise and prevent the dealers in curios from making a living, I think he meets the difficulty I have experienced up to the present time. But another difficulty I see is this : Where is the money to come from to buy up all these relics against the outside world ? The tourists who come from England have just as much money to spend on these curios as we have here ; and if we place the Maori relics in the same position as we have placed the Maori lands, and give the Government the pre-emptive right to purchase them, and if before any article can be purchased, say, in Auckland, application has to be made to the Governor in Council in Wellington, Heaven only knows when a reply will come, and the probability is that the purchasing of curios will be like Mohomet's coffin, between heaven and earth. Some little time ago there was https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 a Maori house for sale in Rotorua. $1,500 was asked for it, but the Government would not bur. The result was that the Germans are said to have bought it. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is quite a mistake. Mr. WITHEFORD .-- Well, it is understood on. However, that is not a fair comparison, because our friend the Native Minister can, I am informed, get better Maori houses for half the money if he pleases. Therefore, in connec- tion with this Bill, what I would like to see is that as little as possible in the way of restric- tion should be placed on the articles the people in Auckland who are curio dealers sell. When distinguished visitors are amongst them the Moris are accustomed to give them presents, and I do not think it is a right thing that distinguished persons to whom these presents are given should be stuck up by the Customs Department as this Bill suggests they might be. Now, if the Government of the country inti- mated to the tribes in New Zealand that they wanted to buy these relics, and were prepared to pay a good sum for any such articles they had for sale, I have no doubt they would be handed over to the Government at once. I do not see any reason for restricting private enter- prise to the full extent the Bill proposes. At the same time I must say I am a convert to the general principles of the Bill through the aamirable way in which the Minister has intro- duced it. If he can just simply arrange that private enterprise is not going to be interfered with I shall support it. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) .- I think it is but natural that any born New Zealander would desire to express a word or two in connection with a Bill of this character. I have to con- gratulate the Native Minister on the reception this Bill has met with. It think it a pity that it did not come down some years ago, before we lost as much as we have lost of these Maori relics. However, there is still much to be preserved, and that can be preserved; and in connection with a remark that was made by the member for Waihemo (Mr. T. Mackenzie) about a very valuable collection which he states he saw at Whitehaven, in the Old Country, and which he says was for sale, I would suggest to the Minister to take a note of that. From the statement made by the member for Waihemo, this collection contains articles that were pur- chased from sixty to seventy years ago, and, of course, have become very valuable. They may not be prized in the Old Country, and I think it is a very able suggestion that the Agent-General should be given some authority to collect some of these Maori relics that have passed to the Old Country, where perhaps they are less appreciated than they would be here. I quite approve of the suggestion, which I think is a very excellent one, that a special museum should be established at the rear of these buildings, where there is plenty of room avail- able for the purpose ; and the idea of allowing the different families to store their family relics there I also think is a very excellent idea, and would have the effect of drawing many valuable prizes to that building. I could not help but sympathize very much with the remarks of the honourable member for Auck- land City (Mr. Napier), when he stated that the Maoris were too generous in making gifts to distinguished visitors to their country, and frequently I am afraid these gifts, perhaps, are not appreciated at their true value. They pass into the hands of persons that really do not appreciate them, and they go out of the country and are cast on one side and are utterly lost to us. As an instance of this, one of the oldest families in Canterbury presented some family relics to the Mayor of Christchurch. The Mayor of Christchurch did not accept them as a personal gift ; they were given to him as Mayor, and he handed over these Maori relics to the Museum there. Now, it seems to me that when these gifts are made to the officials at the head of the Govern- ment in New Zealand they should be regarded as gifts to the people, and not as personal gifts. But, Sir, the fact is that nearly all the gifts that are made are not regarded in the spirit in which they are offered. They are offered to a person because that person fills an important position at the head of the Government or has an important position in the Government of this country, and they are accepted as personal gifts. They should not be accepted in that way, but as a gift to the community ; and that is the light in which a gift was regarded by the late Mayor of Christchurch, M .. Reece. Mr. ATKINSON .- Sir George Bowen was the same. 