the second of Mr. Kelly's proposals. Then, in (g) : - " Where the number of members balloted for does not exceed two, or is reduced as herein pro- vided to two, and there is an equality of votes, the votes shall be taken again ; and if there is again an equality of votes, the Clerk shall de- termine by lot which of the members shall be elected, as if he had obtained a majority of the votes of the members present and voting." That also referred to subclause (3) of the Hon. Mr. Kelly's proposals. He did not know whether it was necessary to send this matter back to the Committee for revision, but was strongis of opinion that the first proposal that the Hon. Mr. Kelly made as regards nomina- tion should be adopted by the Council as con- ducive to business, and especially as there was only one vote to be cast each time. That being so, be thought the candidates should be nominated. He would ask the honourable gentleman to obtain the leave of the Council to divide his motion, and then they would be able to vote upon each proposal that was made. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY said he was quite agreeable to take that course, so that each clause might be voted on separately. With the leave of the Council he would withdraw his amendment. He understood that many mem- bers of the Council were in favour of candidates being proposed and seconded before the ballot, and he would be satisfied with carrying that. The Hon. Mr. W. C. SMITH said it would be very difficult for them to alter this proposal in https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the whole Council as it was at the present time, and would move, That the Council go into Committee to consider the question. The Hon. the SPEAKER said that motion could be made when the amendment had been disposed of. The question was, Was the amendment to be withdrawn ? An Hon. MEMBER .- No. The Hon. the SPEAKER said, There being dissent, it could not be withdrawn. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY wanted to know why the amendment should be withdrawn. He thought the proper course had been taken. The proper thing was to send the matter back to the Committee, with a view to the Committee submitting the scheme in harmony with the ideas of the Council. Notwithstanding all the Hon. Mr. Pinkerton had said, he was inclined to think that, if the Committee found the Council would prefer another system to that which they had submitted themselves, the Committee would fall in with the views of the Council. He certainly thought that some other scheme than the one submitted by the Com- mittee, and the amendments which would be proposed, ought to be submitted. It was a very cumbersome system, a system which would leave the voters practically in the dark. There might possibly be a dozen candidates, and he thought that clause (e) meant that there would be election after election until the candi- dates were reduced to two, and then the system of lot was to be adopted. Now, he certainly cbjected to the Council adopting any system gence, and no intelligence could be exercised in the case of lot. That was one of the great objections to the proposal. He thought the Council should never allow any question to be decided by lot, as it must always exercise its intelligence. Then, there was something said about open nomination and open voting, but for his part he did not see any necessity for open nomination. It would be enough to hand a name to the Clerk, and he should issue & voting-paper the next day, and members could draw their pencils through the names they did not want, leaving the name of the one they wanted on the paper. That, he thought, would be sufficient. Something had been said about the wrong of departing from open voting. He certainly thought the Council should never have any secret voting upon any public ques- tion ; but this was not a public question. It was a question of domestic arrangement of the Council for its own convenience. The out- side public had no interest at all as to who should be Chairman of Committees of the Council, or who should be its Speaker. That was a matter of their own internal eco- nomy, and it would not affect any ques- tion of general policy, or the interests of the people of the colony, and, consequently, there was nothing in the objection that the' principle of open voting was being departed from. The simplest and easiest way was, he thought, that which Mr. Kelly suggested. The matter ought to be referred back to the Com- mittee. The Committee, he believed, would take a reasonable view of it, and say, if the Council would rather have a simpler mode of election, they would conform to the wishes of the Council, and they would bring up a pro- posal in proper form, which, of course, could not be done on the spur of the moment. He thought it was within the last ten minutes that the Hon. Mr. Kelly had attempted to draw up his proposals. For this reason he asked Mr. Kelly to allow the whole matter to go to the Committee, so that a system that would simplify matters might be submitted- a system under which everybody could vote intelligently and without hesitation. The Hon. Mr. JONES did not think this question was to be settled by mere talk. He thought the member who had just spoken should first have studied the proposal placed before the Council, and it would appear that he had not done so. The honourable gentle man said that the system was necessarily com plicated. It, however, provided for a system of sifting, just as they might sift wheat, and the result would be absolutely fair. It was worth while, in order to get an absolutely fair result, that they should go to some little trouble, rather than that they, to secure speed, should adopt some rough - and - ready method. The honourable gentleman had countenanced the idea of settling matters by lot, but that was only an expedient to get out of a difficulty when there was no other way out of it. First of all, they were to try to decide the question by the voice of the Council, and when that 