debate, various regrets were expressed that the members from the South Island had not hitherto taken any interest in matters relating to the Native lands of the colony. When I came into this House, in 1894, it appeared to me there was a kind of unwritten law that members representing South Island constituen- cies should not discuss Maori questions, and I have studiously refrained from speaking on matters relating specially to the Maoris. But it appears to me this question of legislation for and administration of Maori lands has now come to that point that it is the duty of mem- bers of the House, from whatever part of New Zealand they come, to take a deep and searching interest in connection with them, because we are face to face with this problem : There are some four or five million acres of land owned by the Natives, and the question Parliament has to settle is, What relation is the future of these lands to bear to the revenues and pro- sperity of the colony ? That is, it appears to me, one of the questions that makes it a neces- sity that the members of this House from all parts of New Zealand should take a real live interest in connection with the matter. It is evident from, the discussions in this House, there are only two members of the Ministry who regard themselves as competent to express an opinion regarding Maori matters. They are the Native Minister and the Premier. All the other members of the Ministry maintain absolute silence with regard to these matters. I do not know, therefore, whether the Bills presented to this House represent the combined efforts of the Ministry as a whole or simply of the two members whom I have named. But it becomes, therefore, all the more necessary that Parliament as a whole should discuss and seek to understand these questions. Now, Sir, there are some very large and important problems, as I have hinted, underlying this question of deal- ing with the Maori lands. I believe it is the sentiment of the entire colony that there should not be any return to the policy of free-trade in Maori lands. In 1886 the Hon. Mr. Ballance put on the statute-book a law which, I think, if it had had a fair opportunity of being tried, would have proved to be a solution of the Native difficulty. It abolished free-trade, set up committees, and provided a Commissioner. But in 1887 there was a general election. The Atkinson Government then returned to power, and the first Native Act they passed in 1888 was to repeal the Ballance Act of 1886 and return to the policy of free-trade. Then, in 1894, the present Government brought down their Native Land Court Act, by which the colony returned again to the policy of pre- emption of the Crown in connection with Maori land. Now let me deal for a moment with the pre-emption of the Government. We are con- stantly hearing references from the Maori mem- bers to the Treaty of Waitangi. It is perhaps desirable that I should place on record at this point what the Treaty of Waitangi really said in connection with pre-emption. Article 2 of the Treaty of Waitangi says,- firms and guarantees to the chiefs and tribes of New Zealand, and to the respective families and individuals thereof, the full, exclusive, and undisturbed possession of their lands and estates, forests, fisheries, and other properties which they may collectively or individually possess, so long as it is their wish and desire to retain the same in possession ; but the chiefs of the united tribes and the individual chiefs yield to Her Majesty the exclusive right of pre- emption over such lands as the proprietors thereof may be disposed to alienate, at such prices as may be agreed upon between the respective proprietors and persons appointed by Her Majesty to treat with them in that behalf." Thus the Treaty of Waitangi laid down the principle that the pre-emptive right of purchase was to be with the Government, the presump- tion of that treaty being that the colony was to go on colonising and settling these lands as part of its policy. There is another point in connection with last year's Act, to which I desire to refer-namely, the definition of the word " Maori" :- "'Maori ' means an aboriginal native of New Zealand, and includes half-castes and their descendants by Maoris." That is a change of policy as compared with what has obtained in previous days, and I think it is a very mistaken one. The idea of that clause appears to be to create a Maori caste in connection with this colony, and to give an inducement to the half-castes of New Zealand to marry back into the Maori blood, and not to marry into the European blood. Now, I think the history of all contact of civilised races with uncivilised shows that the greatest benefit has been secured by the uncivilised race having every inducement to absorption by the higher race. My Maori friends will not deny that English civilisation, which is the result of probably some fifteen hundred years of evolu- tion, has reached a higher stage than that they have attained to in connection with their race ; and I believe it is a retrograde step for the colony to say that the intermarriage of half- castes and Maoris shall be encouraged to the detriment of those half-castes who marry into the European blood. I observe that both the member for the Southern Maori District and the member for Napier have proposals on the Order Paper to eliminate from the Act the words " by Maoris." That will then leave the definition of the clause to mean the aboriginal natives of New Zealand, including half-castes and their descendants ; and I think one reason why it is desirable that alteration should be made is that up to the present time the Maoris have been, and probably are, a diminishing race. Therefore, as generations go on, if the whole of those five millions of acres of land are locked up in the possession of a decreasing number of Maoris, there will be a tendency to create a land-owning caste in the colony, and that will be undesirable. On the other hand, by treating as Maoris for the purpose of the land-laws those half-castes who 