these sixty-two cases. The Auckland Board had thirty cases before them, and they settled nine cases, and referred the other twenty-one to the Court. The Westland Board had sixteen cases brought before them, and they settled three, and referred thirteen to the Court. In Auckland the Board were sixty-nine days deal- ing with the thirty cases that came before them, Canterbury sixteen days, Otago thirty-eight days, and Wellington a hundred and fifty days. Now, that is 205 cases altogether, and forty-five cases were settled out of 205, and the Court sat nearly three hundred days settling forty-five cases, and the cost of this was : d. 8. Auckland 366 3 0 Wellington 1,089 16 5 Westland 17 6 4 .. Canterbury 109 0 4 . . 220 14 2 Otago . . Taranaki 8 8 0 . . £1,811 11 11 Now, I think if anybody will look at this dis- passionately, and give it any consideration at all, he must come to the conclusion that the Con- ciliation Boards, so far as this is concerned, have been a complete failure in every sense of the word. I say the Wellington Conciliation Board took a hundred and fifty days to settle four cases. It seems to me a useless waste of money that such a Board should be kept in existence ; and I am happy to see that section 21, giving power to either of the parties to a dispute to have the case referred direct to the Court, is a good one, and, I hope, will be carried. I have nothing more to say. I merely got up in order to place before the Council the statement I have read out for the benefit of those who still advo- cate such a thing as a Conciliation Board, and I hope every case will be referred direct to the Arbitration Court without any preliminary at all. I heartily support the Bill, and particu- larly this section 21. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- The calm, dispassionate, and even conciliatory spirit in which this Bill has been discussed by the Council must, I think, be agreeable to all members present. It presents such a contrast to that which has gone before. So much so, Sir, that I am almost disposed to ask myself, Is it the calm before the storm ? because if we look outside we will find that there are no such indications of contentment with the position on the part of industrial associations, employers' associations, and another body lately forined to whom I will refer. I cannot un- derstand very well how it is that honour- able gentlemen here -- most of the honourable gentlemen who have spoken, and who hitherto have sympathized with these bodies' aspira- tions-can refer to the matter in the way in which they have done, seeing that there is this unrest outside ; because it must be mani- fest that one or two of the small and innocent- looking alterations made in the Bill would much alter the position as it has existed in the past. I think this is a very opportune time for the Hon. Mr. Gourley an Act which has already been in operation for seven years. During those seven years we must have had good opportunity of seeing whether it was an Act which honourable members and the country at large could regard as satis- factory. The inauguration of this method of dealing with labour questions has brought in altogether a new spirit, a new feeling, on the part of the people to that which existed before. It was the commencement of a new era. We have now had seven years of it, and, so far as I am concerned as an employer, I look upon the Bill as having been eminently satisfactory in its working. It was to be expected that such a great departure as this Bill implied would neces- sarily, for some time, cause much friction be- tween employers and employed. First of all, there was no organization in existence where- with to deal with this Act. For years and years we have seen, month after month and year after year, that there was a continual ac- cession to the industrial unions in order to enable them to take the benefit of the Act. So far as I regard that, it has just been this: that those unions have been getting into position ; and I look forward to the time, even without any alteration of the Act, when we shall get peace, and not have the continual applications to the Court which we have witnessed during the past two or three years. That is merely getting the machinery into order. I alluded in the first few remarks I made to the great contrast between the speeches of members and the attitude outside. All must be aware of the great antagonism which has been shown by many employers and associations of employers to this Act. They have clamoured loudly for alterations, and it seems to me that the amend- ments in this Bill are somewhat of a needless concession to their demands. Now, they may or may not be of advantage, but I do think this: that we should let the Act rest as it was passed last year, seeing that it was an amend- ing and consolidating Act, and give some little time in order to see whether the complaints made against it are justified or not. There has lately come into the field a new-what shall I say -a new recruit I will call it-the Farmers' Union. I know something about farming mat- ters, and I have no doubt this union was formed entirely with a view of putting their position into as good a state as they possibly could -- that that feeling inspired them with the idea of forming a union. I recognise this : that they have just as much right to do so as the manu- facturers and all other employers ; but I canno: say that they have been wise in their method of procedure. First of all, I am told they have been organized in a way which I should have thought that they themselves would have seen would condemn their methods to commence with-that is, going into committee and carry- ing secret resolutions which have not been published in the papers. But within the last few days the cat has been let out of the bag. in the shape of a circular, which has been sent round, I dare say, to all members of Parlia- ment, to this effect :- 