variations in respect to grants that were made from time to time. In 1868, owing to the exigencies of the finances of the colony, material alteration was made in respect to the capitation grant, which was then paid upon the average attendance as against the strict average then brought into force. Well, a reduction was, I regret to say, made, and that to a great extent disorganized the staffing and caused the reduction of the teachers' salaries. The Boards did their best under the altered circumstances and with the reduced moneys at command. Later on, as members know, we increased temporarily the capitation grant, but it was on the condition that there should be proposals brought down to secure a colonial scale of salaries. Well, Sir, I have pointed out the necessity for that. In the Bill now before the House members will see that an honest endeavour has been made to meet this as far as we could. I may say that under this Bill the average salaries payable in every class and position, including women teachers, even under Scale 1, are raised generally to a standard which has never before been reached in the history of our colony. When I make that announcement it will, I think, to some extent disarm adverse criticism. Of course, exception has been taken by some of the female teachers in one or two of our dis- tricts; and there can be no doubt, so far as they are concerned-I refer to the first assistant, or head female teachers-that there will be a hardship in some cases, because it would appear that not only will other teachers not be able to reach the position that has pre- viously been occupied, but there will prac- tically be a reduction in their salaries. However, that cannot be helped in making a universal or colonial scale, and, in bringing these things from chaos into order, it means that some one, of course, must inevitably suffer. Whilst there are a few exceptional cases that suffer, and in respect to which there is an adverse alteration, still, taking them as a whole, I say that the condition of the female teachers is improved generally. And, what is more, the heartburning that has been existing amongst the teachers of one provincial district, as contrasted with the teachers in another provincial district, will be' at once and for ever removed if we place this mea- sure on the statute-book. I say that the reductions made in 1888 were made under conditions that were forced upon the Boards and the teachers, and I cannot blame the Government of the day, for the finances of the colony were in a very bad condition. At that time economies were essential, and one of the economies then made was the one I have mentioned; and I only bring that before the House in order to compare our position to-day with what it was when the reduction was made in 1888. Contrast the condition of our colony now in its prosperity with the position in 1888, and I say we can now afford to pay an increased capitation, and it will never be felt. I go further than that, servants-that is, those in the Civil Service -- we have years ago restored to them, and more than restored, the reductions made in 1888. And if we have with one branch of the public service restored the salaries that were reduced, all the more reason is there that now, whilst we have the opportunity and whilst the finances of the colony permit it, we should endeavour to go the length in that direction which the Bill proposes. Now, the parts of the colony that suffer most are where we have our scattered population : and members will pardon me when I say it is very hard indeed that the pioneers of our country -- those who go far away into the back blocks to carve out homes for them- selves and their families -- should be subject to conditions under which their children may suffer throughout their life : but that is the case. I say they suffer because they have not the educational opportunities that are given to those living in a more favoured locality. It is hard enough for parents to go back into the wilds of the bush to carve out homes for them- selves ; but to say that in so doing they shall for all time have a punishment inflicted upon their children seems to me harsh in the ex- treme. But that, unfortunately, has been the case. The Boards of Education have not had the means of giving fair salaries to those in the sparsely settled districts, and the result has been that the children of those parents educa- tionally have suffered. Instead of that being the case, where the parents have been doing the pioneering of the country we ought to give every facility and every encouragement, and, if possible, give greater facilities to their children than to those in the centres of population. I say that is a fair contention, and under this Bill, to a great extent, that has received atten- tion. There is a reaction on the children, but there is a still further injustice to the unfortu- nate teachers. Even in this there are anomalies which are difficult of explanation ; but the fact remains that if you take the report of this Com- mission, and the evidence and tables there given, you will see that the teachers away back who suffer great inconvenience are the poorest paid of the whole teaching staffs of the whole of our public schools ; and, if you starve the teacher, you at the same time starve mentally the pupils, because according to the salary paid so you have the class of teacher, and the result is disastrous to the pupil, and certainly is not encouraging to the teacher. The members of the Boards of Education, I knew, felt keenly everything I am now saying. They tried, as far as they could, to obviate this difficulty. They had to contend with the claims from the centres. and had to pay fair salaries in the larger schools, for if they did not do that they would not get good teachers ; and the result has been that the outlying districts have had to suffer. and the Boards have had to keep pace with the demands, and maintain the higher-paid and better staffs of teachers in the centres of population. That has been so, and ever will be so, as long as you have Boards as now constituted. But I say, and I claim it in respect to this Bill, that we are not 