tain documents. It might be thought from what the honourable member said that I was keeping something back from the House, and so that there shall be no grounds for that contention I ask leave to lay the memoranda from which I quoted on the table. The honour- able member for Ashley has evidently come to the House to-day fully prepared to charge me, amongst other things, with want of good taste. I received no notice of his intention to bring up this matter. The whole thing has been ar- ranged upon premises that had no existence at all-namely, that I have quoted from these documents. I can only say that, so far as I am concerned, I have put the matter fairly, and there is a good deal more to follow. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Do I understand the Premier to say that he is going to lay the original documents, or a true copy, upon the table ? Mr. SEDDON .- I said nothing of the kind. I said I would lay the memoranda I used on the table ; and if Mr. Meredith in writing re- quested it, the Board would agree that the letters should be laid on the table. Mr. MEREDITH .- Do the straight thing. Be clean-handed over the matter. Mr. SEDDON. - The honourable member should apply that to himself. It was he who started it. I may say that I said yesterday to the honourable member for Ashley that if he would write a letter requesting the letters to be laid on the table it would be done. I would be only too pleased to bring the matter https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 before the Board and to get it done. There was no necessity for the member for Welling- ton City (Mr. Fisher) to bring the matter before the House. What has he got to do http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero with it? Mr. FISHER .- That is my business. Mr. SEDDON .- So it is mine. If the honour- able member for Ashley had written a letter, as I asked him to do, I should have brought that letter before the Board, with a view of having his request complied with. The honourable member has not written to me; but he has probably been a party to the honourable mem- ber for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) bringing this up to-day. Mr. FISHER .- I rise to a point of order. Do you, Sir, hear these continued reflections upon myself and the honourable member for Ashley, or do you not ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I do not con- sider there is any reflection in the supposition of the Premier, that the member for Ashley and the honourable gentleman had been parties to bringing up this matter to-day. Mr. FISHER .- The honourable gentleman before he sat down just now said that if he did not get satisfaction from this House, or words to that effect, he would deal with me outside. Standing Order No. 149 says : " The House will interfere to prevent the prosecution of any quarrel between members arising out of de- bates or proceedings of the House, or any Com- mittee thereof." I ask for your protection, Sir, in the matter. I did say, and meant it, that I would protect myself ; and surely I require to do so, consider. ing the manner in which I was attacked by seven or eight members at one time; and then the member for Ashley added one more to the number. However, I feel able for the lot. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) .- The Hon. the Premier stated just now that evidently the whole thing was arranged - referring to my- self and the honourable member for Wel- lington City (Mr. Fisher), who raised the point of order. That is absolutely incor- rect. I have had no communication with Mr. Fisher either directly or indirectly, either ver- bally or in writing, and I had no knowledge whatever that he was going to bring up this question until he rose in the House. Sir, the right honourable gentleman read copiously from my private correspondence with the As- sets Board, yesterday afternoon, without obtain- ing my consent. Unfortunately for me, in May last my dwelling-house was destroyed by fire, with all my manuscript documents, including copies of the letters I sent to the Assets Board. The honourable gentleman last night, in using my private correspondence, did so without ask- ing my leave in any shape or form ; and he had an advantage over me, as I was not able to refresh my memory as to what I had actually written to the Assets Board. But I have, I think, a vivid recollection of what took place on that occasion, and I am prepared now to say to the Premier I express my entire willingness that the whole of the correspondence which passed between myself and the Board should be placed on the table of the House. The Premier has had the permission of the Assets Board to bring my private correspondence on the floor of the House and to read it. Surely he could have the consent of the Assets Board to furnish him with copies of the letters they wrote to me, and let the whole thing be placed on the table of the House. I court the fullest inquiries in this matter. Indeed, 1 am prepared to submit the whole question to an impartial tribunal, con- sisting of, say, a Commissioner of Crown Lands and any Stipendiary Magistrate in the colony, so that the whole matter may be inquired into, as my action is absolutely above suspicion. Mr. SEDDON rose to speak. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- What is the question before the House, Sir ? Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER. - There is no question. I presume the Premier, if he con- siders he has been misrepresented on this point, can say so. But I must say these personal explanations are becoming interminable. I shall have to restrict members to one speech. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable member for Ashley was the first to bring this Glentui business forward on the floor of the House, and the member for Wakatipu replied to it. The honourable member for Ashley charged the Board with maladministration, and when he made that charge he was an interested party, and, having brought it on the floor of the House, I am justified in alluding to it. Now, if the honourable member for Ashley will write a 