differs very much from that of the Magis- trates. These are the opinions held by the Magistrates. But when you have a wholesale undervaluing of property it shakes confidence in the whole structure. The provision in the Bill is to provide that the Registrar shall be represented when applications are made. Then, under section 3 we are asking a power that may be taken exception to. But I do not see, myself, that any objection is well-founded, for this reason : A person is making application to obtain moneys from the State; if a person gives false evidence, and is thereby fraudulently obtaining money from the State, it is as well, where there are good grounds for believing it to be so, that power should be given to the Registrar to inquire whether the applicant has a Post-office Savings-bank account; because if fraud has taken place and the matter comes before the Court, the Court can order it to be done, and we may as well take the power ; it will probably prevent fraud taking place. Then, there is another departure in the Bill, and that provides that, on the application, the Magis- trate may inquire into the circumstances of the children of the applicant. We are not taking power as they are doing in Victoria under their Bill-namely, the same power as is contained in the Destitute Persons Act. We do not give power here to the Magistrate to go that length; but I do think that in several cases brought under the notice of the Govern- ment, where the children were really wealthy and well-to-do, that they forget their filial duties. Again, there are cases where persons have transferred real and personal property to their children, divested themselves of their property, obtained a pension, and then have actually gone to live on the property with their children, and at the same time drawn the pension. All I can say is this: If that is the case, it is right for the Magistrate to be able to make these inquiries, and I think, under the regulations, we ought to go further and note at what time the applicants divested them- selves of their property, and if it is within a couple of years of the time that they received the pension, then that ought to be a ground on which the Magistrate could refuse to grant the pension. Clause 5 deals with properties that may fall to the pensioners during the time they have been enjoying the pension, and it will also meet the cases I have referred to, where at death it has been discovered that pensioners had large sums of money on deposit. I think no objection can possibly be taken to this clause. It simply provides for recovering the moneys that have been paid. Of course, if members wish to go further than that, we can consider that point when the Bill is in Com- mittee. Clause 7 makes it an offence for per- sons to assist applicants to obtain pensions by fraud, and in the case of Maori interpreters it is to be a ground for cancelling the license. ] may say that, unfortunately, a number of Maoris have been led into making claims which they never would have made if the Maoris had been left to themselves. These interpreters have Mr. Seddon and they have charged nothing under a guinea. 1 <!-- PageHeader="1" --> In order to make these guineas they have gone round districts looking for old Maoris and get- ting them to make applications. And I am sorry to have to report to the House that in one in- stance the Magistrate depends for the age of all the other Maoris upon one old Maori, and in most cases the answer is given by this old Maori, " Oh, ves ; he was twenty years old when Te Kooti was here. I should say he is between sixty and seventy years of age; he is old enough." And after that old Maori died, then he took a Maori clergyman and another chief. But the fun of it is that the Maori clergyman -he is only about thirty-five years of age, not more than forty- is certifying to a man being sixty-five who would have to be born more than twenty years before himself. Well, 1 say that there is a looseness attaching to a thing of that sort which we must try and put a stop to. I do not want to go back upon what we have done, but it is cases of this sort that injure really deserving cases. Section 9 1 makes provision for the payment of Maori pen- sions. As members are aware, the Legislature, under the Civil List Act, has set apart a sum of $7,000 a year for the Maoris, and there is a large balance each year of that $7,000; and, in- stead of giving pensions as provided by the Pensions Act, the discretion is given to the Magistrate to give a recommendation to place these Macris as against the Civil List. And also there is provision for the very necessary appoint- ment of some officer to see that the money goes to the person who is entitled to get it on the Civil List. At present it does not go to the indigent at all. The old people do not get the advantage of it, as was intended. An Hon. MEMBER .- Who does ? Mr. SEDDON .- It is taken possession of by these interpreters or agents. I am going to stop that; and in these cases it is better to give those who are entitled to receive the pen- sions food or clothing, and see that they get the value of what is intended they should receive, and not that these pensions should be used as the ready money which is very necessary at tangis. It is to meet these things that I pro- pose, under clause 9 of the Bill, to prevent abuses occurring. I may say that I do not wish to raise a debate, or bring up the policy or otherwise of what the Legislature has done : but it does weaken the position when we find abuses which members as well as I know are existing, and it is simply to remedy these defects that the Bill is brought forward. I have not gone too far, I think. I do not wish to sap the independence of the pensioners, or make deserving pensioners feel that we begrudge what is given to them, but it is necessary to stop abuses which I regret to say exist, and which give reason for adverse criticism, and which may have caused some people to think we should not have passed the Pensions Act at all. One case was given to me by a member the other day, which was known to himself, where an old couple divested themselves of a farm, gave it to a daughter who is married, and 