communication from Fiji. It is a request from Malietoa, the late King of Samoa, that the Government should use their best endeavours to have the arrangement maintained by the Imperial authorities under which he resigned his kingship, and under which the Imperial authorities were prepared to grant him a pen- sion. Now, I say to honourable members, it is a great load to drag along. Time after time states- men have endeavoured to get the Imperial autho- rities to place these islands in such a position that no foreign Power could touch them or interfere with them ; and whilst time after time the oppor- tunity has been neglected, we find other nations are edging in and obtaining a footing ; and now, when we have succeeded at last in placing the Islands-at all events, those within our boun- daries-beyond interference, and to have some- thing passed into law for their administration, to have the whole thing repudiated, and to have it placed on record, as is being done now, that this was not asked for, and that it is detrimental to our interests, is more than I can understand. I say it is manifestly unfair. My own opinion is now, as it has been from the beginning, that this step is in the best interests of our colony. It shows us who our neighbours are ; and where we can, as in this case, have the islands practi- cally to ourselves-that is, made British, and brought under our administration -- it is a per- fectly safe thing to pass this particular Bill. Now, here is a verse which seems to me to apply to my honourable friend Captain Russeil, the member for Hawke's Bay :- And now I'm old and going, I'm sure I can't tell where; One comfort is this world's so hard I can't be worse off there. If I might but he a sea-dove, I'd fly across the main To the pleasant Isle of Aves, to look at it once again. Sir, the honourable member does not know where he is going. Well, we should hope to have an opportunity, some day, when the two of us should voyage to these Islands, and see them under the improved conditions, and then the honourable member will admit that the far- seeing policy of securing these Islands was in the best interests of New Zealand and of the Empire. The House divided on the question, " That the Bill be read a third time." AYES, 36. O'Meara Allen, E. G. Graham Arnold Parata Hall-Jones Russell, G. W. Heke Bennet Buddo Seddon Hogg Smith, G. J. Carncross Hornsby Carroll Steward Kaihau Collins Thompson, R. Lawry Thomson, J. W. Duncan McGowan McGuire Witheford. Ell Flatman McNab Tellers. Fowlds Palmer Millar Tanner. Fraser, A. L. D. Mills Gilfedder NOES, 13. Atkinson Lang Hardy Bollard Hutcheson Massey Rhodes Fisher Monk Russell, W. R. Pirani Herries. Majority for, 23. Bill read a third time. OLD-AGE PENSIONS BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .--- Sir, this Bill does not interfere with the policy of the existing law. It simply cures certain defects which are known to exist in the present legislation, and I will confine my remarks purely to the clauses in the Bill, and hope honourable members at this time of the session, in view of the fact that the old-age pensions policy is here to stay, will not go in for a second-reading debate upon the old-age pensions question generally. Mr. HERRIES .- Why not ? Mr. SEDDON. - I understood honourable members wanted to get on with the work : that is why not. The present law is defective in respect to applications that come before the While the Magistrates may do their Courts. best, yet there are circumstances which have come to the knowledge of the Government which render it necessary that the Registrar should be represented when each application is being dealt with by the Magistrate. I have had cases brought before me where the Magis- trates, owing to their time being limited, and to the fact that they have had to catch steamers and trains, have cut short their ques- tions to the applicants. I will quote a typical case that has been brought under my notice. It was the case of an application from a Maori, and the Maori interpreter is brought up, and the Magistrate inquires, "What you told the in- terpreter is true? " The answer was " Yes," and then the pension was granted. Pensions granted under these conditions are liable to be upset. I have a list showing the number of pensions and the values of the properties, and they differ, but the total given on revalua- tion was £6,346. I should say 20 per cent. of those parties who got pensions on the re- valuation of the properties were not entitled to get them at all. This disclosed a state of things that requires remedying. An Hon. MEMBER .- Were they Maoris ? Mr. SEDDON .- Most of them are Maoris ; but there are Europeans who have fraudulently obtained them. I had a letter a couple of days ago from Christchurch. The wife of a pen- sioner died after the Act was passed ; putting the two properties together she had £600 in the bank. There is another case on the West Coast, where a pensioner died who had £500 in the bank. An Hon. MEMBER. - What! on the West Coast ? Mr. SEDDON .- I can only say I do not think there is any part of the colony where the pensions have been so well earned as on the West Coast. I place these facts before the House. I think they are entitled to know that a state of things exists that ought to be seen to. I must confess the Magistrates do not think this evasion is widespread ; but the opinion held by the 