Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said that, according to promise, he now laid on the table the despatch from the Secretary of State for the Colonies with reference to the reservation of the New Zealand Ensign Bill, and honourable members would see that the last paragraph of the despatch bore out what he (Mr. Seddon) said on the Bill the other night. The paragraph in the despatch was as follows :- "I take this opportunity to acknowledge the receipt of Sir Robert Stout's despatch, No. 80, of the 25th October last, relative to the form of the reservation clause in 'The New Zealand Ensign Act. 1900.' I prefer the form which was suggested in Lord Derby's circular de- spatch of the 20th June, 1884; but the form used in the present Bill appears to me sufficient for all practical purposes. He begged to move, That the paper do lie on the table, and be printed. Motion agreed to. MAORI LANDS ADMINISTRATION BILL. On the motion for the committal of this Bill, Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) rose to a point of order. On the 4th October an un- opposed return was agreed to by the Premier. He proposed to read that return, and ask Mr. Speaker's ruling upon this point - namely, whether this Bill could proceed until that return was complied with. The return was as follows :- "Mr. KAIHAU to move, That there be laid before this House a return showing,-(1) The total area of land now owned by Maoris within the North Island of New Zealand, distinguishing therein papatupu lands and lands held under any description of ascertained title ; (2) the total area of such Maori lands contained (a) within each separate Council district consti- tuted under ' The Maori Lands Administration Act, 1900,' (b) within that portion of the North Island for which Council districts under the said Act have not as yet been constituted, (c) within the boundaries defined by ' The Ure- wera District Native Reserve Act, 1896,' and amending Acts, (d) within ' The Thermal-Springs Districts Act, 1881,' and amending Acts, and (e) within 'The West Coast Settlement Re- serves Act, 1892,' and amending Acts; and (3) the total Crown valuation placed upon, and the total Maori population resident within, each of the above-mentioned districts respec- tively. The said return to be laid upon the table of this House before the debate is taken upon the second reading of the Maori Lands Administration Act 1900 Amendment Bill." Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the point of order was a novel one. The order in that re- ference was to the Maori Lands Administra- tion Bill, a different Bill altogether. The Bill before them was a Maori Councils Bill. Hon. MEMBERS .- Oh, no. Mr. SEDDON said that his Order Paper was " Maori Councils Administration Bill to be committed." At all events, the point of order would not hold good, because in that case a ever took place in this colony. I exonerate Paper until a return was prepared. That could not possibly stop a Bill going on ; the only thing that could stop a Bill proceeding was a majority of the members of the House. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister for Public Works) would point out that this was not a second reading, but a question of going into Committee. Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER said that, under the Standing Orders, when a motion was made for the second reading of a Bill pro forma the second-reading debate took place on the order for its committal, and therefore the debate on the committal of the Bill meant the same as the debate on the second reading. The point of order raised was a novel one. The honour- able member had given him notice of his inten- tion to raise it, and he was of opinion that the Bill could not be proceeded with until the re- solution of the House had either been com- plied with or rescinded. Consideration of Bill postponed accordingly. PARIROA NATIVE RESERVE BILL. On the motion, That the Bill be read a third time, Mr. A. L. D. FRASER (Napier) .- Though I do not rise to make any special objection to this measure, for I really consider the object is a good one, yet I would like the Minister in charge of the Bill to tell the House why he has taken this one single case out of the Native Land Claims Adjustment Bill, that has been before the House for years, and made it the subject of a special Bill, and entirely ignored other cases therein which were of equal im- portance. It appears to me that, year after year, we have brought down to this House a Bill which, in the euphemistic term that is applied to it, we recognise as the " Washing-up Bill." One has been before the House for five years to my own knowledge, and nothing has been done to pass it into law. But the Native Minister quietly puts his hand on one case and brings down a special Bill for it. I may say that, after studying Native legislation for the last ten years, I am painfully suspicious of Native legislation. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Inconsistent run- ning. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- The honourable gentleman is a better authority on that in any walk of life than any other member in this House. But what I was going on to say is this : I am suspicious of any Native legislation, not from the act of the Ministry or the Minister that brings it down, but from the designing Europeans outside who are exploiting the Ministry, and will exploit them, and also this House, unless we with the very greatest care analyse every question brought before us. If honourable members wish me to give an in- stance of how this Ministry has been exploited, I can place my finger on three lines of an Act passed by this Ministry when the Premier was Native Minister which will unearth one of the ! most transparent robberies of the Natives that 