finds the Treasury proposing to act in a manner contrary to law he does his best to prevent it. If he did not so act, of what earthly service would he be to us? None whatever. I am not going into the merits of this case. Probably the House may have an opportunity of dis- cussing that when the report of the Public Accounts Committee comes down ; but I do hope the Committee will deal with the other important matters now before it prior to con- sidering this subject. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- Sir, I could not help being struck with the reference made by the Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee to the proceedings of the Com- mittee. If members of the House knew as much of the working of the Committee as I do, and attended the sittings of that Committee as often, they would have some remarkable revelations of the Right Hon. the Premier's methods. Why, the Premier takes as much as three hours sometimes to examine one of his own officers. The whole of the rest of the Committee take about ten minutes over each subject, while the Premier himself monopolizes from about two to four hours. In fact, at one sitting the Premier took up the whole of the time, and the Committee adjourned without any one else being able to examine the witness, and the nature of his examination right through was foreign altogether to the question at issue. The Premier's explanations, as a rule, in these matters- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable member is transgressing the rule that proceed- ings before a Committee cannot be discussed till the Committee reports. Mr. PIRANI .- I am referring to matters which have been reported to the House this session. Five inquiries upon questions in dis- pute have been reported to the House this session, and I am referring to one of these in connection with interest on the $500,000. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable member is misleading the House in referring to this ques- tion. That question has not yet been reported on by the Committee. Mr. J. ALLEN .- Yes, it has. Mr. PIRANI .- I am not referring to the one which the Premier is pretending I am referring to. He knows I am not quite such an ass as to do that. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable gentleman must contine himself to matters which came before the Committee and have been reported upon. Mr. PIRANI .- I am doing so. I know this : that if ever I am caught tripping in this House it will not take the Premier five minutes to get me suspended. I know his little game, but he will have to get up a little earlier to catch me tripping. Now, the Committee have not only reported on this question, but here is the evi- dence which has been taken ; and yet the Pre- mier actually has the audacity to say I am referring to a matter which has not been re- ported on. Here is a resolution moved by the member for Bruce on the question I refer to :- is necessary that the law should be altered to provide for the payment of the interest re- ceived by the Public Trustee on account of the $5 00,000 which he his received from the bank to the Consolidated Fund, to meet the interest on the inscribed stock." Now, if that motion had been given eff .et to it would have disposed of this matter without any necessity in the future for coming to the House at all on this question. But the Pre- mier is always obstinate where he thinks he is going to be proved to be in the wrong. But he does not mind wasting the time of Parliament, the time of the country, and his own time when he is in fear he might be proved to be wrong. A really strong m In is always willing to admit when he is wrong, and to alter his course accordingly, knowing that even strong and able men are liable to make mistakes ; but the greatest sign of weakness the Premier ex- hibits in his administration is that he never will acknowledge the possibility of having made a mista e. Now, I am not going to enter into the merits of the question, because it is impossible to do that without a careful perusal of the papers. What I am going to refer to is the manner in which the business of the Com- mittee is conducted, not by the Chairman, not by the members, but by the Premier, and especially in view of this fact : that all these inquiries are inquiries in reference to dis- putes between the Premier and the Auditor- General. If you look up the Interpretation Act you will see that "'Treasury ' means the Colonial Treasurer," and so all these disputes are matters in dispute between the Colonial Treasurer and the Auditor-General ; and yet the Colonial Treasurer assumes the role of prosecutor at the Committee, and wastes almost the whole of the time in long- winded examinations that tend to nothing- except to show his anxiety to discredit the present Auditor-General-that do not settle the matter in dispute, and simply prevent the Committee from examining carefully into the merits of the case at all. I submit the investi- gations of the Public Accounts Committee as at present carried out are next to useless, and it is a shame that all the Committee's time should be occupied in matters which could be settled outside the Committee if the Premier obeyed the law ; while really im- portant questions-like the Midland Railway question -are waiting investigation at the hands of that Committee. I trust the Premier will see the wisdom of dong what was stated in evidence he has done in hundreds of other cases namely, submitting to the decision of the Audit Office, and doing what the Audit Office considers right. Under our law the Audit Office has to give its opinion, and, if it considers that opinion is a right one, it is a dereliction of duty if that opinion is not maintained. Yet, notwithstanding that fact, the Premier, instead of doing what the House expects him to do, - remedying defects of this kind by legislation,- is the cause of bringing these disputes on the floor of the House time after time, when thero 