at 4} per cent. from the financial companies, and the Government are lending to farmers at a lower rate than they propose to authorise the local bodies to borrow at in the open market. When we come to read clause 25 it will be seen that the local bodies are allowed to borrow for a period of fifty years. That seems to me to be an exceedingly dangerous power, for one knows how at times a borrower is prepared to borrow at any rate of interest in order to have money to spend on one purpose or another. But when the colony has been able-it is not able at the present time-to borrow at a nominal rate of 3 per cent .- not an actual rate-even then and at that rate the number of years for which the colony is borrowing may be prejudicial sooner or later to consolidating our loans. But in this Bill, to allow the local body to borrow over a period of fifty years at 5 per cent. seems to me to be dangerous, and that in Committee we ought to have very careful discussion before we agree to it. Another matter on which my mind is not quite clear is that under section 11 it provides, in connection with the raising of loans, that the poll shall be taken in like manner as the poll would be taken for the elec- tion of the local authority, and every ratepayer shall be entitled to vote accordingly. Well, now, seeing that this says that the poll shall be taken in like manner as is taken in the election of the local authority, we have to look to see what effect that will have in voting for loans to be authorised to be raised in the borough. It may be that I am wrong. It struck 9.0. me, however, there was power here for persons on the electoral roll, but who were not ratepayers, to vote for the raising of loans in a borough. Sir J. G. WARD .- In what section ? Captain RUSSELL. - In clause 11, sub- section (2). However, if it applies to country districts only, and to County Councils, where provisions similar to those of the Municipal Corporations Act of last year has not come into operation, I admit it will destroy my argument. But the main points I have in discussing this Bill are the two clauses which allow power to raise a loan for fifty years at the rate of 5 per cent. I think that is an extremely dangerous power. I consider we ought to shorten the number of years and reduce the rate of interest considerably. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) .- Sir, I do not wish to take up the time of the House further than to say that the honourat.le member, in his allusion to clause 5, is entirely mistaken as to the procedure in connection with the expenditure of loan-moneys in any of the Government departments of the country. The honourable member has, I know, a fixed im- pression that repairs and maintenance on our railways are effected out of loan-moneys. There is nothing of the kind done in any part of the country. I have said so before, and I repeat it now : the system adopted on new works-I speak more especially for the railways-is this : If it were a new portion of a building, that, of course, would be a new work, and there would be a charge made upon capital for its cost. If it were for a renewal or repair, under the system adopted that would not encroach in any way on the loan-money, it would be paid for out of revenue solely. These matters are worked under a thorough system by the direction of officers throughout the country. The charging to loan- money or to revenue, as the case may be, is not interfered with at all by the Minister in the carrying-on of the administration. For some years, to my own knowledge, there has not been the slightest departure from that course-that is to say, no loan-moneys have been applied to other than to new works. Mr. HERRIES. - What about bridge- strengthening ? Sir J. G. WARD. - Well, under certain circumstances portions of bridge-strengthening would be classed as a new work. If it were not new, it is the duty of the officers to see that it is paid for out of revenue. Captain RUSSELL .- And painting ? Sir J. G. WARD .- Yes, and painting also. under certain conditions. If you build a new railway-carriage and paint it, that would be a new work. If you added to a station, the new portion, including the painting, would be rightly paid out of capital. If, on the other hand. you built a part of it new and renewed a part of it, of course a portion of the loan-money would be set aside for that portion that was new, and for the portion that was renewed it would be paid out of revenue. If you build a new railway- station or goods-shed and paint it, you would use fresh material and paint upon it ; and I think no person could take exception to the course of capital paying for it, and that is what would be done in that case. If the system were investigated it would be found that it is carried out without interference with any officer in any part of the colony by the Administration : and responsible officers keep the accounts fairly and in a thoroughly open way, and I say positively there is no such thing as charging to loan account works that ought to be charged to revenue. That is the system that has been carried out throughout the length and breadth of the country on the railways for some years. to my knowledge, and it will not be departed from. Then, in the matter the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty has referred to -the strengthening of a bridge-I say that if, as the result of importing heavier engines, you strengthen a bridge, the new material necessary for this purpose should be charged to capital. If you repair a bridge or strengthen it, owing to age or decay, it would be charged against revenue. If you rebuilt a bridge at a cost of £10,000, and the old structure that was re- placed by the new bridge had originally cost £5,000, half of that amount would come out of capital and half out of revenue-that is, each would contribute £5,000; so that, when the honourable member takes credit for clause 5 making it impossible for a local body to use loan-moneys for the purpose of repairs, and suggests the Government should do the same, he must admit either that he is not familiar with the system, or that the course adopted is quite in accordance with what he advocates. 