makes a most astounding statement. I say he is mistaken. As Colonial Treasurer, I will explain how it is that we have asked for the large vote this year. Last year we allocated £600,000 to addition to open lines -for what purpose? To meet the charges necessarily coming to book for locomotives and wagons which had been ordered, and, owing to the strike and the difficulty of supplying orders to date last year, we found ourselves at the end of the financial year in this position : there was £325,000 spent and $275,000 unspent. We commenced the year, therefore, with liabili- ties £400,000, and with a credit of £275,000 unspent as from the last year's appropriation ; but against that, of course, as the honour- able member says, we had large commitments. Some of those commitments, of course, have not all yet come in, and they are largely of this year. For instance, as to the order given for the manufacture of rolling-stock in the colony last year, that was not all fulfilled, and must come to book this year. If honourable members will say that any of these items should be charged to works, I will never again say another word with regard to railway mat- ters. . The items I refer to are as follows : There is for American locomotives £146,000 al- ready brought to book ; American cars, £86,000 ; English wagons, £182,000; also Westinghouse brakes, and allowing for charge of materials in the colony, £70,000, but we may be able to re- duce that by about £28,000. Then, for wagons being built in New Zealand by contract there https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 is £33,750 ; for new cranes to order, £6,000 ; for working machinery (new machinery for work- shops), £12,000 ; for stations, £8,000; for roll- ing-stock, building in the New Zealand Rail- way workshops, and material, £106,870. If any honourable member will take these figures and tot them up they will find they come to over £600,000. And there is neither a wagon too much nor a locomotive too much, nor a single item of that £600,000 that any honourable mem- ber will tell me should not be charged against additions to open lines or capital account. You have there £675,000, and you are voting this year over £600,000. An Hon. MEMBER .- The honourable gentle- man is asking us to quicken the Wellington- Napier line. Mr. SEDDON .- Yes, that is so ; and in many parts of the colony we are asked to quicken the train-service. I say we cannot do that except we lay heavier rails. Captain RUSSELL .- The trains are much slower now than they were many years ago. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, I do not know what they would have been if it had not been for what we have done. At all events, 11.0. the honourable member asked where the money went, and I say that is where it has gone, and I challenge any honourable member to say there is a single item he could object to. Then we come to this: the charge of mainten- ance in the colony which is charged to capital account. Sir, it is not one-half, not a third, of what is charged under the same head in Vic- under the same head in New South Wales, and practically on the same principle. The honour- able member for Bruce was somewhat in- genuous when he read out to us what had been done in Victoria. He said it was charged to maintenance. As working-expenses it is all charged under maintenance, only there are two separate accounts of maintenance kept-one por- tion is charged to working-expenses and the other to capital account-and that is where the honourable member, not having had experi- ence, has dropped into a mistake. In all rail- way management the maintenance is under one head, but it is in two divisions, the one charged against capital account and the other against working-expenses. That is the mistake the honourable member has made. Our charge against maintenance this year, so far, does not at the present time amount to much more than £50,000. So that when he would lead the House and the country to be- lieve that we are unduly charging against capital account works that should be paid for out of revenue, I say he is mistaken. If you ask the total amount-and as Colonial Treasurer I ought to know-I say you will find it is between $50,000 and #60,000. This year I do not suppose it will be much over £100,000, as against £290,000 for Victoria last year, and as against £216,000 in Victoria in the year pre- vious. Therefore, when you come to make comparisons, it will be seen we are not sinning at all in this respect. Sir, I cannot understand the logic of these gentlemen. If you are re- erecting a bridge to meet existing conditions, and that bridge originally cost £20,000, it is right to charge the extra cost as we charge it at present. The very same rule applies in putting down heavier rails. Any railway ex- It pert will say it is a reasonable charge. is a charge that has been made for a long way back; and, for myself, I may say I can remember a long way back in respect to railway management and railway works. We are only carrying out a reasonable system. It is not as though the rails were exhausted. Let us suppose that we charge against that ex- haustion the full value of the rails, and only charge to capital account the difference in the weight, I say that is a reasonable method to adopt. We do the same in the case of a bridge. If it originally cost £10,000 and we have to re- move it and put a bridge there to meet existing conditions-to meet the heavier traffic of the country-the difference between the two is charged to capital account. The system in existence here is one that is carried out in all railway systems in the world, and I cannot understand members taking exception to it The reason this debate has taken the now. turn it has is that we are this year asking for a considerable sum for additions to open lines. Well, who is responsible for that? I say this House is responsible-the members of the House are responsible for it. The Minister for Railways-not, however, the present Minister for Railways, but the Hon. Mr. Cadman-came to the House some 