bogies 638,126 Additional machinery and electric light for workshops 40,345 Automatic continuous brake for exist- ing stock 347,000 Automatic continuous brake for ad- ditional stock to be built .. 67,000 .. A total of $2.500,000. And in the Railways Statement I went on to say,- "To enable the work to be carried on con- tinuously authority will be necessary to carry the votes over from year to year until the works are completed and the votes exhausted, and legislation will be introduced to give effect to this." And yet the honourable member this morn- ing coolly finds fault, and says that eighteen months ago 1 ought to have realised what was required in this particular direction and made some arrangements in this respect. Why, Sir, there is the whole report, not only for last year, but providing for the five years, foreshadowing the programme to meet not only the exigencies of the moment on the railways that then ex- isted, but to provide for the enormous growth that is going on year by year in this country, and which requires to be met. When the honourable member talks to me of not having done what was required, he must either have- I was going to say wilfully misrepresented the position, but I will not say that-but he must have supposed, at all events, that I would forget that I was alive eighteen months ago, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 and had done nothing in the direction of trying to improve our rolling - stock, whereas I had done so over the whole period of five years. Although the member for Riccarton has not done so, I am glad to say that the colony has recognised that the improvement has been material from one end of the colony to the other, and that the business has been met in a way that the public have appreciated. The honourable member is therefore not in any way justified in saying I should have made arrange- ments at that period, because they were made by me, and the authority of the House also got for the expenditure of two millions and a half, and which is now going on; and yet the honour- able member refers somewhat critically to the fact that we went out of the colony in the way he indicated to purchase material to carry on the business railways of the colony. I say now, without a shadow of hesitation, that if we had not, in addition to keeping our workshops going from one end of the colony to the other, also adopted the course of going outside the colony and obtaining additions to our rolling-stock, we would not have been able to meet the extra- ordinary increase of traffic that has taken place throughout the whole of the colony, and we would consequently have interfered with and dislocated trade, and thrown many people in various outside occupations out of work. It has to be remembered that during last year alone 136 miles of open railways were added to the railways of the colony, and during this year about a hundred additional miles will be Sir J. G. Ward power and rolling-stock of all kinds, and the honourable member must know that not only has no man been put off work in any of the workshops, but that some hundreds of addi- tional men have been put on, and have been kept on full time to enable the department to carry out the work in our own shops. Now, in contrast to what the honourable member said had been done in New Zealand during the last twelve months, if any one takes the trouble to refer to the Railways Report he will find that 2,068 vehicles passed through the local work- shops in New Zealand, to say nothing of the hundred and one other works carried on in our shops. I say that at no time in our colony's history has so much work been done in the railway workshops : and the honourable mem- ber's statement is therefore incorrect, and may mislead the unthinking person who does not know the facts. Why, the honourable member, by the statements he made in the course of his remarks, almost made me wonder whether he was trying to take a "rise " out of me, or whether he had himself been asleep, or whe- ther he was serious upon this particular point. The honourable member finds fault with the Government for not keeping pace with the land-settlement of the colony. He takes excer tion to the fact that no rebate of rent has been allowed to the Crown tenants, as he says was indicated last year. Well, Sir, the Government cannot do everything within a limited period. On the one hand, the honourable member finds fault with us for not having altered the Crown tenants' system in the colony, and, on the other hand, he says we cannot keep pace with the land-settlement of the colony. Now, if the honourable gentleman himself were on these benches, and were associated with the very ablest men in the country, he could not pos sibly meet, within a short period, the extra- ordinary demands that are continually being made upon the Government within a year. or even two years. The policy must, as it were, be ahead of the demands made upon it : and I think, if the honourable member will only con- sider the matter for a time, he will see that is the position. But where does the honourable member land himself in connection with this matter? It is the same in connection with the railway workshops. He says in one breath we are increasing our expenditure, and finds fault with us for adding to the public indebtedness. He finds fault with us in very strong terms about the high-water mark of the financial position of the colony, yet before he would up his speech what did he say ? He urged the obtaining of millions of money additional. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- That would nes come out of the Consolidated Fund. Sir J. G. WARD .- I did not say it would come out of the Consolidated Fund. I ato dealing with the financial position of the colony as a whole. The honourable gentleman knows that £500.000 was transferred from the Consolidated Fund last year to the Pable Works Fund ; vot, while the honourable gentle- man urges on the one hand that we are going 