own ; and I ask other honourable members who wish to see the San Francisco service abolished to support me in that course." The honourable gentleman's amendment was carried on division by forty-five votes to twenty- There are at the present moment in seven. this House five members of the forty-tive who voted for the abolition of the San Francisco service in 1888. those five are Mr. Guinness, Mr. T. Mackenzie, Mr. Parata, Mr. Seddon, and Mr. Ward. Sir J. G. WARD. - You evidently did not vote on that occasion. Mr. FISHER .- I did not vote in that division. My name is not contained in the division-list. Now, the honourable gentleman was very per- sistent in his resolve that the Fr'isco service should be abolished ; and in the next year -12th September, 1889 -- the honourable gentle- man said :- "The Premier [Sir Harry Atkinson] in his introductory remarks this evening indicated that it was possible the Committee might be surprised at the Government having reintro- duced this matter for the cousideration of the House. I am going to open my few remarks by stating that I certainly must express my surprise at these proposals being submitted to us this year, and I am bound to say I must express a certain amount of surprise at some of the arguments the honourable gentleman has thought it necessary to use in speaking to the ·question before the Committee. Before I pro- ceed to discuss the various points the Premier has dealt with, I should like, in order to carry https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 back the memory of those honourable gentle- men who were here last year, to state the position in which we last left this question. The resolution which the House carried last year by a large majority is as follows : 'That. in the opinion of this House, a two-weekly mail-service should be continued between New Zealand and Great Britain, but that the sub- sidy to the San Francisco mail-service should be discontinued."" Further on, the honourable gentleman pro- ceeded to say, - " What I wish specially to call the attention of the House to is this : that the resolution passed last year indicated that the San Fran- cisco subsidies were to cease ; that that resolu- tion had distinct application to the cessation of the subsidies in November next ; and, in the face of the clear and distinct decision of the House on the question, we are asked to-night to negative the resolution which we passed last year bearing on precisely the same matter- that is, the renewal of the subsidies to the San Francisco service after the expiry of the present contract." The honourable gentleman was very firm on that. Why this volte face ? Why this com- plete change? When it was resolved in that year that the service should be continued, I proposed that the port of call should be Wel- lington. That proposal was rejected. The member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar) this afternoon took up the patriotic, the national Mr. Fisher to do so. The Americans make it a national <!-- PageHeader="\-" --> question by excluding our ships from the ser- vice. Why should we not take the same course ? He spoke in terms of indignation of a self-governing colony paying a subsidy to ships flying a foreign flag. He told us that the steamers were fitted for use as cruisers should they be required in war. Then, I ask, if they are to be used in the event of the United States being at war with any other nation, what is to become of our mail-service when the cruisers are withdrawn ? That puts an end to our mail- service, and we are placed in an undignified and a humiliating position. Will the people of New Zealand tolerate this state of things ? But I have a more remarkable phase of the question to which I wish to call the attention of the House. We had the guarantee of the Premier of this country that the interests of New Zealand should be protected in the event of any proposals being made to enter into a renewal of the San Francisco service. Yet we are faced with a proposal such as this: In Sydney, on the 10th January, 1901, according to the l'. legraph- "Mr. Seddon, speaking on board the ' Sierra,' referred to the magnificent enterprise which had resulted in such tine vessels running between America and Australia. As head of the Govern- ment he declared that there was room for all, though they could not be expected to help another service which might injure the colony or the company so long identified with it. If the Spreckels Company kept on fair and legiti- mate ground its success would be sure, but the moment anything was done unfriendly to his colony or nation he would resent it in a way that would not be forgotten." An Hon. MEMBER. - Let them all come. Mr. FISHER. - It is not a question of " Let them all come"; it is a question of letting the Americans come to the exclusion of the English- men, and I, as a Britisher, object to it. But where is the Premier's protection for New Zea- land ? "If the Americans acted fairly and legitimately it would be all right, but the moment anything was done unfriendly to his colony or nation he would resent it in a way that would not be forgotten." And this is the way he resents it ! He has allowed the Ameri- cans to exclude the one English boat we had in \-- the service. Mr. FOWLDS .- Mr. Spreckels had nothing to do with that. Mr. FISHER .- Now, this is very interesting. Is this the stuff the honourable gentleman hills up the people of Auckland with? No wonder the people of Auckland think that when these \-- towering intellects come down here to push the nation along the rest of us ought to stand aside The honouraole and salaam and kow tow. gentleman ought to know that when Mr. Spreckels arrived in Auckland, in March last, in the "Ventura," he told the people of this colony that he had entered into a ten-year contract with the American Government, under their navigation law of 1891, which contract excluded all ships of any other nation, and 