under conditions like these. I wish to refer to another point that has been raised ; and per- haps I will take it as the last I shall deal with, because I do not want to speak too long, and, because I have seen things that have made my blood boil, I do not want to be carried away into saying things that in cooler blood I might not say. The point, then, that I wish to refer to is this: In proposing to avail ourselves of this Federal service we are practi- cally asking a favour of Australia : "Will you let us send our mails Home at 2s. a pound in your boats? " I conclude there is a possibility, because we have got to ask that permission of the Commonwealth, that the favour may be refused ; and, even if granted, we shall have to pay for our mail-matter on a population basis, which will amount, I believe, to some $12,000 a year. If we do not ask for it as a favour it will cost us more than that, and it will be too expensive for us to use. But I do not think they will grant it unless we make up our minds to pay the full price. Have we any reason to think they will favour us? I think the reasons are entirely in the opposite direction. Is the fact that they are proposing to set up a hostile tariff not sufficient to prove they will not favour us? Does their action in regard to the penny-postage system which we inaugurated prove that they are likely to favour us ? It did not matter to them whether the letters that were sent from New Zealand to Australia carried a two- penny or a penny stamp, but, all the same, when those letters with the penny postage went over https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 there they surcharged every letter. It was a childish thing, in my opinion, for them to do, and yet they would not meet us to that extent by letting our letters go through, although, if they had adopted the penny postage their let- ters would have gone through here, even if we still continued the twopenny rate. Pending Australia's decision regarding allowing us the Federal service, how are we going to decide on this matter of the San Francisco service, as we do not know what we shall have to pay if we go in for the Federal route? I hold that we should be careful before we decide hastily on the San Francisco service. I do not intend to keep the House any longer, because the subject has been so thoroughly threshed out. If I have used language that is somewhat heated, it is in conse- quence of the things I have seen in connection with this Federal line .. Those things were against my principles, and I will be true to my principles to the end. Mr. MCLACHLAN (Ashburton) .- The few remarks I wish to make on this subject are based more upon sentiment, perhaps, than upon logic. The logical deduction from this position is that I should commit myself to the principle that we ought to buy in the cheapest and sell in the dearest market ; but, unfortunately for the northern papers, my sentiment overbears my logic, and I am bound to admit that I shall vote against my own convictions, in that I shall vote for the discontinuance of the service, that is totally, in my opinion, alien to us-a service run by a company over which we have no con- VOL. CXIX .- 35. has restrictive maritime or navigation laws against any other country that prevent the usa of British-owned vessels. I shall not say any. thing about the " dear old flag," because I never rise to that point of enthusiasm of worshipping the "dear old flag," although I am a Briton of the Britons. Yet I think that it is right for us to give, as the Scotch say, "our fish- guts to our own seagulls." It will cost a little more, but we shall keep all the money in our own family. I was rather amused a few evenings ago when' speaking to an Auckland member of this House. He said to me, "How are you on this Fr'isco service ?" I said, "I do not know anything about the merits of the case; the thing is not known in my part of the country, unless we see it in the newspapers. It is of no importance whatso- ever to Ashburton; we do not care whether the mails come by Fr'isco or any other route, so long as we get them, and the less frequent we get them the better some of our people like it. The matter is of no importance to us." From a commercial point of view, the business people in the various centres say it is a matter of very great importance to them because of the exchange. Now, I contend that even supposing these merchants - the repre- sentatives of the mercantile community - by increasing the time required for the delivery of our New Zealand letters in London, have to pay a little extra in commissions and in exchange, they get infinitely more than that out of the reduction in the penny postage. That is my opinion, and to the great bulk of the people in New Zealand it is a matter of the utmost in- difference whether mails come within one week or two weeks longer. In fact, I have not sent a letter Home for the last twenty years scarcely, so I do not care if there were no mails at all. But in speaking to this Northern member, he gave me the most positive assurance that this mail-service did not cost the Colony of New Zealand one penny. I said, "We will re- engage it at that price for an indefinite number of years." I said, " How do you work it out ? " He said, "Well, I will tell you." He said the Fr'isco mail steamers, when they came to Auckland supplied themselves with all the provisions they required for the voyage to Sydney, and possibly took sufficient to return to Auckland and back to San Francisco. I said, " Do you call that nothing ? " and he said, "It does not cost the colony anything." I said, " Practically, Spreckels's Company get their provisions for nothing ; he reckons our butter and eggs, and bacon and cheese, and onions and milk, and fresh fruit, and all these things, are nothing at all." It is all very well for the Auckland City member-I will not go nearer his name-to tell me that we do not pay anything for the Fr'isco service. I say if the Spreckels Company were to run these boats and only ask 5s. a year subsidy, I would not grant it, on sentimental grounds. I am more moved by sentiment than I am by logic in this case-a company that is running under the flag of a country which has raised prohibitive restric- 