für Australien, "Sydney, 23rd October, 1901. "My LORD,-The resolutions passed by both the Houses of the Legislature of your colony, expressing their deep sympathy with His Majesty the Emperor, the Imperial family, and the German people on the death of Her late Majesty the Empress Frederick, have been duly conveyed to His Majesty. " ] have now been instructed by special order to transmit His Majesty's heartfelt thanks to the honourable members of the legislative bodies of New Zealand for the kind sympathy shown on the sad occasion, and I therefore have the honour to request that your Lordship will have the goodness to cause these expressions of thanks to be communicated to the gentlemen named. "I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to your Lordship the assurance of my highest consideration. "P. VON TRURI, His Imperial Majesty's Consul-General. " His Excellency the Right Hon. the Earl of Ranfurly, Governor of the Colony of New Zealand." TOUR OF THE DUKE AND DUCHESS OF CORNWALL AND YORK. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER moved, That the following address be transmitted to His Excellency the Governor respectfully requesting him to forward it to the Secretary of State for the Colonies for submission to His Majesty the King :- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 "To the King's Most Excellent Majesty. "MOST GRACIOUS SOVEREIGN, - We, the members of the Legislative Council of New Zealand in Parliament assembled, respectfully beg to submit to your Majesty our congratula- tions on the safe return of their Royal High- nesses the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York to England, and our thankfulness for the goodness of Almighty God for having mercifully watched over them, permitted their enjoyment of good health, and protected them from perils by land and sea." Motion agreed to. The Council adjourned at twenty-five minutes past twelve o'clock a.m. # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Friday, 1st November, 1901. Privilege-Ministerial Expenses-Government Rail- ways Department Classification Bill-Tour of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York- Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Bill- Death of the Dowager Empress of Germany- Maori Lands Administration Bill-Government Railways Department Classification Bill. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- Sir, I wish to speak to a question of privilege. Yesterday the Premier, in replying to a personal explana- tion made by the member for Ashley, read to the House the correspondence relating to a proposal made by Mr. Meredith to the Assets Board in regard to the purchase of a por- tion of the Glentui Estate. He produced in this House all the documents relating to the application of Mr. Meredith to the Assets Board. Now, firstly, I wish to ask your ruling upon the question whether the Premier, being a member of the Assets Board, or whether he was a mem- ber of the Assets Board or not, had any right to produce in this House the correspondence of Mr. Meredith with the Assets Board and the decision of the Assets Board in regard to that proposal ? Further, I put to you, Sir, a second question as to whether the papers produced by the honour- able gentleman, being official documents, ought not to be laid on the table of the House. I pro- pose to cite authorities bearing upon the point. Firstly, the Premier referred to the application of Mr. Meredith. I do not speak of Mr. Mere- dith as a member of this House. I speak of him as the private individual-Mr. Meredith. The Premier, referring to the correspondence between Mr. Meredith and the Assets Board, asked the member for Ashley whether he would have any objection to the correspondence being laid on the table. The member for Ashley, speaking from his place in this House, said he had not the slightest objection. The Premier then said " In that case, if the honourable mem- ber would write to the Board stating that he had no objection, he (the Premier) would lay them on the table." Now, Sir, we know what the end of all that will be. The papers will not be laid on the table. There is not the least chance of that being done. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I want to know whether the honourable member can comment on what has occurred, and prognosticate on what is going to happen, under the pretext of a point of order. The honourable member raised a point of order, and in that he is within his rights ; but the honourable member is com- menting now, and prognosticating what is likely to arise; and in that respect, I say, he is tres- passing and going beyond what is legitimate and right. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I do not think the honourable member has gone beyond what is reasonable or fair in explaining the grounds of his question. Mr. SEDDON .- He has said the return suggested would not be laid on the table. Mr. FISHER .- You have given your ruling. Sir, and I protest against any further interrup- tion. I will not have these interruptions. Then, Sir, I quote the ruling of Mr. Speaker O'Rorke upon the same subject given in this House on 28th July, 18.8. The question having arisen in regard to the production of certain papers by an honourable member, the Hansard record goes on to say :- "Mr. M. J. S. MACKENZIE .- As a point of 