think it is very dangerous to allow any altera- tion to be made in the form. Bill committed. IN COMMITTEE. Second Schedule. The Hon. Mr. BOWEN moved the following amendment, To omit all the words after " Seventhly, that," in line 44 to the end of line 52, and to insert the following words in lieu thereof : " where the mortgagor makes default for the space of two months in payment of the principal sum and interest, or in the observance of any other covenant expressed or implied in the mortgage, and at least one month's notice in writing of his intention to do so has been given by the mortgagec to the mortgagor, or is left upon the said land or at the usual or last known place of abode in the colony of the mort- gagor, the mortgagee may sell the said land, or any part thereof, either altogether or in lots, by public auction or by private contract, or partly by either of such modes of sale, and sub- ject to such conditions as the mortgagee thinks fit, and may exercise such other incidental powers in that behalf as are conferred upon mortgagees by ' The Land Transfer Act, 1885,' or by . The Property Law Consolidation Act, 18-3,' as the case may be." The Hon. Mr. W. KELLY moved to strike cut the words "or by private contract, or partly by either of such modes of sale." The Committee divided on the question, " That the words be retained." https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 AYES, 21. Smith, A. L. Arkwright Louisson Bowen McLean Swanson Pinkerton Taiaroa Feldwick Tomoana Pitt Gourley Johnston Reeves Twomey Scotland Walker, L. Kelly, T. Walker, W. C. Shrimski Kenny NOES, 7. Jenkinson Kelly, W. Barnicoat Bolt Jones Rigg. Harris Majority for, 14. Words retained. Amendment as proposed by the Hon. Mr. BOWEN agreed to. Bill reported. MONEY-LENDERS BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- This Bill to a certain extent travels over thorny ground, because just as in the last Bill we were discuss- ing how to try to mete out justice between mortgagee and mortgagor and all concerned, so perhaps this Bill may be looked upon as inter- fering with the liberty of the subject, and may possibly be interfering with certain honest people in getting their dues. But still modern sense as regards money-lending has very much altered of late, because modern life has shown that the more ignorant portions of the com- munity are the victims of usury and oppression other hand, I do not suppose that this com- munity in New Zealand is as badly oppressed by the money - lender as are communities in other parts of the world ; and probably no part of the world is worse oppressed in this par- ticular than the Old Country. So much is that the case that this has been a constant subject for agitation and for attempted reform, and it was in consequence of the necessity for reform that this has been a very live subject for the last few years. I think if the Council will only just consider what I desire to read from a report of the House of Commons it will show what the members of that body think on the subject, and how important a question it is felt to be. In the year 1898 a Committee was set up in the House of Commons to inquire as to the best means of dealing with the question of money-lending, and this is an extract from their report : - " After carefully considering the evidence which has been given in regard to particular transactions, and the general expressions of opinion of persons so well qualified to form a judgment as Sir Henry Hawkins, Sir James Charles Mathew, Sir George Lewis, the Inspec- tor-General in Bankruptcy, and the County Court Judges, your Committee have unhesitat- ingly come to the conclusion that the system of money-lending by professional money-lenders at high rates of interest is productive of crime, bankruptcy, unfair advantage over other credi- tors of the borrower, extortion from the bor- rower's family and friends, and other serious injuries to the community. And, although your Committee are satisfied that the system is sometimes honestly conducted, they are of opinion that only in rare cases is a person benefited by a loan obtained from a profes- sional money-lender, and that the evil attend- ant upon the system far outweighs the good. They therefore consider that there is urgent need for the interposition of the Legislature with a view to removing the evil." Well, I do not for one moment mean to say that our condition in this colony is anything like as bad as is the condition in the Old Coun- try. There is not here the same amount of dependence upon the pawnable nature of our personal property as there is there. I remem- ber a very suggestive remark from a well-known Ho traveller who was visiting these shores. was a very pleasant gentleman, a man who, like Ulysses, had known many places and many people, and I expressed my regret, when I met him in a country town in New Zealand, that he had landed on our shores in a time of depres- sion. Of course, it is needless to add, when I say it was a time of depression, it was not in the time of the present Government. It was a long time before that ; but, at all events, it was the policy of the Government in those days to speak of it as a time of depression, which we never do. And I apologized to him for not being able to support him from a public point of view as we should like to have done. He said, " Well, I do not know. I have travelled a good deal, and I see that all you fellows carry 