knowledge, refused to do many things the people asked for, because the responsibility was upon his shoulders, as it was upon the shoulders of His Excellency the Governor here in con- nection with the visit of the Royal pair to this country. Now, Sir, I think it is only right that should be said. Had the honourable member known it he would probably not have made the speech he did. The honourable mem- ber stated that His Excellency the Governor incurred expenditure without the authority of this House. Sir, His Excellency the Governor has done nothing of the kind. I would ask honourable members to realise what the difficul- ties were. When the Duke and Duchess of Corn- wall and York came to New Zealand who was to be the headpiece of the colony ? No other person than His Excellency could have acted in that capacity. It was the colony who extended the invitation to the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York to come here, and it did that upon a resolution passed by this House. The Govern- ment could not have invited the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York to go to the various functions. An Hon. MEMBER. - The people of the colony invited them. Sir J. G. WARD .- Yes; but who was the headpiece, to enable the will of the colony to be carried out ? No other person but His Excel- lency the Governor. An Hon. MEMBER .- The colony paid. Sir J. G. WARD .- That is so; but how could the colony have acted ? It is all very well for honourable members to say, and rightly so, that the people of the colony invited the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York to come here, and that the people of the colony paid for it ; but I ask the honourable member, in carry- ing out the arrangements of that visit, how was the colony to act ? It could only act through the constitutional channel, and who, I ask, was to represent the colony? The Government could not do it, the members of the Ministry could not do it. Mr. MEREDITH .- Why not ? Sir J. G. WARD .- Could the Government have invited the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York to go to a hotel to dine, or to meet people there ? I am only endeavouring to show honourable members what the difficulties of detail were, and what the position was in con- nection with this visit, and it is only right they should grasp that at this juncture, in conse. quence of the impression that appears to be in the minds of some honourable members. Now, I say that neither the head of the Govern- ment, nor the members of the Administration, nor members of Parliament could have done that which was required to be done in connec- tion with the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York, and no other person but His Excel- lency the Governor-even if he had not been called upon by the responsible authorities in England to act in that capacity - could have acted in this country. There was no other authority in New Zealand who could have taken the place of host, to enable the public Su J. G. Ward out, than His Excellency the Governor. The colony having extended an invitation to the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York to come here, it is clearly the duty of the colony to pay for it. In Auckland and Wellington and ( hristchurch and Dunedin it was His Excel- lency the Governor who sent out the invita- tions, and, as the Premier mentioned, that was done on behalf of the Government as repre- senting the people of the country. An Hon. MEMBER .- No. Sir J. G. WARD .- That is so. I had some invitations that way myself. There might have been some special functions that the honourable gentleman was at where it may not have been the case. Mr. SEDDON. - Other than Government House. Sir J. G. WARD. - It is all very well for the honourable member to say " No," but the fact remains that it was the colony who invited their Royal Highnesses to come here, it was the colony who carried out through the con- stitutional head, His Excellency the Governor, all the functions, and it is the colony who has to pay. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is it. Sir J. G. WARD .- Very well, Sir; if we in- vited their Royal Highnesses to come here, do honourable members mean to say that the colony ought to repudiate any portion of the pay- ment ? I am only endeavouring to point out to the House what the position is, so far as the visit of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York is concerned, in relation to His Excellency the Governor and the Government. Honour- able members say, and say rightly, that the people have entertained the visitors; and if honourable members can say in what way the Government, as representing the people of the colony, could have carried out arrangements in a way that would have been more satisfactory and acceptable to their Royal Highnesses I would be glad to hear the suggestion, because I am sure that no one, if they think the matter out, can suggest any way in which it might have been done other than the way in which it was done. It is only right that members should understand that the responsibility of the visit of their Royal Highnesses was not put by the British Government on the shoulders of the Administration, or on the shoulders of the members, or of the people of the colony, but it was put directly on the shoulders of His Excellency the Governor, as the repre- sentative of the King. Of course, Minis- ters acted with His Excellency to make the visit safe and agreeable in every way to our distinguished visitors. It is only right that the method of providing the ways and means should be one to conform strictly to the law, and that all doubts should be removed. I am exceedingly sorry that on an occasion such as this any attempt should be made, even by the member for Wairarapa. to introduce the ques- tion of the salary and allowances of His Excel- lency the Governor. The Government know that, quite outside the expenses incurred by the 