vision was made to remove the defect from the legislation. In the meantime the petitioner had come before the House asking for compen- sation for the loss he had sustained in connec- tion with law-costs and other things, through the House giving no right of appeal. He hoped the Government would, in accordance with the report, give every consideration to the report of the Committee, and, if possible, place a sum on the supplementary estimates to recompense him for the expense he had been put to through the error of the Legislature in omitting to insert a right of appeal from the Commissioner of Crown Lands. Motion agreed to. MIDLAND RAILWAY COMPANY. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) 3.0. brought up a report from the Public Accounts Committee on the petition of the Midland Railway Company debenture-holders and the shareholders in the Midland Railway Company, and moved, That the report be read by the Clerk. Motion agreed to. The CLERK then read the report, which was as follows : - "The Public Accounts Committee, to whom the above-mentioned petition was referred for consideration, have the honour to report as follows :- "That, although the colony has received injury by the non-completion of the contract and the action of the debenture-holders, and notwithstanding the colony's proved legal https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 rights, still in consideration of the losses the debenture-holders and shareholders of the Mid- land Railway have sustained, and taking into the computation all moneys that have been paid by the shareholders of the company pur- suant to demands made by the Crown, and also all profits that have been derived from the working of the open sections of the railway during the period between the seizure and the vesting in the Crown, the Committee have the honour to recommend that the sum of £110,000 be offered to the Receiver for the debenture- holders, on condition that he gives a receipt on behalf of the debenture-holders setting forth that the colony has dealt equitably and justly, and that he is fully satisfied on their bebalf. " That a sum of £20,000 be offered on similar terms to Mr. Dalston on behalf of the share- holders. "That a Bill be passed this session to give effect thereto, with such condition as may be deemed advisable to completely safeguard the interest of the colony. " That each debenture-holder and cach share- holder shall give a receipt to the Receiver and the Attorney for the company for the money, stating that the colony has dealt equitably and justly with him, and that he is fully satisfied. "GEO. FISHER, Chairman. "4th November, 1901." Mr. FISHER .- Mr. Deputy-Speaker, I am in this anomalous position : As Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee, I am asked Mr. McNab tion of a report from which I totally dissent. I feel bound to say, thus early, that the whole subject has been most dispassion- ately discussed by the Committee, that there have been no unpleasantnesses of any kind-of course it is unnecessary to mention this-that the Committee have given the utmost attention to the subject. I find myself in a minority; but as I hold strong-indeed, extreme-views upon the question, I find myself in a position from which I decline to recede. The petitioners have approached this Legislature as suppliants, it is true, but I wish the House to pay pointed attention to that attitude of the petitioners. for they only assume the position of suppliants now, after having exhausted every possible means in their power to do the greatest possible damage to the credit of this colony in England. If these petitioners-I am referring particularly to the debenture-holders-were not persons of extraordinary influence in England this peti- tion would never - could never - have been presented to this House. If they were ordi- nary persons, having no more than ordinary rights, this Legislature, I am sure, would not entertain their claims for one moment. I need not enter into the carly history of the company. It is too late to do that. But I say that it is quite impossible for the people of this colony, or for the members of this House-and I speak, of course, without the least disrespect -- to discuss this report or to under- stand the findings of the Royal Commission without the very closest study. I ask, then, How is it possible for people who have not the report of the Commission in their hands, who have not the intimate knowledge which the discussion of such a subject demands, to form a sound and just opinion in regard to the right. fulness of this claim ? As I have said, I will not go back to the origin of this company. ex- cept to say that I have opposed the company and all its works from the year 1884, when the proposal to construct the Midland (Eas: and West Coast) Railway was first made -in the year 1884, when Sir Julius Vogel and Sir Robert Stout floated into political power on the strength of that scheme. Si !. I speak without the least warmth of feeling in regard to the subject, but I cannot refrain from saying that from first to last I have regarded the scheme as a gross political job, and now, at this late day, we are reaping the fruits of the proposal which, for political purposes, was in- flicted upon this colony by Sir Julius Vogel. aided by Mr. (now Sir Robert) Stout. Well. I have said that if it were not for the fact that these petitioners are persons in a position to exercise extraordinary influence in England. their proposals would not be entertained for one moment. Now, who are these men who peti- tion the House? They are men who more in authoritative and influential circles in England, and they attempt by dubious means to compel this Legislature to pay a lanxe sum of money which the representatives of the people of this colony ought to refuse to pay. We have Sir Thomas Salt, the chairman of 