Premier when he proposed to lay on the table the report of the Commission with respect to the selection of a mine. The House had had the report as to one mine-the Westport Cardiff mine-but nothing had been said about the other coalfields which had been inspected. It was very important that information of this kind should be put before the country at an early date. Mr. SEDDON said he would have the re- ports on the other mines separated from the report on the one particular mine referred to and lay them on the table. Resolution agreed to. LOCAL BODIES' LOANS BILL. A message was received from His Excel- lency the Governor transmitting the following amendment in this Bill :- To clause 1 add the following words : " and it shall come into operation on the first day of January, one thousand nine hundred and two." Amendment agreed to. # COOK AND OTHER ISLANDS GOVERN- MENT BILL. A message was received from His Excellency the Governor transmitting the following amend- ments to this Bill :- "Clause 10: Add the following subclause :- " (1A.) There shall be paid on all goods im- ported into the said Islands from any place or country other than New Zealand, and which would in New Zealand be admitted free of duty, such ad valorem duty not exceeding ten https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 per centum as the Governor from time to time by Order in Council determines.' "In subclause (3) : Omit the words ' are admitted,' and substitute the words ' have been / http://www.hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero imported and entered.' "Clause 12 : Omit the words 'and nine,' and substitute the words 'ten and eleven."" Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said that members would have noticed the recommendations which had been made by Mr. Percy Smith in a memorandum which had been laid on the table. Mr. HERRIES .-- That only referred to the Island of Niue. Mr. SEDDON said, Yes; but Colonel Gud- geon and the Customs officer at Rarotonga recommended the same thing. This alteration would be in the interests of all concerned, and it was what they wanted at the Islands. An Hon. MEMBER .- It will not affect the trade between New Zealand and that Island. Mr. SEDDON said, "No." It was an all- round primage duty for revenue purposes, and would be much more easily collected than the other duties. He thought, under the circum- stances, that this change should be made. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) said it seemed to him a very unconstitutional practice to have one part of the colony having a dif- ferent tariff to another. This was one of the anomalies which had cropped up in consequence of our extending the boundaries of the colony to these Islands. nanas. What does it matter ? Mr. HERRIES said it was a matter of great importance to the merchants in those Islands. He questioned whether it was right constitu- tionally to have one rate of duty in one portion of the colony and another rate of duty in another portion. He did not think any change of that kind should have been introduced by Governor's message in the way in which it had been intro- duced. If this was agreed to there would be no reason why we should not have a separate duty levied in Auckland to that levied in Dunedin. The argument was just the same, for one was just as much a part of the colony as was the other. It was a great injustice to those mer- chants who lived in the Cook Islands that they should be subjected to pains and penalties to which the merchants in the rest of the colony were not subjected. The 10-per-cent. duty was not a large amount, but it was the principle of the thing that he objected to. What was at- tempted to be done was to make the merchants in those Islands pay for the expenses of adminis- tration, and that was a wrong system, besides being unconstitutional. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) quite agreed with the honourable member for the Bay of Plenty that this was unconstitutional. Under the proposed tariff it might happen that goods which came free into New Zealand might be sent there direct from Sydney, and the islanders would have to pay a duty; and that was unfair. Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster-General) could not understand the honourable member taking exception to the course that was proposed. Whilst perhaps it was correct that in dealing with ordinary matters there should be no dif- ferentiation between portions of the same cour. try, at the same time we must deal with special circumstances in a special way to prevent goods pouring into the Islands from Australia to the detriment certainly not only of themselves, but of our own country also. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) could not refrain from supporting the contention of the member for the Bay of Plenty. He could not perceive any equity or right in what was proposed. The same duties should be charged in those Islands as we charged ourselves. What should be done with the Islands was to supply them with our tariff and direct them to carry that out. 1; was a very strange thing that this House should commence to arrange for a differential tarif amongst part of our own dominions, as those islands are, to use a rather grandiose phrase which was applied to the Cook Islands by the Premier. He claimed that it was wrong in principle, and should not be entertained. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City) thought this was a very wrong and dangerous precedent. Mr. SEDDON said that for the Auckland members to object to it was enough to make him withdraw the Bill. Mr. FOWLDS said it was not a question of Auckland, but a question of right or wrong. He said it was wrong to differentiate the Cus toms duties payable in different parts of the colony ; and, as for the money accruing to the 