the Lyttelton and Wellington Gaols. His ob- ject in doing so was to get an explanation of the matter from the Minister, and he regretted that opportunity had been taken to level charges against Mr. Garvey, who, it seemed to him, must lie under an imputation until an explanation was given as to the reason for the large sum expended on medical comforts in the Wellington Gaol as compared with the other gaols of the colony. He had no intention of casting any reflection on the officer in charge of that gaol. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) 9.0. wished to point out to the Committee that every Judge in the colony had the utmost confidence in Mr. Garvey. A great deal had necessarily to be left to Mr. Garvey's judgment in dealing with offenders under the First Offenders' Probation Act, and in such cases the Judges had always acted in accordance with Mr. Garvey's report. In his opinion, the pro- posal to set up a Committee to inquire into these charges was utter nonsense. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) said it had been re- ported that two children under the age of ten were committed to prison during the year, and between the ages of ten and fifteen no less than twenty-three were committed to prison. He considered this was a relic of barbarism. Last year they were informed that provision was to be made for such children being committed to reformatories and institutions of that kind. If a young child was committed to prison it was a brand upon him for a lifetime, and it made any effort to reform him all the more difficult. In his report the Inspector of Prisons said there was a necessity for something being done in connection with the gaol in Wellington. Mount Cook was not to be made available ; and he wished to know if there was to be any pro- vision for the extension of the gaol on the Ter- race, or whether some other place was to be provided. He thought it better to place the prison elsewhere altogether. It was also re- ported that new houses for the Gaolers at Wel- lington and Dunedin were required. He wished to ask more particularly whether any provi- sion was being made for a new Gaoler's house in Dunedin. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) said, In con- nection with what had been stated by several members as to mentally afflicted persons and those suffering from drink being committed to prison, the Minister would find that for a num- ber of years past the same objections had been raised to this system. The recommendations of the different Gaolers that some change should be made were by no means confined to this year. This year a protest came from Auckland, Dun- edin, Wanganui, and Lyttelton, and in Lyttel- ton there had been another death from the same cause, and the jury had added a rider that these cases should not be sent to the gaol. The Minister said he disapproved of it, and the officers of the department disapproved of it, and yet we found the same thing went on. He hoped there would be no need for these pro- tests next session. He thought the Minister Mr. Collins authorities to deal with these cases, and that he should exercise that power, in accordance with the desire of the members, his own offi- cers, and the country. Then, why should per- sons temporarily mentally afflicted be branded as gaol-birds ? He thought all that was needed in these cases was to erect suitable accommo- dation at the asylums, where there was the necessary medical and nursing staff. He hoped the House would have a most distinct assur- ance from the Minister that these things would be attended to. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) had hoped that the Minister would have given some extended information with regard to this vote. Although he did not know anything of this matter personally, yet he was persuaded that he would have been absolutely lacking in his duty if he had not taken the course he had. He said the Visiting Justices had not the opportunities given to them to which they were entitled. They were not permitted to see the contracts for bedding, clothing, et cetera, and he thought they should. The Gaoler here appa- rently fixed the whole of these contracts, but the startling fact remained that in nearly every line, and throughout a long period of years, the cost per head in the case of Wellington Gaol had been enormously in excess of every other gaol. Mr. SEDDON .- Everything is dearer in Wel- lington. Mr. HUTCHESON said, That could not account for the fact that for a period of ten years, although the daily average was forty-four prisoners more in Auckland, yet the actual cost for clothing, bedding, and other supplies was, for Wellington, £1,426 in excess of Auckland. He said, too, that the large houses who catered for the supply of these institutions were in a position to contract at the same rate in each of the large centres. He also said that the doctor was not allowed to see the contract for medicine and medical comforts, and he thought the doctor was the only officer who was in a position to certify in regard to such con- tracts. Mr. McGOWAN said the honourable gentle- man had made very serious charges against an officer who was held in very good repute, and who bore a most excellent character, and if the honourable gentleman had come to him direct with these complaints a full and ample inquiry would have been made. Now, these complaints in regard to Visiting Justices were entirely new to him. No Visiting Justices had ever complained to him of the way they had been treated, or in regard to contracts. He was not aware even if it was the duty of Visiting Justices to know all about contracts. He would tell the honourable gentleman that the doctor did certify to medicines. He would be fair, and would say that he believed this had not always been the case; but the doctor did now certify and see all the vouchers for medicines and medical comforts. He believed some mem- bers of the House had mixed up medical com- forts with medicines. They were two different things. These medical comforts were not 