when we may expect a considerable increase of revenue to come from this Group ; but when one comes to examine into the possibility of a very great increase of revenue, one cannot help being struck with this fact : that, so far as one can judge, there is very little and can be very little to produce any great revenue. The revenue is derived almost en- tirely from fruits and copra, and there has been no very large increase in the production for some years past, but the expenditure has been increasing. Take the estimates for last year. The revenue is £3,486, and included in that revenue is a balance brought forward of close on £1,000, the surplus of 30th June, 1900. Well, the expenditure for the year, as shown by the Appropriation Act, is $2,724, so that, deducting the surplus from the previous year, we find the revenue is only £2,510, and the expenditure #2,724, showing a shortage of over $200. It is quite true that in that expenditure there is provided $500 for a second payment on some land upon which there is a debt, and also $300 part payment for the steamer. But this revenue will decrease. The Premier has told us that two-thirds of the Customs revenue is going. That means £1,000 at least will go ; so that, undoubtedly, at the end of next session, so soon as this tariff comes inte force, the Islands revenue will show a deficit, and that deficit will have to be made up in some way, and there is no way of making it up except we ourselves put our hands into our pockets and provide for the deficiency. That will add additional expense, and we shall have to take it upon our shoulders. Then, we find in the report made by the British Resident, there are several things which are serious matters, and which ought to be considered when we are providing for expenditure in this Group. He says, for instance, that a single hurricane might destroy the whole of the producing- power of the Group for one, if not two seasons. Well, that is a very serious matter for us to have to face. Then he further says, " We have, moreover, incurred liabilities that must be met. Of the £1,050 authorised to be spent on Go- vernment buildings, only $350 has yet been disbursed, leaving a balance of $700 which should be liquidated at the earliest possible date." He says, further, in respect to the administration of justice,- " Certain Judges of the Arikis Court have either failed to carry out their work satis- factorily, or have so little work to do that it would matter but little to the community if they were removed from their positions. At Arorangi a system of terrorism and robbery has been practised at the expense of a quiet and inoffensive European, and it would seem to me that neither the Judge nor police have attempted to punish the offenders ; but that they know them can hardly be doubted. The salary of this Judge has been reduced to $10 for the present financial year, as a warning to him to attend to his work." An Hon. MEMBER .- Whose report is that ? Mr. J. ALLEN .- That is the report of Mr. I only change it is proposed to make is in con- Mr. J. Allen if, in applying the policy of extension of terri- tory, the Right Hon. the Premier could have been-as no doubt he desired to be- beforehand with the Federal Government, and if we had collared the whole of the islands of the Pacific, and been able to annex them to New Zealand, perhaps we might have had something that would have been worth glorying in as a foreign policy ; but this-I may almost call it -- "two- penny-halfpenny " foreign policy, I think, had better have been left alone. I have no doubt. the Right Hon. the Premier only intended this as an instalment; but he was not quite as sharp as usual, and before he got further than the small instalment the Commonwealth Parliament was in existence and the stop was put upon him, and conse- quently this great policy of annexation in the Pacific, and the extension of the boundaries of New Zealand to include Fiji, et cetera, was stopped. I hope this small instalment of the policy is not going to lead us into any trouble. It is very likely to involve the serious responsi- bility of the protection of these islands. I take it that is a very great burden we may have yet to take upon our shoulders. It is quite enough, when we are but a very young nation, to defend ourselves ; and if we are called upon to defend others besides ourselves it seems to me that may be a very great burden. If we were going to get any very great good from the Islands it might be worth while to take the responsi- bility for their defence ; but I cannot see at the present time that we are going to get any good from them, and I cannot but think that it would have been better to have left them alone. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) .- Sir, I have only a few words to say about this matter. I hap- pened to be absent from Wellington last year when the subject now under discussion was dealt with. I had serious doubts at that time when I read the reports in the newspapers, and afterwards when I read the debate in Hausard, as to whether the benefits to be derived from the annexation of the Islands would compensate for the responsibilities we were taking upon ourselves. After the little experience we have had I am satisfied the benefits, if there happen to be any, will not so compensate us. It is only a little over a year ago since the subject was dealt with by this House-since the reso- lution proposing annexation of the Islands was introduced by the Premier and carried by a very large majority. Last June the annexation was given effeet to by Proclamation-by what I may figuratively speak of as a flourish of trumpets. All along we were given to under- stand that the laws of this colony would apply to the Islands in the same way that they apply to Stewart Island, the Great Bar- rier, or any district of the colony. What is the position to-night ? The Premier introduces a Bill providing that the Native laws shall be re-enacted, including a law similar to one we have so often discussed -one that was very much objected to when brought into operation by the Governor and Legislative Council of Fiji. The 