to the scale shown here are certain notes, giving the alternative to the staffing, and . corresponding with the alternative salaries. These alternatives, of course, are being freely used by the Boards. Under Scale No. 1 very few salaries will be reduced, and still fewer under Scale No. 2. Of course, in admitting as I have done that the amounts paid by way of salaries now in the colony are not too high, it is with some regret that I have to announce -- and I am sure the Commission must have felt it-that there should be any reduction at all, but it is necessary that should be done so as to give uniformity. It is proposed to con- serve the rights of the present holders of posi- tions in which the salaries are to suffer re- duction for a period of two years. I think, in making that arrangement, it will carry great weight with the House that we are giving time, and that members will admit it is reasonable. An Hon. MEMBER. - What is the financial result of that ? Mr. SEDDON .- As to the financial result, it will not make a material difference. The proposed staffing of the various schools will strengthen the position. I am satisfied of that fact, and the teachers themselves admit it. The Boards also say that what is proposed really strengthens the position, as far as the staffing is concerned, and I say it is a great gain to the children and to our education in general. I come then to the allowances to the Boards : " As regards the allowances to Boards, which are intended to meet the other expenditure out of their general funds (exclusive of building and other special expenditure) hitherto met out of the £3 15s. capitation, the total amount now proposed to be paid is in excess of the actual http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero expenditure, taking the average of the last three years on the same items, by nearly £4,000, or, roughly speaking, £66,000, instead of #62,000 on the first scale." It costs £4,000 more-not a very serious item. "The allow- ances to Boards under the second scale exceed the present expenditure by £6,500, so that the Boards, besides having the salaries of their teachers paid to them on this uniform colonial scale, would be in a better position in regard to their other expenditure than they are at present." That is, they get £6,200 more ; and I do not think myself the Boards would object to that increase. Then, it is proposed, further, to make special provision as in the Third Sche. dule for the payment of house-allowances to head - teachers in all cases of schools above twenty where houses are not provided. On this point I may say that this had a great deal to do with causing dissatisfaction. Some of the wealthier education districts have man- aged to secure teachers' residences. They have used the money given by the colony to have residences erected ; but if you come to analyse the position, and take the amounts paid, and the number of residences, you will see the in- justice as compared with the poorer districts where there are no residences at all. So that the proposal we make now for the building of residences, or, in lieu of residences, an allow- ance for all schools above twenty, is going VOL. CXIX .- 40. a long way to remove difficulties. I have stated to the House, and members I am sure will not for a moment state that there is any ground for fear with respect to the con- clusion the conclusion has been arrived at not without careful deliberation. This is a matter that has engaged the attention of the Legislature, that has engaged the attention of the Minister of Education, and also of the Education Depart- ment for years past, and in what we now propose we are almost certain that the results, as I have mentioned, will eventuate. The decision was not arrived at hastily, and, therefore, it is not likely that we will pass the Bill and repent at leisure. My own opinion is that the evidence that has been given is of a reliable character, and that those who took that evidence were able to analyse it, and judge as to the sound- ness or otherwise of the evidence tendered, and which of the evidence should guide them in coming to their conclusion. I say it is almost impossible for members, with the limited time at our disposal and with the many things we have to do -- I say that very few mem- bers can really find time to go through the evi- dence and the Commission's report and satisfy themselves with respect to the question ; and they must take for granted a great deal of what is submitted. Although I, myself, have not been able todevote that time that I would have liked, still I am satisfied that what is here proposed is safe, and will certainly place our teachers in a position which I say the respon- sibility cast upon them demands, and I with confidence recommend the House to pass the Bill, and to pass it this session. I have been urged to postpone it, and have the Bill circu- lated and bring it up next session. My own opinion is that to do so would be a breach of faith, and it would be unwise. I think it would cause heartburning. Although the country is well prepared for the measure now, one cannot say what might occur next session ; and now that we have this measure fresh before us, and under the circumstances that I have mentioned, I say that we should be wanting in our duty if we were to leave our labours this session without placing this Bill on the statute-book. Well, I do not know that there is much more that I need say with reference to the Bill. Perhaps it would be better for me to await the criticism which may take place upon the measure. There are mem- bers in the House who were members of the Commission, and if the occasion arises they will probably give reasons for the soundness of the proposals of the Commission, and will be able to place matters before the House in such a way as to remove any doubt. I may say that we probably have not gone as far in the Bill before the House as probably some members of the Commission, or a majority of members of the Commission, would have wished ; but I say that we have gone as far as we can reasonably be expected to go. With very few exceptions, the Bill has given general satisfaction to the teachers ; and I may say that not a single Education Board- and that speaks volumes-has forwarded any 