it was one that had been under the considera- tion of the Government for some time-not specially with reference to Judges, but with reference to public servants generally. With regard to the Judges, he thought the Judiciary of New Zealand stood on a very high plane, and that the public had absolute confidence in the Judges, whose merits were well known. # INSPECTION OF COAL-MINES. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) asked the Minister of Mines, If he will make provision, either in his Coal-mines Bill or on the supple- mentary estimates, for the appointment of competent miners, at each coal-mine in the colony employing ten men or over, for the pur- pose of assisting the Inspector of Mines in his duties of inspection by sending him a monthly report on the working of the mine, and per- forming such other duties as may be defined by the Minister of Mines ; and also make pro- vision for the payment of a small sum of money per annum as a retainer to such men as may be appointed ? He need hardly say to the Minister that in the opinion of coal- miners-an opinion that was shared by many others besides coal-miners -- the inspection of coal-mines was not what it ought to be-not owing to incompetency on the part of the Inspectors, but owing to the fact that the Inspectors were called on to do more work than they should be called on to do. The districts were too large. To appoint Inspectors to keep the mines up to the state to which they should be kept would, he admitted, be very expensive, and therefore it was that he now asked the Minister to appoint a retainer in each mine to send to him a monthly re- port of the working of the mine. If some- thing was not done in that direction they would have another catastrophe similar to Kaitangata or Brunner, and it was with the object of obviating that that he asked the Minister now to either appoint more Inspec- tors, or to appoint competent miners at each coal-mine in the colony to assist the Inspector of Mines by sending him a monthly report on the working of the mine. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) said the honourable gentleman in explaining the ques- tion had introduced some matter that was of a debatable character. For himself, he thought there was no necessity to employ coal-miners to assist the present Inspector of Mines. Sec- tion 43 of the Coal-mines Act required persons in coal-mines to satisfy themselves as to the safety of the mine in which they were em- ployed, and to report anything which might be likely to produce danger of any kind. Failure to do this rendered the miners liable to be pro- ceeded against for an offence under the Act ; while subsection (46) of section 33 of the Act empowered persons employed in a mine to appoint, at their own cost, two of their num- ber to inspect the mine once at least in every month. It was hardly necessary to introduce the question of accidents into the matter. If it came to that, he would like to say that the Mr. McGowan from anything of the kind. On only one occa- sion had there been anything like a serious accident. Hon. MEMBERS .- TWO. Mr. McGOWAN said, Yes ; he might say there were two. At any rate, taking the whole of the mines in New Zealand, he could say they were very free from accidents, mainly owing to the efficient inspection that took place. Dur- ing the past two years or so, owing to the great expansion of the mining industry in the way of dredging, the work of the Inspector of Mines in Otago and Southland had no doubt increased considerably, but he was now provided with the services of an assistant, and the inspection would now be more complete. He might say there was an amendment to the Mining Act in contemplation, in which he was endeavouring to provide for additional inspection, and if the House thought anything more was necessary the matter could be further dealt with when the Bill came down. # PAEROA RIVER. Mr. PALMER (Ohinemuri) asked the Minister of Mines, If he has received any decision from his department re the silting-up of the Paeroa River, and will the Government this session take into consideration what means they intend to adopt to abate this evil ? Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) said it was not within the province of the department to give any decision. He had complied with the promise he made to the settlers in that district, and had had a report made, and he intended to send copies of that report to the local bodies concerned. # AUBREY'S CASE. Mr. PALMER (Ohinemuri) asked the Minister of Justice, What is the cause of the delay in the Governor in Council coming to a decision in Aubrey's case, and when may the decision be expected to be given ? Since this question had been put on the Order Paper it had been answered by the Government by letter, and he simply wished to place on record this fact: that he disagreed with the decision they arrived at, not to remit the sentence of this man. WAITEKAURI PUBLIC BATTERY. Mr. PALMER (Ohinemuri) asked the Minis- ter of Mines, If he will again consider the ad- visability of establishing a public battery at Waitekauri ? He would urge the same reasons as he did last year. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) might say that when he was in that part of the district he was interviewed upon this subject, and from the information he then had he was obliged to decline the application. He had since obtained a further report on the subject, and he would give the honourable gentleman the benefit of that report. It read as follows :- "I cannot recommend the erection of a test- ing plant to your favourable consideration, as there are no less than five separate crushing plants, consisting of fifty-nine heads of stamps, 