the benefit of that money-in what way it might be indirectly returned to them. An Hon. MEMBER. - Reduce the harbour dues. Mr. WILLIS .- Exactly. That is what was done ; and the question then came as to the best way to reduce the dues, and the com- mittee resolved to lower the charges on coal, and the wharfage dues were at once reduced from 2s. 6d. to 1s. One would have thought that in that way the poorer people of the town, and those using steam-engines, would have de- rived a benefit from that reduction ; but they did not do so at all, for within a few days after- wards the price of coal was raised by the mine- owners equal to the amount of that money, and the whole of the £1,000 is now going into the pockets of coal-mine owners, while not a penny is going to the people of Wanganui. Sir, I am Chairman of the Wanganui Harbour Board, and I have been twitted with the mistake that was made in reducing the dues on coal. That is one reason, then, why I state, of my own knowledge, the way in which the Wanganui people have been treated, and the disappoint- ment we feel at our good intentions being frustrated. Instead of the money going, as it should have gone, wholly for the benefit of the people of the town, it has gone to the benefit of the coal-mine owners. Sir, my opinion is that under this Bill a better state of things will be brought about, as monopolies will be impossible. I am satisfied that the Government will be quite capable of working a State coal-mine in a satisfactory and economical manner, and be able, if necessary, to supply the merchants themselves. Surely, if they can undertake larger undertakings, such as running the railways, in a way that is every- where acknowledged to be satisfactory, they can also run a State coal- mine, which docs not employ anything like the number of hands who are engaged on the railways. With regard to the question that has been raised about taking the coal away, I cannot see there is any difficulty in it. Contracts could be entered into; and, if things came to the worst, why should not the State provide its own properly fitted-up steamer ? I regard this scheme as a valuable experiment. I hope it will receive the support of members of the House, and I trust the Government will be given the opportunity of undertaking a work that will undoubtedly be for the benefit of all the people of the colony- one that I am sure is likely to be a success, and one that we shall ever afterwards be glad that we undertook. Sir, I have much pleasure in supporting the second reading of the Bill. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) .- Sir, it is interest- ing to note that, when a large question like this is being debated, the Government benches are occupied by two Ministers and two of their followers ; that on the cross-benches there are seven members, that on the opposite cross- benches there are also seven members, while most of the Opposition are here. Mr. SEDDON .- Oh, no. There are only nine of the Opposition. Mr. Willis half, anyway. Sir, the question before the House to-night is certainly a question of policy. I speak on the question with some knowledge of the subject, as I am interested in a coal- mine myself. I do not think the Bill will per- sonally affect me at all. I do not think it will affect our interests in the South, because it provides that the State shall supply its own requirements first. After having done that it certainly does provide that the State may supply others, and even retail coal. I do not assume for a moment that that will take place in the South, where there are so many coal- mines that all the requirements are met. As rewards Government contracts over the rail- ways, they do not affect me-at any rate, personally-because we do not take any Go- vernment contracts. We can do better else- where. And, although interested in the in- dustry, in speaking on this BiH I hope what I may say to the House will be said in a disinterested manner. The Premier has said that private enterprise has failed to supply the wants of the colony in respect to coal, and he proposes now to make up for that want on the part of those who are engaged in this industry privately by starting a State coal-mine. Now, how is that going to affect the private supply of coal? He has already had to admit that the very mention of these State coal-mines has killed private enterprise in coal industries. Mr. SEDDON .- I said they would not invest any further at present until the question of having a State coal-mine or otherwise was settled. Mr. J. ALLEN .- That is the same thing. I know of an instance in which an engineer was authorised to go to the northern part of the South Island for the purpose of investigating the coal areas there with the object of English capital being invested to open up those coal areas. So soon as they heard this project of a State coal-mine that engineer was withdrawn. He did not report, and that English capital has now no chance of being invested ; and the extra competition that would have accrued through another coal-mine being opened is lost to the colony. An Hon. MEMBER .- No. Mr. J. ALLEN .- I say what I know to be a fact. Now, the Premier proposes, instead of private competition, to bring the State into competition with the existing private owner. He first of all suggested to the House that he did not intend that the State coal-mine should compete with private owners, but as he warmed up to his subject he drifted off into State com- petition with private owners. Sir, I take it there can be only one conclusion come to, if the State is going into coal-mining to compete with the private owner: if the State can mine at a cheaper rate than the private owner they will kill the private owner, and if they cannot the private owner will still exist. Now, the Pre- mier has made certain assumptions with re- gard to the price at which the State can put coal on the market. They are only assump- tions, which cannot be proved until the State 