the position of the Midland Railway, but with- out any intention of hampering the Government. The value of the works on this railway had been estimated at £1,108,268. After the Commission had gone carefully into the figures they were reduced to £674,784, and the Commission allocated to the bondholders £126,788, to the company nil, and to the Government £66,045. The result of a second Commission was that the sum of £664,784 was reduced to such a small amount that the Commissioner awarded the bondholders nothing, the company nothing, and the Government "scooped the pool." It appeared to him impossible that works executed at a cost of over a million of money could have vanished out of existence as an asset. The bondholders had exhausted their legal remedy, but in equity they had a claim, and he under. stood they had approached the House by peti- tion, and that the petition had been referred to the Public Accounts Committee. He believed that the Government and the House were pre- pared to consider the claim and to do what was fair. He hoped the result of the inquiry would be in the direction of acting equitably with the bondholders, and that they would be dealt with in such a manner as to redound to the credit of the colony and the Government. Vote $13,250 agreed to. CLASS XXI .- RAILWAYS. Railway Construction, including land and materials, £561,000. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) wanted to protest against the unfair proposals in connection with the North Island railways, and particularly with regard to the North Island Main Trunk Railway, and what was known as the Main Trunk Railway north of Auckland. For one it was now proposed to vote £160,000, and for the other the large sum of $15,000. Comparing the votes for the railways in the North Island with those in the South Island, the amounts were : For the North Island, £243,300; and for the South, $279,000-a much larger sum for the South Island than the North, though the last census showed the European population of the North Island was in excess of that of the South. The important point was, however, that the Public Works Statement for 1889 showed that the South Island in the matter of railway construction exceeded the North Island by about three millions sterling, and as far as mileage was concerned by over four hun- dred miles ; yet it was proposed actually to give less to the North Island than to the South Island. That was grossly unfair, and he could only hope that out of the #250,000 extra proposed in the Bill a substantial sum would be appropriated for the purposes of the important lines mentioned, the North Island Main Trunk Railway and the main trunk line north of Auckland. He would like to know what had been done with the money received for land purchased by money borrowed for the purpose of the North Island route. During the last two years a sum of $17,000 was received from this source, and he wanted to know what 1889, a separate account was to be kept, but that seemed to have disappeared, and he wanted to know where the money had gone. If it had gone to the ordinary Public Works Fund then it was contrary to the Act of 1889. He wished to know whether the money was used for the purposes of the North Island Trunk line, in addition to the money that was voted from year to year. That was what was intended by the Act of 1889, and he hoped the Minister would tell him what was being done with the money. Mr. LANG (Waikato) said reports had been circulated that a number of men were being dis- missed from the Main Trunk Railway, and that the work was generally slowing down. He would like the Minister to say if this was correct. Apart from these reports, he had been informed that men were being dismissed for trivial offences. A case had been brought under his notice in which a man-who had a wife and six children to provide for-had been dismissed after having been two years and nine months on the work, and had just expended $20 in moving to another camp, although he had been promised twelve months' work. It seemed to him that it was a very serious matter if there was any slowing-down, because it would be very difficult to finish the line at the time indicated at the rate at which it had been going on, with- out any reduction of that speed. Mr. HOUSTON (Bay of Islands) wished to refer to the item, "Kawakawa-Grahamstown, £15,000," and would vote that it be reduced. He might explain that he should not propose it be reduced by much, and that he was taking this extreme course concerning a railway in which his district was interested for the purpose of bringing the matter before the Committee. In 1891 an agitation was got up to connect the railway between Whangarei and Kawakawa, and the then Minister for Public Works-the present Premier-had agreed to extend the line on certain conditions. That condition was that the Auckland members were unanimous in agreeing to forego the item, " Penrose Loop- line." After they were consulted they agreed to allow the money to be voted, so as to proceed with the work, and to extend the line from Kamo to a district called Hikurangi. The electors of his district were anxious that part of the money should be expended in completing the line between Whangarei and Kawakawa, and it was agreed that there should be no extension of the railway from Whangarei southward until the connection from Whangarei to Kawakawa had been established. They would find in the Public Works Statement of 1891 these words :- " We therefore propose to provide this year for the extension of the line from Kamo to Hikurangi, and to devote to this purpose the money at present allocated to the doubling of the Auckland-Penrose line. We do not, how. ever, propose to extend the line from Whangarei to Grahamstown. Any further extension of the railway that may be decided upon in the future should be in the direction of Kawakawa, with the view of connecting the Kamo and Kawa- 