An Hon. MEMBER .- We have our own weekly papers. Mr. SEDDON .- You must consider where your papers circulate. An Hon. MEMBER .- How many copies were circulated ? Mr. SEDDON .- Ten thousand, I think. At any rate, I say this £260 of public money was money well spent. The charge laid against me is most unfair. As for saying that I asked that this should be published with a view of extolling myself, I can only say I had no idea whatever that I would have appeared in the article at all. I felt sure that in the hands of Mr. Berry justice would be done to the co- lony, and beyond that I did not trouble. As to the political or national side of the question- that moneys given to the Australasian Review of Reviews was assisting the pro-Boer party-I emphatically deny that. It is not a pro-Boer paper : it is edited and largely owned by a man who has written of "Deeds that Won the Empire," with a view of inspiring patriotism, and it is simply absurd to say the paper in which that appeared, and also the writer, is regarded as being a pro-Boer in Australasia. It is a very poor reward to the editor that it should be inferred that he is connected with and that the paper is owned by one who holds opposite and extreme views. I do not think it is so. As to Mr. Stead, I do not believe in many of the views he has held and expressed. At the same time, I can respect any man who conscientiously differs from me, and who has made great sacrifices and who has suffered per- secution in the cause of the young and op- pressed ; and I think there are some gentle- men who have had a great deal to say against http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero Mr. Stead who would not suffer much for their opinions. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- I wish to say, by way of personal explanation, that the letters read by the honourable gentleman are a distinct evasion of the points raised in this House during the discussion on the estimates. An Hon. MEMBER .- Is that a personal ex- planation ? Mr. FISHER .- The member for Palmerston, I understand, stated that the Premier- Mr. SEDDON .- Is the honourable member allowed to make an explanation for the honour- able member for Palmerston ? Mr. FISHER .- 1 wish to call attention to a statement made by the Premier, no matter to whom. The Premier said that in the article in the Review of Reviews there were only two pic- tures of himself. I hold the Review of Reviews in my hand, and there are five. The honour- able gentleman says he is wrongly charged with the publication of portraits of himself, and he says that the article in the Review of Reviews is an advertisement of the beauties of New Zealand, which it was desirable to publish because New Zealand is only known in Eng- land as a part of Australia. Why, according to this article, we shall become known in Eng- land as a part of Polynesia, for nearly all the pictures are pictures of islands in the Poly- VOL. CXIX .- 49. nesian group-in which the Premier, of course, looms largely, otherwise they would not have been there-and not of New Zealand. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) .- Sir, the Premier accused me of having imaginative eyesight, be- cause I said there were five pictures of himself in this article, and he stated there were only two pictures. Mr. SEDDON .- I said three. Mr. PIRANI. - The honourable gentleman said two. But I am wrong in calling them pic- tures, because they are not pictures : they are reproductions of the Premier's visage. At the beginning of the paper there is one photograph of the Premier, which comes first, and one of the Governor, which comes second, as has been said before. . That is on page 73 of the January number of the Review of Reviews. On page 74 there appear the King and Queen of Rarotonga and Mr. and Mrs. Seddon : the Premier in a light and airy costume, with a Panama hat on one foot-balanced on his toe. The King is also holding his little cap on his toe. On page 75 of this number there is a King and Mr. Seddon. An Hon. MEMBER. - Another king ? Mr. PIRANI .- They are all kings: no com- mon people. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines). - I would like to ask your ruling, Sir, as to whether the honourable gentleman's remarks can now be said to come within the limits of & personal explanation. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- If the Premier has misrepresented the honourable gentleman, he is entitled to adduce proof to show where he has been misrepresented ; but I do not think the honourable gentleman is entitled to describe every picture in which the Premier appears. Mr. PIRANI .- I was only describing them for fear the Premier should say I was repeating the same picture over and over again. I wanted to show the difference in the pictures. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said the numbers of the pages would do that. Mr. PIRANI. - Then, on page 82 there is another picture of the Premier receiving an address of welcome, attired in a suit of pyjamas. There the Premier looms large, and carries another sort of hat-a sort of operatic head- gear. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I do not think the time of the House should be taken up by reading all the descriptions. Mr. PIRANI .- Well, on page 87 there is the fifth picture of the Premier. Yet the Premier wanted the House to believe there were only two. I leave the House to judge now who has got the defective eyesight. Mr. SEDDON .- I take, first of all, Mr. Fit- chett's letter. In the article in this paper you will find where Mr. Stead says that my name only occurs three times in the article. Now, we have a list supplied by the Under-Secretary of Lands to the Review of Reviews. This is the complete list of pictures which was sup- plied : (1) Tikitere, Auckland- 