second to that even of the honourable member who made the remark. Now, I will take the liberty of reading a telegram which came to my hand just when the Premier was in the act of delivering his special plea in favour of in- creasing the honorarium to members, and it is characteristic of a very large number of tele- grams addressed to me from various persons :- " People disgusted with North Auckland Rail- way vote. Have wired Minister. North Auck- land members appear not very interested. Certain Auckland members are to be compli- mented on their efforts. Road votes for county most unsatisfactory. Maungaturoto Wharf use- less unless new vote of £400 to complete road ; also, £250 required to carry on works on Maungaturoto-Paparoa main road in Maunga- turoto. Please insist on , these sums being voted." Those votes that he mentions were already on the first estimates, and perhaps if I could only know the secrets of the Cabinet I should see that the Premier's hand struck them off. I know I have interviewed Ministers privately time after time to give consideration to the needs of the people of the North-some con- sideration in proportion to the amount which they yield to revenue and in proportion to the liabilities they have to bear of our loans. In the face of that, when I see what I consider unfair treatment being inflicted, how can I support a proposition to still further increase my pleasures while their necessities are being ignored? I cannot do such a thing. I may further add that I believe if a plébiscite were taken throughout the colony we should have a very large majority voting against the expenditure of moneys that we have so recklessly passed in the estimates. I believe the Defence vote would be knocked down by one-half, and a hundred other items besides would be reduced. I am afraid the Govern- ment have lost sight of the necessities of the country districts, on which all our prosperity and success depends. Never before was there such mad waste. Then, I do not think the increase to our honoraria would bring about the benefit to honourable members that some sup- pose. Only let it be known that members are receiving another £60 a year, and they will be inundated with additional applications for help ; and there are so many that need help-actual need that you cannot well refuse, and cases of necessity, injury, and affliction-cases which members must respond to-claims that may amount to more than members will receive by the increased honorarium proposed in this Bill. As an instance, I may mention that when the £40 was granted last year I was pressed with applications, mentioning that as I had that $40 I could help the applicants in consequence of that increased payment; and although I felt that I could not justly utilise the increased honorarium for myself, I found that my disbursements amounted to £12 more, simply because I was supposed to have been en- riched by the extra £40. Here is another point : I do not believe that the increase of pay is going to bring better men into this Parlia- ment, but the reverse. I have no sympathy, but rather a direct antagonism, to the statement made by the Premier, that when men are returned to this House it unfits them for their ordinary avocations. Speaking for myself, I do not feel in the slightest degree unfitted for my ordinary business. I do not feel that I am specially elevated by coming to Parliament. I come here weighted with a sense of responsibility, and I think that sense of responsibility should rest upon the shoulders of every member who occupies a seat in this House. Is there to be no reward or recompense in a sense of patriot- ism ; is there to be no love of country, is there to be no thought of the welfare of our fellows. My feeling is that I am here to stay any legislation that I may regard as being detrimental to the welfare of the country, and to assist to pass legislation which may be for its benefit, and, in my humble way, to shape such measures which I think will tend to the future welfare of the colony. Are there to be no men in a demo- cracy-which is a form of government in which I think we should specially have disinterested men-are there to be no men bearing some resemblance to Cincinnatus, who was prepared to leave his plough when his country required his services to lead its armies, and retire to his fields when the public work was finished ? Let me refer honourable members to a statement made by a great statesman and thinker, who wrote that a politician has no more right to wrongfully appropriate or misuse one shilling of the money placed by the taxpayers in his care than he has to misuse the money of a private person. I believe that to be ab- solutely correct. My opinion, from what I see, is that there is not that equitable consideration for the needs of the whole colony that there should be-that there is not that true patriotic feeling for all which should actuate members of the Ministry, and make them concerned that none shall be overlooked. You will remember that Parliament reduced the number of members, and the payment, owing to necessity to economize. I may say that I believe that the different constituencies are under a disadvantage in having the number of members reduced, and I believe that it gives an undue preponderance of power to Ministers. But why should the expenses be so much larger than what they were? Are we not becoming too extravagant ? Are we not losing the simple habits which should be a characteristic of a democracy ? Have we not become wasteful, as having some special right to squander the people's money by virtue of being members of this Chamber, instead of feeling we are simply one with the people, and that our habits and consideration for what we tako out of the public Treasury should bear some proportion and be in harmony with the income of the majority of those whom we represent ? My opinion of the democracy is that there should be none suffering poverty, but I am not anxious there should be any special emoluments given for the benefit of honourable members, or that we should use 