Zealand. But what I do think is this : that it will be a mistake to subject our white fellow- colonists in the Islands to the rule of the Na- tive Councils, because the Native Councils will be simply Colonel Gudgeon. The natives in the Councils will do exactly as they are told by the British Resident. If you left them to them- selves they would pass a lot of amusing simple laws affecting their social habits, but they would pass nothing in the nature of Bills such as we see are now passed by the so-called Native Par- liaments. I do not think we should subject our white fellow-colonists to taxation without re- presentation. It is a vital principle of our Con- ! European politics, was most eager that Samoa stitution that, in taxing our fellow-colonists in the Islands, we should give them representation in the taxing body-that is, at present, in the Federal Council. It will not do to tax them, and place them under the arbitrary rule of one man, without giving them an opportunity for having their voices heard. That would indeed be to re- introduce the infamous principle of Lord North. I hope that if any officer is appointed before next year, under section 6 of the Act, to in- vestigate titles to land held now under native 'custom, that there will be no individualisation of titles. To individualise titles in the Islands would be to introduce a principle which is not only unknown to the natives, but which is re- pugnant to their cherished principles, and I think it would only result in very great injury to the native race in the Islands. The land there is practically held in a state of com- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 munity. The chiefs have, I believe, certain rights, but practically only as trustees for the people, and I think it would be a great mistake if we individualise titles, issued certificates of title under the Land Transfer Act, and then permitted the alienation of the fee-simple. Whatever is done, I think it should be in the direction of the Crown becoming trustee for the natives for the purpose of leasing to Europeans surplus land, and the Commissioner of Crown Lands for the Auckland District could be con- stituted the trustee of the surplus lands for the benefit of the natives; or the Public Trustee might be appointed. But, if any interference with the status quo in land matters is contem- plated, alienation should only be by way of lease. There should be no sale of the freehold in the Islands-of course, safeguarding existing rights. Some of the remarks of the honourable member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) were deserving of attention, though much of what he said did not merit serious consideration. I commend the remarks which were made in re- ference to Samoa. I have always felt that it was a great blow to New Zealand and to the Empire when Germany was permitted to come into Samoa and to obtain the exclusive right to Upolu. The natives of those islands have almost piteously appealed to the people of New Zealand to be incorporated with this colony. At their own expense they sent an embassy many years ago to the New Zealand Parlia- ment, and those chiefs prayed that their country might be incorporated with New Zealand. They dreaded at that time to be | sion of islands and outlying places that has so cousins-and I rejoice to know it-are within some seventy miles of the German territory, in the harbour of Pango-Pango, in the island of Tutuila, yet there is no doubt that the presence of a German naval station at Apia has given us a sense of insecurity here which did not exist before. In 1886 I conferred with Malietoa, the late King of Samoa, on the future of his islands, at the request of Sir George Grey, who gave me a letter of introduction to the King; and that great chief Malietoa, who was a man possessed of considerable information, and understood should form part of the territory of this coun- try. In 1889 I was again at Samoa and had considerable intercourse with Mataafa, the then reigning king, and he also was anxious that his country should be incorporated with New Zea- land. For the last twenty years we have abso- lutely neglected our opportunities so far as Samoa is concerned, and those islands are the pearls of the Pacific-fertile beyond measure, rich in trade, and in every way prosperous ; and yet, through our supineness, we have allowed the German Empire to come in and establish itself as a naval and military Power in the direct track of our commerce, throwing its shadow over this colony. There is an objec- tionable feature in the Bill, to which I wish to refer now, and that is that the existing Courts are preserved in which the Resident Commis- sioner will be the Judge. I submit it is a most dangerous thing to permit an officer administer- ing the Civil government to become a judicial officer. In the British Constitution, and in the American Constitution, the executive and the judicial officials have always been kept apart, and I hope that when full consideration is given during the recess to the problem of governing these Islands-as no doubt it will be given - the Government will determine that whoever is to be the judicial officer, and whatever he is called, the same person shall not be the Resident Commissioner. As I have said, I am not discussing the policy of the annexation as it is called, because I thoroughly I believe in the policy of the believe in it. Government to incorporate as many as possible of the Islands of the Pacific with New Zea- land. There are very few islands left now for us to incorporate, but it would have been of in- calculable advantage to this colony if, fifty years ago, when the first proposals were made by Sir George Grey to Downing Street for the establishment of a Pacific Island confederation, those proposals had been carried into effect. The honourable member for the Bay of Plenty (Mr. Herries) championed what I thought were the principles of the Little Englanders. He said, " I do not believe it is good policy for a sea-Power to take possession of islands and out- lying places." Mr. HERRIES .- Outlying islands. Mr. NAPIER .- Islands and outlying places, I think the honourable member said. Well, Sir, it is precisely the policy of taking posses- 