Payment for overtime work 38 14 6 Rent of quarters 32 10 0 . . Trigs, standards, &c. 1 28 5 Vote, £118,570, agreed to. Miscellaneous services, £8,560. Mr. SYMES asked, in regard to the vote " Subsidy to doctors in outlying districts, $400," whether the Minister would give a sub- sidy of £75 to a medical officer for the Whanga- momona district if the settlers found a like amount. Mr. DUNCAN, in reply to the honourable member for Egmont, might say that, as this place was a long way from settlement, it would be a good plan to subsidise a doctor, and he would give his attention to the matter and see what could be done. Mr. MCLACHLAN (Ashburton) moved, That the item, " Arrears of rent remitted, £100," be reduced by #15, as a protest against the delay on the part of the Government in ap- pointing a Surveyor-General. : : The Committee divided. AYES, 2. Tellers. McLachlan Meredith. NOES, 28. Parata Arnold Lang Rhodes Lawry Barclay Lethbridge Seddon Carncross Smith, G. J. Massey Duncan Field McGowan Ward Fowlds Mackenzie, T. Witheford. McKenzie, R. Hall McNab Hall-Jones Tellers. Mills Hardy Colvin O'Meara Kaihau Symes. Majority against, 26. Amendment negatived. Mr. MCLACHLAN (Ashburton) moved, That the item, " Fees to members of Waste Lands Boards, £1,500," be reduced by £1, as an in- dication that members of Waste Lands Boards were insufficiently paid. He thought that the daily allowance of 10s. at present paid to them should be raised to $1. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) wished, as a prior amendment, to move, That the item be re- duced by £2, as a direction to the Government that henceforth no members of the House should be appointed members of Land Boards. Amendment, to reduce the item by £2, agreed to. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) noticed a number of votes for recreation reserves in different parts of the colony. He objected to their being placed on the general estimates, and, as an indication that the Committee disapproved of what was being done to this effect, he moved, That the item, " Subsidy towards purchase of recreation- ground at Thames, $100," be reduced by £1. Amendment negatived, and vote, £8,560, agreed to. Valuation expenses, £25,591. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) asked for the "Con- tingencies" under this vote. Mr. MILLS (Minister in Charge of Valuation Department) said the " Contingencies " were as follows :- 8\. d. Telephone subscriptions 63 10 0 . . Office furniture 93 3 6 Coal and firewood, gas, &c. 41 2 9 Cleaning 58 3 6 Sundry payments 75 15 7 .. £331 15 4 Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) said there was a strong feeling throughout the colony that the local valuations should again revert to the local bodies. Local bodies complained of the exces- sive charges of the department. Mr. HALL (Waipawa) said that at the recent Valuation Court of the Waipawa County con- siderable feeling was aroused on account of the valuers objecting to go into the witness-box to be cross-examined. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) said he had received a communication from five Borough Councils and seven Road Boards to the following effect : - "That, in the opinion of this conference, the methods adopted by the Government Valuation Department for compiling and revising the valu- ation-rolls of local authorities are cumbersome and inefficient, and the cost to the local au- thorities out of proportion to the services rendered, and in excess of the amount for which the local authorities could do all necessary work. That, in the opinion of this conference, the work of compiling and revising the district valuation-rolls should be left to be carried out under the supervision of the local authorities concerned." There had been continuous complaints from the local bodies with respect to the enormous cost of the compilation of these rolls. Mr. MILLS said he had received very few objections from local bodies. The valuators had had a difficult task in making a fair and reasonable valuation of properties. Compara- tively speaking, few exceptions were taken to the valuation. He might say that up to the present time 231,905 separate valuations had been made in the colony, and only about a third of the colony had been properly valued. He believed that in two years or so the valuations of the colony would be complete, and after that there would be a material difference to the local bodies in cost. Vote, $25,591, agreed to. CLASS XVIII .- RATES ON CROWN LANDS. Vote, Rates on Crown lands, £800, agreed to. CLASS XIX .- NEW ZEALAND STATE FORESTS ACCOUNT. Vote, State Forests Branch of the Land and Survey Department, £12,332, agreed to. 