in a most favourable manner Mr. Badger's petition, and do what they possibly could in the direction which he desired. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Justice) did not think honourable members would expect him to say anything at all about the merits of the work in question. But in case the House should misunderstand the position, he would like to say that the Government were in no way committed, either directly or indirectly, to Mr. Badger. He understood that the com- pilation of the statutes by this gentleman had entailed a considerable amount of labour, and he might say it was a useful work ; but he had probably undertaken the task because he de- rived some pleasure in carrying it on, and a certain amount of profit would, no doubt, be made out of the sale of the work. However, the Government were in no way bound to Mr. Badger in regard to this matter. . Motion agreed to. # JOHN FLYNN. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) brought up a report from the Public Petitions A to L Committee, on the petition of John Flynn, of Hawera, and moved, That it be referred to the Government for favourable consideration. The report was read, to the effect that the Committee was of opinion that the petitioner should be adequately compensated for past ser- vices rendered by him to this colony as a Volunteer during troublous times, and for a severe gunshot wound in the hip, received at Te Ngutu-o-te-Manu, whilst serving with the colonial forces under Colonel McDonnell. Mr. McGUIRE (Hawera) said that the peti- tioner had rendered great services in the past. They were apt to forget services rendered to the country in the early days of the colony, but the men who went into the field to fight its battles were considered saviours of the country, and their services were highly appreciated. The petitioner in this case belonged to the Taranaki Rifle Volunteers, a body of men who rendered splendid service in these troublesome times when the Maoris had entrenched themselves very strongly at Te Ngutu-o.te-Manu. The petitioner formed part of the force under Colonel McDonnell which went out into the bush and attacked the Maoris in their strong entrenchments, and he was wounded on that occasion in the van of the battle. The wound he received was a very severe one, and the peti- tioner held a splendid testimonial from the late Colonel Stapp, the officer commanding the Taranaki Volunteer District. He hoped the House would unanimously support the recom- mendation of the Committee. Motion agreed to. SHIPPING AND SEAMEN BILL. Mr. HALL - JONES (Minister of Marine) moved, That a Select Committee, consisting of ten members, be appointed, five to be a quorum, to whom shall be referred the Shipping and Seamen Bill: the Committee to consist of Mr. E. G. Allen, Mr. Fowlds, Mr. A. L. D. Mr. Barclay Mackenzie, Mr. Millar, Mr. R. Thompson, Mr. Willis, and the mover. .Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) sug- gested that the name of the honourable mem- ber for Bruce (Mr. J. Allen) should be added to the Committee. The honourable gentleman had had large business experience, and he might say, without reflecting on the other members of the Committee, that the addition of the honourable gentleman would be to dis- tinctly strengthen it. Mr. HALL-JONES said he had named a Committee of the gentlemen whom he con- sidered were best fitted to deal with the sub- ject, but at the same time he would be pleased to accept any other name. The proper way to proceed, however, was to move the suspension of the Standing Orders, and if any honourable member was desirous of serving upon the Com- mittee, and would let him know, he would give the matter his consideration. Mr. G. J. SMITH said that on the Com- mittee there were gentlemen who were experts in some branches of industry; but, so far as shipping and seamen were concerned, their experience was limited. Motion agreed to. MAORI RELICS BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 1 .- Short Title. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) moved to strike out the word " Relics" and insert in lieu thereof the word " Antiquities." Clause 2. - " In this Act, if not inconsistent with the context, ' Maori relics' includes any Maori relics or curiosities, or other articles or things of historical or scientific value or interest and relating to New Zealand." Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) moved to strike out the word "curiosities," with a view of insert- ing the words "articles manufactured with ancient Maori tools and according to Maori methods." Amendment agreed to. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) moved to add to the clause the following words : "But does not include any private collection not in- tended for sale, or botanical or mineral collec- tions or specimens." Amendment agreed to. Clause 3 .- "From and after the passing of this Act, it shall not be lawful to remove from the colony any Maori relics without first offer- ing the same for sale to the Governor in Coun- cil for the benefit of the colony." Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) moved to insert, between the words "to" and " the," the words "some person authorised in that behalf by." Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. On the motion of Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister), clause 4 was struck out. Clause 5 .- " It shall be the duty of all officers of Customs to seize and detain any such articles or things attempted to be removed from the colony contrary to this Act, and to deal there- 