expect ? "-he was not referring to me individu- ally, but to others as well. He said, " You do not advertise; and why should they support you ? " A little later on I lost a gold trinket from my chain, and I went to a newspaper -the Evening Post-and put in an advertise- ment ; but, Sir, it did not seem to make any difference as regards its unfair treatment of certain members of this Council. I saw my friend again, later on, and pointed this out. He asked, "How much did you pay for that advertisement? " I said, " A shil- ling." "Oh," he replied, "that is where you were wrong: you should have made it eighteenpence." Now I come to the Farmers' Union. The Farmers' Union has lately sprung into prominence, and it is being used as a party engine against the Liberal party in this colony. In the Farmers' Union there are potentialities- if I may use the word-of a very useful union. There is great scope for the organization of those productive industries which apply more directly to country settlers. There are many matters in regard to which legislation takes place upon which their advice would be vala- able, especially if they took the trouble to set up special committees to consider such legis- lation. But it would seem that it is simply the old National Association under a new name. However, it has had this effect: that it has frightened a certain section of the Liberal party who were returned by country constituencies, :and the result is we find they are prepared to support a measure such as we have now before us, and which is calculated, in my opinion, to destroy the Act. They are under the impression that the country settlers are opposed to this Act because their agricultural labourers may be inclined to take advantage of its provisions. Sir, the Farmers' Union is doing the very thing that I would desire it to do. It is bringing about a feeling which has not existed before to any great extent in the country districts-that is, the feeling that the interests of the workers and the em- ployers there are diverse. Now, the reason I say I like to see that is not from any vicious motive, but because it will result in organizing unskilled labour throughout the country dis- tricts. Steps are already being taken for that purpose, and there is no doubt that before the next election takes place we shall have the workers throughout the country districts much better organized than was ever the case before. Now, what is going to happen to those mem- bers who were returned to support legislation of this kind, and who have gone over to the enemy? There is not a country constituency in New Zealand in which the workers do not hold the balance of power, and I have no doubt that what will happen in New Zealand will be what has happened in England-the destruction of the so-called Liberal party. The organized workers there, when they found they could not return members from their own ranks, gave their whole support to the Conservative candidates in order to kill the Liberals. And, from my reading of history in they made a very wise choice when they pre- ferred a Conservative party to a Liberal one. Now, with that example in front of us, is it not reasonable to suppose that the workers in the country districts of the colony would follow that precedent, and if they could not return one of themselves they would return any one who would answer certain questions put to them in a satisfactory way, and that they would vote for a Conservative so long as they could cast out of Parliament a Liberal who had betrayed his trust ? That is my view of what will happen ; and I have the more con- fidence in prophesying this, because, whenever I prophesy on the subject of labour, I do my best to bring about the fulfilment of the pro- phecy. I am not like some of those extinct volcanoes in Parliament who stand up and boast about their careers as trade-unionists. I claim to be a present living active force in unionism, and it will not be my fault if that force is not felt throughout the whole of New Zealand at the next election. The Hon. Mr. Jennings may laugh ; but I was not referring to him as an extinct volcano. No one, to look at the honour- able gentleman, could conceive that he had ever been a volcano. Well, Sir, I need not take up the time of the Council any longer. It shows that, when one starts with the intention of saying a few words, one is apt to warm up to the subject, and find it difficult to conclude. I feel, however, I would not be doing my duty to the workers of this colony if I did not conclude my remarks with a motion. I therefore move, That this Bill be read the third time this day six months. The Hon. Mr. BOLT .- The three speeches which have been delivered in this Chamber this afternoon, extending from the time the orders of the day were called to the present moment, certainly leave very little opportunity for saying anything new on this question. I do not expect to say anything new, but I am anxious to sub- mit one or two remarks in regard to the posi- tion I occupy with reference to the present measure. I was honoured with the position of being Chairman of the Labour Bills Committee, and in that capacity I had to move amend- ments which the Committee choose to make in the measure. Amongst others I had to move that clause 6 be struck out. I did so in full sympathy with my action, as I did not, and do not now, believe in the clause. In respect to clause 21, although opposed to the clause, I had, as Chairman of the Committee, to move that it stand a clause of the Bill. I made it known at the same time that my action was exclusively impelled in order to give expression to the wish of the Committee. I had no sym- pathy with the motion I was moving, and, as a fact, I voted against it. I voted against clause 6 because I look upon it as being mis- chievous, inasmuch as it duplicates Boards of Conciliation, and would greatly tend to weaken the Boards at present established. I hold that, if it is necessary to have extra Boards of Conciliation to those already esta- blished under the Act, these Boards should 