at Washington have been most courteous to our own Post Office, and if the honourable mem- ber will look at the correspondence in Parlia- mentary Paper F .- 6 he will find there the cor- respondence on this subject. I have not the time to read it all, but I propose to quote the letter from the Superintendent of Foreign Mails at Washington to the Hon. the Post- master-General, dated Washington, 15th Feb- ruary, 1901. He says, - "SIR,-I have the honour, by direction of the Postmaster General, to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 19th ultimo, in which, with reference to the mail-service from San Francisco to Auckland to be performed by the Oceanic Steamship Company of San Fran- cisco under its contract with this department, you request this department to provide for the detention of the steamers at San Francisco to await the British closed mails for the colonies, whenever that course may become necessary, in order to secure the prompt despatch of mails which have been delayed en route to San Fran- cisco. "In reply, I have to inform you that, while this department cannot compel the Oceanic Steamship Company to hold its steamers at San Francisco for the purpose mentioned, yet there is no doubt that the company will comply with this department's request to that effect, and the department will have no hesitation in making such requests. In fact, such requests have been made on three occasions recently in cases in which the mails from New York failed to make connection at Chicago with west bound https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 trains, and the steamers were held at San Fran- cisco for not less than eighteen hours on one of those occasions. - I am, &c., "N. M. BROOKS, "Superintendent of Foreign Mails." The honourable member for Riccarton will, therefore, see that we can put a term in the contract with Spreckels and Company, compel- ling the steamers to wait at San Francisco for the British mails arriving by train from New York. The Washington authorities have no power to compel the steamers to wait; but we have the power, and can make any contract with the company we choose. The Washing- ton authorities did, on three occasions, out of courtesy to us, request that the steamers should remain at San Francisco until the trains arrived, and each of those requests was complied with. Now, Sir, let us consider what is the mail-ser- vice that is offered us ria San Francisco. shall compare it with the other suggested alter- native services, and honourable members will see that for speed, for superiority of passenger accommodation, for quickness in the transit of mails, the San Francisco service is incom- parably the best. I assume that when the Minister speaks of the Vancouver line he refers to the only possible company that can take up that service -- that is, the Canadian and Aus- tralian Company. I will compare the steamers of this company, their steaming power, their capacity, and their speed with those of the San Francisco service. There are three steamers Mr. Napier "Sonoma," and " Ventura," each of 6,000 tons capacity. These steamers have a guaranteed speed of seventeen knots per hour, and each steamer has accommodation for 210 first-class, 100 second-class, and 100 steerage passengers. I may here remark that the distance between Auckland and London vin San Francisco is the shortest of any route; it is 12,276 miles, so that, no matter what steamer is subsidised, this is the most direct route. It is the best route also so far as passengers are concerned, for the highest parallel of latitude through which it goes is 40° North. It therefore passes wholly through temperate climes. Contrast that with the Vancouver route, which goes into the cold seas, and in winter would certainly be avoided by passengers not only because of the cold at sea but the severe cold of the railway journey across Canada. Now, here are the steamers of the Vancouver line-one is 4,250 tons, another 3,915 tons, and another 3,500 tons. Well, all the Oceanic steamers are 8,000 horse-power, and the Vancouver steamers are only 4,000, 4,500, and 5,000 horse - power respectively. Then, the speed of the steamers of the Oceanic Company is seventeen knots, and that of the Vancouver steamers is sixteen knots. The average speed, however, during recent trips, including stoppages, has been : Oceanic steamers, fifteen knots; and Canadian-Austra- lian steamers, 12.99 knots per hour. The dis- tance from Auckland to San Francisco is 5,930 miles, and the distance from Vancouver to Wellington is 6,829 miles; and if the Vancouver steamers started from Auckland, the distance would be about 6,500 miles, as compared with 5,930 miles from Auckland to San Francisco. Now, an honourable gentleman spoke of an all- red route: Do honourable members realise that the Vancouver service letters go across the United States by the United States railways ? The only portion of the Vancouver line that you may consider "red " at all is the Pacific Ocean voyage in a British vessel ; because the letters are sent from Vancouver over the United States railways to New York, and in United States steamers, as a rule, between New York and England. If the mails were sent from Quebec to England, the steamers crossing the Atlantic from Canada are very much slower, and take a very much longer time than the New York liners. The time occupied in crossing the continent of America by the San Francisco route in the train is four days and four and a half hours ; and I the time occupied in crossing by the train from Vancouver to New York via Montreal is five days sixteen hours. There is thus one day eleven and a half hours saved via San Francisco in the transmission of mails across the Ameri- can continent. It has been already shown by the figures quoted by the Postmaster-General that the average time of the mails is very much less both inward and outward by the San Francisco line than by the P. and O. or Orient lines. I think the Vancouver service is practi- cally out of the question. I am not averse to the Vancouver service if my honourable 