the greater part of the Australian traffic for her connecting line. This would be a decided disadvantage to Queensland, who confidently reckoned on the whole of the Australian busi- ness which was sent by the Pacific route coming over her land-lines. For some time past the New Zealand Government had been working to obtain a State-owned cable between Sydney and Auckland .. This is now within measurable distance. With this cable completed, Queens- land's chance of monopolizing the Australian business ends. New Zealand has also offered to provide all the necessary staff for the Pacific cable, as far as that colony was concerned, at her own expense, thereby securing full control of the business as far as Norfolk Island. The possibilities of the situation are being eagerly discussed in Queensland." We were not providing for the payment of any of the cable staff. The cable staff is to be paid by the Pacific Cable Board in the usual way. The arrangements for the landing-place for the cable in New Zealand had all been carried out some time ago, and the site defi- nitely fixed. Under agreement we had per- formed our part of the bargain, and the Pacific Cable Board had performed its part in the same way as the agreement for landing-site is, or will be, carried out by the other countries. It appeared almost as if the statement had been given publicity to for the purpose of disturb- ing the very friendly feeling that had all through existed between Queensland and this country regarding cable and postal matters. When the Pacific cable was laid on the route he referred to New Zealand would have another means of sending its cable messages to Australia quite independent of the existing cable. So that, whatever may have given rise to this statement, it was not in accordance with fact. When the Pacific cable was established it would be of immense service to our colony. Mr. HUTCHESON asked when the Post- master - General expected the Pacific cable would be in working-order. Sir J. G. WARD hoped that it would be in working-order in about twelve months from date, and it would be a very good thing for this country when it was finished. PAYMENT OF MEMBERS BILL. Mr. SEDDON ( Premier) said he might state that there had been a misapprehension-and certainly he never intended it-namely, that it was proposed to make the payment of members -if the Bill were passed by Parliament-as from the 1st January. The intention of the Government was to pass the Bill through, and the payment would be as from the date it was passed. He might say that he had had to resist pressure which had been brought to bear in order that the increased payment to members should not apply to the members for the City of Wellington. It had been urged that, as they were at home all the time, therefore they should not receive this piment, but he knew that when the time came they would accept the . payment all the same. Sır J. G. Ward Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, That the Speaker be directed to issue his warrant to the Clerk of the Writs to make out a new writ for the election of a member of this House for the Patea Electoral District. Mr. LETHBRIDGE (Rangitikei) called the attention of the Minister to the fact that on the occasion of the last election there were places where there were no polling-booths, and for want of polling - booths in these places several people were disfranchised. He had a communication from the district asking that a polling-booth be placed at Denlair, and one at Mr. Wallace's whare, at Orautotia. The com- munication was to the effect that, through there being no polling-booth at these places, electors at last election were disfranchised, for, owing to the wet day, many settlers' wives could not get to the booths at Fordell and Ractihi. He hoped the Minister would take this into consideration, and see that booths were placed at these places He would be happy to give him the names of the places afterwards. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said the Minister might tell them if a Returning Officer had been appointed for Patea ; and, if so, who he was. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) said he thought, with all due respect to the previous speakers, that the Ministry should not interfere in the election at all, but leave those matters to the Returning Officer. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said that, despite what was said by the member for Hawke's Bay, a duty had been cast upon the officer of the writs, and the law said that where there were less than twenty electors there should be no polling-booth. Captain RUSSELL said that the Minister should have nothing to do with it. Mr. SEDDON agreed that it should be left to the officers, but the fact remained that at several places only three votes had been cast, and in other places no votes had been cast at all. In those cases there was no necessity for the country being put to the expense of main- taining polling-booths. Where there were people wanting to vote and who asked for facilities to do so, those cases should be submitted to the Returning Officer, and it should be left to the Returning Officer to decide. In regard to the Returning Officer, Mr. J. Handley had been appointed, who had had long training in con- nection with the Land Purchase Department. Motion agreed to. GORE CEMETERY RESERVES BILL. Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) brought up the report of the Local Bills Committee on the Goro Cemetery Reserves Bill. The Committee re- commended that, as the Standing Orders had been complied with, the Bill should be allowed to proceed. He moved, That the report lie on the table. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) understood that. objection had been made locally to the Gore Cemetery Reserves Bill. He had been in- formed that objection was made by the local 