it down in law that both sides of this special Board of Conciliators must be experts, he him- self is against it, and disagrees with the pro- posal that experts should be included, and therefore we have now what he favours. We have another gentleman who gave evidence on this particular point, and he was asked,- "With reference to clause 6, ' Special Con- ciliators,' I think one of you said that you had had some experience of it : what has the ex- perience been? Has it not been that those experts belonging to that particular trade who took part in those special Conciliation Boards were marked men for ever afterwards ?- [ Mr. Naughton] I am going more particularly by what I have seen and heard of the Victorian Wage Boards. In Wellington the men know perfectly well the consequences ; if you listened to the men talking down at our Trades Council you would find they know very well that those men acting as experts would be marked, and that they would be discharged for various irre- levant reasons. At any rate, they could not get employment, and we know that that would be the case.' Now, that is the evidence of the President of the Trades Council ; and, further on, we have further evidence bearing on this particular point, given by Mr. Tregear, the Secretary of Labour,- "I would strengthen the evidence that was given by the members of the Trades Council last night in regard to the disinclination of the working-men to form these Boards. I have made https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 careful inquiries from working-men all over the country, and find that there is the very greatest dislike to forming special Boards from members of the trade. Whether there is any foundation http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero or not for the idea, there is certainly a deep- seated fear in the minds of the men that when they went on to the Boards with the employers they would be like mice disputing with cats, and would be eaten up before the end of the conference. Though the present Act allows Boards of Conciliators to be set up in that way. I have never yet known a proposition to come from the workers to take advantage of such a Board." And, Sir, when we come to hear the Hon. Mr. Twomey saying that it is a matter of grave injustice to ram conciliation down the throats of any one, and saying " Why should they not go to the Court of Arbitration ?" are we to stand quietly by and swallow these sentiments. Are we to have rammed down our throats that we must have a special Board of Conciliators, and are we to say to the employer, "You can drag any man you like before this special Board "? Where does the justice come in ? Is it not far more just to say, if both parties are willing to go before a special Board, or direct to the Court, " Let them go "? If a special Board is wanted it should not rest with one party to say we must go. I think the justice is all on the other hand, and that we are now not acting in the interests of justice. There are several other points in the Bill which I would like to speak on, but I will push on to clause 21. However, to clause 19. It is a clause the side-note of which reads, "Further protection to workers in case of a dispute." Sir, I said, when this clause was put to the Committee, that every member voting for it virtually admitted that unionists and workers suffered through their action in belonging to unions and taking part in disputes before the Board. It may appear strange that when I first saw this clause I was somewhat against it. I must own it appeared to me that it was taking the responsibility and taking the power that rightly belonged to an employer out of his hand, and saying, " You shall not discharge your men," and I thought it was harsh and unjust. But when we see that the same provision is ex- tended to the worker, that he cannot under pains and penalties leave his employment, it does not matter how he may be "sat upon" nor what conditions he has to work under dur- ing or pending a dispute-if he does this he has the knowledge in his mind that he has to go before the Court at the instigation of the employer and prove that he has not left that employment because of anything connected with the dispute-I thought that that balances, at any rate to my mind, the somewhat apparent harshness of the clause to the employer. But, Sir, when we recognise what has taken place within the last few years-and only within the last few years, because I must say that in the first few years of the working of this Act very little of this action was taken-the impression, rightly or wrongly, seems to have got abroad that the action is organized and to be taken within the last twelve months on the part of employers to frighten the souls and lives out of the unionists, and to stop them taking any action, and to bring them back to the same state that they were in before they formed themselves into unions. I cannot help thinking, in my own mind, that there is evi- dence that it is organized action on the part of the employers, because it has been so general throughout the colony. No other construction can be put on their action of discharging unionists-and not only unionists, but the sons of unionists-than that the Employers' Association, which was set up some twelve months ago, have made it one of their first principles that where a man offers to raise his head above his fellow-men, and to raise his hand in support of the betterment of the con- ditions of the work of his fellow-men, that man shall be without work. Would it surprise the Council when I say I know of a man who avers he was black-listed right throughout England and Scotland? And, further than that, I be- lieve I can get this man at any time to come before a Committee and state that, although he was a boilermaker at the time, and took part in a boilermaker's dispute, he was not only debarred from getting work in a foundry, but he was debarred from getting work as a fireman, which he attempted to do ; and that man had to go to India before he could get employment. Now, I may be told this is terrible exaggera- tion ; but these are facts I have from the man 