the employers and the employés of the country. An Hon. MEMBER .- Then, why do not the Government bring their own employés under it ? Sir J. G. WARD .- I will deal with that presently. The honourable gentleman professed to be very anxious to elicit the reasons why this system was not extended to the Government departments, and, in apparent justification of the views he holds, he cites the Karangahake strike. Now, he is either misled himself, or he was trying to mislead the House and the coun- try in referring to that in connection with the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The Karangahake works were carried out under the co-operative system, and at the end of the month the price per foot at which the work was being done was found to be insufficient to give the men what they believed to be an adequate wage ; and they were perfectly right to make strong representations in the direction they did in order to have the rate per foot increased ; and that rate being too low it was increased. The Karangahake men were not Government employés in the general sense of the term, and, if their reasonable representations were not listened to, then they were clearly justified in taking the course they did. To attempt to use that, however, as an argument that the Government employés ought to be brought under this system is very extraordinary indeed. Why are not the Government employés under the operation of the Act ? I will endeavour to point out to honourable members the difference between the employés of the State and of pri- vate individuals. Whenever there is a differ- ence of opinion between private employers and emplovés the dispute is sent to the Concilia- tion Board, and, if no settlement is arrived at, then to the Arbitration Court ; but with State employés, who fixes what is to be paid ? Parlia- ment. I say Parliament fixes what is to be paid, under statute, and to talk about creating a power greater than Parliament itself would be a very extraordinary and, indeed, an im- possible position of affairs. The employés of the Railway and Postal Departments, for example, are generally satisfied throughout the country. Many, of course, would like an in- crease in wages - that is but natural. If the State employés are underpaid they can appeal for redress to Parliament ; but when men are employed by private individuals they are com- pletely outside Parliament, and they have no redress except through the Industrial Concilia- tion and Arbitration Act, and, therefore, the difference between private and State employés is as great as that between daylight and dark ; and many of those who advocate that Government employés should be brought under the Conciliation Act do so in the hope that it will break the system down. It would create intense dissatisfaction in some of the most im- portant departments in New Zealand if we were to force the hands to come under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. In regard to the railway employés, for instance, a short time ago a vote was taken in one important branch Sir J. G. Ward ployes in the railway workshops only. It was not of the whole department. The executive officer representing the Amalgamated Railway Society of the colony made strong representa- tions against employés outside the workshops being included in that vote at all, unless with their consent, and, as they made no request of the kind, the clear inference is that the em- ployés of the several branches were satisfied. Had they not been satisfied they would have made representations to the Minister for Rail- ways and asked that the vote be taken of the whole service. But they did nothing of the kind, and my own opinion is that they are better to be governed by a Classification Act. If there was anything unfair attempted to be done under that Act they can and would make their representations to Parliament. If their grievances were at all reasonable they would be listened to, and redress would follow. And what about the branch of the railway employés that did vote -- the railway workshops employés. They nearly all voted : in fact there was as full a vote as it was possible to get of the employés who had been over twelve months in the workshops, and members know that by an overwhelming majority they decided against coming under the Arbitration Act. There is no analogy whatever in such a case as that referred to of the Union Company. State employés are quite unlike the case of the Union Company mentioned by the honourable member. If the wages of the employés of the Union Company were fixed by statute, and that company were to endeavour to force their employés to come under some other system whereby their salaries or wages would be fixed, there would for certain have been an outcry amongst the employés of the company and also from every right-minded man in the colony. The employés of the Union Com- pany cannot appeal to Parliament, but Parlia- ment has found a substitute in the Conciliation Board and Arbitration Court, and the employés can go there for redress. What is asked by the honourable member is that all State employés should not have the right to say "We are content with the Parliament of the country fixing our wages or salaries, and with the repre- sentatives of the people to appeal to in the case of injustice being done, and with the Govern- ment to make representations to if we desire." The honourable gentleman suggests that all the legislation now governing their services should be swept away, and they should be forced to come under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It would be a grossly unfair and improper thing to do, and it would be placing a Court of this colony over the head of Parliament and the country, and I, for one, am strongly averse to that. Now, Sir, the honourable member said that the aims of the union were to keep their best men employed, and that consequently the old, and infirm, and unfit -that was his own term-would be the only men who could be employed by the Government. The honour- able member could not have made that state- ment seriously. Does he mean to tell me that under existing conditions the employés of the 