<!-- PageHeader="NEW ZEALAND." --> PARLIAMENTARY DEBATES.
=== Second Session of the fourteenth Parliament. LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL. Thursday, 26th September, 1901. Third Readings - Defence Department-Proclama- ton of Maori Districts in Middle Island - Charitable Gifts Bill-Trustee Bill-Ad, ourn. mie.it. The Hon. the SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. be proclaimed, and every opportunity given to PRAYERS. ## THIRD READINGS. Exportation of Arms Bill, Promissory Oaths https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Bill. DEFENCE DEPARTMENT. The Hon. Colonel PITT asked the Hon. the http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero Minister of Education when the return or- dered by the Council on the 9th July last in reference to the staffs of the Commandant and of the officers commanding districts would be laid before the Council. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said he would make inquiries and obtain it as soon as possible. ### PROCLAMATION OF MAORI DISTRICTS IN MIDDLE ISLAND. The Hon. Mr. TAIAROA moved, That, in the opinum of this Council. it is advisable that the Governor should proclaim certain districts in the Midile Island to be Vaori districts for the purposes of " The Maori Councils Act. 1900." He had seen in the Native Gazette that certain districts in the North Island had been set apart under " The Maori Councils Act, 1900,' and he did not know why districts had not been pro- claimed in the same manner in the Middle Island. He agreed with the Native people of the Middle Island that it would be a good thing for them if they had districts proclaimed, so that they might work under the provisions of that Act. It was not necessary for him to say much on this subject. He would content him- gift to the citizens of Auckland of 230 acres by self with moving this motion, in the hope that VOL. CXIX .- 1. either one or more districts would be gazetted under the provisions of the Act of last year. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER begged to acknowledge the good service the honourable gentleman was doing to the colony and to his own people by bringing this question forward. No doubt matters had not been so necessarily urgent that the districts should be proclaimed and the Councils elected ; but, nevertheless, under the Act of last year these districts should the Natives to manage their own concerns, espe- cially in the matter of sanitation and other conditions of life. He assured the honourable gentleman that his colleague the Native Minis- ter would take the matter into immediate con- sideration and endeavour to deal with it, not only to show his appreciation of the good ser- vices the Natives were giving in this direction wherever they had been called upon to act, but also to assure his honourable friend that the Native Minister appreciated his anxiety to pro- mote the good of his own people. The Hon. Mr. TAIAROA thanked the Minis. ter for the kind way in which he had received his motion. Motion agreed to. CHARITABLE GIFTS BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, the object of this Bill is one which, I think, every honourable member in the Council will be glad to see given effect to, namely, that where by deed or will any property is voluntarily conveyed, de- vised, bequeathed, or transferred to trustees in trust for the benefit of the public, such convey- ance, devise, bequest, or transfer shall be exempt from all duties which, but for this Act, would be payable thereon. I think it goes without saying that the Council will be unanimous in passing this clause. The only question which bas arisen in connection with it, it is only fair to mention, is that the question has been raised in conection with the exceedingly handsome Dr. Logan Campbell. It is found that that 