of persons and another statement to another set of persons. That is not my way. I tell you, Sir, deliberately, calmly, and without any warmth of feeling, that I cannot do it, and, moreover, I do not intend to do it. The labour classes -- the workers- of this colony have no stronger, no more earnest advocate in this coun- try than 1. I have supported all our labour legislation from the first, and have followed it loyally, and without deviation of any kind ; and I say that there would have been no such difficulty as that with which we are now confronted at the present moment but for the diverse statements made by the Premier, and which have been quite impartially commended and condemned by the newspapers throughout New Zealand, and by the newspapers in all the principal cities of Austra- lia. So accurate is the view, so accurate is the gauge, taken by the newspapers of Australia upon that first statement of the Premier in regard to the labour unions of the colony "riding the labour laws to death," that every newspaper has commented upon it in its strongest possible terms-some, as I have said, in terms of commendation, and some in terms of condemnation. But none have made the least mistake as to the statement, or as to the author of the statement. And that is the difficulty in which I and others in this House find our- selves. In consequence of the contrary state- ments made by the Premier, he being the leader of the Government and the Minister of Labour- the leader of the labour party in this country- I find myself constantly on the defence. I am asked, "Why did you not support the state- ment of the Premier?" I answer, " Which statement ? That is not the statement he made two days ago." If I am referred to the statement he made two days ago, and am asked, "Why did you not support that? " I answer, "That is not the statement he made a few days before. Which of the three do you mean ?" And the people are so mixed up, they really do not know which they mean. Perhaps I may be pardoned for describing my own charac- ter. I like a direct method of arriving at a cer- tain result. Anything in the nature of shuffling or circumlocution is contrary to my nature. It goes without saying that on an important question like this -a question affecting the labour classes of this country-I have but one opinion. That opinion is that I will support steadfastly their interests in this Parliament so long as they are good enough to place me here. In criticizing the Conciliation Boards of the colony I wish to say that I agree entirely with the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar). I say with him that it was not neces- sary to sacrifice the Conciliation Boards of the colony in order to deal with the shortcomings of one Board. If the proceedings of one parti- cular Board were in any way defective the Government, by legislation or by other means, ought to have improved the methods and the ways of that Board. As a matter of policy, it was a mistake to do anything that would tend to destroy the Conciliation Boards, because inherently the system is a good system. VOL. CXIX .- 68. to the statement of the member for Palmers- ton (Mr. Pirani) that the Conciliation Boards had their uses. They were useful in dealing with the voluminous technical details with which it is absurd to trouble the superior Court ; and the objection to the Conciliation Boards would, I believe, have been removed if the Government had introduced a clause pro- viding that the Boards, instead of being pre- sided over by a layman, should be presided over by some gentleman possessing the qualifica- tions of, say, a Resident Magistrate-some gentleman accustomed to analyse evidence and winnow the grain from the chaff, and so to conduct the proceedings of the Board as to command the attention and respect of em- ployers and employed. If the Boards had been presided over by men having some legal knowledge, but having with them labour representatives sitting on the Board to ex- plain the technicalities of each dispute, that would have been the class of Board I would like to see established. Then we would not have witnessed the waste of time and the crudity in the conduct of the proceedings which un- doubtedly-it is no use denying it-we have been called upon to witness. To my mind that remedy was easy without resorting to the extreme of abolishing the Conciliation Boards- for practically we may regard them as abolished. The employers now have the right, if they so please, to pass by the Conciliation Boards; but I say still, optional as clause 21 of the member for Wanganui is, that if the Conci- liation Boards so conduct their proceedings in any cases that may come before them as tc command respect, the employers will prefer to gc before the Board rather than to the Court. So soon as they convince the community that it is their desire to settle cases brought before them with expedition, I believe the parties to a dispute would still prefer to go before the Con- ciliation Boards. But the belief must be entirely dispelled that the Conciliation Boards are conducted with a certain object. I am not putting this offensively. I have been barred from speaking about the Wellington Board for an obvious reason- well, the fact is, my brother is a member of the Board, and therefore I have felt a difficulty in speaking upon that phase of the subject. But I am sure that if the Board will endeavour to convince the public of their desire to settle cases to the best of their ability, with an honest desire to arrive at re- sults regardless of guineas, they would still command the respect of the people. It cannot be denied that they have had a difficult and thankless duty to perform. I have had these imputations hurled at me in my day. Now, the Minister of Labour has moved that the amendments made by the Legislative Council be agreed to. He has accepted the flat It would have been of the Legislature. unwise to attempt to foil the well-grounded and decided result at which both branches of the Legislature had arrived. The majorities in both Houses are sufficient to indicate what I the Parliament and the people of the country 