and, though it may turn out good work, I do not consider it is adequate to turn out the work for the viaduct at Mangaweka at any- thing like the speed it could be turned out at some of the private engineering-shops of the colony. It would, to my mind, have been better if a contract had been let for this iron- work. Then, there is no time stated for the completion of the Mangaweka Viaduct. The advantage of letting it by contract would have been that we would have known the exact date when the viaduct would be completed, and when the train would run on to Taihape. There are still seventy-two miles on which not a single thing has been done ; yet we are told even in this Statement that there is no reason why the promise to open the railway in 1904 should not be fulfilled. Well, is there the slightest pro- bability that the line will be opened in 1904, when there are seventy-two miles of railway on which not a single thing has been done ? would like to know why the felling of the bush in the Waimarino Forest could not be let by contract. Mr. HALL-JONES .- It is going on now. Mr. NAPIER .- Yes ; but look at the number of men employed-only eleven hundred over the whole line. Mr. MEREDITH .- You ought to be satisfied with eleven hundred men. Mr. NAPIER .- There are seventy-two miles of railway on which there is not a single man, and the whole of the line in that country has https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 to be formed ; and there are many difficult works to be undertaken there also. The final survey has only been completed ; the line has to be formed, the bridges and culverts made, and everything done within two years. I am very pleased the honourable gentleman has let a contract for the steel-work for the bridges over the Toitoi Creek and the Hautapu River, as we urged him to do last year, otherwise we might have waited for the work until the Greek Kalends ; but I do not think he ought to order the steel and iron required for the other bridges . up to Ohakune from England. It would be far better to trust to private contractors to do this work. If he had fixed a time, and had called for tenders for the construction of the iron- work, I believe that, even though it had to be brought from England, it would be got cheaper from private firms than through the Agent- General. I have it on competent authority that, when goods are ordered from the Agent- General, the Government pay, in some instances, 10 per cent. more than if they ordered the goods through a local contractor in New Zealand. An Hon. MEMBER .- How is that ? Mr. NAPIER. - Because manufacturers always bleed the Government. The Govern- ment have no expert traders, and do not get on the inside track of prices. What I would sug- gest is that tenders should be invited ; and com- petition in the industrial and commercial world is so keen that I believe that it would practi- cally bring the prices down to bed-rock, and to a figure very much less than the Government Mr. Napier market, and they have no experts to purchase steel and iron for them, and they have to pay a high price for it : in addition to which the material is delayed in delivery. Now, it is notorious that manufacturers in England can- not supply orders that have been sent from the colonies ; and, as a matter of fact, as the Minister for Railways has admitted in the House, British manufacturers had to refuse orders that were sent from the Railway Depart- I believe that if the department had ment. called for tenders both in America and in England there would have been a large amount of time saved, and I believe the Americans could deliver the steel- and iron-work much earlier than the British manufacturers. In fact, we had an offer here from an American firm of bridge-builders, that was, I think, sent to a number of members of the House last session, to build the Makohine Viaduct and have it ready to place on board ship at New I York in nine to twelve months. Mr. HALL-JONES .- Nonsense. Mr. NAPIER. - That is the firm that built the Atbara Bridge, in the Soudan, in six weeks or two months-a steel bridge over a wider river. Mr. HALL-JONES .- How long does it take to build the sheer. legs in Auckland ? Mr. NAPIER .- They have not been ordered yet. I maintain that English manufacturers are slow in executing orders, and I take the state- ment of Lord Selborne, the First Lord of the Admiralty, to prove it, who in the House of Lords recently impeached the British iron-manufac- turers upon their want of enterprise. He said they had not sufficient enterprise, and they had not sufficient plant, and that the British Go- vernment was placing orders in America because they could get their goods delivered cheaper and quicker from that country than from British manufacturers. If the honourable gentleman is in earnest in his endeavour to complete this railway within the specified period,-and he bas given us his promise to do so,-he should call for tenders in England and America for the construction of these steel and iron structures. I do not like the qualification put in this State- ment-" if the funds are available." There is no question about the ability of this Government to get money, and I maintain, when we have so large an amount of dead money sunk in the North Island Main Trunk Railway, and earning no interest, it would be better for this colony to pay even 4 per cent. for the money in order to complete the work, and have it earning a profit at a much earlier date than otherwise could be the case. Sir, considering the energy the honourable gentleman has shown in his depart- ment, I do not despair that the honourable gentleman will still see his way to complete this work within the time and redeem his pro- mise ; but at the same time I would impress upon him these facts, and point out that it is not desirable he should wait for another year and then come down to the House and say, " We find it impossible to do the work within the four 