now in these islands absolutely, as far as tropical fruits are concerned, independent of Australia. Now, I am going to go further, and I am going to refer to sugar and sugar-growing. Some of these islands have splendid soil, and that soil is very favourable for the growing of sugar-cane. The growing of coffee, of course, goes without saving. You have a sugar-refinery at Auckland, and if you grow cane in the islands, at very little expense you can reduce that cane at the refinery at Auckland. That is another question which I have been looking at, and that will make us independent of Germany, of America, and of Australia, so far as sugar is concerned. Now, I say, you can grow your sugar, coffee, and cocoa in New Zealand. An Hon. MEMBER .- You can grow beet- sugar. Mr. SEDDON .- The honourable member wants to draw me off the track. He is think- ing of the Waikato and beet-sugar growing. I want to show now that you must look further ahead than to-day, and that you must take a Let members bring wider view than that. their memories back to the time when Gier- many laid so much stress upon the holding of Samoa -- a time when Great Britain could not well afford to do otherwise but acquiesce, and when we gave up our right to Samoa. Did not Germany feel that the holding of Samoa was of vast importance to her? I say, most decidedly she did. Did not America insist on maintain- ing Pagopago? And why? Because it was of vast importance to her. And did not our https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 nation regard the holding of one of these islands as being of vast importance? Of how much greater importance is it to the Empire and to our colony that we should for all time stop any other nation from taking these islands? I say you must look at this question from a sordid stand- point -from the standpoint of how many pounds the islands are going to cost in the way of ad- ministration. I am satisfied that the wisest thing that could possibly be done has been done. Now, I may say, with respect to the provision as to reserves for military and naval purposes, the honourable member for Clutha does not understand the meaning of that clause. I shall now with pleasure state what is meant by that clause. It is to enable this colony to give over a large portion of Suwarrow Island as a naval station, and that is done at the request of the Admiral in charge of the station. It is one of the finest harbours in the Pacific, and the only way that harbour could be obtained was by the passing of this clause in the Bill now before the House. That is the only reason why that clause is in the Bill. Now that I have made that statement, I am sure the honourable gentleman will withdraw his objection to that particular clause. Now I come to the constitutional phase of the question, and I have been abso- lutely astounded that members, one after an- other. should have spoken as they have. There was the member for the Bay of Plenty, the member for Bruce, the member for the (lutha, and other members. They said we bad no power under our Constitution to give to the I to others who support the measure. We are Alr. Seddon Bill. Have we power to create a County Coun- cil in any part of New Zealand ? Could we pass an Act for the Chatham Islands, to say that the Counties Act shall apply to those islands? I say that those honourable members have never read the Constitution under which we are working. This is only giving local self- government. Mr. HERRIES .- No; it is independent self- government. Mr. SEDDON .- What do these words mean ? Subsection (2) of section 8 says : - " In the case of any local Ordinance which, if the same were an Act of the General As- sembly, would by law require to be reserved for the signification of His Majesty's assent, such local Ordinance shall not be assented to by the Resident Commissioner, but shall be trans- mitted by him to the Governor, who shall deal therewith as by law required." That means that no law such as that 11.30. can be passed if it means the passing of an Act which has the same effect as an Act of the General Assembly of New Zealand. An Hon. MEMBER .-- Oh, no. Mr. SEDDON .-- Oh, yes; honourable mem- bers have not read the Bill. There is the pro- vision, that they cannot pass any Act at all unless it is subject to its reservation to the Governor, and practically to the Parliament of New Zealand. That is the distinction. Any question affecting them locally, and which would not require an Act of this Assembly, they could pass. There was no clashing at all with the Constitution. The point had been carefully threshed out, and it had been safeguarded, so that they could only pass local regulations or laws just the same as any County Council in the colony could do. All the powers given to these Councils in the Islands are the same as our County Councils have at the present time. Mr. HERRIES .- Have you read the High Court Act ? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes, I have read it. The honourable member is now talking of the effect subsections (2) and (3) of section 15. And in that respect I should like to say that by this Act we are bringing into force laws that are now on the statute-book of the Islands. The honourable member's contention was that under the Constitution we had not the power to do so, but that we were giving them the power of legislation. I say the honourable I come now . to the re- member is wrong. marks of other honourable members. I will deal first with the speech of the member for Bruce. Sir, what I object to in regard to the remarks of that honourable member is this: the honourable member has had advantages that other members of this House have not had, but if his superior education is to lead to remarks of the kind he made. what are we to say ? He said we were troubled with "swelled head " and that it was the desiro of the Premier to collar all he could get. Well. I really think that in dealing with a large question, such objection- able terms should not be applied to myself or 