authority in connection with the widening of streets." Motion agreed to. Subsequently, A message was received from the House of Representatives agreeing to the Council's amendments in this Bill. # APPROPRIATION BILL. This Bill was read the first and the second time. On the question, " That the Bill be read the third time," The Hon. Mr. REEVES said, In the supple- mentary estimates there is a sum of £400 odd for the Commissioners going to Australia. Now, I do not for one moment cavil at that. I think it is quite right that it should be paid, but I want to draw the attention of the Council to a most peculiar thing with regard to Royal Commissioners. A member of Parliament, if appointed to a Royal Commission, receives only £1 per day. A gentleman outside Parlia- ment appointed on a Royal Commission re- ceives £3 3s. a day. I think the thing is simply absurd, and should be rectified. It is absurd to expect a member of Parliament to go about the country on a Royal Commission at £1 per day. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I have no difficulty in replying to the honourable gentle- man if this is the only criticism he has to direct against the present Appropriation Bill. The Hon. Mr. REEVES .- It is not against it. I am not saying a word against it. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- I know that ; but the honourable gentleman is reflect- ing against the scrupulous conscience of Parlia- ment for the past fifteen or twenty years, which has absolutely prevented or hindered their own members from taking positions and giving to the State their proper services on certain occa- sions. I have always contended, from the first day I entered public life, that the most miser- able thing any Parliament can do is to brand its public men with the brand of covetousness. Most countries are only too glad to get the ser- vices of these men if they are worthy at all- to get them without money and without price. They want them; but New Zealand seems to think that they only want the rich men, who can afford to gallivant about on Commissions, and lose money, if they choose to do so, for the honour and the glory of it. But that is not business. No man in business would do that sort of thing; but it was all brought about, I believe, in a peculiar way. A certain member of Parliament got into trouble about a certain contract, and a Bill was imme- diately brought in which disqualified for ever afterwards any member of Parliament being appointed to a Royal Commission except at the miserable payment of a guinea a day, although his brother Commissioners may be getting three guineas a day. That has been a great draw- back. We have had very important Commis- sions this year, and I may say the work of some of those Commissions has been exceptionally Hon. Mr. Reeves my own department, the School Teachers' Salaries Commission. We were there face to face with a question which dealt in its utmost intimacy with every part of the colony, with the minds of the Boards, with the minds of the teachers, and with the interests of edu- cation generally, which vary in every part of the colony; we set up a Commission which was to go round and gauge all these different opinions, and focus them in such a way that Parliament should be convinced that there was only one way of doing it-namely, by making a colonial scale of salaries. We were extremely fortunate in the gentlemen who occupied seats on that Commission. We had members of Parliament ; we had members and Chairmen of Education Boards; we had School Inspectors, and we had school-teachers-every class was represented, and I do not think there was really a vital interest ignored. Because, while Westland and Greymouth was not strictly represented, we appointed the Secretary from the Westland Education District, and we were exceedingly fortunate in getting so able a young man as Mr. Morten, to whom we owe a great debt for the work which he did. And I am very glad indeed we were able to express to him our recognition of his valuable services. The members of that Commission who were not members of Parliament got three guineas a day. Members of Parliament could only draw £1 a day. That, Sir, is very unfair indeed ; but still that is a fault of Parliament, being sc sensitive as to the -I do not know that I should call it the good fame of its members, but I might call it a super-scrupulosity. I think it is a most ignominious brand upon the honour and honesty of every member of Parliament to have such an Act on the statute-book. I have always protested against it. We now come to another Commission -- the Federation Commission. That Commission was of an exceptional nature. It covered a great deal of ground ; it had to travel a great dis- tance, and it had to cross the sea. I happened to meet with a very high authority indeed, and he told me that in his experience it was the only Commission which had never exceeded the original term of its natural life, which shows how well that Commission attended to its duties. It had so many days, weeks. ard months in which to report, and it brought down its report within the original time sei forth in the first Commission, which is a very rare thing indeed, I can assure the Counad. That Commission was placed in a very peculiar position. Of course, we know what happens in New Zealand. There are the disabilities of members of Parliament ; and I trust the Cour- cil will consider with me that it would have been very wrong and shortsighted if members of Parliament had not been on that Commis- sion, for we should then have lost the services of the Hon. Mr. Bowen. We should also have lost the services of the Chairman, Colonel Prit. Why should not those gentlemen be recoupd and paid just as well as anybody else ? That Commission travelled across the seas, and they 