be small, and certainly would not justify this Parliament in departing from a sound principle and setting up a differential tariff within our own dominions. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) said that clause 9 of the Cook and Other Islands Bill as it left this House was perfectly clear on the point. That clause said, in subsection (1),- " There shall be paid on all goods imported into the said Islands duties of Customs in ac- cordance with the New Zealand tariff." Yet before the Act was bound in a volume with the other statutes they were going to violate that clause, and he hoped the House would agree to no such thing. Apart from that, it was a departure from a constitutional prin- ciple that they should differentiate tariffs within our own bounds. Mr. SEDDON .- It is not against parts of New Zealand. Captain RUSSELL said it was creating a differentiation in our Customs duties. He foresaw all those difficulties last year, and he even mentioned the fact that we would have to provide against smuggling, which would be carried on with the utmost impunity in the Cook Islands. As to the allegation of the Pre- mier that the Cook Islands were not part of New Zealand, the boundaries of the colony had been specially extended so as to include them. He hoped the House would refuse to agree to any such proposal. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) could not help agreeing with the opinions expressed by pre- vious speakers, inasmuch as what was now pro- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 posed was a contravention of clause 9 of the Cook and Other Islands Government Bill. What was proposed was,- "There shall be paid on all goods imported into the said Islands from any place or country other than New Zealand, and which would in New Zealand be admitted free of duty, such ad valorem duty not exceeding ten per centum as the Governor from time to time by Order in Council determines." It allowed them to impose a duty of 10 per cent. on goods imported into the Islands from other countries, but which would be admitted free if imported from this colony. Subsec- tion (3) of clause 9 of the Cook and Other Islands Government Bill said,- " All goods the produce or manufacture of New Zealand, and all goods on which duty has been paid in New Zealand, or which are ad- mitted into New Zealand free of duty, shall be admitted to the said Islands free of duty, and similarly all goods the produce or manufacture of the said Islands or on which duty has been paid in the said Islands shall be admitted to New Zealand free of duty." Sir J. G. WARD .- It is the same thing here. Mr. MASSEY said the Governor's message provided that goods which in New Zealand would be admitted free would pay an ad valorem duty not exceeding 10 per cent. when imported to the Islands. The point was this : Why should the people resident at the Islands, who are now supposed to be within the boundaries of this goods which are introduced into New Zealand free of duty, seeing that we had a Bill on the fair way to the statute-book which provided that the Customs tariff should be the same for the Islands as for New Zealand itself? Mr. SEDDON said the only advantage was this: that if these goods were sent to New Zealand free they could go to the Islands free. An Hon. MEMBER .- Suppose they go to the Cook Islands straight ? Mr. SEDDON .- I will tell you about that presently. Mr. MASSEY asked why the people of the Islands should pay duty on goods imported from Sydney direct, while the ports of New Zealand admitted the same goods free of duty. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said the honourable member for Hawke's Bay had pointed out last session, and he (Mr. Fisher) pointed out this session, the possible effects of dealing with the Cook Islands Annexation Bill in such a hasty manner, but little did they anticipate that the difficulties which they pre- dicted would so soon make their appearance on the scene. These Islands were now part of New Zealand, and the House was being asked in effect to pass a second tariff, making two tariffs applicable to the Colony of New Zealand. There was no differential duty as between the Islands and New Zealand, but what was in- tended by this alteration was that goods im- ported into the Cook Islands from Tahiti or other foreign ports should pay an ad valorem duty up to 10 per cent. That was decidedly bad for the natives of the Cook Islands. They would soon begin to see the advantages of King Seddon's civilisation. And this was being done arbitrarily without any alteration or amendment of the Customs Duties Acts of New Zealand, which Acts could only be altered by the New Zealand Parliament. This session Parliament had passed the Act setting up a form of government for the Cook Islands, and here they were met on the very threshold with an amendment of that Act. There had been imposed upon this colony an expensive system of government for those Islands, and the colony would be called upon in the future, at great cost to the taxpayers, to carry out the form of government which was to be applied there under the Act passed this session. He and others who took an interest in opposi- tion to the Bill were told that they knew nothing whatever about it-that there was only one man in the House who understood the subject, and that man was the Right Hon. the What did the right honourable Premier. gentleman know about it? This amendment showed that the honourable gentleman could not possibly know anything whatever of the subject upon which he pretended to speak with so much authority, for here, one week after the passage of the Bill, they were being asked to amend it. He held in his hand a " Letter from Mr. S. Percy Smith, Government Resident Agent, Alofi, Niue Island, being a Report on Mat- ters affecting the Island of Niue .- Laid on the Table of the House of Representatives by Com- 