unconscionable, in which case the Court might the interest is excessive, the Court will be free refuse to sanction the bargain, and might to consider, and would be bound to consider, substitute for the contract what it deemed to the case of a mortgage on real security spread be a reasonable contract. It was urged by the over a term of years during which the rate of Minister that the English Act had been made interest on the market has fallen. That is the practically a dead letter by the word "and " position in which we are landed by the amend- being there instead of "or "; and he said that ments which, with the best intentions in the Mr. Justice Ridley had a case before him in world, the Minister and the Committee have which the interest charged was excessive, but put into the Bill. I do not think there is any it did not appear that the bargain was harsh or honourable member who would say that that unconscionable, or that there had been deceit. kind of transaction-a straight up and down The borrower had gone into the transaction with bona fide mortgage-should at all be subject complete knowledge of it-thinking it fair and to review, and I understood the Hon. the worth his while to pay the interest charged. Minister to admit as much ; but his argu- Mr. Justice Ridley held that, under the Act, ment was that you must make the provision the interest must be excessive and the bargain general. He refused an amendment which was must also be harsh and unconscionable in order to exempt real securities from the operation of to upset the transaction. In this case, although the interest was excessive, it was not thought unconscionable transactions in regard to real that the bargain was harsh or unconscionable, estate, you must make the clause have general there being no oppression or fraud, and there- application to all loans. The result, of course, fore be said he could give no remedy. The would be that if the clause were a bad Minister said that nullified the effect of the clause, it would be something analogous to a Fair Rent Bill. It would be a "Fair In- English Act. I do not know that there would terest Bill," forcing every mortgagor or mort- have been any grave harm in the substitution of "or " for "and " here, if this Bill had re- gagee to come to the Court to have a fair mained a mere copy otherwise of the English rate of interest fixed by the Court, or by whom- Act, because I have pointed out already, under soever it might be fixed. the English Act the term "money. lender " only one-sided, and can benefit the borrower only. applies to the professional money-lender. We Assuming the interest to rise from 4} per cent. have altered the clause so as to make it apply to 7 per cent. during the next five years, the to all lenders of money, and at the same time mortgagee would have no such redress under we have struck out the condition which the the Bill as the mortgagor has if the interest English Act requires as to the bargain being falls, because the remedy is contingent on the har-h and unconscionable. As I say, that fact that the interest charged is excessive. So https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 that it is a very unfair Fair Interest Bill as we falsifies completely the preamble of this Bill, have amended it. It operates in favour of only which says,- " Whereas certain persons trading as and one party to the transaction, and it operates, I known by the name of money-lenders inflict submit, in a large number of transactions that by harsh and unconscionable bargains great the House has no intention at all of interfering with. The insecurity and the annoyance tc injury upon those who borrow money from them ; and it is expedient that such money- which not professional money-lenders, but trus- lenders and their methods of carrying on such tees and other bona fide persons who invest in business of money-lending should be subject to real security, would be subject if this Bill be- control.' came law is obvious. There is absolutely no The Minister must admit that that preamble limitation to the proceedings possible under the had been doubly falsified by the amendment Bill. No judgment of the Court is to be binding made in this Bill ; because, in the first place, for any stated period. There is no reason Lot merely professional money - lenders are whatsoever why a mortgagor who is desirous of tronght under the scope of the Bill by this litigation should not repeatedly hale his mort- amendment, but, in the second place, transac- gagee before the Court, and have the fairness of tions which may not be harsh and unconscion- the transaction tested ; and, as impecuniosity alle bargains are now subject to review by the and a taste for litigation often go together, the tourt under the Bill as amended. The effect mortgagee might not even recover the costs. of clause 3, as amended, is that it gives power There is nothing whatsoever, the Minister will to revise the terms of any bona fide loan, but admit, in the provisions of the Bill to prevent it applies only in the case of falling interest. as he chooses. He can do so every half-year, Take our own case during the last five years, where securities worth perhaps 7 per cent. five or even every quarter, assuming the interest is paid quarterly, and it is to be noted that he years ago are now worth 5 per cent. or even 4} per cent. It is perfectly clear that under the need not wait until any instalment is due or in arrear before he makes his appeal to the Court. terms of clause 3, as amended, any person who on good real security is now paying an interest Therefore, he may just go on harassing the of 7 per cent., is paying an excessive rate of mortgagee as long and as often as he likes ; and interest. seeing that if he went into the market such a provision on the statute-book, though, at the present time he could get money at 4} unfortunately, that is just what the House is per cent. It is almost 50 per cent. in excess of the market rate. And it is perfectly clear that if doing if it passes the Bill in its present form. There are other points in the Bill, but I do not the Court can reconsider any loan merely because the Bill, urging that because there might be But this clause is him bringing the case to the Court as often the House does not seriously intend to put 