the larger salaries to the Magistrates in the four centres would not hold water, and eventually all Magistrates would get £550 a year, as long as they had served for a period in one of the large centres. Mr. SEDDON said that before the present Minister took charge of the Justice Depart- ment the maximum salary was $500, and when, so far as he could remember, Mr. Northcroft was transferred from the Thames to Auckland his salary was brought up to $500. After that he was shifted down to the Wairarapa and afterwards to Waikato, but his salary was retained at $500. Since then it had been decided that the maximum salary for the old Magis- trates at the four centres was to be £550. Those recently appointed direct to the cities were not getting $500 or £550. Mr. McArthur, tho latest appointment, who was at North Can- terbury and at Christchurch, was only getting £450. When the work of the Magistrate in any of the four large centres was compared with that of a Magistrate in the country it would be found that the Magistrate in the country was well paid. Mr. Northcroft was well paid for the work he did, and had no reason to com- plain, and he did not believe he had com- plained. The Committee divided on the question, "That the vote be reduced by £1." AYES, 12. Rhodes. Barclay Lethbridge Field Millar Tellers. Parata Gilfedder Hornsby Herries Pirani O'Meara. Kaihau NOES, 35. Allen, J. Hanan Russell, W. R. Hardy Atkinson Seddon Bennet Hogg Stevens Carroll Hutcheson Tanner Collins Lawry Thompson, R. Duncan McGowan Thomson, J. W. Ell Mackenzie, T. Ward Fisher McNab Willis Fowlds Meredith Witheford. Graham Mills Tellers. Morrison Hall Napier Hall-Jones Palmer Wilford. Majority against, 23. Amendment negatived. Vote, £46,550, agreed to. Native Land Court, £11,175. Mr. HERRIFS (Bay of Plenty) trusted the Government would give the House some assur- ance that a Bill would be introduced dealing with petitions which had been before the Native Affairs Committee. He trusted the Bill would be brought down as early as possible so that it might have a chance of passing. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) said the Bill was being prepared now, and it would be brought down earlier than any such Bill had ever been brought down before. Vote, £11,175, agreed to. Vote, Validation of Native titles, £800, agreed to. Mr. Herries Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) thought that with more modern methods a large saving might be effected in the conduct of these prose- cutions. The Judges at present took down their notes in longhand. Parliament passed an Act last year for the purpose of having short- hand reporters provided for the Courts. If that system had been adopted he was quite satisfied that there could be a saving of $7,000 or £8,000 on this vote. He had seen criminal sessions prolonged to four weeks which could easily have been disposed of in eight or ten days. Some- times a hundred witnesses were detained, at enormous cost to the country, and frequently those witnesses were hundreds of miles from The expenses of witnesses their homes amounted to .£8,750. Of course, witnesses had to remain un il prior cases on the list were dis- posed of. The $3,000 set down for the pay- ment of jurors would also be considerably reduced if the criminal sessions were shorter, as they would be if shorthand writers were employed. He hoped that some effort would be made to have shorthand reporters attached to the Courts, so that the conduct of criminal cases, as well as civil cases, might be ex- pedited. Some time ago he made up the costs which the Crown had to pay in an ordi- nary case of sheep-stealing from a remote dis- trict. The costs amounted to £70, and that case might easily have been settled, if a slight amendment of the law were made, by the Stipendiary Magistrate of the district in which the offence was committed. Considering the number of criminal prosecutions, he thought the amount set down was excessive. He might mention that by the passing of the Indictable Offences Summary Jurisdiction Act-of which he had the honour of being the parent-the colony had been saved several hundred pounds a year. If sittings of the District Court were held in various parts of the Auckland Provincial District a considerable saving could be effected. He would also suggest that indictment forms should be printed on paper, instead of having to be written on parchment. Then, he thought there should be some discrimination in regard to the fees paid to the Crown solicitors in cases where prisoners pleaded guilty, and in those in which they pleaded not guilty. By supplying the Crown solicitors with printed forms of in- dictment the fees could be cut down one-half in the cases where prisoners pleaded guilty. Vote, $15.250, agreed to. Vote, "Coroners Act, 1867," £4,200, agreed to. Miscellaneous services, £5,714. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) said he would like some information with regard to the item " Compilation of Maori History, £250." Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) said that Mr. Stowell, of Hawera, had been appointed to compile a Maori history and old Maori folk-lore. He was a very good man for the purpose. He had already started to collect information from the very few natives who were able to give it. Mr. MONK asked what were the particular phases of Maori lore he was seeking ? 