without reference to the people, either at the general election, or, at any rate, in some way that would enable the opinion of the country to be taken definitely. The labourer was worthy of his hire, but he was not entitled to increase his hire without reference to his employer. The indirect way in which this increase was at- tempted made it worse. 'Good salaries, but no pickings,' should be their motto, but this £40 ' sessional allowance' was of the nature of pickings." Then, in a second speech,- "He declined to express an opinion as to whether this would be a proper subject for legislation as affecting merely future Parlia- ments, but would say that if that course were followed it would not be open to the objection that they were betraying their public trust, which was to administer the finances of the colony economically, and not in order to benefit themselves." Honourable members will see that there is nothing there I need qualify in taking the stand I now do with regard to the present Bill. The Premier appealed to some who could afford to do without this increase to be "generous" towards those who might not be in so happy a position. The honourable member for Palmers- ton stated there were four millionaires in the House, and no one can accuse me of being one of them. But even were I one of the happy four I should not feel it was a case where generosity came in, seeing that I should https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 be dealing with other people's money. It would not be giving away the millionaire's money if I voted for the second reading, but giving away the money of the country. The Premier also stated that if this Bill were postponed to next session, and then passed, it would leave members seeking re-election open to the taunt of being " self-seeking and looking to their own advancement and preferment " in the vote they gave in regard to the Bill. The honourable member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) said if the consideration of the Bill were postponed people's minds would be dis- tracted from more serious questions by looking to the subject-matter of this vote. Well, that is an astonishing argument. The Right Hon. the Premier, in saying that members would be accused of self-sceking, and looking to their own advancement and preferment, has said a harsher thing than any opponent of the Bill has ventured to say this evening. But, so far as the argument is a good one, if it has any potency at all, why will it not be just as applicable now as if the Bill were passed next session? On the merits it would be just as strong then ; but the Premier and, I suppose, the member for Auckland City (Mr. Napier) con- sider that the people's memories are so short that they will not remember for such a length of time as twelve months. That is a sorry shift to which the advocates of the Bill are re- duced. Assuming that we were discussing the Bill towards the end of next session, the mea- sure could not possibly have any operation until after we went before our constituents- any taunt that we were passing the measure for our own personal benefit. The member for Wairarapa referred to the "Conservative party" as supporting increases in all salaries but their own. I do not know whether the honourable member puts me down as a member of the Conservative party, but I shall be very proud to be classed as a member of the Conservative party on the ground that I and they are both not Liberal enough for the member for Wai- rarapa-not liberal enough, that is to say, with other people's money ; and on that understanding I shall be very proud indeed of the title. Just one word on the financial aspect of this matter. Of course, the proposal is an increase from £240 to £300, and in one respect that is a very trifling matter ; but I have worked out here the total effect of the increases in the salaries of the Governor, Ministers, and members of Parlia- ment, passed last year or now contemplated. The figures are as follows :- £ Governor 2,000 .. Ministers- Salaries 3,100 .. .. 500 Travelling-allowances .. 160 Travelling-expenses, say . . 400 House allowances .. 300 Private Secretaries (two extra) . . Legislative Council- Forty-six members at £50 .. 2,300 . House of Representatives- Seventy-four members at £60 4,440 .. Six extra members at £300 1,800 . . .. £15,000 Total Those six extra members were really agreed to as an essential factor in passing the Minis- ters' Salaries Bill of last session. One honour- able member said that while some members of the House opposed this increase in the payment to members, yet they approved of the payment of £130,000 to the Midland Railway Company. I wish to point out that the £15,000 involved in the increased payment I have just indicated amounts to a larger liability than the £130,000 proposed to be given to the Midland Railway Company debenture-holders. The position in regard to these two sums is that the latter payment will be a lump sum, the other a recurring annual charge. The actual increase in salaries provided by this Bill is £6,740 a year, which, at 3} per cent., represents a capital sum of £192,000-or almost half as much again as the large sum the debenture-holders are to get. The total increase of £15,000 made in the salaries of the Governor, the Ministers, and members of Parliament re- presents, capitalised at 32 per cent., a capital sum of $420,000, or over three times the amount to be awarded the Midland Railway Company. My colleague on my left reminds me that the Speaker and Chairman of Com- mittees had an increased vote of $200 each, which, of course, has to be added to the sum of €15,000. Now, as an abstract question, the difference between £240 and $300 is not worth arguing, and for that very reason the advocates 