can grant supplies. Unless the Commons did grant Supply to the Ministry - and in this case it did not do so-the Ministry had no right to delegate the power of Supply. That was the broad ground I went on, and no other. But the right honourable gentleman has on many occasions, when he was displeased with members of this House, reflected in the graves manner on every attribute a man holds holy. He has stigmatized by name members of this House as Judas Iscariots, as Antonio Brescis, as anarchists, and has used other most vile terms-terms that I, with all the knowledge of Billingsgate and sailors' slang which he alleges I possess, cannot hope to emulate. But the honourable gentleman did not always hold his present views as to the sacredness of Vice-Royalty. He said wrongly last year that I did not want any representa- tive of monarchy here at all. Sir, those were his own views at another stage of his political career. I have ever and aye said, God forbid that we should have an elective Governor in New Zealand so long as we form part of the British Empire. On public platforms and on the floor of this House I have said so ; but the Right Hon. the Premier has not always said so. At one time he wanted to cut the painter by the abolition of appointed Go- vernors. He was a most keen and ardent supporter of an elective Governor when that idea was put before Parliament by Sir George Grey, and he also spoke very disparagingly of the representative of Royalty in this colony : be spoke in such a manner as I have never yet beard any member of this House speak whose views he alleges are inimical to the safety of organized society. Mr. HORNSBY .- Did he do it with bated breath ? Mr. HUTCHESON .- No ; but I will quote to the House some of the sentiments of the honourable member for Kumara on the second reading of the Election of Governor Bill, moved by Mr. Joyce in 1887, Mr. Joyce then being member for Lyttelton. An Hon. MEMBER .- Is that a "black-book "? Mr. HUTCHESON. - No; it is the record of our debates in this House : it is the Hansard of the colony. An Hon. MEMBER .- That is the blackest book there is. Mr. HUTCHESON .- Yes, it is. The honour- able gentleman said this :-- " My honourable friend who uses that argu- ment knows full well that there is not the slightest connection. The only way finance comes in is this : that, if one of the blue blood at Home " -- these were the remarks of the honourable gentleman who now speaks with bated breath of the "blue blood "-" or some connection of his who has rendered good service to the Government in power for the time being, whose exchequer is in a low state, wants assist- ance. he is sent to a colony to recuperate. There are many cases of that kind on record ; but I think, now that the Government are pro- posing to reduce the Governor's salary, the day is gone by." Now, I ask the House, am I the democrat, or is it the honourable gentleman opposite ? The remarks I have read are to be found in Volume 58 of Hansard, page 308 (1887). Now, Sir, what I deplore is this : It seems to me that all genuine simplicity has gone out of our public life, and has been replaced by a spurious patriotism which is nothing more than hysterical lip- service and sycophancy ; the waving of a flag and the banging of a drum at the head of a drunken rabble counts more as evidence of patriotism than the whole lives of those who see national greatness only in national character. For my part, I echo the sentiments of Kent in "King Lear ": "Nor are those empty hearted whose low sound reverbs no hollowness." And, Sir, it is the hollow vessel that makes the most sound. Now, the honourable gentle- man referred to a newspaper article entitled "The Decadence of Public Life," and said that what was written in the public Press of the colony was true. But he distorted the application of the article he referred to in his effort to prove that the views of some members of this House in connection with the Bill now before us was evidence of the decadence. of pub- lic life, and I charge the honourable gentleman, in the terms of the very text he has set to us, of having been the cause of the decadence of our public life. I will quote from the article written in his own particular paper, the New Zealand Times, in a fit of frankness, and here are some of the sentiments :- "There is, undoubtedly, a sordidness about public life nowadays that is degrading ; and, if it is true that those in public positions but reflect the great body of the people, there is reason in the affirmation that the constituencies are themselves saturated with the qualities of greed and selfishness." Who only can have implanted those qualities of greed and selfishness in the constituencies ? What but the system under which our public- works expenditure is doled out in the public- works estimates. Then, again, the article goes on :- " But as there are men who lack principle, so there are constituencies that judge a member's ability by the amount of public money he is able to have spent within their district." And who is it, I ask again, who makes it a condition precedent on candidature for a seat in this House that the candidate shall ally himself and bind himself to the honourable gentleman, in order that he may support him in this House, and in return receive what an opponent of the Government never can hope to get-namely, proper recognition in the way of expenditure of public money upon public works in his particular district ? Then, the article went further : - " When that is the ruling passion of constitu- encies it inevitably degrades their representa- tives, who become mere playthings in the hands of the dominant party." I need not ask who is the dominant party-the only party, a party of one. But to proceed : -- 