of members to Hospital and Charitable Aid | sibly, in the Bill. There were, he believed, forty- Boards should be more direct than it was at the present time. With that object he had every sympathy, and would therefore support the Bill. The member for Otaki complained of the drafting of the Bill. That was an objection we often heard in the House. We were told every year that the business of the House was well forward, and measures ready to be in- troduced, and yet towards the close of the session we found evidence in these Bills that there had been a great deal of haste in their compilation. This Bill might need amendment in Committee, but it was quite possible for the Committee to amend it and make it a workable measure. The Minister in charge of 11.0. the Bill was anxious that the principle of direct representation should be affirmed, and that the Committee should assist him to make it a workable measure by dealing with it clause by clause. . The Bill itself was simple, and he had no doubt the House would pass its second reading and proceed to consider it in Committee. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) thought that this Bill, though a simple one, was likely to prove beneficial. In the past, he regretted to say, but little interest had been taken in many of the hospitals. Some of them had been to a large extent exclusive institutions, and this was chiefly due to the fact that the Board of management or Trustees were not elected on a popular franchise. They were elected by local institutions or by a few subscribers, and it was https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 well known, with regard to certain country hos- pitals, that the Trustees virtually elected one another. Now, if the Trustees or the Board were elected on a broad franchise, it followed that the people would take a larger interest in these institutions than they had hitherto done. It was very desirable that the management of some of them should be improved, both in connection with contracts and other matters. There had in some cases been a great deal of laxity in the control over the expenditure. What happened was this : A good many small townships had their own hospitals, and these hospitals were brought into competition with each other. Under the present system, seeing that they had only to make a levy on the local authorities, the cost of maintaining these institutions was becoming heavier and heavier. No longer satisfied with the buildings or with the sites they possessed, every new set of managers, emulating the pro- verbial broom, wanted them altered. They wanted other sites, and in place of wooden buildings they wanted to substitute stone or brick. Hence some of the institutions hitherto pronounced efficient were now being carried on in such an elaborate way that they were going to be a source of very heavy expense to the taxpayers of the colony. To correct that, the sooner they were placed under popular control the better it would be for every one concerned. The only way in which they were likely to insure good results for the patients, and an efficient management, was by popular control. There was one defect, pos- three hospitals in New Zealand, and out of that number twenty-two, or more than one-half, were incorporated institutions managed by Trustees. He was not very sure that the Bill made provision for institutions of that kind. It dealt with united institutions, but apparently did not take into consideration the necessity for reforming the franchise with regard to the elec- tion of Hospital Trustees apart from Charitable Aid Boards. He hoped, when the Bill was in Committee, that the omission would be taken into consideration, and, if there was any neces- sity for it, that the Bill would be so amended that the same popular franchise would be made to apply to the management of every hospital in the country. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) said he had been listening for some time to the various speakers, and had noticed that not one of them had a good word to say of a member of a Hospital Board. He had never had the honour of being a member of a Hospital Board himself, but he knew that it was a very thankless posi- tion, and that in many parts of the country it was difficult to get any one to take it. He thought that those who had been doing good work in this district would think it very hard that member after member of the House should get up and speak slightingly of the work they had been doing for many years. He might say he had listened attentively to the speech of the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Barclay). He was unable to understand what the honourable gentleman was talking about. He talked about all sorts of things except the Bill. Then, the member for Mataura talked about medical schools, and he could find nothing of the kind in the Bill. Whether it was intended to make a new Bill of it in Committee he did not know. Other members had gone in the same direction, and had never touched upon the Bill at all. He failed to see what better Boards were to be got out of this Bill than at the present time, as it contained the same franchise, and did not propose to alter it. In the North he knew there was considerable trouble in getting any person to go on a Charitable Aid Board. He was rather surprised at the member for Avon complaining that members of Parliament were not permitted to visit these institutions. He had no personal experience of this kind, but he must say that members were too fond of poking their noses into places where they had no right, and very often presumed on their position in this respect. He thought it was for the medical officer to say whether patients were fit to see strangers or not, as patients might be in such a condition that the admission of visi- tors might injure them. There was not very much in the Bill, but he failed to see the neces- sity for it. Mr. HALL - JONES :Minister for Public Works) must confess that he had been some- what surprised at the reception which this Bill had met, because he had expected support from some of those who opposed the Bill - he ex- pected that a hearty support would be given by them to the measure. Now, what was the Bill ? 