reimbursed, but that does not affect the legal question involved. Morally this expenditure may be a debt, but legally it will be nothing but a donation; and therefore I support the course which the Premier is taking in proceed- ing by way of Bill instead of by way of vote on the estimates, not for, but in spite of, the reasons which he himself has given for the course he is about to take. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- I am sorry this matter has taken so much time, but probably it may save time later on. Now, I was accused of not being generous. Mr. PIRANI. - No ; not being fair. Mr. SEDDON. - Well, of not being fair. Now, I could not give credit where, so far as I was concerned, the credit was not due, and I will tell the member for Palmerston the reason why. This question was discussed weeks ago between myself and the Solicitor-General before the estimates were brought down at all. It was not a discovery at all when the honourable gentleman mentioned it to me; and, as he himself will admit, I told him very positively there was nothing in the point raised. Then, how could I give credit when the matter was definitely settled before the estimates were brought down? The question was raised not only as to the Royal Instructions, but also as to section 57 of the Constitution Act itself, and whether it was necessary to reserve it as a grant, or a clause of a Bill and hold that over. If I had been taken unawares, and if any member were to advise me of a mistake I made, I am the first to admit it. But I say I could not give credit where there was no credit due. And now I will give the honourable member, and I will give the House, an explanation of what was done. It is very seldom this is done ; it is an unusual course to adopt, but I will take it this time, although I may be laying down a precedent that probably it is not advisable to follow. Before I would agree to this Bill for the changing of the course that was decided upon, I asked the Solicitor-General was he still positive about the legal position. At all events, this is what he said- Mr. PIRANI .- He puts you in a big hole sometimes. Mr. SEDDON .- I do not admit that ; at any rate, when I get there, you will all admit there is never a hole that I am not able to get out of. Now, let us be serious : "I am asked to advise- Mr. ATKINSON .- Will the Premier say what is the date ? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes; the 26th September, 1901 : - "I am asked to advise whether the grant on the estimates of £2,250 to His Excellency, in reimbursement of expenses incurred by him in connection with the visit of their Royal High- nesses, is a grant within the meaning of sub- clause (2) of clause VI. of the Governor's Instructions of the 26th March, 1892, instruct- ing him not to assent to ' any Bill whereby any grant of land or money or other donation or gratuity may be made to himself. relate only to such descriptions of grants as are in the nature of donation or gratuities. The words ' other donation or gratuity ' show this clearly. The grant on the estimates is not in the nature of a donation or gratuity. It is a mere reimbursement of expenses incurred by His Excellency whilst acting as host to their Royal Highnesses on behalf of the Government and the colony, the Government having fully recognised from the outset that the burden should not fall on him." Mr. PIRANI .- How does he know that ? Mr. SEDDON .- Because he is conversant from the inception with all that has taken place, and, of course, your Solicitor-General must be. If your Government is wise, then, to prevent it getting on to the shoals, it is neces- sary you should do so. Now, I say, in face of that opinion of the Solicitor-General, I ought to have said to the House, a vote can be taken. If taken on the Appropriation Bill there are two alternatives: the Governor can send an Appropriation Bill up if he is not personally in- terested, and it is only a reimbursement ; or he can reserve the particular clause of the Ap- propriation Bill and send it for His Majesty's consent, and the other sections of the Appro- priation Bill otherwise would be approved of. Mr. PIRANI .- That clause would not be. Mr. SEDDON .- You would always put in a clause to cover a thing of this kind. At all events, I am giving you the legal position as the Government is advised. Now, you will naturally ask, Why, if so advised, do you bring down the Bill ? Mr. PIRANI .- That is the point. An Hon. MEMBER .- It is to save trouble. Mr. SEDDON .- No, it is not to save trouble, but to insure peace, so far as the legal position is concerned. But I do not wish to have His Excellency's name brought on the floor of the House for acrimonious discussion, and to re- flect or detract from the credit which fell to the colony for the manner in which we entertained the Royal visitors. If I can avoid that, surely I am justified in doing so. I was sure that if I took this course it would remove difficulties that were in the way, as there were a num- ber of members in the House who would support the passing of the Bill, because then the question as to the constitutional aspect in regard to the passing of the Appropriation Bill would be removed. Therefore, this was my best course, and in the best interests of all con- cerned. In accordance with my legal advice, and in accordance with my own conviction, and with a view to obviating a difficulty I was told would be bound to arise in Committee when the estimates were under discussion, I have taken this course; and surely, having taken that course, members should not find fault with me. Mr. PIRANI .-- We are not finding fault. Mr. SEDDON .- Well, of course, as I said, I could not give credit where credit was not due. Mr. PIRANI .-- You have taken the advice and the credit. Mr. SEDDON .- The member for Napier has 