SETTLEMENT BILL. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, I move the second reading of this Bill. It is the usual measure to assist in the development of our country, to improve our railways, and to provide for an extension of railways in different parts of the colony, and for additional rolling- stock for open lines. For instance, if a rail is taken up and a heavier one put down, 80 much of the value of the rail in excess of the old one is put to capital. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON .- I wish to im- press on the Government the desirability of paying some attention to the straightening of the Hutt line and the deviation of the Rimu- taka Incline. It is continually a never-ending source of expense, and it is a mistaken policy to keep extending our railways further back while the few miles nearest the town are in a state that no railway should be in. If a return could be given showing the running-expenses and the wear-and-tear of rolling-stock caused through the course of the line to the Hutt, and the Rimutaka Incline it would almost stagger humanity. I think this is a matter that should be drawn attention to. I do not want to say one word against giving roads, or even railways, to those in the back blocks, but I say that a good round sum should be borrowed for the special purposes I have mentioned, and I am quite sure the interest on the money borrowed would be readily earned. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .-- I should like the Minister to give us some information as to https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 how much has been raised on short loans during the last twelve months, and how much the Government have power to raise in Loan Bills that is not now raised. Returns have been made of how much this Government have spent, and that Government have spent, and so on, since very far back ; but there cannot be I will much reliance placed on those returns. give an instance: There was one Government which is credited with the amount of two millions and a half. The previous (iovernment had raised it on short-dated debentures, and yet the succeeding Government got the credit of spending that money because it raised it. I heard the Minister say something about rails. Well, will he tell us what the rails cost when they were laid down and what is the price of rails now, and see how much should be put to capital account on these rails ? I think you will find that rails are a good deal cheaper now than when laid down, and if he wishes to put them to capital account I think he had better charge nothing. Then, with regard to this rolling-stock, there is £600,000 on the esti- mates. Can any one believe that it will take all that amount to keep pace with the increased traffic of the railways in the providing of rolling- stock ? I would like, myself, to see how these depreciations are made. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- If the honour- able gentleman wanted this information he ought to have called for a return. It is a most unreasonable thing to ask the Minister how much money has been raised on short the Colonial Treasurer himself could at a moment's notice reply to exactly. I do not know whether I heard the honourable gentle- man rightly, but I understood him to say that a return laid on the table of the House was not reliable, because one Government had left a debt of two millions and a half and the next Government had to pay it. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN .- No, no. The Hon. Mr. TWOMEY .- Well, honourable gentlemen were talking all around me, and I could not rightly hear what was said. I think I know the circumstances to which the honour- able gentleman refers. It happened in 1879 and 1880. It is a long time ago, and I hardly think it need have been put in the short speech he made. Then the honourable gentle- man asked the Minister of Education what was the cost of rails now, and at a previous time, and he wanted an immediate answer. Sir, is it reasonable to think that the Hon. the Minister of Education can carry in his head . the cost of rails at some distant period of the past and the cost of such rails now? Again, I think the honourable gentleman complained about the great expenditure on rolling-stock. We all know there is a great demand for rolling- stock, and the honourable gentleman knows that the greatest grievance in the country with which he is acquainted is that at a certain period of the year there is not sufficient rolling- stock to carry the products of the land to market. Now, how can the Minister make bricks with- out straw ? If they want to carry the products of the soil to market they must have rolling- stock, and they cannot have rolling-stock unless they have the money to buy it with. Is it reasonable to find fault with Ministers who are asking for money to provide rolling-stock that is absolutely necessary ? There was something said by the Hon. Mr. Jenkinson about straighten- ing the Wellington-Hutt line, and that it was more necessary to do this than to make rail- ways to give communication to the back blocks. With that I disagree ; but I agree with him entirely about the Rimutaka. That is an awful place, and a dangerous line. It was a most ex- traordinary thing to have ever constructed that line, and I should certainly like to see some deviation which would be safer and better than that line. I certainly think the Wellington- Hutt line should remain as it is, until, at any rate, the Rimutaka deviation is attended to. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND .- This is a money Bill, and therefore a Bill which the Council can do nothing with except express its opinion upon or reject. Of course, there is no question of rejecting a Bill which is to raise nearly €1,250,000 for various purposes, many of which the whole colony desire to see effect given to. All I wish to say about this Bill is that, so far as I have had time to look into it, I think, it is proposed to raise this money in quite a different manner from what other Bills of a like character have provided. I know of no other occasion on which so large a sum as this has been left entirely in the hands of the Colonial Treasurer to raise as he likes. This Bill pro- 