have honourable members like the member for Napier, Mr. Fraser, coming forward and de- nouncing the whole measure-that is, before it has had a chance of showing what there was in it. Now, I am not of that opinion. I have seen measures such as the Land for Settlements Act, where, having established a principle, there has been a steady evolution, a building-up, of the measure; and I believe the proposals of the Go- vernment go in that direction with regard to Maori lands What, then, is the weakness of the Act of last year as it is on the statute-book ? I say that the weakness of the whole measure can be expressed in one sentence, and that is, that there is no assured finance behind the Act of last year for the purpose of providing money for the development of these Maori lands. Take, for example, the blocks of land that are to be administered by the committees to which I have referred. Why, Sir, what powers, what finance, what money have the committees got for carrying out the provisions of the Act in providing for the survey, and deter- mining with regard to the allotment of the lands ? I can find no provisions in the Act by which they can provide money for those purposes. That I believe to be the blot in connection with the law, and it certainly ought to be altered. It is exactly the same with the Councils. The Councils are not sufficiently provided with an assured finance for the pur- pose of handling these blocks of territory and bringing them into a state in which they will be suitable for occupation by Europeans or https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Maoris, as the case may be. I do not propose to review fully the provisions of last year's Act. There is the Act on the statute-book for what it is worth; but I should like to say very briefly what, in my opinion, should be the direction in which our legislation should go in regard to this four or five million acres of Maori land. I believe, as I have said already, that the House and the country are opposed to anything like a return to free-trade in or general alienation of Maori lands. Last year's measure is clear and effective in so far as it insists upon inalien- able reserves being set aside for every Maori, and I believe that vital principle is likely to be supported continually by the country. But then comes this larger question : Assuming that you have set aside these reserves, and that the members of the Maori race are provided for so far as their occupation of farm lands is con- cerned, are the Maoris then able to handle and develop the lands that remain, so that those lands may bear their fair share of taxation and contribute to the prosperity of the colony ? I say they are not; and therefore it becomes necessary to provide means to develop these lands. We should utilise the Councils and committees as Boards of advice. There should also be, in my opinion, another and larger Board set up, invested with extended powers, so that on the recommendation of the Councils this Board I am proposing may deal with the Maori lands. I am not forgetting that under last year's Act there is power in clause 31 by which the Councils may act as a kind of Crown these lands. I am endeavouring to show that unless these lands are prepared for occupation you are wasting your time in attempting to deal with them. The Maoris have no money to develop them; yet to be profitably occupied they must be surveyed, roaded, in some cases drained, and otherwise improved. I would therefore suggest to the Government that there should be a Board, consisting of the Minister of Lands, the Native Minister, the Surveyor-General, the Commissioner of Taxes, and two elected representatives of the Maori race, and that this Board should be provided with, say, a million of money, which should be placed at its disposal for the purpose of develop- ing these Maori lands and preparing them for settlement. This money should be available not only for the waste lands, but for the papa- kainga and papatupu blocks also, so that these blocks may be brought into a state to be occu- pied profitably by the owners, or could be let on lease, assistance being given to the Maori owners to live on and work their own lands, or that they themselves may become tenants if they so choose. And then, having thus brought these lands into that state of returning a value and increasing the products of the colony, the colony has a right to say these lands must bear their fair share of taxation, both as regards local rating and the land-tax. Of course, the lands would pay, first of all, interest and cost of ad- ministration. It would be quite possible, if a policy like that were laid down, to establish in connection with the Maori race agricultural colleges and schools, so that the fine young men of that race, instead of having their at- tention largely taken up with horse-racing and gambling and other questionable forms of amuse- ment-which, unfortunately, they have learnt from us-should as a race have their minds occupied in learning how to farm their lands. They should be taught how to breed the best classes of stock, and would thus learn to rise in the scale of civilisation. I do not wish to detain the House much further in connection with the matter, but I have ven- tured upon this occasion to make these remarks in the hope that perhaps they may help slightly in suggesting to honourable members in what direction our legislation in connection with Maori matters should go. Of course, there are difficulties in connection with this matter. The progress of such a scheme as I have suggested might be slow, but in it lies the only method of dealing with these lands apart from free-trade with its attendant evils. I think the honour- able member for the Northern Maori District, Mr. Heke, put his finger very plainly upon the position when he said that the want of finality in our legislation regarding Maori matters was because there were many different vested in- terests represented upon the floor of this House and in the influence brought to bear upon the Government. I say that what we want more than anything else in connection with the legislation on Maori matters is finality, and that you will only get that when you bring in a scheme that is broad and comprehensive, 