than the £130,000 mentioned in this report, otherwise they should get nothing at all. Per- sonally, I look upon it that the honour and credit of this colony is worth a great deal. of money, and also I am thoroughly convinced that the railway is worth a great deal of money to the colony. But I am not at all afraid of any influence these debenture - holders may endeavour to exert on the Stock Exchange in the Old Country or anywhere else. I look upon the whole question as a moral obligation on the colony, and from that point of view I am satis- fied the debenture-holders should be paid more than the amount recommended by the Public Accounts Committee. The railway is worth to the colony at least half a million of money, and we should hand over to the debenture-holders the difference between what we have already paid and the fair cost of the line to construct. Of course, to any one else it is not worth more than £192,000 on account of the restrictions laid down by law. In making out this report the Commissioners put no selling-value at all on the Springfield section, because it had no earn- ing-power. But at the same time if honourable members go through the evidence they will see there that the line would be worth £8,000 to £10,000 to dismantle. The rails and bridge material, if anybody was allowed to take them up, would fetch a sum of about £10,000. Then we have nearly seven miles of railway at the Nelson end. Does any honourable member mean to say that, though the terms of our Commission did not allow us to place any sell- ing-value on that section of the line because it had then practically no carning-power, that https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 portion of the Midland Railway is valueless ? I undertake to say that that line in a few years will not only pay 3 per cent. on the cost of construction, but it will make the Nelson Sec- tion of the Government Railways profitable, because an extension of ten miles that is now going on will bring that line into very fair bush country. Since the date of vesting the line in the Government and the raising of the Midland Railway reservation, at least thirty thousand acres of land at the terminus of that ex- tension have been taken up for settlement ; so that the settlement that is proceeding and the carrying-away of the bush will make the Nelson Section of the Midland Rail- way and the Government Railway also pay. Therefore, although there is no value whatever put on the £63,000 that that line cost to con- struct, still I am satisfied it is worth at least £30,000 to this colony. Then, take the line from Reefton to Jackson's, via Stillwater. say that railway is going to be one of the best paying lines in New Zealand. I suppose if the railway accounts could be separated we would find that the Reefton Section is now paying 3 per cent. There is a large area of some of the finest bush in the whole of New Zealand along this line, and there is also a very large area of fair land. When the Commission was going round that district we found several sawmills were in course of erection. The export of timber from Greymouth last year was about 20,000,000 ft., Mr. R. Mckenzie along the Midland line. As soon as the timber industry is fully developed, and the railway is extended a little further, the traffic on that line is bound to increase very materially indeed. Then there is another view to be taken of the question. I believe that mining at Reefton would have been practically at a standstill had it not been for this railway construction. Now Reefton promises to be a very large quartz-mining centre in the imme- diate future - in fact, it is now - but it pro- mises to be much more so-and we have it in evidence that one of the most valuable coal- fields in the whole of the colony is at the ter- minus of this railway. It is most remarkable, but nevertheless a fact, that they are actually now carrying coal from that field, by cart, five or six miles to Reefton, and then by rail it is sent fifty miles to Greymouth, and is selling in Greymouth at 6s. or 7s. per ton more than local coal; so that with an extension of this line up the Inangahua Valley we will have one of the most valuable railway assets in the whole of the colony. Now, Sir, I do not wish to detain the House any further on this question, be- cause as a Bill is to be brought down I may have something further to say on the subject later on, but I am certainly strongly of opinion that the House, if it is going to be just and not generous at all in dealing with these debenture- holders, should go a good deal further than is proposed by this report, and so save further complaints afterwards. The colony has got a property worth $500,000 or more-I think it is worth £600,000 to the colony. I am satisfied that when this line is completed-as completed it must be, and as no doubt the whole of the Mid- land Railway will be in the future-it will pay just as well as the other railways in the colony. I am perfectly satisfied that it will pay much better than the Otago Central Railway, and will pay as well, if not better, than the Auck- land Main Trunk line. Objection has been raised by the honourable member for Master- ton to the Midland Railway debenture holders coming here by way of petition after they had exhausted all their legal remedies ; but I would point out that almost every petitioner who comes to this House exhausts all his legal remedies before coming, because if he has any legal remedies at all left he has no right to come here? It has been established fairly and distinctly, beyond any shadow of doubt, that the Midland Railway Company or debenture-holders have no legal claim agains. the colony; but have they got a moral and equitable claim against the colony ? I am ore I of those who believe they have. There is large number of people in this colony who believe that the colony ought honestly and justly to pay the claims of the Midland Railway debenture-holders. Personally, I do not go as far as that; but I say the colony should pay a reasonable share of the fair cost of construction beyond the £57,000 that it received from the debenture-holders subsequent to the seizure. The colony has got a very valuable asset, and ought, at all events, to treat the debenture- 