accept proposals that had for their object the advancement of medical teaching in Otago, and would not lose sight of the proper control of the Dunedin Hospital. Mr. TANNER ( Avon) said it was a singular thing, with regard to the matter under con. sideration, that the Charitable Aid and Hospital Departments together annually cost the colony £60,000 or £70,000, and yet the former was never reported upon to the House. Every petty department of the public service annually presented a report to Parliament, but the whole of this vast sum was spent year after year under the ægis of an official who during the last fifteen years had drawn £20,000 from the funds of the colony, and yet the House was never informed of the working of the Charitable Aid Department. In Committee he would ask per- mission to attach a new clause to the Bill making it compulsory on the Minister in charge to annually present a report to the House with regard to the operation of the Acts affecting this branch of the public service. Another point he wished to call attention to was this : With regard to the Hospital Boards, which administered funds half the total of which came from the coffers of the State, he might point out that members of the House had the right to inspect gaols, lunatic asylums, and other public institutions, and it was within his own knowledge that the officials of hos- pitals had refused permission-as a right-to members of the House to inspect those build- ings. Members of the House had been under the impression that whatever institution was https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 subsidised by the State, or kept up by the money of the State, was at the discretion of members to visit and inspect within reasonable hours. He knew that that assumed right had been disputed, and successfully disputed, by the officials of a large public hospital in the colony, and that was not one of the things that made for publicity. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- They do not want publicity. Mr. TANNER said he knew they did not, and he knew, in common with many other members of the House, that if a large flood of light could be thrown on these institutions more satisfac- tion would be given to the general public, because the general public were deeply in- terested in the management and administration of these institutions, and looked to members as a safeguard. In these days, when scientific treatment of the highest character could only be obtained in the public institutions by a vast section of the population of the colony, it was a matter imperative on the House that the ad- ministration in these places should be of the best character, and that it should bear the test of God's daylight. And he was sorry to say this was not the case in all these institutions at the present time. Publicity, publicity, pub- licity : why, it was the true safeguard of all ad- ministrations ; but the hospital authorities had an impression that the more they could shield their administration from the public gaze the casier their lot became. With regard to the Bill, he had always been of opinion that all the Mr. McNab | positions which dealt with public administra- 1 tion, except in special cases, should be filled by men elected by the popular vote, and that women should not be debarred from seats on these Boards. He knew feeling had been excited in various districts in this colony on the subject. It might be that the contention of the honour- able member for Riccarton might have some modicum of truth in it-that it might be rather a clumsy method of achieving the object they had in view. All the same, he must point out that if the public, as he believed them to be, were deeply interested in the efficient manage- ment of these institutions, the public must give itself a little trouble in order to elect the mem- bers who controlled them. Mr. G. J. SMITH (Christchurch City) said he understood the principle of the Bill to be the question as to whether the government of Hospital and Charitable Aid Boards was in touch with the people of the different localities, or whether some amendment was required. Now, as to whether the demand for an amended system of government was general or not, he could not say, but he could say that, as far as the City of Christchurch was concerned, there had been attention given to this subject, and there had been a demand that the government of these institutions should be brought more di- rectly in touch with the people. As to the in- spection of hospitals, referred to by the member for Avon, he had not had much experience, but he had had the pleasure of going over the Christ- church Hospital, and he believed in that insti- tution they welcomed the closest inspection, and offered every facility for members or public men seeing how the place was conducted. Mr. TANNER .- They recognise no right. Mr. G. J. SMITH did not know that the right of a member to go into a good many public buildings was recognised. As a matter of fact, by courtesy they might be allowed to inspect, though the right to do so might be denied. Now, the objection he had heard raised to this Bill was that we should wait for the Local Government Bill. Well, if we were going to wait for the local Government Bill we would wait a long time. Since 1893, to his knowledge, we had been anticipating a Local Government Bill-we had been pro- mised a Local Government Bill. He believed & very good Bill was drafted this year and referred to a special Committee, but he under- stood there was considerable doubt as to whether there would be even a small remnant of that Bill returned from the Committee : and, that being so, it seemed to him almost hopeless to get a Local Government Bill through the House unless there was a special session of Parliament to deal with it. In the meantime the hospital and charitable aid system was going on, and the matter required dealing with. In regard to some of the hos- pitals in the colony, there had been a difference of opinion as to the management, and the people had demanded that they should be more directly represented on the Boards of management ; and this Bill, he took it, sim- ply affirmed the principle that the election 