tained in the first Bill that was passed regarding labour. It was known as " The Employment of Women and Children Bill." It was introduced in 1873 by Mr. Bradshaw, and for years was known as the "Bradshaw Act." I hold in my hand the statutes of 1873; the 3rd section of the statute is as follows :- "No person shall employ any female at any time between the hours of six in the afternoon and eight in the morning, or for more than eight hours in any one day." In the following year the Act was slightly amended, but not as regards the number of hours of labour. The weak point in the Act was that it did not provide efficient administration. At the same time it was admitted, especially in Dunedin, that the Act did a great deal of good in the way of ameliorating the condition of women in factories, and the women showed their appreciation of the measure by presenting Mr. Bradshaw with handsome presents. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin). - I am sorry, Sir, I was not present when the honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. Arnold) made his speech on the third reading of this Bill, but I want to say this : that no Bill which has ever come before Parliament received fairer or more reasonable treatment from both sides of the House than did the Bill under discussion. And I congratulate the Labour Bills Committee and the Committee of the whole House on the good work which has been done. The Bill now is a very different and much more reasonable Bill https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 than the Bill which was first introduced, and that is especially the case with regard to part of the new clause formerly numbered 17A, but which is now clause 18, and the exemptions in regard to the industries which handle perish- able goods. But there is still plenty of room for improvement, and I hope the Premier will see that such improvement is made before the Bill goes on to the statute-book. But the great difficulty in connection with Labour Bills is that during the last few years we have had too much unsettling legislation, and people at the present time are afraid to invest their capital in industries where labour is employed, and consequently many of our industries are not so prosperous as they ought to be, nor have we so many of them. Over and over again people have told me they would like to go in for flax- mills or sawmills, or to put their money into other industries ; but they are afraid of our labour laws, and afraid of trouble with the workers, and consequently they put their money into a bank or some other investment. I say it is not a healthy state of affairs, and I think in future we ought to devote our energies to restoring confidence and avoiding friction wherever it is possible to do so. Of course, workers, or the majority of them, do not feel the pinch so long as we are able to employ our surplus labour ; but the time may come, and very possibly will come in the near future, when we shall not be able to employ so many people on co-operative works as we do at the present time ; and in view of that time the people who put their savings into industries Mr. J. W. Thomson think, more encouragement and consideration than has been accorded to them in the last few years. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) .- Sir, I was. unable to be present when this Bill went through Committee ; but, so far as I can see, there is hardly any objection now to be raised to the Bill. I do not join in the paans of joy which have been sounded in the Government news- papers at having produced this Bill. This Bill seems to me to be simply a consolidating Bill. As far as I can see there is not much that is new in it. It is mainly a consolidation of the Acts that have been for some time in force in this colony. They have been tried and have been found successful. Every one will agree that it is a good thing that factories should be inspected. Every one will agree that sanitation is the first item to be con- sidered in factories, and every one will agree that women and children are not to be subjected to the same labour as adult men. On those points every one will be agreed except the Government. Now, I was pained beyond measure at the Government refusing to allow their own workshops and their own factories to be put in this Bill. Every private employer is, very rightly, to be subjected to this Bill ; every private employer, very rightly, has rules laid down as to the way he uses his employés; and every private employer is to be liable to the visits of the Inspector, and very rightly so. But the Government workshops are to be allowed to sweat their hands and to have their factories in any state of insanitation. I do not say they are so, but no Inspector is to see that they are not. I say, above all things, the Government factories and Government workshops should be under this Bill the same as any private individual, and it is not credit- able to the Government to always oppose their own factories and their own workshops and their own employés coming under the labour laws. Mr. HALL .- They come under the classifica- tion. Mr. HERRIES .- What has classification to do with sanitation? It is a most important thing, and yet the Government say they will not be bound by the same laws as the private employers are to be bound by. That is a position no Government should take up, and the people of this colony some day will say- and I believe they have that opinion now-that the Government shall be bound by the same laws as they subject private employers to. I regret that the clause moved by the honourable member for Christchurch City (Mr. Smith) was not accepted by the Government and embodied in the Bill. It is a blot in the Bill not having the Government workshops under the Factories Act. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) .- I do not propose to address the House at any length re- garding this matter, because I think the excel- lence of the Bill may be emphasized from the fact that the one that has been passed is not the one brought in by the Government, but the 