On the motion of the Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER, the message was agreed to. PUBLIC TRUST OFFICE BILL. Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER, in moving the second reading of this Bill, said it was proposed to amend section 27 of the principal Act of 1894, by adding at the end of the proviso the following words :- " Provided, further, that an order of a Judge of the Supreme Court shall not be required when the property to be dealt with under subsections one, two, three, four, and seven does not exceed the value of two thousand pounds." In the present Act the Public Trustee was not allowed to exercise the powers and authori- ties of sale, lease, or concurrence in leasing or disposing of property by way of exchange, et cetera. It was absolutely provided, with regard to these powers, that a Judge of the Supreme Court had to give an order before the Public Trustee could exercise these powers. Well, now, it was found to be an inconvenience and hardly necessary, in relation to property of a less value than $2,000, that a Judge of the Supreme Court should be invoked, and the proposal therefore with regard to that power was that the Public Trustee should act on his own motion without any reference to the Judge at all. That was the first proposal. The second was about the rate of interest. The Act said that the amount paid by the Public Trustee under covenants of certain leases shall, " subject to any charge to which such lands are now subject, be a https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 charge in favour of Her Majesty upon all the lands described in the Schedule to 'The Auck- land Hospital Reserves Act, 1883,' with interest thereon at the rate of seven pounds per centum per annum, payable half-yearly." This Bill proposed to reduce the interest from 7 per cent. down to 5 per cent., which, nowadays, was very good interest indeed as things go. The Trustee found that he could not secure that interest now, and therefore it was right he should have freer hand in that matter. He begged to move the second reading of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY would just like to make a remark with regard to this last clause, wherein power was given to the Public Trustee to reduce the rate of interest from 7 to 5 per cent. He thought that power should be ex- tended, and that the Public Trustee should have power to so deal in all cases where per- sons had borrowed money at 7 per cent., say, for a long period, and who now found they could obtain money at 4} and 5 per cent. He knew cases of great hardship where persons with ample security in a time of financial de- pression were forced to give 7 per cent. to the Public Trustee. Now, however, that officer had no power whatever to reduce that rate of interest. In the case under consideration, apparently he had applied for a clause enabling him to do so. Then, why should he not have similar power in other cases to reduce the rate of interest ? He thought it was a very fair The Hon. Colonel PITT did not know what necessity had arisen for this Bill, but it ap- peared to him just possible that the power proposed to be given to the Public Trustee in re- spect of subsections (1), (2), and (3) of section 27 of "The Public Trust Office Consolidation Act, 1894," should not be granted, and that the restriction of requiring an order of the Judge of the Supreme Court ought not to be removed. Power was given, as the Minister had pointed out, under that section for the Public Trustee to sell property by public auction, to lease land for twenty-one years, or to dispose of it by way of exchange. Well, now, it might be there was an estate in which persons who were infants were interested, and if that property was sold they might, by an ill-advised sale, be deprived of property which would be extremely valuable when they became of age. Also, a lease for twenty-one years might be entered into by the Public Trustee upon what might be dis- advantageous terms, or property might be exchanged, and the exchange might not be really for the benefit of the trust estate. Under "The Settled Land Act, 1866," whenever it was decreed that settled pro- perty, in respect of which there were per- sons who were entitled in remainder, should be sold by the tenant for life, an order of the Court had to be obtained to enable such sale to be made; and in respect of the sale of property of the value of £2,000 he submitted it was not unreasonable to ask that an order of & Judge of the Supreme Court should be ob- tained. The expense of that was not very serious, in the case of the Public Trustee applying for it; and there would be this guarantee, at all events: that the action of the Public Trustee would be indorsed if an order was granted by the Supreme Court, and which he should have thought the department would be very glad to have. Therefore be proposed, when the Bill got into Committee, to move to strike out the words "one, two, three," in section 2. With regard to the other matters where power was given, in sub- sections (4) and (7) of section 27 of the Act of 1894, he did not think there was any ob- jection. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON said it was, as the Hon. Colonel Pitt had pointed out, rather d large power to give into the hands of the Public Trustee, because in section 27, subsection (1 !. cf the Public Trust Office Consolidation Act the Public Trustee also had the right to deal with these properties by private contract. Now, he thought when this Act was passing, "private contract " was allowed to go in because it was recognised that an order of the Court had to be got before this was done, and he thought it was much too great a power to put in the Poohc Trustee's hands to say he could deal with two thousand pounds' worth of property by private contract without an order of the Court. He was not disposed to cut down the expenses of the administration of the Public Trustee's estates, but he thought this was giving too 