to move, That the debate be adjourned till to- morrow. Motion agreed to and debate adjourned. # ADJOURNMENT. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER moved, That the Council do now adjourn. The Hon. Mr. SCOTLAND would like, before the motion was put, to ask the honourable gentleman what he intended to do with refer- ence to order of the day No. 7, the Shops and Offices Bill. That order of the day had stood on the Paper for a considerable time. He would like to ask the Minister if he did not agree with what he-Mr. Scotland-believed to be the opinion of the majority of the Council, that this Bill should be disposed of in some way or other. They were now nearing the end of the session, when time would be precious, and they might not later on have time to devote to the proper consideration of whether this measure should or should not be read the third time. The Hon. W. C. WALKER said he did not think he would distress the Council with this Bill this year. The Council adjourned at twenty-five minutes past three o'clock p.m. # HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Wednesday, 23rd October, 1901. First Reading - R. Thompson - Cook and other Islands Government Bill-Old-age Pensions Bill -Local Bodies' Goldfields Public Works and Loans Bill-State Coal-mines Bill-Local Bodies Goldfields Public Works and Loans Bill. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half. past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Inch-Clutha Road, River, and Drainage Bill. # R. THOMPSON. Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) brought up the re- port of the Public Petitions Committee on the petition of R. Thompson, of Whangarei. He moved, That the report do lie upon the table, and be printed. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City) moved, That the report be read by the Clerk. The report was read by the CLERK, to the effect that the evidence given did not lead to the con- clusion that there had been corruption on the part of the valuers, but that, owing to the great reduction made by the Assessment Court, there were strong reasons for careful revision of all field-book valuations where inequality was evi- dent ; that the Committee saw no reason to find fault with the constitution of the Assessment Court ; and that, though there were inequalities, the evidence did not support the contention of the petitioner that he was a "marked man," or that the ruin of his family was intended. Mr. FOWLDS (Auckland City) said the peti- tion in this case was rather an extraordinary some of the officers of the Land Valuation Department. The evidence taken in the case, he thought; was more extraordinary still ; and he thought the finding of the Committee was the most extraordinary of all. In other words, it was, "Not guilty ; but do not do it again." He thought the finding of the Committee was not in accordance with the evidence adduced, and he would merely direct the attention of members of the House to the evidence, which had been taken down in shorthand and printed ; and he would ask that they should carefully look into it themselves, and see whether the inference in the finding of the Committee was justified -- namely, that there was inequality of valuations. So far as he could make out, after carefully listening to the whole of the evidence, the charge of unequal valuation was not by any means sustained. On page 36 of the evidence members would find, with reference to one property-which, he thought, was the cause of the petitioner bringing the matter before the House-that in 1897 the property was valued at $4 10s. per acre, unimproved value- Mr. O'MEARA (Pahiatua) rose to a point of order. This evidence, he understood, had been printed and circulated to members of that Com- mittee only. Was the honourable gentleman in order in discussing the evidence that had been printed, and not circulated to members of the House ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER said that when a report was brought up on a petition, the evi- dence taken before the Committee and minutes of proceedings were in the possession of the House. Mr. FOWLDS said the evidence had been submitted along with the report of the Com- mittee. In 1901 the petitioner stated in Court that the value of this land was #15 per acre, unimproved. The valuer placed a valuation of #30 per acre, and a witness in Court purchased the land at £40 per acre, which was $10 more than the value at which it was assessed ; and there was evidence submitted to the Committee that part of it had since been sold at #100 per acre. Now, if that was an unequal and unfair valuation, then he did not know what would be a fair valuation under the circumstances. He might state that the Committee had evidence from the petitioner that the portion of the pro- perty next the creek was the least valuable por- tion of it, and that was the piece which had since been sold at $100 per acre. Mr. ATKINSON .- Was it assessed in Court ? Mr. FOWLDS said it was brought before the Assessment Court, and the assessment of $30 per acre was appealed against. It was bought at $40 per acre, and part of it was sold at £100 per acre. Now, the same condition of things was evident in practically every one of the cases cited ; and the evidence submitted by the valuers, while it was impossible for the Committee to judge merely on maps and de- scriptions given as to relative valuations, still the explanations given by the valuers were, to his mind, fair and satisfactory, and showed there was nothing in the nature of unequal valua- 