saw what actually happened. Now, I want to say this about the views the honourable gentleman quoted. Whatever influences may have been at work then, the conditions that obtained at the time he spoke of are different from the conditions that obtain now. Mr. FISHER .- Spreckels stayed for several days at his house. Mr. HUTCHESON .- Well, that may be ; but I take a broader ground, and say that the conditions that obtained then do not obtain at present. There is no doubt we are subsidising a foreign company, whose interests may clash with ours in the near future, and we are doing that to the detriment of our own country and our own ships. Mr. WITHEFORD .- America is not a foreign country. Mr. HUTCHESON .- No? America is not a foreign country? The sapient gentleman who represents Auckland in his own peculiar way tells us that America is a big English colony. And just because there is so much of English in it is the very reason why that community, in its national pride, is so sensitive-that it is so quick to resent any interference with the man- agement of its affairs. At any rate, while I would like to work in the utmost harmony with America, and make the connecting-link with America by the shortest route, which without doubt is from Auckland to San Francisco, I want to do it in a way that will maintain the self-respect of this colony and in the true spirit of reciprocity, so that there will be some give- https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 and-take, and not all give, in our policy. I do not want the colony to go, as it were, with bowed head and in a spirit of humility to any American contractor to beg of him to accept what money he may choose to name on his own particular terms. I want to maintain the self-respect of the colony, and, if possible, bring about a sort of reciprocity between the two countries, so that we may have ship and ship running with them and sharing the subsidy-our own vessels in company with those flying the American flag. We were told that if we would make terms for three years, on terms satisfactory to Mr. Spreckels, then all this would be done. Well, it is a very fine promise, but we do not believe in doing things that way. We want to have the terms made beforehand, and the one impelling motive that would cause the Messrs. Spreckels to exer- cise any influence they may have with the Par- liament of their country would be the refusal to pay a single penny of subsidy until such was done. That is the only thing that will bring this huge " bluff" to a proper outcome for the colony. We are told that this connection is principally in the interests of the import and export trade of the colony. Now, what do those who are most competent to judge say regarding this trade? The Wellington Cham- ber of Commerce says :- " Wellington Chamber of Commerce, Wellington, 30th October, 1900. " SIR,-The Council of this Chamber desires to again urge upon the Government the de- VOL. CXIX .- 83. ing lines of steamers to provide for a fortnightly service to Sydney, so timed as to connect with the mails leaving that port via Brindisi for the United Kingdom. "Such a service would have the recommenda- tion that it would be carried entirely under the British flag, and that the subsidy would go to the encouragement of a colonial industry. It would, moreover, meet the requirements of the greater part of the colony much better than the proposed new San Francisco service, which has been arranged primarily with a view to American interests, and under a time-table highly inconvenient to New Zealand .- I have, &c., "S. CARROLL, Secretary. "The Hon. the Postmaster-General, Wellington." Now, in case it might be said that the Welling- ton Chamber of Commerce is biassed as against Auckland, let me say that such a conclusion is simply the outcome of the diseased imagina- tion of the people of Auckland who hold such a belief. There is absolutely no feeling of active hostility between the two cities. For ourselves we have not the time to bother about it. We have so much shipping and trade here-the Tyser line, the New Zealand Shipping Com- pany, the British India line, the Union Steam- ship Company, and the Shaw, Savill, and Albion Company-that we have no time to fool round with the twopenny half-penny monthly boat coming from America, and we do not want it, and we have said so scores and scores of times. But this is what the Christchurch Chamber of Commerce says,- " Canterbury Chamber of Commerce, Christchurch, 19th November, 1900. "SIR, -The advisability of arrangements being made by the Government with the present lines of steamers to run a fortnightly service connecting with the Brindisi mail leaving Sydney having been brought under the notice of this Chamber, this committee would strongly support the action of the Wellington Chamber in the above direction, as a regular fortnightly service would be considered a boon by business people. "Trusting that this matter will have your favourable consideration,-I have, &c., "H. ANTILL ADLEY, Secretary. "The Hon. the Postmaster-General, Wellington." Here is still further evidence from the Con- ference of New Zealand Chambers of Commerce held in Christchurch :- "That, in the opinion of this Conference of Chambers of Commerce of New Zealand, it is desirable, - (1) That improved and extended postal facilities be provided between this colony and Europe and America; (2) that in all postal contracts preference be given to ser- vices carried on under the British flag ; (3) that with this view the Government be urged to endeavour to arrange for (a) a monthly mail- service between New Zealand and Vancouver, and (b) a weekly mail-service between New Zealand and Australia, timed to catch the 