ought to be satisfactory to both employers and employés. I think it is a fair compromise, and I am satisfied that every employer who is worthy of the name will accept the Bill in its present form, and I think that all fair-minded employés will be of the same opinion. I there- fore hope that when we get into Committee the Bill will commend itself to the minds of honourable members, and that we shall not waste much time over it. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Labour) .- I do not know that there is any Bill which I have moved the second reading of that has received at the hands of the House the attention that has been given to this Bill ; and, as stated by the member for Eden, the conclusions arrived at are really the conclusions which will com- mend themselves to the great majority of em- ployers and employés in the colony. I have nothing to reply to except to defend myself as against what has been said respecting the Bill as it came down originally. I can say nothing further, than that my instructions were that the Bill is such as it was left by the Com- mittee. It seems that some clauses as it passed the Committee were contradictory, and it was supposed that the direction in which they were thought to go would be in widening the operation of the Act. That, as I say, is the conclusion that was arrived at, -and I have no hesitation in saying it,-by the respon- sible parties, and that was under the belief that they were doing what was right. All the same, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 I have reason to complain, because my atten- tion ought to have been called to it. If a Minister directs that a measure as it leaves a Committee is to be the measure which is to be submitted to his colleagues and to Parliament, and then there is a material departure from that, the Minister has reason to feel aggrieved. I might have gone through the Bill, but unless I had compared line for line and word for word it would have been of no use. It was the taking-out of the words " women and children," and the introduction of the word "person," in one clause that caused all the trouble, be- cause it made it apply to all works whether men, women, or children were employed. That caused a great deal of the friction that would not otherwise have arisen. I was very much amused at one of the reasons that was given me, and which I would now apply to the mem- ber for Wellington City (Mr. Hutcheson), and also to other members of the House. I allude to the question of holidays. Have we not heard it said time after time that the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and the Factories Act should apply to the Government ? Very well ; the parties thought they were going in the right direction by making holidays apply to those in private employ just the same as they do in the Government service, because the Government pay for all holidays. If we pro- posed that private employers should pay for holidays what a terrible howl there would be. And, immediately, you follow out what they are driving at in respect to putting the Govern. ment in the same position as private employers. Mr. Bollard paying more money. At all events, that phase of the question has struck me, and it has been very amusing. Mr. HUTCHESON .- You have still a lot to learn about the conditions of employment. Mr. SEDDON. - Why, then, are you and others so keen to bring the State in under this legislation ? Mr. G. W. RUSSELL. - Why are you so keen to keep it out ? Mr. SEDDON. - I do it on constitutional grounds. I contend that you cannot deprive yourselves of your responsibilities, and that the payment and wages in regard to persons work- ing for the State can only be fixed by Parlia- ment and by the Crown, and you cannot de- part from it. You cannot give to an irrespon- sible person the right to impose upon the tax- <!-- PageHeader="1" --> payers of the colony any burden. Even the House of Representatives cannot do it, because the Council is another branch of Parliament. You cannot give to a Judge of the Arbitration Court or to the Court itself, or to a Conciliation Board, the power of fixing payments which are to be made by the Crown; and I will give you a reason why it should not be done by an Arbitra- tion Court. You have the representative of the employers sitting, and you have the representa- tive of the employés also sitting, and, as these are elected by the employers or the employed, where does the State come in ? The State will have no representation at all. An Hon. MEMBER .- The State appoints the Judge. Mr. SEDDON .- The Judge, of course, is neither an employer nor an employé, nor is he a representative of the State. He has to be there, just as is a Judge of the Arbitration Court under the Public Works Act. He is there by virtue of his office. Well, then, you go to the Conciliation Board and you have the same thing again. I tell you straight out, in my opinion, that if ever you put the colony in the position of having the demands made upon it decided by a Conciliation Board or Arbitration Court the colony would have no friends, and my opinion is you would have awards that would startle you. There are only one or two exceptional cases, but generally where the Crown has to appear before Arbitration Courts it goes to the wall. That has always been my experience, and I have always kept away from the Arbitration Court if 1 possibly can. It is only in extreme cases where I advise going to it. I prefer to settle matters myself rather than leave them to an Arbitration Court to settle. However, that is my reply with respect to that interjection. Now, not- withstanding all that has been said, the result of our labour legislation and our Factories Act has really been to improve the condition of the workers. The result has been to improve the buildings in which they are employed, the fac- tories themselves ; and I challenge any one to say it has been detrimental to the employers. My own view of the matter is this: that both the employers and employed have been lifted on to a much higher plane, that the 