some of the Elements of the Final Settle- ment "? He called the Premier's attention to this question for reasons which should be obvious, and which ought to command the special attention of the Government in view of what had transpired within the last week in reference to the Boer war and the operations of the British troops in South Africa, and the expressions of opinion which had taken place in the English Parliament and in the Inglish Press. Simultaneously with the rekindling of the fire -the renewed energy which had been thrown into the war in South Africa by the Boers- there had been spread broadcast throughout the Australian Colonies and New Zealand a pamphlet which, for its literary ability, its high tone, its seductive language, its insidious power, was unequalled by any pamphlet which had been circulated in this colony for very many years. It was an anonymous pamphlet. The people behind those who were circulating this pamphlet throughout the length and breadth of Australia were evidently possessed of very considerable means -- Mr. Kruger took away from South Africa seven millions and a half of money - and he asked that the Govern- ment. having regard to the importance of the question and the influences which were being opposed to the English nation, should, as far as possible, counteract those influences by reprint- ing and circulating the other pamphlets referred to in his question. The first pamphlet was one entitled "The British Case against the Boer https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Republics." That was a carefully prepared and very powerful pamphlet dealing with the sub- ject from the opposite point of view to that taken by the American pamphlet. Then, there was another pamphlet containing a very power- ful speech by Mr. Drage, late member for Derby, England, which had also been circulated in England, New Zealand, and Australia. Mr. Drage was a man who had visited this country before he became member for Derby in the 'House of Commons, and he took great inter- est in all matters affecting the welfare of the British nation. The language of the pamphlet was terse and temperate-as was the language of the American pamphlet-and it ought to be printed and circulated as an antidote to the statements contained in the American version. But more important than either of those two pamphlets was one recently circulated in South Africa, entitled "The Birth of the Bond," which was a translation of a secret Dutch manifesto published for the guidance and instruction of the Dutch people in South Africa in 1882. This secret document had oily come to light within the past six or nine months, and the loyal people of Capetown, having discovered this secret document, had printed it in English and circulated it bread- cit. One important fact proved most con- cinsively by this pamphlet was that the war in South Africa was not originated in the inter- est. of capitalists or of wealthy mine-owners. It showed clearly that the war was a war of race-a bitter war of race-and that the very children before their birth were inoculated the Dutch people of South Africa to take ad- vantage of the fact that the Gladstone Ministry was in power in England-to take advantage of the weakness of the Gladstone Ministry. Now, he asked the Premier whether, having this ma- terial at command, he did not think it advisable to circulate some information, added to all the information they already had in their posses- sion, which would give the lie to the statements contained in the American pamphlets he had referred to. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) hoped the House would accord to him the same privileges that had been given to the honourable member. He might say that his experience in respect to publishing pamphlets. or publishing matters in newspapers or periodicals, had been peculiar. He still had a very lively recollection of what occurred not long ago. He could not refer to a past debate in the House ; he could not refer to what the honourable member himself said, and the attitude he took upon the question : but, at all events, in respect to this question of upholding the Empire, instead of being a party to or encouraging in the 3 0. slightest degree the pro-Boers, or aid. ing anything connected with them, he had here a letter that he had received, and, as it bore on the question, he would take the oppor- tunity of reading it. It was as follows :- " I have not yet seen the text of the debate in your House of Representatives on the arrangements Mr. Seddon made with the Re- view of Reviews for Australasia, as to taking for distribution a certain number of copies of the issue which contains an article on . New Zealand at the Beginning of the Century,' but I gather by the cablegrams from England that the latest version of the story is that Mr. Seddon paid the Review of Reviews for Australasia a sum of money for an article which is practically a puff for himself. I can- not imagine that any sane New-Zealander will believe this story, whatever may be the case in England. The article was one of a series de- signed to give a picture of each of the great Australasian settlements at the beginning of the new century in turn, and the whole series, it was hoped, would, when completed, form a book of permanent interest and value. New Zealand came third on the list. As there was very considerable expense attached to the many illustrations which accompanied the article, the New Zealand Government was asked to take a certain number of copies for distribution in England and elsewhere, on the ground that the article would be of public service to New Zealand. Mr. Seddon expressed no wish what- ever as to the character of the article, and never saw a line of it till it was published." Mr. MASSEY (Franklim) rose to a point of order. He wished to ask Mr. Deputy-Speaker whether the Premier was in order in reading an article from a newspaper having reference to a debate that had taken place in the House this session. Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER said, Of course, that would not be in order. 