if provision were made for them it would not open the door to fraud ;, and I would suggest to the Premier that it might be well to modify clause 2 of the amending Act of 1900 by striking out the 1st subsection of clause 2. This would allow such cases as I have alluded to -and there may be twenty or thirty of them at the outside-to benefit under the Act. In one instance the case is particularly hard. An old woman I chanced to know is now in her seventy-hfth year. She has spent forty years in New Zea- land, and she is absolutely dependent at the present time; but from the fact that she was away from the colony in the year immediately preceding the passing of the Act of 1898 her claim is altogether barred. I would suggest that there could be no injury come to the colony by providing for cases of the kind. The benefit which the poor old people would get is in accord with the true spirit of the Act, and I would urge the Premier that he should move an amendment in Committee to meet such cases as that. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) .- Sir, I have only a few words to say regarding the Bill Generally I approve of the provisions of the measure. It has been obvious to honourable members and to any observant citizen that there are defects in the existing law, and that abuses have crept in which the Legislature could not have foreseen. On a former occasion this session I drew the attention of the Right https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Hon. the Premier to a case which I considered a gross abuse of this beneficent law. A certain woman in the neighbourhood of Wellington, at the death of her husband, was left a property of a hundred acres of frechold land, a dairy farm well stocked, a lucrative milk-run in the city, and two strapping grown-up sons. She divested herself of that property to her sons, and went a trip to the Old Country for the best part of a year. She returned and took up her residence with her sons, with whom she is at present living in comfort, if not in affluence, and she is in receipt of an old-age pension. I made that statement on the assurance of a neigh- bour living in the district. That state- ment has since been verified by a gentleman, who, in his capacity as a Justice of the Peace, has had to attest certain documents proving the truth of the statements. These are cases that have to be dealt with. And I am pleased to see in clause 6 of the Bill what I believe to be at least a step towards the real cure for this matter. We must deal with human nature as we find it, and, as all human nature is weak, so abuses are liable to creep in. Now, I suggested to the Premier to make this pension universal. Mr. TANNER .- No. Mr. HUTCHESON .- The honourable mem- ber for Avon says "No." But I did not make the bald statement to the Premier. I made this suggestion, which, though it may be crude and perhaps unworkable, is worthy of consideration : -- " Provided the applicant agreed to bequeath to the State at death all property he died pos- Captain Russell certain defined family heirlooms, any person may, on complying with the other conditions of the principal Act, claim and receive a pension." Would that not be the true test of whether the necessity existed for the pension or not, if the person knew that he could not divest him- self of any of his property during life, and that he was liable to have everything except personal effects or family relics, everything in the nature of real estate, or money invested in banks or on mortgage, claimed by the Government ? Would that not be an easy means of ascertaining whether they really required the old-age pen- sion or not? Now, on investigation that may be found absolutely impracticable ; but some of the essence of it, I see, is here incorporated in clause 6 of this Bill. That is to say, the State proposes to indemnify itself for all moneys im- properly got during life at the demise of the pensioner. I say the reimbursing itself for moneys paid is not sufficient. It ought to be placed upon the same lines as evasions of the Customs tariff. There the penalty is generally three times the amount of the value of the goods, together with a fine ; and I say the House might with advantage increase the deterrent influence proposed in clause 6. Now, passing from the proposals, and the suggestions I have made, I must say that those who are entirely dependant upon the amount of the present pension do not receive enough for a mere subsistence : 6s. 11d. a week is by no means adequate for those who are entirely destitute. I made a suggestion in 1898-which may be also crude and unwork- able, but still I consider it is well worth re- peating,-that the functions of our Government Life Insurance Office be extended, as they have been extended in connection with the accident insurance, in the way of a branch for the re- ceipt of any sums of money from 6d. upwards at any time of life by an individual, and at any intermittent period. All of us who are as- sociated with friendly societies know that it is the necessity for the regularity of the pay- ment of a stipulated sum that causes so many members to drop out of the benefit. Through the intermittent nature of their work, mem- bers of these societies are at times so hard up that they are, perforce, compelled to drop into arrears. So it is also with the life in- surance policies. I once had the melancholy pleasure of overhauling an old ledger of an insurance company, and I was struck with the dreary repetition on folio after folio, for hundreds of pages, of the same sad tale, " Lapsed, lapsed, lapsed," " Drowned at sea off Greymouth bar," " Lapsed, lapsed, lapsed," and so on ; and why? Because the wages produced by the intermittent work of the labouring- classes do not give them reasonable assurance that they can make the stipulated payments with unfailing regularity. Now, to elaborate a little, suppose this branch of the Government Life Insurance Office were to receive during this week, say, a few shillings from a worker who had been able to make a little from overtime, and then for a month or two nothing further was paid in, the man himself to be the only 