own district. He begged to move the second reading of the Bill. Bill read the second and the third time. LYTTELTON BOROUGH COUNCIL EMPOWERING BILL. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON said the facts connected with this matter were, shortly, that the Lyttelton Borough Council desired to acquire the gasworks already established in Lyttelton, and that the directors of the Gas Company approved of that proposal. Section 6 of the Bill gave authority to dispose of the surplus profits arising from the gasworks by transferring them to the general account. He moved the second reading of the Bill. The Hon. Mr. McLEAN would like to ask if the directors of the Gas Company had arranged the matter with the Borough Council, because this looked to him like a compulsory taking- . over of the gasworks from the company. Under these circumstances one would like to be sure if an arrangement had been made. If the honourable gentleman knew, he might let them know-that was to say, if a price was fixed, and the gasworks were to be taken over. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON understood the directors of the Gas Company had approved of this proposal, and were quite willing that the Borough Council should take over the concern. That was the information he had got from the originator of the Bill. Bill read the second and the third time. # HOKITIKA HARBOUR BOARD ENDOW- MENT BILL. The Hon. Mr. BONAR moved the second reading of this Bill. It was a measure to enable the Hokitika Harbour Board to take in a piece of waste land they had reclaimed. Bill read the second and the third time. OCEAN BEACH PUBLIC DOMAIN BILL. The Hon. Mr. GOURLEY said this was a very simple measure, but a very important one as far as it concerned the property of residents of Dunedin City and suburbs. The original Act gave the Ocean Beach Domain Board power to borrow to the extent of $10,000. An amend- ing Act was passed in 1894 giving power either to borrow, or to levy a rate of ¿d. in the pound. The present measure simply asked permission for the Board to rate up to id. in the pound in the whole of the district, and to name special districts-that was, that all the low-lying land in St. Kilda. South Dunedin, and Caversham, and part of Dunedin should be called special districts, which could be rated to the extent of ad. in the pound more ; but the city and the other suburbs would pay id. in the pound, and no more. It was also desired to have the power to borrow $20,000. He wished to point out that the destruction to both public and private property, from St. Clair all along the Ocean Beach, was so great that the City Coun- cil and suburban Councils were unanimous in asking Parliament to pass the measure this session in order to enable them to at once Hon. Mr. W. C. Walker assure the Council that if something was not done, and done quickly, the damage would be so serious that it would not be possible to cover it by tens of thousands of pounds. He moved the second reading of the Bill. Bill read the second and the third time. # CANTERBURY COLLEGE EMPOWERING <!-- PageHeader=";" --> BILL. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON, in moving the second reading of this Bill, said it had been rendered necessary by the fact that the prin- cipal Act - "The Canterbury College Empower- ing Act, 1900," passed last session -- contained a technical defect. It appeared the Board of Governors of the College could not proceed any further with a building they were now erecting as a reading-room unless this measure were passed. Bill read the second and the third time. EGMONT COUNTY BILL (No. 2). The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY said this Bill con- stituted a new county in the Taranaki Pro- vincial District. It was proposed to take in portion of the Taranaki County and portion of <!-- PageHeader="\---- -" --> the Hawera County. It was for the benefit of the people in the district that the alteration should be made. He had telegraphed to the Taranaki County Council on the matter, but had received no reply ; therefore he presumed there was no objection on their part. The measure had been advertised locally, but he thought it was his duty, as there was no local representative in the House representing the Taranaki County, to telegraph the facts. The 1 county would comprise a district having a com- munity of interest, having a centre in the Township of Opunake, which was a shipping port, and a great convenience to the district. He moved the second reading of the Bill. The Hon. Colonel PITT did not want to oppose the passage of the Bill, but he would like to ask the Council whether it was not ad- visable that the constitution of new counties should be done by public Act, as in the case of the Pahiatua County Act of 1888. It was pro- vided by law that no new county could be con- stituted except by a special Act of the General Assembly. The Bill at present before the 1 Council did not profess to be an amendment of 1 the Counties Act of 1886, but merely said that the Egmont County was "hereby constituted." 1 He ventured to submit that when the Bill was in Committee the honourable gentleman in . charge should see that some reference was made to " The Counties Act, 1886," or the Bill would be meaningless. He would repeat that, to his mind, new counties ought to be public Bills, and not local Bills. Bill read the second and the third time. 1 INCH-CLUTHA ROAD, RIVER, AND) DRAINAGE BILL. 1 The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH, in moving the second reading of this Bill, said the object was to combine the Road and Drainage Boards. ! Both parties were agreed that simplicity of 1 