Committees of the whole Council shall be elected at the commencement of each session on the second Wednesday after the meeting of the General Assembly," be agreed to, The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER moved, as an amendment, That the word " second" be struck out, for the purpose of inserting "first." He thought this voting should be at a date as soon as possible in the session. It was in accordance with the spirit of the old Standing Order that the election should take place as soon as posible, and the Council would also probably notice there was no word said about a call of the Council. In the election of Speaker there was a call of the Council. It was taken for granted by fixing a date that this was equivalent to a call, because members would know exactly the date when the election would take place. There was a certain amount of difference of opinion in the Committee, as to whether the first Wednesday was too early or not. He did not think that the first Wednesday was a bit too early. Generally speaking, the Council met on a Thursday or Friday of one week, and proceeded to business in the week following, and he did not think there was any reason why they should not proceed to the election of Chairman of Committees on the first Wednesday. If honourable gentlemen did not care to come up, or were not able to do so, then he did not see why it would be more convenient for them to come the second week, and they might just as well get the officers elected and set to work the first week of the session as the second. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY said the objec- tion he saw to the amendment of the Hon. the Minister of Education was, supposing the General Assembly met on Monday or Tuesday, http://www.hathitrust.org/access use#cc-zero then the election must take place the next day. If the honourable gentleman would assure them that the General Assembly would meet always on & Thursday, that would remove the objection. The Hon. Mr. PINKERTON said the present session had met on Monday, and if they said the first Wednesday that would give a very short time. Their experience had shown them that the election of a Chairman had been hung up for a fortnight or three weeks. He thought, if they fixed the second Wednesday, that would practically meet the convenience of every ono. The Hon. Mr. ORMOND approved of the proposal, as the second Wednesday would be a more convenient day for members, and it would give an opportunity of insuring a fairly full Council. He thought it was important that there should be a full meeting of the Council to decide such a question, and leaving it to the second week would give a better chance for that. The Hon. Mr. JONES thought that this question had been pretty well decided. Those who were on the Committee knew that it had been gone into carefully, and the feeling was that it could be best left to the second Wednes- day after the meeting of the Council. That seemed a fair arrangement. It was not always convenient to members to come up at the first it was necessary that members should be pre- sent to take part in the election of their Chair- man. Unless the Minister could give the Council some good reason why there should be a change, he thought the amendment should be rejected. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said, As the Council was not in Committee he was unable to give his reasons, but he would not press the amendment. Amendment withdrawn. Clause (a) agreed to. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY moved the follow- ing paragraph, to follow clause (a) :- "Candidates for the office of Chairman of Committees of the whole Council shall be pro- posed and seconded by a member of the Coun- cil before being submitted to ballot." The Hon. Mr. FELDWICK submitted that that amendment burked the whole intention of the Council, and gave them the nomination which had caused all the trouble in past years. He would sooner put into subsection (b) that nomination and election should be by ballot. The intention of the amendment, of course, was to defeat the whole object of the Council as expressed by very large majorities on former occasions. The proposal meant reverting to the old system, and if they were going to adopt it they might as well save time by not touching this new rule at all. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY said that, so far as he was concerned, he had no intention of revert- ing to the old system. The Hon. Mr. JENKINSON hoped the pro- posal would not be carried. The Hon. Mr. Feld- wick was perfectly right when he said that if carried it meant going back to the old posi- tion. The objection was in that the Govern- ment had the power of nomination, and during the last two or three years they had nominated a gentleman as Chairman of Committees who was not acceptable to the rest of the Council, though it had been with the greatest difficulty that those opposed to him had kept him out of the position. If they gave the Government the power of nomination it would be simply reverting to the old position. The Hon. Mr. JONES said he did not agree with the two former speakers in saying that this would cause a reversion to the old posi- tion, inasmuch as under the old system mem- bers were bound to vote for three candidates whether they liked it or not ; yet he did not know how they were going to improve the position by accepting the amendment of the Hon. Mr. T. Kelly. They had to vote for three members, and the result was that they voted for all sorts of individuals they did not want to vote for in order to comply with this ridiculous rule. He felt sure honourable members did not want to return to that state of things. But ho did not know what good they were going to get from this open nomination. The Government might elect to nominate a member of the Coun- cil again, and then all the old trouble would arise. Private members would also nominate. They did not want anything that would lead to 