which have been placed on the statute-book of the colony. And I say that the punishment will fall, not on the employer, not on the man who desires to keep in his employment the men he has there; but because the demand made by the unions on the employer is greater than he can bear, he is com- pelled to introduce machinery, and turn his men adrift. It is so. I venture to say that if any man in this House will calmly investigate the matter, he will see that what I am stating is absolutely correct in every particular. We have heard a good deal said to-night about the unfairness of the operation of these Acts, in so far as they concern the men working in the country districts. Every time a labour mea- sure is brought before this House-and it has been so with regard to this Bill-there is a cry goes up from the country settler represented in this House to exempt from the operations of the measure the men in the country districts ; and I think it was a very pertinent question that was put by the member for Waihemo when he asked, " Why should you exempt the country labourer from these Acts ? If it is good for the town operative, it is good for the agricul- tural labourer "; and he went on to say-and with force-that it is impossible for the farmer to pay enhanced prices, and to have enacted shorter hours of labour for the country worker. It is all very well to say that the man working in the town is the only man who has intermit- tent labour. Why, Sir, I can tell you that in the country districts-where a man is working https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 on a station or a farm, where he is working at fencing, or ditching, or even at ploughing- he also has intermittent labour, unless he works at a paltry $1 2s. 6d. per week. That. Sir, is the wage of a skilled ploughman in my district; but, at the same time, it must be remembered that the ploughman has often got a wife living in a little cottage in a neighbouring town, and he has to keep her and a small family, or a large family, as the case may be, and he has to live most of his time by himself in a whare at the station. What is the position of that man so far as comfort is concerned, and what is the life of that man compared with a man who has all the benefits of civilisation in a town, and who gets his £2 to £2 2s. per week ? The man in the towns is very much better off than the countryman in this respect, because the man in the country has to go out and work in all wea- thers, and has to take a pittance to live upon. I think, if anybody is to blame at all for the spirit that is getting up in this country of town against country, it is the overweening desire on the part of organized labour in the centres to expect too much from the Legis- lature and too much from the people of this country. I am an old unionist, and I believe in the union of labour for what is fair and right and just ; but I do say this, and I tell the members of this House-there are many of them who know it - that there is a spirit grow- ing up in this colony which will manifest itself sooner or later, and the spirit is this : that they are not going to tolerate this eternal inter- Mir. Hornsby so sure as there is any further attempt made on the part of unions to push this question of labour as they have been pushing it in the past, I can only say that, though we may deprecate and though we may regret the fact of raising town against country, the country will rise against this imposition, and it will do its level best - it will be a great power-to sweep away this evil, which has grown up and become a menace to the prosperity and progress of this country. Mr. SEDDON (Minister of Labour). - Sir, I thought at ten minutes to eight o'clock that the third reading of the Factories Bill would have been an accomplished fact. One speech has provoked many, and here, at twelve o'clock, we are still at the same debate, and we shall have done nothing to-day but simply pass the third reading of the Bill ; and I will undertake to say that 99 per cent. of the members of the House are in favour of it. Sir, it is very pleasing to me to find that there is a concensus of opinion in favour of this measure; it is gladdening to my heart to know that when a measure is sub- mitted to this House in complete form, which is fair in its incidence, and beneficial equally to employers and employed, it has almost the unanimous support of honourable members. Sir, casting back only a few weeks there was quite another opinion prevailing. Then, the Factories Bill and the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill were both measures, if you believed what you read and heard, that were to be rejected ; nay, one of the leading journals said, "Here is an oppor- tunity for the country members to show that they will have no more of this labour legislation -now is the opportunity for the House to reject the Factories Bill." Sir, what a com- mentary on that to find nearly the whole of the country members and the whole of the town members supporting the measure. Mr. HERRIES .- Because it is not the same Bill. Mr. SEDDON .- I say it is the same Bill, because the article I allude to was written and published after the Bill came down from the Labour Bills Committee, or after it had been passed by the Labour Bills Committee ; so that the honourable member's statement is incorrect. However, there have been brought up during the debate certain statements. Some of them were statements I have made ; others were exaggerations that I have never made ; and as to others, there has been an endeavour to place interpretations upon them which the facts do not warrant. Now, it is true that on two occa- sions I have found it necessary, as far as labour legislation and as far as organized labour was concerned, to steady them. And there are times when that should be done, and when it is in the best interests of all concerned that some- one should speak out in such a way that there is no misunderstanding the position. One such occasion took place in 1896. At that time, because the representatives of labour had achieved that which was within their reach, there was being demanded more than could be 