Tuesday, 29th October, 1901. First Reading-Food Trusts Bill-Workers' Compen- sation for Accidents Bill-Registration of Births Extension Bill-Local Bills-Imported Rolling- stock-Imprest Supply Bill (No. 5)-Trustee Bill -Supply. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. FIRST READING. Maori Councils Bill. FOOD TRUSTS BILL. On the motion, That leave be given to intro- duce this Bill, Mr. MEREDITH (Ashley) rose to oppose the introduction of this Bill. He did so as a protest against the method adopted of introducing so many measures at the end of the session of Par- liament, when members were both mentally and physically exhausted. During the first six weeks of the session the valuable time of the House was wasted over a number of compara- tively trivial measures, measures of no real importance to the colony. On last Friday after- noon no less than nineteen Bills passed their second reading, were forced through Com- mittee, and read a third time, occupying on an average seven minutes for each Bill to pass through all its stages. Such being the case, he thought the time had arrived when the members of the House ought to take a https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 stand. At the present time, under the head of "Government measures," there were no less than thirty-three measures on the Order Paper, and many of the measures in- / http://www. hathitrust. org/access use#cc-zero cluded amongst the thirty-three were mea- sures of very great importance. There were the Victoria College Site Bill, the Maori Lands Administration Bill, and the Licensing Bill, for instance. Why, the Licensing Bill alone would take the next four weeks to carefully consider the provisions that might be intro- duced into it with the view of bringing about an effective and equitable administration of the licensing law of the colony. He therefore rose and protested against the introduction of this Bill, and he would ask for a division. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) had no objec- tion to the Bills coming down provided that the Premier was prepared to give a reasonable amount of time to consider them, and not rush them through as he did-nineteen Bills in one hour and forty minutes, as was done the other day. Rather than that should be done he would prefer to throw them out altogether. Mr. SEDDON said it was a very reasonable request that honourable gentlemen should have time to consider the Bill. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) did not think it was fair to the House that a wrong impression should be created by what was stated by the last speaker as well as the honourable member for Ashley. Every one of the local Bills which had been referred to was carefully considered by the Local Bills Committee. In fact, even the Committee, not only as to whether his Bill was in accordance with the Standing Orders, but as to the merits of the Bill itself. He thought, when Bills were dealt with so thoroughly as were these Bills by that Committee it was hardly fair to say that Bills were put through without consideration. He would like to ask the Premier if it was correct that there was to be another opportunity given to consider the rest of the local Bills on the Order Paper. Some honourable members were under that impression, and it was just as well they should know whether further opportunity was to be given. Mr. COLLINS (Christchurch City) said it was not the fact that Bills were put through without consideration that he had to complain of just now, but he had a local Bill which had had no opportunity of coming before the House. Before he gave his consent to passing another series of Government measures he wanted to know whether the Premier would give them an opportunity of dealing with their local Bills and doing justice to their constituencies. He was willing to admit the local Bills were care- fully considered by the Local Bills Committee. The Bill in which he was interested had been closely looked into by that Committee, and had been submitted to the House, and he wished to know if the Government would give an oppor- tunity of proceeding further with the measure. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said the member for Palmerston had stated that the local Bills had been carefully considered by the Local Bills Committee, wishing it to be inferred, no doubt, that the members of that Committee had mastered the contents of the measures. Why, the members of the Com- mittee did not understand the contents of the Bills any more than did the man in the moon. There was one Bill that had passed the Committee that he was sure not one member of the Committee could explain. If one attended the meetings of the Committee and watched the perfunctory manner in which the Committee carried on its work, he would be quite entitled to challenge the statement of any member who had the hardihood to say that the Bills received careful consideration on the Local Bills Com- mittee. There was one measure in which he was interested the far-reaching effects of which not one member of the Committee understood. The members of the House were in an equal state of ignorance as to the provisions of the Bill ; and in his position he found the difficulty that, notwithstanding that he understood every point of the subject, he had had the greatest difficulty in impressing the true facts of the case on other members. Although the member for Palmerston had said the Bills had been carefully considered by the Committee, he (Mr. Fisher) undertook to say that the mem- bers of the House who had not seen the Bill knew more about it than the members of the Local Bills Committee, who had seen it. Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) hoped the mem- ber for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) was more accurate in the statements he was accustomed 