Surely the honourable gentleman ought to know that. Sir, I have said already that the Auck- land people are indeed a peculiar people. They believe that the Legislature, and the people of Wellington in particular, have some deep design against the interests of Auckland. Well, the Premier once more assured us that in any future negotiations in connection with the San Francisco or Vancouver services he would pro- tect the interests of New Zealand. He said on board the "Moana" here in Wellington on the 17th March last, - " Referring to the Vancouver service, in which the . Moana' was about to take part, it was necessary to the commercial welfare of this colony, and he felt sure it would be suc- cessful. Our country was in need of good communication, and those who had stood by them in the earlier days of the colony would not suffer at the hands of those in power, who were going to do what was fair and just." I ask again is it fair or just to exclude New Zealand altogether from the carrying of those mails-to exclude a colonial vessel from the service which this colony is now asked to subsi- dise ? Is that treating fair the company which stood by us in the early days of the colony ? I say, deliberatively and decisively, " No." I leave the honourable gentleman to answer that position for himself. The Postmaster-General, as I have already said, greatly laboured the point that they were keeping the Vancouver service and the Federal service in view, and the demand that a colonially owned steamer should https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 be taken into the service in order to induce Mr. Spreckels to bring his influence to bear upon the United States Government to induce them to alter their navigation laws, so as to allow / http://www.hathitrust. org/access\_use#cc-zero a colonially owned vessel to be employed. What does Mr. Spreckels say to that ? Can the Auckland members tell us what Mr. Spreckels said ? No ; of course they cannot. I will tell them what he said. Mr. Spreckels simply snaps his fingers at the Colony of New Zealand. What does he care for New Zealand or its Government. He says, " Take away your subsidy if you like. What do I care for your subsidy ?" I ask any honourable member to read the correspondence in regard to the con- tract, and mark his defiant tone. In a reported interview with Mr. Spreckels, which took place in Auckland in March last, when he arrived in the " Ventura," he said,- " In the event of the Government not de- ciding to subsidise the service I should continue to run just the same ; but if your Government have no contract they will not be in such a good position as they would if they had one. I mean, for instance, in regard to controlling the time." In effect he says, "I will carry on my line independently of you or your Government." We are asked by certain honourable members, almost as a threat, What would happen to New Zealand if the Parliament decided not to enter into a contract with Mr. Spreckels? We should be driven back upon the Federal service or the Vancouver service, and where would the colony tion in the interview from which I have already quoted. Well, Mr. Spreckels having given us this advice in regard to controlling the time in the event of no contract, he says he does not care whether we subsidise his steamers or not, he will run them to New Zealand because he is bound to do so. Why is he bound ? He is bound by his contract with the United States Government to go to Honolulu, but not one of our steamers dare go to Honolulu if she were carrying mails to San Francisco. Mr. NAPIER .- Of course she can ; there is no prohibition. Mr. FISHER .- I again pause to inquire if this is another of the gentlemen who are sent to Parliament from Auckland to educate the people of the colony in regard to the San Francisco service? In the interview Mr. Spreckels says :- " Under the American Act of 1891 I applied for and obtained a contract for this mail-service for a period of ten years with the American Government. That simply covers the outward voyage from San Francisco to Sydney, which has to be accomplished in twenty-one days." He is under contract - here is his own state- ment - to run that service to Honolulu for ten years, and he is bound to come on from Honolulu to Sydney. But New Zealand is not in his contract with the United States Government. Of course, he will touch at Auckland. He says so. Why, then, do we want to pay, except for the purpose of maintaining a time-table service ? And we do not require that, because we can arrange with the Federal service. All the mails we require could be carried by the Federal service. More urgent business could be trans- acted by means of cable. And what is the opinion of the people most concerned in the matter-the merchants of the colony ? The people most affected by the existence or the non-existence of the San Francisco service are the merchants of the colony. The service does not concern the working-man. It is not a working-man's question, it is a mercan- tile question, and the Chambers of Commerce - excepting, of course, the Auckland Chamber of Commerce-are unanimous against continuance of the San Francisco service. They are in favour of the adoption of the Federal service, and they show by tables prepared and submitted by them to the public of this country that the Federal service is adequate to meet all the re- quirements of the mercantile community of this colony. And what more could we ask for? Sir, I say it matters not whether we save a day or two in the transmission of the mails. To the great bulk of the people of this country it does not matter a button whether the mails are delivered one day early or one day late. It does not matter to me as an individual whether my letters come to-day or to-morrow. Take the artisan : what does it matter to him? It does not matter one penny to him. Now take the other class of persons interested, the merchants of the country. If you consult them they tell you plainly they are in favour of the Federal service, and not the Fr'isco service. And yet 