place of his own, and then they would have the Hon. Mr. Rigg, the Hon. Colonel Pitt, and the Hon. Mr. Jones. Of course he had no objection to the Hon. Mr. Feldwick as one of the Com- mittee ; but as he had not been on the Labour Bills Committee, and as some of the amend- ments were technical, he might not be able to fathom them. If they put on the Hon. Mr. Rigg, the Hon. Colonel Pitt, and the Hon. Mr. Jones, they would have a Committee who would insist on the Council's amendments being carried. The Hon. Mr. SPEAKER would point out that it was necessary to appoint five members, as the other House had appointed five. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY asked the Speaker to give his ruling with regard to the practice in these matters : Whether, when the Council dis- agreed with the amendments of the House, or insisted on its own amendments, it ought to be from the majority who supported the amend- ments or from the minority who were against them that the members to draw up reasons or the Managers of the Conference should be chosen and appointed ? The Hon. Mr. RIGG said it ought to be proved that the gentlemen whom he had pro- posed were in a minority. He denied it. He said they were in a majority except in regard to one amendment. The Hon. the SPEAKER said there was nothing more clearly laid down by all the authorities than the fact that the members of the Conference must be chosen from those who voted for the object for which the Conference was held-that was, the majority. It stood to reason it would be absurd to appoint Managers from the minority, who would not wish the thing carried out. The Managers for the Con- ference must be those who were voting for the amendments. The Hon. Mr. LEE SMITH said there was one amendment which was complicated with the others-that was to say, the one relating to the working-hours of women and boys. It was manifest to every one, if that had not been carried-it being supported by the Hon. Mr. Rigg-it would not have been sought to move the exemption of the woollen-mills. The great majority of the amendments were supported by the Hon. Mr. Rigg. The Hon. Mr. JENNINGS said the Hon. Mr. Rigg, by his votes in Committee of the Council on Saturday, fought most strongly against the amendments that were carried. Take, for instance, the amendment giving weekly newspapers similar facilities to those allowed the evening newspapers. He bitterly opposed that. The Hon. Mr. T. KELLY said that as it was necessary to appoint a Committee of five, he would add to his amendment the names of the Hon. Mr. Bowen and the Hon. Mr. Pinkerton. The Hon. the SPEAKER said, As the names proposed in both motion and amendment were the same, with the exception of the Hon. Mr. Rigg's name, he would put the question in this way : "That the Hon. Mr. Rigg's name stand." the Hon. Mr. Rigg's name be retained." AYES, 10. Bolt Swanson Reeves Jenkinson Rigg Twomey Pinkerton Walker, W. C. Smith, A. L. Pitt NOES, 10. Bowen Jones Louisson Feldwick Kelly, T. Peacock Gourley Kelly, W. Williams. Harris The Hon. the SPEAKER .- I cast my vote with the " Noes," in accordance with the ruling I gave. The Hon. Mr. Rigg's name was struck out, and the Hon. Colonel Pitt, and the Hon. Messrs. Bowen, Pinkerton, Jenkinson, and Jones ap- pointed a Committee to draw up reasons for insisting on the Council's amendments. Subsequently, the Hon. Mr. Jones brought up the Council's reasons for insistence upon its amendments in this Bill as follows :- " Definition of ' young person ' in interpreta- tion clause :- "The alteration in the age from eighteen to sixteen is made because if the age of eighteen is retained the working-hours of men will be seriously affected, whilst no hardship will accrue from boys over sixteen being allowed to work forty-eight hours. "Clause 18, subsection (1) (c) : While no hardship is inflicted by extending the hours in subsection (c) of clause 18 to five hours, the retention of four and a half hours would, in many instances, cause inconvenience both to men and employers. "Clause 19A : The restriction of boys' and women's work in woollen-mills to forty-five hours would necessitate the loss of three hours a week for all hands. "Clause 20: The reason for this amendment is that there seems no necessity that men en- gaged in sawmills should be treated differently from men engaged in other mills. "Clause 32: It seems reasonable that, for the purpose of publishing a weekly paper, this privilege should be granted." Reasons agreed to, and a message ordered transmitting the same to the House of Repre- sentatives. STATE COAL-MINES BILL. A message was received from the House of Representatives, transmitting amendments in this Bill, made by Message from His Excellency the Governor. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER said that these amendments had been made by Governor's Message, and were only giving power to carry out the purposes of the Act. He moved, That the message be agreed to. Motion agreed to. LOCAL BODIES' LOANS BILL. A message was received from the House of Representatives, agreeing with a message from 