served." This contradicted the Minister : at the same time Mr. Hutcheson's statement that the Wel- lington Justices had not been consulted contra- dicted Colonel Hume. Perhaps Colonel Hume himself had not been so vigilant as he should have been. As far as Mr. Garvey, the Gaoler at Wellington, was concerned, he (Mr. Atkinson) could repeat what had been said by his col- league and Mr. Fisher, the member for Wel- lington Suburbs, that, as a police officer, Mr. Garvey was a capable man and had a high n putation ; but it did not follow that he was a business-man or a good book-keeper. The Minis- ter had given some figures with regard to medical comforts and medicine, and he was quite right in saying that for some special reason a com parivon of the returns for a single year might be delusive. Well, he (Mr. Atkinson) had taken but the averages for three years, comparing Wellington with the rest of the colony, and his no reason why Wellington should cost more results were these :- Proportion : Welling- Wellington to Colony. 1898-1900. ton. Colony. Daily average of 597 148 24 per cent. prisoners .. Daily average on 1.20 8.5 sick-list 14 . Medicines and me- 433 40 dical comforts 176 So that, comparing Wellington with the rest of the colony, Wellington had 14 per cent. of the invalids, but 40 per cent. of the medicines and medical comforts-that was to say, the invalids https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 in the Wellington Gaol cost three times per head as much as the average cost of the invalids in the rest of the colony. There was the item of a Civil Service Board, to whom such matters of "gratuities," for instance. In Wellington the cost was $344, whilst the total for the colony was only £949. The cost of Wellington prisoners on their discharge-125 of them -- showed that Wellington prisoners got as much & the 249 prisoners of Auckland, Dunedin, and Invercargill combined. The recoveries in Wel- item be reduced by £5, in order to give Mr. lington for maintenance were also extraordi- narily small. The amount was £493 in Lyttel- ton. $650 in Auckland, and only £97 in Wellington, which again seemed to indicate looked up the figures with respect to the cost remarkable laxity in the Wellington manage- mint. land and Wellington Gaols during the last Mr. TANNER (Avon) said he would like to ten years. They showed that, while there was see some provision made for the treatment of an average of forty-four more prisoners in the those suffering from alcoholism, several of whom Auckland Gaol per annum than in Wellington, bad met their death in the cells of Christchurch lington £4,332, as against £2,906 for the greater and in other places, such as to create a sensation throughout the colony. In Canterbury, juries number of prisoners in Auckland. He had the bad made recommendation on the matter, but assurance of the Visiting Justices that no tenders up to the present nothing had been done, and it for bedding and clothing had been submitted to was high time that the department moved in them ; and, as to the statement that the vouchers the matter. for medicines were certified to by the doctor, Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) said he always he felt assured that that had only been done understood that Colonel Hume was responsible since he had brought the matter before the for the management of the gaols, but he would suggest that Mr. Garvey, the Gaoler at Wel- ance of the Minister that he would look into lington, should be transferred to some other gaol, so that they might see whether that honourable member for Dunedin City (Mr. would not make some difference. Wellington Prison before being accepted were submitted to the Visiting Justices, and the recommendations were made on their approval. In regard to gratuities, the department had no power to alter them, because all over the colony they were awarded according to the time served by and conduct of the prisoners. In regard to the bedding and clothing, much of that was made up in the gaol, and to show that there was no disparity he might say that last year the balance was in favour of Auckland by £17 1s. 8d., whilst the year previous the balance was in favour of Wellington by #110 16s. 5d. If honourable members took the prisons of the colony they would find that the cost of one was not much greater than another, so far as the large ones were concerned ; but, of course, \------ - the smaller ones were more expensive in pro- portion than the larger ones. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) said he saw than Lyttelton, and he was perfectly convinced 1 something was wrong. Mr. ARNOLD (Dunedin City) pointed out that a number of prisoners at Dunedin were kept down at the Heads from Saturday to Mon- day, when there were forty unoccupied cells in the Dunedin Gaol. If these prisoners were to be kept down at the Heads there should be an extra warder appointed to assist in looking after them, otherwise they should be run up to Dunedin in the little steamer that was always available for the purpose. In regard to the complaints that were made about the conduct of the gaol officials, he believed the majority of those complaints never reached the Minister. He advocated the setting-up should be referred for investigation. He did not belive in power being given to the Gaolers 1 to punish warders without appeal either to the Justices or to a Civil Service Board, which he advocated should be set up. Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) moved, That the Hutcheson an opportunity of making some further remarks. Mr. HUTCHESON (Wellington City) had of bedding and clothing supplied to the Auck- the cost of clothing and bedding was for Wel- House. He was satisfied to have the assur- the matter. Mr. McGOWAN said the request of the 