pose of investigating disputes, and this Board, through constant examination of witnesses and the various technicalities which apply to trades, must necessarily in time gain a knowlege of circumstances which could not be possessed by a tribunal with only very rare and exceptional opportunities. My chief charge against this Bill is, however, as to clause 21, because there, in my opinion, is the key-note of the altered position. If carried it will indicate a willingness in this Council to throw overboard conciliation ; and the consequence, I feel sure, will be that possibly employers in some districts and employés in others will make combinations for the purpose of entirely ignoring the Boards of Conciliation, and will go straight to the Court of Arbitration. This fact in itself must carry with it great potentialities. If honour- able members consider the position they must see that one party in a dispute must be at a great disadvantage. In one case you may have one party agreeing to go to the Board of Con- ciliation and the other party may not agree, and the result will be that the wishes of the party desiring conciliation will be ignored. And therefore you will be deprived of that uniformity of procedure throughout the colony which I cannot but think is extremely desirable in the interests of both parties. An Hon. MEMBER .- That happens at the present time. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- Yes; but, in the first instance, before the Board of Con- ciliation you get the case opened and ventilated, but under this Bill you go abruptly to the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Court of Arbitration, and you do not know which party it is that desires conciliation. An Hon. MEMBER .- The facts will come out in evidence before the Arbitration Court. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- Yes ; but you do not see in the light of day the true position with respect to the attitude of the two parties as to conciliation. At present the public are given an opportunity of knowing all the circumstances of the dispute. An Hon. MEMBER. - The public do not care. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH. - Yes, the public do care. The proceedings of the Con- ciliation Boards are read with interest in my district. I have kept the Council rather a long time, but I have very few more words to say. My opinion is that the Act has been productive of much good. As I have said before, it will be in my own interest and in the interest of employers generally ; and I may say, almost in the words of Lord Salisbury in respect to the Berlin Conference : If we adopt this Bill " we are putting our money on the wrong horse." On the one hand, you have a grand opportunity of pursuing the system which has been in bene- ficial operation for the past seven years -a policy which relies upon the intelligence and the enlightenment of the people to bring about a state of things which will enable the two indus- trial agents of production to form a strong, har- monious, and effective phalanx wherewith to combat the great impending industrial com- petition all over the world. On the other hand, Hon. Mr. A. Lee Smith by honourable gentlemen, some of whom have always opposed this policy, and others who, though they supported it for a time, are now abandoning it, to go back to the old time-worn and exploded principle which relies upon force, and one which I am certain, if you adopt it, will assuredly lead sooner or later to a return of that social and industrial disorganization- with all its disastrous consequences-which for centuries so worried and harried the industrial sphere of the Old World. The Hon. Mr. RIGG. - Sir, my honourable friend Mr. Jenkinson opened his remarks by stating that he was going to say a few words, but when the honourable gentleman proceeded to occupy the time of the Council for something like an hour and a quarter I felt that to some extent he had misled the Council in his open- ing remarks, although I must admit his speech was so well constructed, so carefully thought out, and so ably delivered that I felt regret when it closed. I would have preferred that the honourable gentleman should have gone on a little longer and given more information to the Council in regard to the Bill we have now But no doubt he was afraid that he before us. was wearying the Council, and therefore cur- tailed his remarks to a considerable extent. Well, I have a few words to say, too, of some im- portance, but it will be my endeavour to weary the Council as little as possible, and to leave out everything which I do not consider ab- solutely necessary and to the point in regard to the Bill we are now discussing. But before I start on the principles of the measure, and the arguments that have been brought to bear upon it, I want to put right an uninten- tional wrong that I committed when speaking in Committee as to certain workers who have been discharged from their employment owing to the part they had taken in trade-unionisti and in proceedings before the Conciliation Boards or the Court of Arbitration. I oniy took the responsibility on that occasion for three names which I mentioned. I pointed out that the list was given to me by a gentleman prominent in labour here, and one in whom I have every confidence ; and, while it might be that he was misinformed in regard to one or two points -because in this instance I am men- tioning the person lived outside Wellington -I feel convinced that on the whole he could prove, if he was given an opportunity, that the state- ments made in this communication to me are absolutely correct. However, I have mentioned in reading the list that a worker named A. Reynolds, employed as a hairdresser in Christ- church, had been discharged by his employer on account of proceedings in which he was en- gaged before the Board of Conciliation. Mr. Reynolds is now in Wellington, and he took the opportunity to wait upon me, and to point ont that a mistake had been made ; and he satisfied me that not only did his employer not discharge him, but that his employer had proved to be one of the best friends to unionism in Christchurch : that not only did he treat his employés well, but he had assisted them in every way to get 