regard to the payment of members in Australia, what do we find? We find that the members in New South Wales have many privileges. They have £35 a year sessional allowance ; no stoppages for absence from their duties; and a member, his wife, and one member of his family may travel by mail-coaches, trains, and mail-steamers free of charge. We have nothing of the kind in this country. An Hon. MEMBER .- Mail-coaches ? Mr. HORNSBY .- Yes ; If a member has to travel in a coach that carries His Majesty's mails he is not charged the fare. In Tasmania they have the privilege of franking all letters and telegrams. Mr. PIRANI. - And a nice scandal it has become ! Mr. HORNSBY .- Well, possibly ; but there is no possibility of any such scandal occurring in New Zealand, for we are more limited than any other representative Assembly in Aus- tralasia. Now, a slur has been cast on mem. bers of the House again and again by the papers of this colony. Some of the papers are for ever talking about the professional politician. They say : " If you raise the salaries of these men you will bring into the political arena more than ever the professional politician." Sir, those of us who know anything about the political history of the colony know it was in the era before the payment of members that the professional politician reigned supreme in this Assembly, and I have heard, and I do believe, https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 that votes were bought and paid for at good round prices, sometimes to the amount of #300. Mr. ATKINSON .- $40 ? Mr. HORNSBY .- Again I say that the mem- ber for Wellington City (Mr. Atkinson), when he insinuates that that $40 was payment for a vote, is distinctly stating what is not correct. An Hon. MEMBER .- Too mild. Mr. HORNSBY .- Well, that is the only word I may apply. Now, Sir, there is always a way of testing the virtue of these people who are for ever trotting out their political virtue before the people of this colony ; and I think there might be a proviso put into this Bill when in Committee to nail down those members of this House who say they do not want this money, so that they need not take it until the next Parliament assembles, and if that proviso is proposed I think it ought to be passed. Sir, I will propose the proviso myself if members will support me in getting it passed through Committee. I shall have very much pleasure in proposing that proviso. It would run some- thing in this way: " Provided always that the members of the present Parliament who desire to have the increased honorarium paid them shall fill up the schedule hereto an. nexed "; and the schedule shall set forth that these gentlemen applied for the increased hono- rarium, so that we shall nail them all down to it. And then we can go before the country and show who are the virtuous gentlemen who will vote against the honorarium, but who will take ! it, " you bet." I was speaking to an honour- able gentleman the other night in the precincts was raised to very much more than £300 a year he would take it, but he was going to vote against it ! Sir, there is a tendency on the part of some members of this House, and I think it it a matter for regret, to decry themselves, to belittle themselves, and to belittle the House to which they belong. To hear some men speak- ing on the floor of this House, one would believe that members who are sent to this House by their constituents are absolutely unfit to re- present the people in any capacity what- ever outside this House, so that this must be the most debased and degraded assemblage -according to the ipse dixit of its own mem- bers-of any assemblage in this or any other country ; and I do hope that members will cease from decrying themselves, and the body to which they belong. I hope that men in this Legislative Assembly will come to realise that, really, this position is one that even the highest in the land would be glad to fill. We know that men of influence and means try very hard indeed to get into this House, and I say that once a man comes here he has no thought of getting out of it until he is " knocked out " by his constituents. So, after all, there must be some great attraction in this House, and why some individual mem- bers should decry their own position as repre- sentatives of the people I have been quite un- able to make out. With regard to the mem- bers of the House who are better off in the matter of this world's goods than some of us, I say it is their duty to vote for this increased honorarium, and I will tell them why. It does not matter a snap of the fingers to them whether they get it or not. It will not make one atom of difference, so far as their con- stituents are concerned, because their con- stituents will know they do not need the money, and, therefore, could not have voted for it from any selfish consideration. But, at the same time, these honourable gentlemen know there are some members of the House who are in a position that makes it necessary that they should have the increased honorarium - mem- bers for whom the present honorarium is not an adequate sum, if they are to fairly represent their constituents. I listened with interest to the remarks of the Premier about the expenses of the member who comes here from a distance to represent a constituency. Those of us who have to keep up two homes during the session of Parliament know what the cost is to members. And when the end of the year comes, I take leave to say that, after a member reckons up the little contributions he gives to the various organizations in his district, and the claims and other calls upon him because he happens to be a representative man, he will find that there is a deficit every time. Mr. PIRANI. - It is not such a " chuck-in" as you thought. Mr. HORNSBY .- I never expected it to be. I have had a good deal of experience of public life in New Zealand before I entered this Chamber, and I know that the man who really desires to faithfully discharge his duties to the 