£82,536; in 1898-99, £110,680; in 1899-1900, $149,120; in 1900-1901, $287,434; and for 1901 - 1902, £213,250. Honourable members would notice the abnormal rise immediately the Premier returned from the Old Country, where he went as an ambassador from this country. On the face of these estimates, a distinct understanding must have been arrived at by the Premier on behalf of the colony with the Right Hon. Joseph Chamberlain, with a view to certain changes in connection with the Defence Forces of this colony. To show how large our defence expenditure was when compared with the other colonies, he might mention that our Permanent Force had grown from 254 men in 1891-92 to its present strength of 490, while the Permanent Force in New South Wales, with a population of 1,132,234, numbered 658; in Victoria, with a population of 1,163,400, 399 ; in Queensland, 286; South Australia, 41 ; Western Australia, 43 ; Tasmania, 30; so that our Permanent Force was in excess of that of any of the neighbouring colonies except New South Wales. The ex- penditure was one of an absolutely useless character, except in connection with the Volun- teer, cadet, and rifle club systems. To go in for an extensive military system was an abso- lute waste of public money. Mr. SEDDON said the honourable gentleman was not fair as regards the increased expendi- ture. For instance, he himself had pestered the Government to increase that expenditure by forming the honorary Kaikoura corps into a regular corps, with a capitation grant. It https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 should be recollected that when Colonel Fox left the service the strength of the Volun- teers was about five thousand, whereas it was now eighteen thousand. A vote of $30,000 for capitation was now asked for, and £32,000 had already been paid. If members and the country demanded a Volunteer Force, it was necessary to pay capitation, and it was his duty as Defence Minister to respond to the demand. The honourable member had said that this expense had grown considerably since his (Mr. Seddon's) visit to the Old Coun- try, and said he (Mr. Seddon) must have rubbed shoulders with Mr. Chamberlain. He sub- sequently referred to the South African war, and perhaps it might be insinuated that he and Mr. Chamberlain had arranged the South African war. He would give some items of the expenditure :- Capitation allowance 30,000 .. Cleaning offices . Daylight parades 1,500 . . .. . . Drill- and boat-sheds 3,500 Efficiency fees for Volunteers 1,500 Forage and house allowances 1,675 Freight, cartage, &c. .. Guards of honour, escorts, &c. Gun-cleaning allowance, field batteries Hire of steamers . . Horses for guns, &c. Labour delivering cargo . .. Miscellaneous stores. . .. Mr. Meredith repair, &c. of boats 350 . . Prizes for rifle-shooting, &c. .. 2,500 .. Printing Army List . . 50 Purchase and keep of horses for field batteries .. 1,000 .. Rent of offices, fuel, light, &c. 250 Rent, purchase, repair, &c., of rifle- 5,000 ranges .. Railway-fares for Defence Forces 4,000 .. 160 Repairs to tents, flags, &c. Refund Customs duty, Colonial Ammu- nition Company 300 ... Repairs to accoutrements, &c. 100 . . Tram- and ferry-tickets for Volunteers 150 Telephone connections 400 Volunteer encampments 6,000 Where was the honourable gentleman going to take a pound off that? He would point out that the rifle clubs only entailed an expenditure of 12s. a man, and he would take them as fast as they came. He was by no means building up a standing army, and would never be in favour of doing so. Then, in regard to the ex- ception taken to the staff, the increase in the staff was entirely owing to the increased num- ber of Volunteers. The expenditure this year was only #213,250, as against £287,434 for last year, and they had not yet returned to the normal condition. The honourable gentleman should point out where he considered the ex- travagant proposals were on the estimates. The Committee last year, under the advice of the Commandant, recommended the increase of reserves in regard to stores, and these increases had to be met. Then, new guns had been im- ported, and the Maxims had to be paid for. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa) agreed that it was necessary to provide Volunteer corps and rifle clubs with the latest available weapon, but he maintained that it was unnecessary to have such an extensive military staff in Wel- lington. The expenditure on gold lace and cocked hats was altogether out of proportion. and was not necessary. We ought to know by this time that it was not necessary for efficiency and for the purpose of protecting ourselves to go in for an enormous expenditure on what he might term "empty show." All that was necessary for the manipulation of the men who had offered their services to fight at any time was to have a Commandant in Wellington. with a staff of, at the outside, two or three officers. and a clerical staff of three or four. In each Volunteer district let the commanding officer £ be an honorary officer, with an allowance for clerical work, and allow the drill-instructor to do that clerical work, with an adjutant in each 30 of the districts of the colony for the working-up of the drills, and that would be a sufficient staff. They could send Home a certain number of men to be trained for artillery purposes, and, with staffs of the kind he had mentioned, the 900 whole of the Volunteer Force of the colony 150 300 could be worked without this huge expenditure. No one would object to the expenditure of even 600 £230,000 for the arming of the colony against 300 invasion, but in these estimates he did not see 50 anything for the upkeep in each of the Volun- 350 