workers in these proposed State coal-mines and State steamers and State trucks, and every- thing else that is included in clause 6, was not carried, and that they will not come under the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I think it must be patent to every person who lives in the colony that if the Industrial Con- ciliation and Arbitration Act is to be the suc- cess that we are told to believe it is, and that we boast of throughout the world, the first people who ought to come under the operation of that Act are the Government themselves, and especially in an undertaking like a State coal-mine. A State coal-mine is the very thing that an Industrial Conciliation and Arbitra- tion Act is supposed to be passed for. I could understand arguments being used about the Railway Department not coming under it, just as I could understand similar arguments being used against other departments of the Govern- ment coming under it ; but there were no argu- ments used during the debate in Committee that could be used against the proposal for putting in the workers in the State coal-mine under the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitra- tion Act. Now, the Premier has himself ad- mitted the strength of my argument, and the arguments of these honourable gentlemen who argued in favour of putting this State coal-mine under the Act, by bringing forward a clause of his own which proposes to apply, in a limited degree, the conciliation clauses to the workers under the State Coal-mines Bill. Now, we believe this proposal of the Premier's is a weak one. It does not effect what is intended. It gives no machinery, and we think, as he has gone so far towards adopting the principle of applying the Industrial Conciliation and Arbi- tration Act to the workers under the State Coal mines Bill, he might have gone the whole thing and put them under the Industrial Con- ciliation and Arbitration Act, as my amendment proposed to do. The only reason I can sup- pose why he would not is because the proposal emanated from the Opposition side of the House; and he attempted to persuade the House that any one on the Opposition side moving an amendment in favour of the workers was insidiously undermining the Bill. I say the Bill goes now with a great blot on it, and it is doubtful to me whether I can support the Bill when it puts the workers in State coal- mines in a different and inferior position to those who work for private individuals. The Crown should be the first to adopt the principle of the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act, and give its workers the privileges of that Act, and not compel private employers to do it and then refuse to do it themselves. I do not believe that the Premier's amendment will meet what he requires, and I believe he has put it in really as a sort of make-shift, in order to appease those of his own party who would have voted for my amendment, but who were carried away by thinking that the Premier's amendment was just as good. I am satisfied that, when they read the Premier's amendment in cold blood, they will see that there is hardly Mr. Herries under the clause, will not be able to initiate a dispute, but only to take advantage of an award made in other coal-mines, with the differences adjusted by the Court, but against which they have no appeal. They cannot initiate a dis- pute; and I do not see any provision in the amendment by which the award can be en- forced. I only regret that the Premier and the Minister for Railways did not see their way to carry the full amendment I proposed. I can- not see any argument, and I did not hear any argument, against it. The only argument I heard was that it might increase the appro- priations of the Crown, and the Premier put the comforts and lives of the workmen as against the appropriations of the Crown. I say that is a position that it is quite unworthy we should take up; that the first consideration should be the welfare of the workmen, and that he should put them in the same position as those of private employers ; and that he should not - as he has done - when they asked for bread, have given them a stone. Mr. J. W. THOMSON (Clutha) .- I hold in 'my hand the report of the Inspector of Coal- mines, and I find from this report that the out- put of coal last year was 118,756 tons more than the output of the previous year, or, in other words, that it had increased during the year by nearly 11 per cent. This was a large increase, especially when we consider that our population increases by only about 2 per cent. These figures show that there is no occasion for the Government interfering in this matter, and starting a coal-mine on their own account. If the output of coal had been diminishing, then it might have been desirable that the Govern- ment should go into this business. The output of the Kaitangata Mine last year was 112,000 tons-that is, 6,000 tons less than the increase of the output of the mines of the colony during the year. In other words, the output of our mines is growing to such an extent that we are, as it were, adding each year to our mines an additional mine larger than the Kaitangata Mine. The number of men employed in the Kaitangata Mine was 237; but the additional output of coal last year was equal to giving employment to 267 additional miners. All these things go to show that there is really no occasion for the Government going into this coal-mining business. I myself do not believe that it will be a success. I cannot think it possibly can be a success. The Ministers are not practical coal-miners. They may have good men, no doubt, under them, and they have the advantage of being able to bring a large capital to bear upon the undertaking; but they are in no way responsible for any loss of money there may be in the event of the mine not turning out the success they hope it will. If they lose money they cannot be called on to make good the loss. In the case of an ordinary man engaged in mining pursuits, it is his business ; he is personally re- sponsible for the capital, and his living depends upon the enterprise. He, therefore, puts forth every possible effort to make the 