Colony of New Zealand had derived from this in a couplet which, so far as he could remember, expenditure of #3,800, especially in view of the fact that the honourable gentleman had ex- pressed a decided belief that New Zealand would not and should not be allowed to join the Commonwealth Federation ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) thought that recent events had fully shown the wisdom of the course taken in appointing the Royal Commis. sion. The freedom of the country and its ! make the necessary provision. That was, he people, and the conservation of its rights and liberties, could not be gauged by pounds shil- lings and pence. He hoped there was no single man in this country-not even the mem- ber for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher) - who would value the liberties and self-government of our colony and the conservation of its privi- leges at so low an estimate as €3,800. He held in his hand the report, and if any honourable member, or any one in the colony, would read carefully this report and the evidence- Mr. FISHER .- Have you read it ? Mr. SEDDON had read a good deal of it. He had followed the proceedings of the Com- missioners during their tour through the colony, and also, so far he could, in Australia ; and he would say that here, for all time, were laid down the facts which warranted the Commission in coming to the conclusion they had done. The collation of the evidence alone was worth ten times the £3,800. There was just one matter for regret : If the honourable member himself had been on that Commission he did not think they would have had this question placed before them; and if the honourable member had been on that Commission, and had given a report similar to that given here, the honour- able member would have told the House that nothing the country possessed was as valuable as conserving to themselves the right of self- government. REPRESENTATION OF NEW ZEALAND AT THE KING'S CORONATION. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked the Premier, When he intends to indicate the pro- posals of the Government for the representation of the colony at the coronation of His Majesty the King? He thought it was only right and proper that the House should have an oppor- tunity of saying what form the representation of New Zealand was to take at that function. He presumed, of course, that the colony would be represented, and it was the right of that House to say what expenditure should be in- curred, and what form the representation of New Zealand should take. He did not forget that last year a sum of $500 was voted for the representation of the colony at the Common- wealth festivities ; but several thousands had been expended by the Government without authority from Parliament, or any mandate from the colony. He hoped the Premier would at an early date indicate what the proposals were, and place them before the House for approval, because he thought that was the constitutional course to be followed under the circumstances. ran something like this: "Nobody axed me, sir, she said." He thought that was applicable to the present situation. It was not for New Zealand to say how they were to be represented. It was for His Majesty the King or his Ad- i visers to say what they desired New Zealand's representation should be. It would then be for i them to take action and say whether they could thought, the course taken in the past; and if the colonies were asked for representation in a given direction, then it was the duty of the colony to be so represented ; but another con- struction would be put upon it if the Govern- ment were to submit proposals forcing upon the Imperial authorities or His Majesty their repre- sentation. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL .- Do I understand the right honourable gentleman has been invited ? Mr. SEDDON said, If such a statement as that had appeared it was simply due to the vivid and powerful imagination of gentlemen very much like the honourable member for Riccarton. There had been no formal invitation sent, so far as he knew. However, he thought he was pretty safe in saying that on such a great occasion as that the colonies would be represented, as they were entitled to be represented. He thought the proper course to be taken, as suggested by the honourable member, as the invitation might be received during the recess, when the Parlia- ment was not in session, would be to make pro- vision in case such a contingency did arise. The Government had not considered the matter, and had not come to any conclusion about it. The honourable member in his remarks, said the Government had taken a vote of $500 for repre- sentation at the Commonwealth celebrations. Well, as would be seen from a return before the House, his expenses in connection with that came to £225 5s. 10d. ; and, as regards the other expenditure, that had been passed by the House on the estimates without comment, and there- fore had been indorsed by the House. He thought there should be an end to bickering on these questions. It detracted from and did not, in his opinion, raise the colony in the eyes of those outside, when they started cavilling about their expenses in regard to the repre- sentation of the colony. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL said he might explain that, at an earlier stage of this session, the Pre- mier had said he was not going to be put in the same position in regard to his action in this matter as he was on a previous occasion when he visited England in connection with the Jubilee, exception being then taken to the ex- pense which was incurred ; and, as the honour- able gentleman recognises that it will be necessary for him to take a vote of the House for the purpose of being represented, his ques- tion was put in perfectly good faith, with the idea of asking the Government to indicate, for instance, whether it was intended to send a Maori contingent Home, or whether it was in- tended to send Home a body of New Zealand troops who had been serving in South Africa. 