thankless manner, he petitioned the Parlia- ment of this colony in the year 1876. Sir Julius Vogel, who had treated him most shabbily, bitterly opposed the petition ; but nevertheless the Public Petitions Committee reported as follows :- "REPORT. - The petitioner states that he made known to Sir Julius Vogel a scheme for instituting a company for trading with Poly- nesia ; that he was promised compensation of £2,000 for such scheme ; that he has received no compensation ; and he prays the House to grant him relief. "The Committee, having examined Sir Julius Vogel and the petitioner, have directed me to report as follows, viz., -- "'That it has been shown that Mr. Phillips supplied information relative to the Polynesian scheme ; that he is entitled to the expenses he incurred in coming to Wellington, in reference to that subject, not exceeding $150 ; and that a sum of $150 be given him for his other ex- "THOMAS KELLY, Chairman. penses.' "19th September, 1876." He was to receive, in all, $300, but Mr. Phillips to this day has not received one penny of that amount. The whole scheme is outlined in the evidence given before the Committee, and I recommend it to the careful perusal of honourable members. Now, the honourable gentleman told us a great deal about the trade of these islands, and the benefits which were to be conferred upon the Colony of New Zealand by their annexation. Now, let us see what the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 islands are, and to what extent the honour- able gentleman's predictions are likely to be verified. Mr. Seed, Secretary of Customs, in his report to Sir Julius Vogel, Commissioner of Customs, dated the 23rd December, 1873, speaks of these islands in the language I am about to quote. But I lay great stress upon this, that the Premier in introducing this Bill endeavoured to convince the House, and the people of the colony through Hansard, that the development of trade with these islands would be of great consequence to the Colony of New Zealand. Now, let us see whether that is possible. Mr. Seed's descrip- tion of Cook Islands is to be found in Parlia- mentary Paper A .- 4, 1884. It is as follows : - # "COOK ISLANDS. " This group of islands, which lie scattered over a considerable space, extending from lat. 18º 54' S. to 21° 57' S., and from long. 157º 20' W. to 160° W., without any intimate connection between each other, consists of nine or ten separate islands, the greater part of which were discovered by Cook ; hence the appro- priateness of their collective appellation." At this point I wish to explain, and it ought to be understood, that these islands, eight or ten in number, some quite insignificant, are a disconnected group. First of all, they are two thousand miles away from New Zealand -to be correct, eighteen hundred miles-and they are from one hundred miles to one hundred and twenty miles distant from each other. Mr. Fisher Seed speak,- "Mangaia is the south-easternmost of the group, is of volcanic origin, and is about thirty miles in circumference ; population, 2,000. The productions of the island are numerous and cheap; they consist of pigs, turkeys, fowls, ducks, vams, sweet potatoes, pineapples, which the inhabitants obtain, in spite of the poverty of the soil, by assiduous labour and care but little common to these islanders. "Rarotonga is a beautiful island ; it is a mass of mountains, which are high, and pre- sent a remarkable and romantic appearance. It has several good boat harbours. The pro- ductions of this island, which is much more fertile than Mangaia, are exactly the same. The population does not exceed 4,000. " Atiu resembles Mangaia in appearance and extent. It is a mere bank of coral, 10 or 12 feet high, steep and rugged, except where there are small sandy beaches and some clefts, where the ascent is gradual. " Mitiaro is a low island, from three to four miles long and one mile wide. " Mauki or Parry Island is also a low island : it is about two miles in diameter, well wooded, and inhabited. " Hervey Islands. - This group consists of three islands, surrounded by a reef, which may be six leagues in circumference. " Aitutaki presents a most fruitful appear- ance, its shores being bordered by flat land, on which are innumerable cocoanut and other trees, the higher ground being beautifully interspersed with lawns. It is eighteen miles in circuit. Population, 2,000." That is, a population of eight thousand in all the islands. The honourable gentleman told us, or we were told in some of the documents read to the House, that the population is fifteen thousand. Mr. TANNER .- The number has been greatly exaggerated. Mr. FISHER .- I am not well informed upon that point myself, and I accept with great re- gard for the knowledge of the honourable mem- ber for Avon, Mr. Tanner, his statement that the numbers have been grossly exaggerated. He ought to know something of the subject, for I find on reading the debate of last year that it was he who caused the Government to include in the annexation Proclamation one of the most valuable of the islands, namely Suwar- row. I take it that Mr. Seed's paper is con- clusive proof as to the uselessness of the islands to New Zealand. Now, Sir, here is a paper, A .- 6, 1894, entitled " Samoa and the Pacific Islands." It is a paper prepared by Mr. Cole- man Phillips, and addressed to the Hon. R. J. Seddon. It is an interesting, instructive, and historic paper upon these islands, for all of which Mr. Coleman Phillips did not even re- ceive thanks. In this paper he shows how New Zealand lost its opportunity in not annexing Samoa. Sir George Grey, in 1885, showed that we had lost our opportunity in not annexing Fiji (see Hansard, Vol. 51, p. 59), and now, after these really valuable islands have been 