He desired the lands of the Waikato Maoris to be thrown open for sale-that is to say, all lands held under Crown grant by one or two individuals. I felt suspicious when I heard this, for this reason : The land referred to by the honourable member had been given by the Crown to those persons, and if the restrictions now upon the land were removed what would be the result ? The present owners would sell them, and, having denuded themselves of land, would come back and cry to the Government to be given more. Therefore I ask members to give their support to the Bill. Mr. KAIHAU (Western Maori District) .- Sir, I wish to make a personal explanation. The honourable member for the Eastern Maori District commenced by telling the House that he was an old man ; but, although he is, he does not seem to have understood the true position from my point of view. It has been said by him that the East Coast Maoris did not support the King movement. How does the honourable member get away from the fact that the places in his district where this movement was supported were "Titi-o-kura " and "Tawhiti-a Pawa." Those were the places at which all these people did support the King movement. There were also other places, and Ngatiporou was the main tribe that lived in that neighbourhood. Then, there was " To. hangaparaoa " and "Te Whanau-a-Apanui," two of the other main tribes in the honour- able member's district, who also supported the movement, and the same was the case right up https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 to the Urewera country. Every single one of these tribes-the honourable member appears to be personally ignorant of the fact that they did so-did support this movement. I told the House if I had only time at my disposal I could prove what I say, and give the name of each place throughout the country where the Maori people signified their support to the movement. Now, the honourable member said that Potatau, when the position was first offered to him, said he was not a suitable man because his hands were soiled with blood. But, Sir, I say that is the very reason he was made king. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable member is arguing the matter. He is giving his reasons against Mr. Wi Pere's contention ; but that is not permissible. Mr. PERE .- There is only one thing I should like to say. If I had been given the time for which I asked, I would have put the House in possession of the true facts of the case. These people who went up the East Coast to support the King movement were every one killed there, and those who came back we killed them. Mr. SYMES (Egmont) .- Sir, I have very little to say on this Bill. Much as I dislike the Bill, so far as I can see it is only rectifying the errors of last year. The amendment, to my mind, does not make the Bill of last year a Bill that we had a right to have expected. But it is marvellous, after all the years of tinkering with Maori legislation, that we have never yet been able to get away from the Native agents or the pakeha-Maoris, who, from the very Mr. Pere Bill, so far as I can see, will be a good Bill for the lawyers and the Native agents, and the Maori will be, as he always has been, the sufferer. Now, one honourable gentleman re- ferred to the legislation of 1858. What on earth is the use of going back to 1858, because, no matter what the legislation of 1858 was, it is absolutely inapplicable to the present day, because in 1858 there were no landless Natives in the colony of New Zealand ; and I regret to say we have numbers of them to day, to our disgrace. I say it is a standing disgrace to New Zealand that there should be a landless Native. We have them often appealing for charitable aid and the old-age pension. Who is to blame for it ? The pakeha. I say it is a disgrace to our legislation that we have the Maori applying either for charitable aid or for the old-age pension. Tinkering with legisla- tion year after year in this way is not in the interests of the Natives or a credit to Parlia- ment. I thought we had a Native Minister who was in sympathy with the race, and who understood their wants and their necessi- ties. He certainly has the ability if he will only apply it, and the only reason I can assign for the introduction of a Bill of this sort is that the Native Minister is overworked, and I would appeal to his colleagues to relieve him of some of the work of the other departments, so that he can devote the whole of his energies, attention, and abilities to the Native affairs of this colony, and I feel certain we shall then have legislation that will meet the demands and requirements of the Natives. He certainly should be able to give us something better than this if he is afforded the opportunity. So far, the only pakeha that has ever made an honest attempt to grapple with the Native land-legislation difficulty was the late Hon. Mr. Ballance, and, had his legislation been given a fair trial, I feel certain it would have proved advantageous 'to the Natives and a benefit to the colony. Some honourable gentle- man suggested that the lands of the Natives were bought by the Government at a lower rate than they ought to have been. I think so too; because when we take lands under the Land for Settlements Act, they are carefully valued and the full market price given, but not so with Native lands. It is all very well to say that we have put all the value on Native land. We must admit that the first ship- ment of Europeans who came to the colony put the only value on the Native land that it had at that time; but since then the Natives have helped in building up this country, and they have spent most of their money on dutiable goods, thus adding to the colonial revenue. The Customs having bene- fited largely by the expenditure of their money, surely the Natives are entitled to some con- sideration for having performed their part in building up this colony. Then, I say, give them justice. They only ask to be treated the same as the pakeha. If we take the land under the Land for Settlements Act from the pakeha he is paid full value. Then why not 