his report the Inspector of Prisons indorsed Gaoler Garvey's suggestion for the establish- ment of brick-making and pipe-making in- dustries for Wellington prisoners. The pro- ducts of prison labour could be kept from competing with those of free labour. In American prisons the products did not come into competition with those of free labour. He submitted that the suggestion that men should be kept at useless work, such as break- ing stones, which unfitted them to become useful members of society after their dis- charge, was an act of folly. What was the consequence of the existing system ? That the Justice Department, as far as the prisons were concerned, was the most unprogressive department in the colony, and men went back to gaol year after year, and no reformation was attempted at all. We were fast rearing up a criminal class. Mr. McGOWAN said it was a fact that American prison-made goods had been sent to London and afterwards shipped to this colony, and came into competition with locally manu- factured articles, and, as far as he was concerned, he would not be one to encourage such a state of things. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) said that not only American prison-made goods, but German prison-made goods had come to this colony and come into competition with locally made goods. Regarding the charges made by the member for Wellington City (Mr. Hutche- son) against the Gaoler at Wellington, he de- sired to say that, although he knew nothing of https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the conditions, every member had a right to ventilate grievances on the floor of the House. Members all knew that if they approached a department with such matters no satisfactory reply was received, and, as a result, no reforms were carried into effect. Very often these at- tacks on public officers redounded to the credit of the officers who were attacked ; and, as a proof of that assertion, he need only point to the many expressions of public approval they had recently heard of Mr. Commissioner Tun- bridge, the head of the Police Force, who was recently very severely attacked in the House by the member for Wellington City (Mr. Fisher). As to the employment of prisoners, he agreed with what the Minister had stated. The honourable gentleman said he would not have their labour employed in competition with free labour, and in that he was quite correct. The honourable gentleman also said he would employ prisoners on works that might not otherwise be per- formed, such, for instance, as tree-planting. In the earlier days of Otago the prisoners did a great deal of useful work in connection with the public parks, and such works had not in- terfered at all with free labour. There were many other ways in which prisoners' labour might be utilised in works that would not otherwise be done. The member for Welling- ton Suburbs had spoken about prison labour being employed in vegetable-growing in com- petition with Chinamen. Well, if the China- men had votes, and were in sufficient numbers, Mr. Napier urging everything in favour of the Chinamen ; but, as Chinamen were industrious and did not interfere with politics, it seemed they were to be met with all sorts of opposition. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) said, With re- ference to the Minister's statement that he could not give effect to what was needed-ag the law stood it could not be done; an altera- tion of the law was needed-he would refer the honourable gentleman to " The Police Offences Act, 1884." Subsection (2) of section 21, in reference to drunken persons brought before Magistrates, states,- "The Justice before whom any such person as aforesaid shall be brought may, if he shall think fit, remand such person for not more than seven days, and thereafter for such further time as he shall think proper, to some hospital, infirmary, or other fitting place for curative treatment and care. When any person shall be so remanded he shall be deemed to be in the custody of the Gaoler, and he may be brought from the place to which he has been sent, and taken before any Justice, to be proceeded against for the offence in respect of which he was originally arrested." With respect to the sending of persons charged as lunatics to gaol, a practice which was so strongly condemned by the authorities and the public, if the Minister would turn to section 67 of "The Lunatics Act, 1882," he would find that the existing law gave him all the power he needed to enforce what was needed. Section 67 was as follows : - "The Governor in Council may from time to time make and alter and repeal orders and regulations requiring the Board or other body or the persons in whose hands shall be vested the management of any public hospital (herein referred to as ' the Board ') receiving pecuniary aid from the public revenue, to provide wards for the temporary reception of lunatics; and may also from time to time make and alter and repeal orders and regulations providing for the construction of such wards; and the Board are hereby required to conform to and comply with such orders and regulations." The Minister would thus see that he had all the power in the existing law, so all he had to do was to use the strong hand which the law gave him to give effect to what was so generally desired. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) said he was glad the Minister had said that he would exercise a closer scrutiny than had been prac- tised hitherto in connection with the Welling- ton Gaol, but he did not know that that answer sufficiently met the facts and figures that had been adduced that evening, more particularly with regard to the Wellington Gaol. The Minis- ter denied the right of the Visiting Justices to be consulted as to tenders for the gaols ; but he (Mr. Atkinson) called the attention of the Minister to the fact that Colonel Hume, when speaking in his report on the matter of tenders, said this : - "The practice of submitting the public ten- ders to the local Visiting Justices and adopting 