vigorously. We ought not to deal with them as though we were afraid to touch them ; and I say that for grappling with this subject as they have done the colony is indebted to the Govern- ment, and the people will thank the Council if they take it up with a vigorous and not with a trembling hand. Amendment negatived, and motion agreed to. The Council adjourned at twelve minutes past four o'clock p.m. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Tuesday, 8th October, 1901. The Late Hon. J. Kerr-Land and Live-stock Auc- tions Bill-Library Fund-Supply. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past two o'clock. PRAYERS. THE LATE HON. J. KERR. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER announced that be had received the following letter :- " To A. R. Guinness, Acting-Speaker, House from the associations and farmers' unions in of Representatives. " KINDLY convey to your fellow-members the sincere thanks of Mrs. James Kerr and family for their sympathy during their late bereave- ment. " Tainui Street, Greymouth, 18th September, 1901." On the motion of Mr. SEDDON (Premier) https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 the letter was ordered to be entered on the Journals of the House. # LAND AND LIVE-STOCK AUCTIONS BILL. Mr. LAWRY (Parnell) brought up the report of the Joint Agricultural, Pastoral, and Stock Committee on this Bill. The Committee re- commended that the Bill be not further pro- ceeded with this session, but that it be forwarded to all agricultural societies, and their opinions asked thereon. He moved, That the report do lie on the table. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) moved, That the words "and that a copy of the Bill be also sent to the various farmers' unions " be added. Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) said, In this con- nection it seemed to him that something more was required than the ordinary motion, "That the report do lie on the table." The Com- mittee went into this matter very exhaustively, and they were almost unanimously of opinion that an important Bill like this should stand over till next session, and in the meantime be circulated amongst the agricultural associations, and that they should be asked to express their opinion thereon. It seemed to him that a mere motion that the Bill do lie on the table was not giving effect to the wishes of the Committee. If he was in order he would move, That the recommendation of the Committee be adopted by the House. member for Waihemo to mean that he did not disapprove of the Bill being sent to agricultural associations, but he wished it sont also to the farmers' unions. Mr. T. MACKENZIE said the honourable gentleman was entirely right regarding his desire to move the words as an addition to the motion. Words added. Or the question, That the motion as amended be agreed to, Mr. MASSEY (Franklin) moved as a further addition, That the report of the Committee be adopted. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden) would like to ask would the motion now moved by the mem- ber for Franklin mean that the report would be printed as well as adopted ? Unless the Bill was printed and distributed, how could copies of the Bill be distributed amongst the agri- cultural societies ? Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the honourable member's amendment would not have the affect he desired to attain. What he would suggest to the honourable member would be this, that these words be added : "and that com- munications be sent, and replies be obtained respect to the Bill." If they adopted the report, it would stop there ; but if they altered the motion, as he had suggested, it would meet what the honourable gentleman wanted. Mr. MASSEY did not think the Premier quite understood what he (Mr. Massey) was driving at. As far as he understood, with the motion moved by the Chairman there was no- thing to prevent the Bill going on the Order Paper, and being brought down in the ordinary manner, and that was what he (Mr. Massey) wanted to avoid. He wanted to make quite sure that the Bill should not be dealt with this session, that it should stand over till the next session, and that in the meantime the farmers' associations would be consulted. Mr. SEDDON .- You cannot stop that ; the Bill is in the possession of the House. Mr. MASSEY believed he was right in raising the point, and leaving it to Mr. Speaker to decide. Mr. SEDDON said the Bill was back again in the House, and the Committee might report against its further proceeding ; but that was only the recommendation of the Committee. The position was this: As a Government Bill it went back on the Order Paper. This could not be prevented. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER believed that to be the correct interpretation of the Standing Orders. If the amendment were carried, it would be an indication to the Government of the feeling of the House. Words added, and motion as amended agreed to. LIBRARY FUND. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) brought up the following report of the Joint Library Com- mittee :- 