expressing its opinion on the matter, but we have not seen that done in this case. I do not blame another place for having passed this, because this House did so first, and they were only doing, to my mind, their duty in passing it as we passed it ; and I certainly think the Premier would have made a mistake if he had endeavoured in any shape or form to thwart the wish of members of both Houses of Par- liament ; but he can give an opportunity in the early part of next session to go into this matter and see what can be done. I, for one, am the last man in the colony to try and excite ill-feeling betwixt employer and employé, because it is no advantage to one side or the other; but I say there is bitterness of feeling now, and, further, that the agitation is going beyond the towns now and to the country. And you cannot blame the Labour party for it, because when the party see these attacks made on them-and they are in a majority in this colony-they will organize as they have never organized before ; and I ask honourable members, Is that a state of things you want to see either in the country or in the House? I say the one is dependent on the other, and everything we can do to create good feeling ought to be done by every member in this House. Now, Sir, as to the special Boards of Conciliation the honourable gentle- man talks of, I say they were in the Act before ever he moved his amendment. I pointed it out at the time when I saw the drift he was https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 going in. Mr. WILLIS .- Only in cases of emergency. Mr. MILLAR .- The honourable gentleman says, " Only in cases of emergency." Is every dis- pute not a case of emergency? Both sides, if they agree to go to a special Board, could set one up at any time. I say, even if the honour- able member desired to obtain his object, he could do it by striking out the word " both " and putting in "either "; but if I had known the honourable gentleman intended to move that they should go to the Court afterwards this Bill would never have gone on the statute-book, because I, for one, would never have agreed to allow these special Boards of Conciliation if 1 had thought the honourable gentleman was going to the Court afterwards. Then, as to the objection the honourable gentleman took to the Conciliation Boards. Heasked : "How could you expect a butcher or a baker to settle the dispute in any other trade ?" I would like to ask the honourable gentleman, if a butcher or baker is not competent to give an opinion on the Con- ciliation Boards, how is he competent to do it on the Arbitration Court ? Mr. WILLIS .- That is different ; the Judge is a trained man. Mr. MILLAR .- Then, if it comes to that we might as well wipe out the Arbitration Court and hand it over to the Judge. It means no- thing else. You have got now under the Act a Conciliation Board, you have got a special Board of Conciliators, and you have got the Arbitration Court, and yet, according to the honourable gentleman's own evidence, the case, should go direct to the Court. The honour- able gentleman said, at the earliest possible moment these cases should and would be settled. The honourable gentleman will not argue that by taking it first to the Conciliation Board, either special or ordinary, and from there to the Court, that that is going to be the earliest possible method of settling this dispute. Still, the whole principle was to get concilia- tion in the first place. It was thought when the Act first passed that it would only be a matter of a very short time before the Concilia- tion Boards would do everything ; and what has been the cause of the failure ? Has it been any. fault of the Boards ? Hon. MEMBERS .- Yes. Mr. MILLAR .- The honourable gentleman may say that, but I think I will prove dif- ferently. Human nature is human nature all the world over : it does not matter whether it is employer or employé. Now, what has been the working of the Board ? The two parties to the dispute go before the Board. One side. gets an award against it, more or less. It costs them nothing to go to the higher Court ; they cannot lose anything by going to a higher Court, and they go to the Court. An Hon. MEMBER .- Do they do that in Dun- edin ? Mr. MILLAR .- Yes; just the same as any- where else. An Hon. MEMBER .- Did not the Board there settle a good many cases ? Mr. MILLAR .- Yes; 1 admit we settled a few cases, but we had the same thing to con- tend with right through. I think the honour- able member for Riccarton or the honour- able member for Christchurch City said that every employer approved of conciliation. Sir, if the honourable gentleman had sat, as I have, on Conciliation Boards, and seen employer after employer trooping up and complaining that they did not know what they were called there for, and saying that they had no dispute at all, the honourable gentleman would simply be sur- prised. One after another would come up and deny that any dispute existed between them and their employés. I trust that when the Bill comes up next session honourable members will look at it apart from any feeling with which they may regard any particular Board in the colony. Honourable members read the news- papers, and it is strange that inflammatory articles have appeared in the Press ever since the award was given against the newspaper- proprietors. Mr. PIRANI .- The award was in their favour. Mr. MILLAR .- I am coming to that point. Up to the time when they were brought before the Board little or nothing was said in the newspapers. Now, what was the award of the Conciliation Board in Wellington? Will any one say it was in favour of the employers ? Mr. PIRANI. - Yes; the Typographical So- ciety was going to dissolve over it. Mr. MILLAR. - Was the recommendation of the Board in favour of the employers ? 