and supervision and so on, and he could not imagine it did any good proportionate to the expense. He would also like the details of " Expenses in connection with 'The Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act, 1900,' £2,600." He noticed that £2,128 was actually expended last year. Mr. SEDDON said they had a long list of paying subscribers, and a large number of persons outside had made application for it from America. There was an interchange, and the latest application for the journal was from Russia. There had also been applications from Germany. Whatever members might say, the journal was well worth maintaining ; and the cost, he thought, was something under $200 a year. Mr. HORNSBY (Wairarapa), with regard to co-operative labourers sent by the Labour Bureau to country districts, desired to suggest that what might be termed a " black list " ought to be kept. He did not blame in any way the officers of the department, who did all that was possible under the circumstances ; but the fact was that some men obtained work, lived on the storekeepers, left them unpaid, abused the officers of the department, did everything that rascality could dictate, and then they went away to turn up at some other labour agency and get work again. Some of the men sent to his district had behaved in the way complained of. The department did every- thing they could to right the wrong done, but could not secure justice to those who had been victimised. He therefore suggested that it would be the right thing that a "black list " should be kept in such cases, so that those who abused the kindness shown them should not again be employed through the Labour Depart- ment. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) asked that an indication should be given of how the amount was made up of expenses in connection with the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitra- tion Act. Mr. SEDDON said these consisted of the following :- Conciliation Board- s. d. € 8. d. Fees 310 8 0 . . Expenses 81 6 11 1,301 14 11 Court of Arbitration- 0 Fees 1,273 11 . . Expenses 291 16 9 1,565 7 9 Other expenses under " The In. dustrial Conciliation and Arbi- tration Act, 1900 " 1 13 4 . . Total expenditure under Act . . £2,958 16 0 Mr. ATKINSON wished to know if the salaries and allowances to the members of the Board were included in that. Mr. SEDDON replied in the affirmative. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) said that while he considered there ought to be a pre- ference of employment for married men on VOL. CXIX .- 27. carried out to the total exclusion of single men. Mr. SEDDON said that was not done. Vote, $7,790 agreed to. CLASS X .-- MINES DEPARTMENT. Mines Department, £5,945. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) asked for in- formation about the Mining Bureau. They had every year a vote for the Secretary of this Bureau, who no doubt conducted it very well, but they never heard of any business being done by it, and he would like to know whether there was any necessity for the Bureau. Mr. J. ALLEN (Bruce) said that some two years ago he had had occasion to speak with regard to the Inspectors of Mines, and had pointed out that they were under-staffed and underpaid. The work that had to be done by the Mine Inspectors was perhaps the most im- portant work of the Mines Department. The lives of the men and the safety of the mines to a large extent depended upon the Inspectors, for he took it the employers looked to the In- spectors to inform them of any dangers they might have overlooked. He thought there ought to be sufficient of these Inspectors to make such ample inspection as would insure the safety of both men and employers. They ought to be well paid to insure that they were thoroughly competent. He did not say that the Inspectors were not competent: he be- lieved they were. But the matter was of such great importance that he hoped the Minister would assure them that either he was satisfied, and that there were sufficient Inspectors his (Mr. Allen's) own opinion was there was not- or, if not, that he would have fresh Inspectors appointed, and that he would see that they were more adequately paid, in order that the Government might obtain the best possible talent procurable in New Zealand. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) asked the Minister to explain why the salary of the Under-Secretary for Mines was increased from £550 to $600 this year, and whether they might expect another increase of $50 next year. He would also like to know why the Chief Clerk-who was also Secretary to the Board of Examiners under the Coal-mines Act, for which he got £50, and Private Secre- tary to the Premier, for which he got £25 was increased by £35, which would make his salary £440 altogether. He would like to know why it was deemed necessary to give these increases. Mr. McGOWAN (Minister of Mines) might say, in reply to the member for the Bay of Plenty, that the principal work of the Secre- tary of the Mining Bureau was conducting the publication known as the Mines Record. His opinion was that he was worth much more, inasmuch as inquiries for copies of this work had come from every country in the world in which mining was going on. Foreign nations were repeatedly writing asking for this Record, and its importance was shown by the fact that the information contained in it was reprinted in some of the foreign publications devoted to mining. It gave the information in regard to the output of gold, original articles on mining, 