did my best according to my light. If I brought in a Bill to alter the law it would not improve matters at all, and if I brought in an amended Bank of New Zealand Bill we should have here upon that Bill a general discussion, Bank of New Zealand versus the colony, and I want to keep the Bank of New Zealand off the floor of the House as long as I can. To alter the Bank of New Zealand Act to meet a case of this sort would appear to me to be simply using a steam hammer to crack a nut, and I do not think it is worth while to ask the House to waste time over it. Now, the honourable member for Bruce says I could bring in a Public Revenues Bill and get it through the House in ten minutes. I say if I brought in such a Bill we should be kept here for weeks discussing it, and hence it is better to accept the law as it stands. Next session I shall move that all papers from the Controller-General do lie upon the table of the House, so as not to waste the time of the House and country by bothering with them at all. Motion agreed to. WAIMATE HOSPITAL DISTRICT BILL. Mr. GRAHAM (Nelson City) brought up the report of the Local Bills Committee on this Bill, to the effect that, the Standing Orders not having been complied with, the Bill be not allowed to proceed. Major STEWARD (Waitaki) was not going to move that the report be sent back to the Committee. as he had taken the step of intro- ducing another Bill. But he wished to draw the attention of members interested in local Bills, and also of the head of the Government, to the fact that there was an ambiguity in the present Standing Orders which required to be remedied. Standing Order No. 385 said, "No local Bill shall be read a second time un- less notice shall have been given of the said Bill in the locality to which the Bill refers." Now, this Bill referred to the County of Waimate, and it was advertised there in accordance with the requirements, as the promoters thought, of the Standing Orders. Now they had been told that they had not complied with the Standing Orders because the advertising and the deposit of the plan did not take place at Timaru, the opinion being held by the Local Bills Committee that the district from which Waimate desired to be separated was that in which the Bill operated. The Committee was undoubtedly the proper body to interpret the Standing Order, and therefore he did not propose to argue as to the correctness or otherwise of the Commit- tee's decision ; but he believed it was impera- tive that the Standing Order should be made explicit, as otherwise many members might lose their local Bills. On this occasion it would not be, so far as he was concerned, as he had had time to comply with the view of the Com- mittee, and the Bill had been readvertised and the plans deposited afresh. It was, how- ever, absolutely necessary that the Standing Orders should be explicit on the point to which he had drawn attention. Works) agreed with much that had been said by the last speaker, and it did seem to indicate that an amendment of the Standing Orders was required. The question was this : In making any subdivision of a district for the purpose of forming a new county, or a new hospital dis- trict, whether, in accordance with the Standing Order, to deposit the Bill at the principal Court- house in such district. He thought it was very clear what the intention of the Standing Order was : that full notice should be given in all parts of the district affected by a local Bill. In this case it appeared that publicity had not been given to the Bill in the greater part of the district that was affected. In the largest por- tion of the district nothing was known of this Bill until it was introduced into the House. Mr. FLATMAN (Geraldine) thought the Local Bills Committee had undoubtedly done right in connection with this Bill. He had a letter from the Chairman of the Hospital and Charitable Aid Board saying that his Board knew nothing whatever of this Bill coming forward. It had simply been advertised in Waimate, which was at one end of the hospital district, and had never been advertised in the Timaru or Geraldine paper, and the Chairman himself never had any notice of the Bill. Ho thought the Local Bills Committee were right in the stand they had taken. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) said, No doubt a very important point had been raised : but it. was as well that the House should declare as to the position taken up by the Committee. This Bill made provision for the subdivision of a district of a duly constituted Hospital and Charitable Aid Board district. The Standing Order said that the plans should be deposited in the chief Courthouse. In this case the Bill was advertised in one end of the district, and the plans were duly deposited in the Courthouse there, but not in the chief Court- house of the district, and no opportunity was given to that part of the district to know what was going to be done. It would be a ques- tion for the House to consider later on whether any portion of a district could break away and comply with the Standing Orders by advertis- ing in one part of the district. The Local Bills Committee had no intention of blocking any Bill; but, where the Standing Orders had not been complied with, they had so reported to the House so that the House might discuss it. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka) said the Standing Orders had been in use since 1894, and during that time there must have been a hundred or more local Bills considered, and it was remarkable that this alleged mistake in the Standing Orders had not been discovered The position was that the Minister before. for Public Works represented Timaru, and Timaru was interested in blocking this Bill. He raised a technical question to try and kill the Bill. The Chairman ruled that the Stand- ing Orders had not been complied with because the Bill had not been advertised in the Borough of Timaru, and the Borough of Timaru had nothing whatever to do with it. This measure 