would be on the same footing. No one, how- ever, supposed for a moment that the Counties Bill was going to be passed this session, and that was another reason for not proceeding with this Bill this session. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) expressed sur- prise at the a titude assumed by the honourable member for Riccarton. If his memory served him right, he was on a platform with him in Christchurch when there was a big discussion on this very question, and complaints were made as to the management of the Charitable Aid Board, and recommendations were then made as to the Boards being directly elected. The honourable member knew that for years there had been a fight going on in Christchurch to get women on the Boards, with the result that one was elected, and was still a member. An HON. MEMBER -Do you think they will get on under this Bill ? Mr. ELL said he did. He believed public opinion was in favour of women being on these Boards, and, if public opinion had the oppor- tunity of expressing itself, public opinion would put women on these Boards. The Bill might not go as far as he would like it to go, but he would accept it as a measure that was, at any rate, in the right direction. At Home a fair proportion of the members of the Boards of guardians were women, who were elected directly by the district electors. The same applied to the School Boards. He would cer- tainly like to see women on the Charitable Aid Boards in this colony. The Christchurch Charitable Aid Board had said they welcomed the presence of a woman on their Board ; her services, they considered, were of immense benefit to them. As to the statements made by the member for the Bay of Plenty, he agreed with the member for Waihemo that, as the matter was one particularly affecting the poorer classes, the franchise should be made as wide as possible. The honourable member for the Bay of Plenty must surely know that out of the Consolidated Fund 24s. in the pound was given to the local authorities by way of subsidy. In fact, more money was paid out of the consolidated revenue towards the expense of hospitals and charitable institutions than came out of the local taxpayers' pockets. That was certainly a strong argument why the fran- chise should be widened considerably more than it was at present. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) agreed with those mem- bers who had spoken in favour of the Bill pass. ing its second reading and then being circu- lated among the local bodies, so that next year everybody's mind might be ripe to legislate on the question. The measure introduced a de- cided innovation in the method of the election of local bodies-namely, the one-man-one-vote principle. That was a matter of consequence ; in fact, it was of vital importance. It was a burning question in elections of the kind, just as it was in the case of the election of County Councillors. The Bill was in an incomplete, not to say in a crude, state, and would require a good deal of attention in Committee. Take, tions,- " From and after the passing of this Act all elections of members of a District Board under section seven of the principal Act shall be held according to the provisions of this Act." Well, section 7 of the principal Act was divided into two parts, and there was nothing in the new Bill to say what portions of that section should be repealed, and what portions should not be repealed. In fact, the new Bill provided two methods, standing side by side, for the election of members of Hospital and Charitable Aid Boards. It was quite unusual in a new Bill not to provide a statement of what should and should not be repealed. That was one matter that required attention, and there were a number of others. It was a very short Bill ; whereas a very long Bill would be required to meet the purpose. Furthermore, the Minister had not impressed upon the House sufficient reasons to indicate the necessity for it. He had not heard any complaint from any local body as to the present method of election. The only members of local bodies to whom he had had an opportunity of mentioning the Bill at all had expressed themselves decidedly against it. He thought the Minister should be content to get a second reading, and then have the Bill circulated, with a view to its being maturely considered before next session. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) said he had no ob- jection to this alteration of the law to put the election of members of Hospital and Charitable Aid Boards into the hands of the whole of the ratepayers, though he was not aware of any strong public feeling for a change from the pre- sent system. There were some country districts which would scarcely come under this Bill, such as Ashley County. The local bodies under the present Act had been able to get represen- tatives from country districts who did very well ; but there were few who cared to take up the work. Where the Counties Act was in sus- pension the difficulty was got over by calling a convention of the local bodies to appoint those gentlemen who had the time to spare. Now, where the Counties Act was in suspen- sion-such as the Ashley County-there was no machinery in this Bill to provide for the election. It seemed to him that this Bill would almost require to be redrafted to meet the circumstances he had mentioned, and if the Minister was going on with the Bill he would point out that the Bill ought to be referred to a Committee-he would suggest the Counties Committee. At all events, it would be a very difficult matter at this time of the session to pass this Bill, which required several amend- ments ; and he hoped that if the Bill was to be proceeded with measures would be taken to make it as perfect as possible. Captain RUSSELL (Hawke's Bay) would like to point out to the House that, though in theory the proposal in this Bill might appear sound, in practice it would not work. It was a notorious fact that, except on rare occasions, you could not get local elections carried out with any vigour at all. You could not get 