nothing more to say. I was not aware of that. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - I stated dis- tinctly that the motion could only be moved by unanimous consent. The honourable mem- ber stated that he, for one, declined to give his consent, and that ended the matter. Sir J. G. WARD (Postmaster - General). - Might I be allowed to make a suggestion ? I am only coming to the point in respect to which members, no doubt, desire some in- formation - namely, why the Government suggest that we should continue the Fr'isco mail-service; and when we go into Committee I will propose that I should be allowed the first ten minutes, and that then I should be allowed a further ten minutes, and so on until I have concluded what I desire to say. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) .- As a way out of the difficulty, I move, That this resolution be considered to-morrow ; and that will give my colleague an opportunity of giving us reasons why we should proceed at once, and then we shall conform with the Standing Orders. Mr. TANNER (Avon) .- I second the motion of the Premier, and I think it is extremely to be regretted that the consent of the House has not been unanimous on this occasion. No one wishes to conform to the Standing Orders more than I do, but at the same time we can scarcely expect to be always the slaves of the Standing Orders. There are times-times of vast import- ance-when we are fully justified in suspending the Standing Orders. We have suspended the https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Standing Orders in the past in respect to matters of much less consequence than these mail-con- tract resolutions. I might perhaps suggest to the honourable member what has occurred to me as a plan which will be of more advantage to him than the course which has just been suggested. I do not know whether it would be in order, but it is to put these resolutions in the form of a Bill, and take the debate on the second reading. If that can be done it would get over the present difficulty. Sir J. G. WARD .- It is not often that I rise to dissent from a proposal made by my col- league the Premier. I think, therefore, I must proceed to give my reasons for dissenting, and I will do so in regard to these resolutions, in the hope that honourable members will be able to see that their consideration should not be adjourned until to-morrow. When the Standing Orders compelled me to stop my remarks-with some regret, judging by the expressions from honourable members gene- rally that I should proceed-for I know they required further information with respect to these resolutions, and I hoped that unanimous consent would have been given to my proceed- ing and giving those reasons. But I do object to postponing further consideration of these resolution till to-morrow, and I will tell honour- able members why. I will read the following two telegrams, one from the Secretary of the department here, sent by my direction :- "Secretary, Postmaster-General, Melbourne. " SHOULD New Zealand decide make extended VOL. CXIX .- 31. population ? Kindly reply to-morrow .- GRAY." "Gray, Wellington. " YOUR telegram re paying for correspondence sent by Federal mail-service on basis of popu- lation under consideration of Cabinet. Reply will be sent soon as possible .- SCOTT." I think it is only right that honourable mem- bers should hear those cables read, for perhaps they will have seen some allusion made to them last evening in the public Press. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) .- I rise to a point of order. Mr. SEDDON .- I hope this time will not be taken off the time allotted to my colleague. Mr. FISHER .- Let me give the Premier one word of advice. The honourable gentleman may trifle with whom he pleases, but I want to tell him that he will not trifle with me. My point of order is this: We all, 1 am sure, wish to hear the Postmaster - General continue his speech ; but I wish to ask your ruling, Sir, upon the question whether it is competent for you to accept the amendment proposed by the Premier upon the understanding that the Postmaster-General is to resume his speech to-morrow, when he will have another half- hour in moving these resolutions. I ask your ruling, Sir, on that point first. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable gentleman has no such right to resume his speech to-morrow. He has only the same right as any other honourable member has to speak now. He being the first member to rise after the amendment was put from the chair, I called upon him; and if the honourable member for Wellington City or the honourable member for Hawke's Bay had risen first he would have been called upon to speak. Mr. FISHER .- What you rule is that the Postmaster-General may speak for half an hour. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Certainly, when speaking on the question of the amendment. Mr. FISHER .- What is the question ? Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER. - The original question was That this House resolve itself into Committee of the Whole to consider the resolutions of which notice appears on the Order Paper; and the amendment is, To omit the word "forthwith," and insert the word "to-morrow " in lieu thereof. Mr. FISHER .- And, in speaking to that amendment, do you rule that the honourable gentleman may make another speech of half an hour. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- Certainly, under the Standing Orders that is the time-limit. Mr. FISHER. - That is your ruling, Sir. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- It is. Mr. FISHER .- It is a manifest setting-aside of our Standing Orders. I wish to say that; and I say that the Standing Orders this ses- sion- Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I do not know if the honourable member is reflecting upon what has occurred since I have had the honour of occupying the chair. If so, I must call upon I him to withdraw it. 