tives alienating their land to Europeans, but more especially to the Government. What encouragement did the Government give the Natives to come from Pipiriki and other inland places to live in Wanganui? Tents were too cold for them, so a humane Minister actually built residences for them opposite the Native Office, so that when the land was put through the Court, the Government agent was con- venient to take signatures handing the land over to the Crown. Mr. WILLIS .- It was nothing of the kind ; the office was not there at the time. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- I think the House has the weight of the honourable gentleman's opinions on all subjects. I am stating an abso- lute fact. I tell honourable members that the buildings were put up for the Natives to live in when the Court was sitting, and when the land passed through the Court the Land Pur- chase Officer took the signatures, and the money was paid over and spent in Wanganui. What did we find? Petitions coming --- when it was suggested that the Court should go to Pipiriki- signed by every shopkeeper in Wanganui, " For heaven's sake don't take it away ; you will ruin us." The Government are buying land there now at 5s. an acre, land the owners were pestered by Europeans to sell for £1 to £1 10s. And this simply to enrich the coffers of the honourable member for Wanganui and his con- stituents. The Land Court is there now. advise him to study the legislation of last session, and study the amendments, and if he has the interests of the Natives at heart he will vote and speak against such injustice. There is only one matter the member for Egmont dealt with : he said the whole curse of the Native legislation had been Native agents. I would say this, without speaking of myself : There are Native agents who have been the greatest assistance to and the truest friends the Natives have had. I admit some may not have been white flowers of a blameless life ; but it must not be forgotten that in all walks of life you find black sheep. The Native Minister was a Native agent for many years, and I venture to say, in all his transactions, no one can put his finger on a single transaction to his discredit. I have been practising for ten years, though I have had nothing to do with purchasing Native lands. I defy any one to say anything against my character as a professional man in the Native Land Court. Native agents have been friends to the Natives on many occasions. The work is extremely intricate. It was asked why Native agents are required in the Court at all, and asserted that they receive excessive fees. Does it ever occur to these critics that Native agents deal with larger cases than any lawyer - however extensive his practice-can possibly have in European Courts? I have been en- gaged in cases where a quarter or half a million has been involved, while my fee was $50 or £60. If such a case was in the Supreme Court there would be a retaining fee alone of a thousand or more, with many refreshers. I recollect one case of two hundred and fifty thou- dividualising the title, partition, surveying, et cetera-the proceedings in the case lasting for over eight months-was 5}d. an acre on the whole. Yet they speak of Native land agents being the curse of the Native Land Courts. Ask any Judge of the Native Land Court of the valuable assistance given by the Native agent. Members may not be aware that no one can practise in the Native Land Court unless he has a license issued by the Chief Judge, who has first to be satisfied as to the applicant's character and ability. An Hon. MEMBER .- That has only come about lately. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- No ; years ago. I was going to deal with the honourable member for the Eastern Maori District-I am sorry ho is not here. He to advocate trustees being appointed ! He has not been a huge success as a trustee of Native lands. Ask the residents of the East Coast, Native and European, and they will tell you that the honourable member's career as a trustee has been one of masterly inactivity and neglect, greatly to the detriment of that part of the colony, by the closing of thousands of acres of land from settlement. He is one of those who has disposed of most of his land, and they are the individuals that are now advocating this Board system. Now, we come to the member for the Northern Maori District, and he is, I venture to suggest, one of I the strongest arguments in support of my con- tention that special Maori representation should be done away with. Nothing so strongly con- vinces me of the soundness of my opinion as the speech made by the honourable member. He was told by the honourable member for the Western Maori District, Mr. Kaihau, that he was a child. I might use a proverb that is well known to many honourable members : that he is not such a fool as he is something else-I will not mention what. Mr. CARROLL .- I rise to a point of order. I think it is quite manifest that no honourable member has a right to make such an insinua- tion as that. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable member must withdraw it. Mr. HEKE .- The honourable gentleman is entirely excused. Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- If the honourable member for the Northern Maori District- Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER. - Did I under- stand that the honourable member complied with my request to withdraw the words he used ? Mr. A. L. D. FRASER .- Yes, Sir, I with- draw them, and apologize for using them. The honourable member, Mr. Heke, is pleased to denounce my views on Native matters. It was not always thus. What was it the honourable member did in 1894 when the Government brought down the legislation of that year ? He wrote and asked me to publicly express my views. I sent them down in a letter, in order that they might be published in the Wellington papers; and what did the honourable gentleman do with that letter? He put it into Hansard 