in hand the construction of the line from Heriot towards Edievale. When the work was completed to that point it would be of great benefit to the settlers in the neighbour- hood, and also those living at Roxburgh. He intended to complete the work to Edievale, and the railway was only authorised to that point. He moved the second reading of the Bill. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said, In reply to the question put by the honourable member for Bruce, he did not think an answer could be given to the honour- able member before he returned to the South. The matter would require full and careful con- sideration before it could be taken in hand ; but it was a very good district, and in the future, if it went on developing, would certainly require consideration. Bill read a second and a third time. PUBLIC TRUST OFFICE BILL. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 2 .- "The principal Act is hereby amended as follows :- "(1.) As to section twenty-four thereof: By repealing the section as from its original enactment, saving only as to anything heretofore lawfully done under the same section or any rights heretofore created thereby. "(2.) As to section twenty-seven thereof : By repealing all words in the proviso after the word ' without,' and substi- tuting in lieu thereof the words ‘ being authorised by resolution of the Board."" https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to strike out subsection (1). Amendment agreed to. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to strike out all words in subsection (2) after "thereof," with the view of inserting the following : "By adding at the end of the proviso the following words : ' Provided, further, that an order of a Judge of the Supreme Court shall not be re- quired where the property to be dealt with under subsections one, two, three, four, and seven does not exceed the value of two thou- sand pounds.' " Amendment agreed to, and clause as amended agreed to. Bill reported, and read a third time. SCHOOL ATTENDANCE BILL. On the motion, That this Bill be read a third time, Mr. PIRANI (Palmerston) only wished to say that the Government had consented to embody in this measure the principal provisions of the School Attendance Bill which he had introduced this session, and he trusted that the two measures as combined would be more success- ful in their working than the one now on the statute-book. Mr. HALL-JONES (Minister for Public Works) thought the Bill as now passed through the House effected a necessary alteration of the Mr. Hall-Jones working of our primary system of education. The principal amendments introduced by the member for Palmerston in his Bill had been embodied in this measure, and he congratulated honourable members upon having passed a very useful measure. Bill read a third time. MILITARY PENSIONS BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved, That this Bill be recommitted, with a view to amending clause 2, by adding, after the word "infirmity," the words " or incapacity." Motion agreed to, and Bill committed. IN COMMITTEE. Clause 2 .- Pension payable to mother who is not a widow. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) moved to insert in this clause, after the word "infirmity," the words " or incapacity." Motion agreed to. Bill reported, and read a third time. OLD-AGE PENSIONS BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) brought up reasons \-- for disagreeing with the amendments made by the Legislative Council in the Old-age Pensions Bill, as follows :- "The amendment made in clause 3 changes the original intention of the clause, and limits it to the preliminary inquiry by the Deputy Registrar. "The amendment made in clause 8 will prac- tically limit the punishment for perjury com- mitted by persons in respect of applications and matters connected with old-age pensions to a penalty of ten pounds." He moved, That the reasons be agreed to. The House divided on the question, " That the reasons be agreed to." AYES, 32. Fraser, A. L. D. Mills Allen, E. G. Fraser, W. Napier Allen, J. Russell, G. W. Arnold Hall Hall-Jones Seddon Buddo Smith, G. J. Carroll Heke Herries Collins Stevens Tanner Colvin Laurenson Duncan Ward. Lethbridge Ell Telkers. McGowan Mckenzie, R. Bennet Flatman McNab Field. Fowlds NOES, 7. Tellers. Rhodes Atkinson Massey Russell, W. R. Hutcheson Pirani. Lawry Majority for, 25. Motion agreed to. FACTORIES BILL. Mr. SEDDON (Premier) brought up the following reasons for disagreeing with the amendments made by the Legislative Council in this Bill, which were agreed to :- "1. The definition of 'young person' in 