be quite sufficient for it, and what more was required might be voted next session. Amendment negatived. Vote, $560,999, agreed to. Additions to open lines, £675,968. Mr. BARCLAY (Dunedin City) said a vote of $50,000 which had been put on the estimates last year for duplicating the line, Dunedin to Mosgiel, had now disappeared from the esti- mates. He would like some explanation of this. The work was absolutely necessary, and had been recommended by the Railway Department for many years back. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) called attention to the unsatisfactory condition of the railway- stations in North Canterbury. The Kaiapoi and Rangiora Stations were very old, and did not afford sufficient accommodation. Would the Minister inform him when the Kaiapoi Railway-station would be rebuilt ? Mr. CARNCROSS (Taieri) hoped the Minis- ter would be able to give a satisfactory reply regarding the disappearance of the vote for duplicating the line, Dunedin-Mosgiel. £50,000 had been voted last year and £1,200 expended, and now the vote disappeared from the estimates. This was a highly important and necessary work. Sir J. G. WARD (Minister for Railways) said it certainly was not intended to aban- don the proposal to duplicate the Dunedin- Mosgiel line. By utilising large locomotives and putting in crossings at the southern side of the tunnel the department had been able to get over many of the difficulties that formerly existed to a considerable extent. While they were committed to the work, and intended to carry it out, it was unnecessary to load the estimates with the amount, as the work could not be carried out this year. The heaviest railway traffic in the colony was on this portion of the line. Traffic on it was being conducted night and day ; but the exigencies of traffic had been met to a certain extent. While the vote was dropped for the present, there was no idea of abandoning it altogether. The line would be duplicated, that was certain, and the work would be carried out within the next two years. In reply to the honourable member for Kaiapoi with regard to railway-stations: the Govern- ment was anxious to attend to all these things, but the difficulty was, they had to be done gradually. He could assure the honourable member that they would carry out these altera- tions as soon as they could. Mr. BUDDO (Kaiapoi) asked if it would be done during the coming year. Sir J. G. WARD said they might not be able to commence it during the financial year, but would do so afterwards. Necessary works would be attended to as soon as possible. Mr. WILFORD (Wellington Suburbs) asked how long Petone was to be left without a rail- way-station. Sir J. G. WARD said this was in the same position as the matters referred to by the honourable member for Kaiapoi. It was abso- lutely essential in the Railway Department to carry out the most pressing works first. He district had been neglected ; but he could not say when the work would be commenced. Mr. HERRIES (Bay of Plenty) drew atten- tion to the want of proper railway accommoda- tion at Te Aroha. Mr. E. G. ALLEN (Waikouaiti) was very pleased to hear the reply that the question of duplicating the Dunedin-Mosgiel line had not been dropped, although the £50,000 vote for that purpose was not renewed. He was disappointed to find, however, that no provision had been made on the estimates for duplicating the line between Sawyers' Bay and Dunedin. The Minis- ter would recognise that this work would be required to be done. It was one of the works that had been scheduled amongst the works under the head of " Additions to Open Lines," for which two millions of money was to be bor- rowed, and expended at the rate of £400,000 1.0. a year. He hoped the Minister would not lose sight of it. Mr. FIELD (Otaki) urged the necessity of straightening and duplicating the railway-line between Wellington and the Hutt. He was informed by competent engineers that if proper machinery, costing about £2,000, was obtained, the work of cutting down the hillside and put- ting it into the sea would be comparatively small, and that the value of the land reclaimed would repay the whole outlay. He could not too urgently impress this important matter on the notice of the Minister. The road to the Hutt was a disgrace, and a source of cruelty to man and beast during the winter; and it was impossible to do anything with the road until the railway-line was straightened. Sir J. G. WARD would say, in reply to the member for the Bay of Plenty, that the last time he was at Te Aroha he thought the rail- way-station was a lovely one; but he would make inquiries to see whether it met the public requirements. He quite agreed with the mem- ber for Waikouaiti about the duplication of the line from Sawyers' Bay to Dunedin, but there were other works which must take precedence of it in point of urgency. They could carry the ordinary traffic over the line now without in- convenience. With regard to the duplication and straightening of the Hutt Railway, it stood much in the same position. They had not the money to undertake the work at present ; and, moreover, there were more urgent works de- manding attention all over the colony. He would be glad to make inquiries with regard to the machinery mentioned by the member for Otaki, with the view of seeing whether the economical removal of hills could be under- taken as stated. Vote, £675,968, agreed to. CLASS XXII .- PUBLIC BUILDINGS. General, £17,000. Mr. G. W. RUSSELL (Riccarton) asked in what part of the estimates the expenses incurred in the furnishing, et cetera, of Ministerial resi- dences were shown. He had looked vainly through the estimates trying to find out where this expenditure was buried. 