£375 clear, and the chief assistant teacher would get only £176 clear. An Hon. MEMBER .- What does he pay in rent ? Mr. ELL .- You cannot get a decent home to which a teacher would care to take his family under $50 a year-at any rate, in this city. Mr. GILFEDDER .- He has $200 left. He gets $250 according to the scale. Mr. ELL .- Well, even then, there is too great a difference altogether. The honourable member \`for Wallace knows that the first as- sistant teacher has a great many responsibi- lities and a great deal of very hard work to perform, because he has to take the place of the headmaster when the headmaster happens to be away. I think there ought to be house allowance for the first assistant teacher. Then, again, the difference between the first assistant teacher and the second assistant teacher is too great, and there ought to be some improvement in the pay for the second assistant teacher. I do not desire to detain the House any longer, as I only wished to emphasize the few points I have raised. As to the necessity for a colonial scale, that has been generally agreed upon not only by members of the House, but by the teachers themselves, and by the people of the country generally. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) .- I should like to say a word or two upon this Bill-not that I feel myself to be an expert in educational matters, though I did spend a few years upon the Board of Education in Auckland. I have https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 much sympathy with the desire that has been expressed by the teachers of the colony for a colonial scale with equal pay for similar posi- tions, to be brought into operation from one http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero end of the colony to the other. I heartily con- cur with that. I have received a large number of communications showing the different feel- ings which this proposed Bill and the report of the Commissioners have introduced to the teach- ing community of the colony. I have had some telegraphing to me to support the Bill, " By all means try and get the scale pushed on." Others, again, say they are most anxious about it. One teacher in a high position assures me it is the coping-stone to the education system of New Zealand. Now, that is a very nice term indeed, and no doubt very alluring, and suggestive of a monumental structure ; but I have received a number of communications from teachers in charge of schools in back-block districts, both men and women, expressing great dissatisfac- tion with the proposition, and at the inatten- tion that is shown to their interests. I am satisfied that their complaints are reasonable, and that a system leaving some hundreds of teachers and thousands of children shamefully disparaged scarcely deserves the finish of a coping-stone ; nor yet does this Bill provide it. I must confess I feel a great deal of sympathy for the indignation that has reached me on this matter, and am actually in doubt as to what is best to do. I know something about the diffi- culties of back-block teachers, and, also, I have . this feeling : that one of the most important in- concerned, is to look after the children in the country, and particularly in out-of the-way places. Perhaps I am somewhat jealous of country interests. I believe that the tendency of populated, well-served centres is to make the country people merely the hewers of wood and drawers of water. There is this I should like to place before the attention of the House-and it seems to have been altogether overlooked by the Commission: that the teacher with twenty- five or thirty children and no assistant is the hardest-worked of all the teaching staffs. I would much sooner, if I were a teacher, take seventy or eighty children in a big city school, because they would be before me with an equal or an average inceptivity of mental capacity, and my effort to instruct would be as readily appreciated by eighty in the big school-and would not be half the trouble nor nearly the strain upon me as a teacher-as if I took a country school with five or six grades, to each of which I felt I was under an obligation to do justice, and at the same time felt myself in- capable of doing it within the allotted period of school hours. Now, there seems to be no special provision for this. I have also this other feeling : that, if there were any schools more than others where I would be anxious to place the very best teaching talent and to pay them well for their services, it would be in our country schools. And then there is this disadvantage that the country teachers are labouring under which has been overlooked by this Commission : The teachers in or near the cities on Saturdays can make the very best of that day for recuperation, either by physical or intellectual recreation : they have opportunities for doing so ; but the poor teacher in the back blocks has simply to "mope," if I may use the expression, on the Saturday, and does not receive the advantages which in his professional aspirations he feels he would like to have. He has scant oppor- tunity with which to improve himself, and he is labouring in every respect under disadvan- tages that do not come to the higher-paid teachers in our cities. Therefore, instead of placing, as some teachers have remarked, " the wasters." or inferior teachers, in the country districts, I think it is the duty of those who feel an earnest concern for the educational results of the national system of New Zea- land to place the very best teachers in the country districts. My opinion is that schools of twenty, or thirty, or thirty - five child- ren in the country should have capable teachers, so as to provide teaching-talent for the future, by bringing on aspiring pupil- teachers who may deem the profession an attractive outlet to their aspirations for better- ment; and I think country children in some respects the best material for teachers. It is therefore incumbent in this class of school that the very best masters should be there, in order to furnish them with qualifications and suitable instruction for that purpose. Nothing has been mentioned, I notice, about the fact that head-teachers receiving the highest salaries in our city schools are under no obligation to 