not a single sixpence. An Hon. MEMBER .- They are not produc- tive. Mr. SEDDON .- I say they are productive, every one of them. Most of these islands are productive, and parts are leased at the present time, and the leases of some of them fall in shortly, and they will give you a large revenue and cost you nothing. We do not at present propose to spend a sixpence in respect of them. There is no necessity to put Agents there ; they can all be governed by the Deputy Commissioner from Rarotonga. I am surprised that the honourable gentleman, who knows so much about this matter, has not refreshed his memory, since he was a student of the scheme propounded by Mr. Coleman Phillips. Surely, if mistakes have been made in the past, and there was still an opportunity of rectifying to some extent the errors of the past by taking what remained, the Government is not to be blamed, and ought not to be adversely criticized because other persons have bungled, and they, so far as lies in their power, set to work to rectify their errors. I cannot understand how the honourable gentleman can condemn us in one breath and in the next extol a gentleman for proposing the annexation of these islands. However, it is a safe thing to say that proposals may not succeed. The honourable gentleman has said that burdens are to be cast upon the I will people which they are not able to bear. answer that at once. It has been said here this evening that you have in these islands 100,000 acres of land. Whoever talks about that does not know what he is talking about. It is much At all events, there are twenty thousand more. souls brought within the area of New Zealand. An Hon. MEMBER .- Twenty thousand ? Mr. SEDDON .- Yes, on the islands that are now part of New Zealand ; and there is un- developed country there-a country capable of producing much that we must have, and if we do not get it from our own country, then we will have to pay foreign countries for it. The money will leave our colony and will go to foreign countries for the various products we can produce ourselves. What is the meaning of our public works policy and our lands policy ? It is the throwing open of our land, and in- creasing its productiveness. By means of the public works expenditure you are going to develop parts of New Zealand in the back blocks and increase its productiveness; and I say that, for what £1 will do in the way of developing the soil here, you will get an equal return for 1s. spent on these Islands. That is my opinion, and I know I am right. I know very few men have gone into the ques- tion, but if you take Mr. Coleman Phillips, the gentleman mentioned, you will see that ac- cording to his opinion, if these Islands are well governed and well developed, what I say is correct. To-night that phase of the question has been kept in the background. These Islands are capable of great development, and they will produce for you in this colony that which you must necessarily have, and which otherwise you the policy of developing a country like this there is placed as an offset the fact that it is going to cost a few pounds for the purposes of administration. It will repay anything you spend tenfold. That is my honest conviction, arrived at after careful research, and I wish that phase of the question to be borne in mind. Already you have your oranges and bananas, and consider the price you are getting them at now, and the price you paid when you were handi- capped previously ; and I say to-day there is a trade in this very City of Wellington, and that this class of fruit is being brought within the reach of the poorest person. An Hon. MEMBER .- We had it five years ago just the same. Mr. SEDDON .- Let me tell you what you did have. You had a few people in Auckland who received the fruit, but the Natives seldom re- ceived any profitable returns. That is what you had. The Natives never received any returns, and consequently they never sent any fruit. I say that these fruits are now within the reach of the poorer classes, and I say if you go on with your development you will find that these tropical fruits are produced within your own colony, and at half the cost that you have to pay for them elsewhere. What have you done within the last day ? You are not far-sighted. A tariff has just been passed in Australia. Members on that side, and members perhaps on this side, are all wincing because that tariff affects the produce of this colony. An Hon. MEMBER .- So it does. Mr. SEDDON .- What does your Pacific Islands give you now ? Your Islands makes you independent, so far as tropical fruits are con- cerned, of Australia. An Hon. MEMBER .- Not a bit of it. It will not have the slightest effect. Mr. SEDDON .- It is amusing to me to find the shallowness of some members. I say you can grow your fruits within the Colony of New Zealand now ; and one of the principal articles: imported from the other colonies is the very fruit you can grow now within your own bound- aries. An Hon. MEMBER .- What fruit ? Mr. SEDDON .- Oranges, bananas, pine- apples, lemons, and other fruits and fruit pulps. Take the fruit which comes from Australia into New Zealand now. Now it begins to dawn upon members opposite that we are in this respect a self-contained colony, and that we can say to Australia to-morrow, "If you put up your barrier and your tariff as a fence, we are a self-contained country, and Australia must keep its fruit or seek another market for the same." Mr. MASSEY .- Our imports are not affected by the Federal tariff. Mr. SEDDON .- It does not apparently dawn upon the honourable member what this will mean. Why, we can grow fruit in New Zea- land and not be affected by the Australian tariff. The honourable member seems to forget that this Parliament could put a tariff on pro- ducts from Australia. I see that it now begins 