The Act of last year provides that the lands are to go into the hands of the Council, and the Council is to administer them. Now, I ask honourable members this question : Would any one of them, who happened to be the possessor of a hundred acres of land in his own right, be willing to hand over that land to the sole control of trustees ? I can answer the question myself : he would not be willing. That being so, I say we are justified in strenuously opposing this Bill. Those, Sir, are not the only objections that are to be brought against this Bill. What about the survey charges that will be placed against the lands ? Another exceedingly evil provision that I have noticed in this Bill is, that if ten of the owners of any given block of land decide to hand such land over to the administration of the Council, the land will be handed over to the administration of the Coun- cil, irrespective of the wishes of the large majority of the owners. Supposing there are a hundred owners of a block of land, and ten of them decide to hand it over to the Council, what is to become of the desires and wishes of the other ninety owners? I say that this Bill cannot fail to do untold evil, especially in my district, which will be chiefly affected by it. Now, I will tell the House this : there is a certain Maori in the Waikato who is the representative head of all the tribes and hapus resident there, and he is the person, above all others, who has tried to prevent the persons under his influence sub- mitting a block of their land to the management of the Council. This man is the man who was selected by the Waikato tribes to be their head and representative man in all their trans. actions affecting them and their lands. His name is Mahuta. He is called the Maori king, and I say that this House should not resent his being called by that name. If the name of His Majesty King Edward is mentioned in this House, no one dares to say a word against it. When I mention the name of King Ma- huta I do not do so with any desire to set up a king antagonistic to King Edward. What I desire to impress upon the House is this : that this man comes from the ancestor Mania- poto. He belongs also to the Ngatimania- poto Tribe, and that is where the bulk of the Maori lands now remaining are to be found. Now, Sir, the honourable member for the Northern Maori District (Mr. Heke) has told this House on a previous occasion that this man Mahuta, whom I call the Maori king, was not selected and was not acknowledged by the Maoris throughout the island as their king. Now, Sir, the honourable member is but a young man. I have no desire to say that the Maori tribes throughout this Island have no chiefs of their own, for I know that they are all descendants of the tribes who came over in the seven canoes. But the tribes that those seven canoes brought over had each its distinctive head, and the descendants of those seven chiefs are the heads of the Maori tribes throughout New Zealand at the present time. The descend- ants of those seven canoes of voyagers selected of these seven principal ancestors to be the repre- sentative head of the Maori race throughout the whole Island. If I only had the time at my dis- posal I could convince the House that I am correct in what I am saying. I could show the House that Mahuta is genealogically descended from those men, and that he is the proper person to be placed in the position of king of the Maoris. One of those seven canoes was called "Taki- tumu," and the head chief of that canoe was called Ruawharo. I have in my hand the written genealogy, but as time is short I do not intend to read it. I will, however, say this: that I can trace the present King Mahuta from that ancestor through twenty-two generations. Now, coming to the next canoe, "Te Arawa," the chief man of which was Tamatekapua. From that canoe many chief men of rank - many residents on the East Coast at the present time-are descended, and from the chief of the Arawa canoe through eighteen generations I can trace Mahuta. Then, the third canoe was called " Aotea." The principal chief on that canoe was Turi, the ancestor of all the tribes on the west coast of this Island-Tara- naki, and the district all round about there. I can trace Mahuta through twenty 8.0. generations to this ancestor. I can submit these genealogies to members, and let them see for themselves that it is as I say. Now I come to the canoe called " Matatua." The representative chief of this canoe was Turoa, and I have sixteen generations from that ancestor to Mahuta. Then, there is an- other canoe, "Tokomaru," the chief on which was Rakeiroa. I have nineteen generations from the principal man in that canoe, Rakeiroa to Mahuta. Now I come to another canoe, called "Kurahaupo," and there are eighteen genera- tions from the principal man in that canoe, Apa to Mahuta. Then, there is the canoe called "Tainui," of which Hoturoa was the chief, which brought to New Zealand the an- cestors of the whole of the Waikato, including also those of the member for the Northern Maori District, who says he does not acknow- ledge Mahuta. From that canoe I have twenty- four generations to Mahuta; and this time Mahuta comes through the very ancestors of the honourable member for the Northern Maori District. Therefore, I tell him he is a mere child. If he knew the descent from the an- cestors, he would not say what he does. When the King movement was first set on foot, all the tribes throughout the Island came forward and supported it. I have here a list of all the tribes and various hapus which supported I also have to say that the the movement. idea of the Maoris in instituting this move- ment was not that they had any intention of departing from the rule of the late Queen, but I may say that the early European missionaries in this country supported the movement for establishing a king, and I will tell the House why they did so. They had the authority of Church doctrine, and the Churches of the Old Country were under the authority of the Queen. I will refer the House to a Scriptural quotation 