desired. (c.) He was under the impression that the clause had been inserted through inadvert- ence by the draftsman, and that the circular despatch of 1884 had been overlooked. It ap. pears that he was in error in that respect. He must assume that, as 'a great constitutional principle' is involved, the Parliament knew this, and deliberately refused to accept the form of clause recommended by the Secretary of State for the Colonies. He thinks he should have been informed that this was intended to be done, and not left him to discover it after he had taken objection to the wording of the "ROBERT STOUT. clause. " Government House, Wellington, 19th October, 1900." The clause in the Bill was as follows :- "4. This Act shall be reserved for the signifi- cation of Her Majesty's pleasure thereon, and shall come into operation on a day to be fixed by the Governor by Proclamation in the Gazette : Provided that such Proclamation shall not be made unless it contains a statement that Her Majesty has been pleased to approve of this Act." Whereas the clause might have read,- "This law shall not come into operation unless and until the Officer Administering the Government notifies by Proclamation that it is Her Majesty's pleasure not to disallow the same, and thereafter it shall come into opera- tion upon such a day as the Officer Administer- ing the Government shall notify by the same or any other Proclamation." https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Sir Robert Stout, in his despatch to Mr. Chamberlain enclosing the Bill, says :- "You will observe in my memorandum to the Premier, No. 107, that I warned him that I would not be surprised if the assent of Her Majesty were refused to the Bill: He has chosen to run that risk. There would, I be- lieve, have been no difficulty in getting the House to agree to the clause in the proper form if a message had been sent to the House recommending it." What he wanted to point out was that the clause which the Premier insisted on putting into the Bill in spite of the advice of the Deputy Governor, and which he reserved for 'Her Majesty's consent, was again inserted in this Bill, and the Bill would be again rejected, and his friend the honourable member for Waitemata would not be able to hoist that glorious ensign of which he talked so much. The Premier would then come down and say that the Bill was rejected because of some dis- pute with the Admiralty. He had heard that the Premier had stated that the previous Bill was rejected because of some dispute with the Admiralty about the flag being hoisted at sea ; while the plain fact of it not being allowed was that it was not in proper form as set down by the Secretary of State for the Colonies ; and he was warned by Sir Robert Stout, the Deputy Governor, that that would take place when the Bill was sent Home. In spite of that, the Pre- mier sent the Bill Home with the objectionable served. Mr. MONK (Waitemata) said there was one thing in the Bill with which he was not satis- fied. If the last clause in the Bill was right, it was still a repetition of the error which it was stated caused the Bill to be disallowed by Her Majesty. It was stated in the correspondence which took place that the clause of the Bill, which read thus : "This Act shall be reserved for the signification of Her Majesty's pleasure thereon," did not comply with the formula required by the Home authorities. The language that was required, and which was not in the Bill, was as follows : The Deputy- Governor writes- "This is not in accordance with the clause re- quested by the Right Hon. the Secretary of State for the Colonies in his despatch circular dated the 20th June, 1884, to be used in such cases. It was as follows : 'This (law, Act, Ordinance) shall not come into operation unless and until the Officer Administering the Government notifies by Proclamation that it is Her Ma- jesty's pleasure not to disallow the same."" If that clause had the effect, which they all understood it had, of preventing the Bill being approved of last year, it was being repeated in the Bill of this session, and therefore this Bill would also be disallowed. Evidently the au- thorities in the Old Country or the Deputy Governor had asserted that the phraseology or the language at the end of the Act was such as would not meet with the approval of the Home Government, who deemed the language used in the Bill of last session as an innovation on the part of the colonial authorities, and not in compliance with the phraseology they had by despatch authorised the New Zealand Govern- ment to use. Therefore it would, as the Bill was being passed with a repetition of that language, simply meet with the same result, and would not receive the assent of His Majesty the King. Mr. ATKINSON (Wellington City) did not quite understand the Premier's explanation why the Bill did not receive the Royal assent. Apparently it had not been refused the Royal assent and it had not received the Royal assent. The 1st clause of the preamble read :- " Whereas the Bill intituled ' The New Zea- land Ensign Act, 1900,' has not received the Royal assent, it having been pointed out by the Admiralty that the flag therein described could not be used on ships except under an Admiralty warrant." The effect of the objection was apparently the same as the recommendation made by the senior member for Wellington City (Mr. Hut- cheson) when the New Zealand Ensign Bill of 1900 was before the House. The honourable gentleman said :- " I submit the Government ought to retain the blue ensign with the Southern Cross ; and, if it is necessary to make a distinction, let the New-Zealand owned and registered merchant vessels continue to wear the roast beef of old England-that is, the red ensign-without disc or any other blot to sully the flag on which we 