receipts gone up by leaps and bounds ? That does not come from the sheep industry, because wool has been low. It comes from the riches which have been acquired by the general com- munity. Then look at the consolidated revenue. Look at the Post Office returns. In fact, far and wide there are instances giving the most convincing proof of the fact that this country within the last nine or ten years has made far more progress than it did for twenty-five years before. We have heard a great deal about the recent increased importation of boots. It is said there is a large importation of boots from America. I do not doubt it. But, then, those who have mentioned that forget to mention also that that is greatly due to fashion. Ameri- can boots are coming into fashion ; and there is another thing they do not say : they do not say anything about the production of boots in this country. I am told that the production is larger in proportion than is the increase in imports during a similar period. If that is so, as I believe it is, it is no argument against the labour legislation to say that these boots are coming in in larger quantities. That shows, I think, that simply a great many people are better off, and are taking to these very artistic- ally made and inviting kind of goods they get from America, and that is one proof of the greater wellbeing of the people. Now, Sir, in contrast to this, let us turn to the position at Home. We see strikes and eternal labour squabbles. There was the Taff Vale Railway dispute, and there is the long-standing Penrhyn Quarry strike; and in America there was re- cently the Steel Trust dispute. I dare say honourable members are aware of the fact that http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero there has recently been a very important deci- sion by the House of Lords on the Taff Vale case, and that is, that men who disturb an employer render the union to which they belong liable to damages. This is a new rule, and we hear now there are several firms who are said to be endea- vouring to foster picketting in order to get at the funds of the unions. There is a nice state of things. Is it not better to avoid the enor- mous national loss that such an industrial warfare must necessarily entail ? The Penrhyn Quarries now for a year and a half have been doing nothing whatever; the Taff Vale Rail- way was utterly disorganized for three or four months. And now comes this serious position. By that finding-by that Judge-made law-the funds of these unions are liable to general at- tack, and, of course, there is great consterna- tion. There is no possibility that Lord Salis- bury will bring in a Bill to alter the decision which has been given by the House of Lords, and consequently you will have more strikes, and everything that is bad in connection with labour questions. I ask honourable gentlemen to look round them and see the different position we are in. We have no fear of anything of that kind. I dare say all honourable gentlemen will know of one of the leaders of the Liberal party at Home-the Right Hon. Mr. Asquith-and will admit that he is a most eminent politician, a distinguished some years ago. Now, Mr. Asquith recently was making a speech in which he alluded in most flattering terms to the colonies and the pro- gressive social spirit they displayed. I think he was talking about the housing question, and generally on social and on labour matters. He then, in order to show the contrast between their condition at Home and the condition out here, made these few remarks. I will begin at this point :- " Where the prevailing and predominant opinion of the people "-he is speaking about the Australasian Colonies, including, of course, New Zealand - "Where the prevailing, the predominant opinion of the people and the Legislature is Liberal in the strongest sense of the term, and where they are carrying out -- day by day, year by year-democratic reforms upon a scale and with an uncompromising idealism which would stagger the most pro- gressive thinker in this country." That is what a man in an eminent position has said about us; and, therefore, I think we can be perfectly content to rest assured that we are on proper lines, and that we have made a rapid, a great, and a substantially beneficial advance since 1894. I think that advance will go on as time goes on ; that it is in favour, not of employer or workman only, but of both, equally, and that in the long-run we shall find that the adoption of this great measure has been to the advantage of the whole of the people of New Zealand. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Sir, I am sorry several honourable gentlemen have de- parted, because it is not very pleasant to refer to them when they are away, and I think this is a measure which, to a certain extent, is not likely to please either party. On the one hand, there is the party who believe in going to "ex- tremes," if it is fair to say that, but, at any rate, would like to carry out the original Act in its entirety, if not more. On the other hand, there is the old-fashioned Tory party, who are only too glad to see that certain amendments have been proposed, and they take advantage of the proposals to whip the Act as far as they can, and bring into contempt every institution that affords them the opportunity ; because I think there has been a very unfair reference made to certain Boards and certain parts of the adminis- tration. Then, the opportunity has been taken -I think unfairly so-by the Hon. Mr. Rigg to institute a comparison between the Hon. Mr. Reeves, who introduced the original Act, and the present Minister of Labour, Mr. Seddon. The Hon. Mr. RIGG .- Because there is no comparison. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- Well, I complain of the ungenerous nature of the comparison, and the unwarrantable manner in which he was alluded to. We all know under what circumstances the Hon. Mr. Reeves brought in these Bills in the first instance. He had behind him an extraordi- dinary condition of things. He had almost a revolution to cope with, and he was enabled to make the start in the direction of labour legis- 