if the Minister had approved of the Nga- hauranga site, and, if so, why ? Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said he had not approved of the Ngahauranga site, because he considered the other one to be much superior in every way. The Ngahauranga site was in the middle of close settlement, and there was a public school close to the site, and altogether there were many disadvantages in the Ngahauranga site as against the other one nearer the city. All the butchers who had approached him were in favour of the other, not the Ngahauranga site. Therefore, if the Council were to compel the butchers to go to a site that they objected to, and leave another that would suit them, he thought they would not be considering the best interests of the butchers in the district nor the residents in the Town of Wellington. Mr. WILFORD asked if the honourable gentle- man's consent were required to their selection. Mr. DUNCAN believed it was. Mr. WILFORD .- What are you going to do, then ? Mr. DUNCAN must state that he had been waited upon by a deputation of about twenty- four butchers, introduced by the member for Otaki, Mr. Field, and also a deputation intro- duced by the member for Wellington Suburbs, Mr. Wilford, and all and every one were in favour of what was known as Banks's site. Mr. WILFORD said there was also a petition. Mr. DUNCAN said he had had several peti- tions. He took the trouble to go and see the sites for himself, and unquestionably he ap proved Banks's site, because he considered, if the abattoirs were built on the Ngahauranga site, within a very short time they would have to remove them, because they would become a nuisance to the people living about there. It was not a very nice thing to have butchering done in the centre of population, and in a hollow such as Ngahauranga was. He said that the other site was clear of anything at present. There were a number of paddocks there suitable for stock that could be acquired. Of course, the Abattoirs Committee had stated in a letter to him that the price of this site was prohibitive, but they did not give him the price. And the price of the Ngahauranga site was problematical, because they stated it belonged to the Natives and they would have to take it under the Public Works Act. At any rate, they had said that the price of this site was prohibitive, but they had not ascertained what the cost of it would be. He thought they were standing in their own light, and against the interests of the city and the butchers concerned, if they did not come to some arrangement with the butchers by which they would fall into line and be satished with the arrangement. He would like to see that arrived at, before he gave his consent to the Ngahauranga site. W. D. LESLIE. Mr. HOUSTON (Bay of Islands) asked the Minister of Lands, If he will place a sum of in getting it passed. Mr. Wilford out the recommendations of the Waste Lands Committee of the 10th October, 1899, on the petition of W. D. Leslie, of Whangaroa ; or, if not, what steps does he intend to take to settle the claim ? This question had been brought up on several occasions, and he was sorry to say it had not been answered yet. Prior to his entering the House this settler had found that an encroachment had been made on his pro- perty by the Natives, entirely owing to a mis- take of the Survey Department in overlapping. Mr. Leslie applied on several occasions to the Survey Department to have the error rectified, and they always refused. Then Mr. Leslie con- ferred with him (Mr. Houston) before he came down to Wellington, and the late Minister of Lands and himself went into the matter care- fully, and the Minister ordered a resurvey. However, a considerable time elapsed, and in the meantime the timber on this overlap- ping portion of the land was sold by the Natives to the Kauri Timber Company for something like $700. When at last the resurvey was made it was found that the overlapping alleged by Mr. Leslie was correct, and that the land on which the timber stood which had been sold to the Kauri Timber Company actually belonged to this settler. Now, Mr. Leslie contended that, having been deprived of the use of his land and of this timber, which was in reality his, the Government should make some amends for the serious loss he had suffered. The value of the timber sold to the Kauri Timber Company was #700 cash. Mr. Leslie applied to the Government, but could not get any redress. He petitioned Parliament on the subject in 1899, and the Waste Lands Committee reported that they considered an injustice had been done, and recommended the Government to pay a small compensation for the loss petitioner had sus- tained, the amount recommended being $200. This was the report of the Waste Lands Com- mittee :- "I am directed to report that the Govern- ment be recommended to place a sum of £200 on the supplementary estimates as compensa- tion to the petitioner. "R. THOMPSON, Chairman, Waste Lands Committee, House of Representatives. " 10th October, 1899." He considered this man was entitled to some compensation, seeing that a mistake on the part of the Survey Department had deprived him of the value of the timber on his property. He considered the sum recommended by the Waste Lands Committee would be a very poor recompense for the loss sustained. Mr. DUNCAN (Minister of Lands) said this was one of those cases that did occur occa- sionally, and which were very annoying to all concerned. However, he intended to bring the matter up again for consideration this year. It was only by placing a sum of money on the estimates that the matter could be reviewed by the House, and he hoped he would be successful 