justice should be done to the shareholders ; but a bar to the development of that company. if we stuck to the strict lines of justice, then, : : I imagine there would be very little for the shareholders, because, under the present con- ditions, the shareholders would have to claim against the promoters of what is practically a defunct company. Undoubtedly the debenture- holders have very good grounds for complaint against the company, and against those who made certain representations to them by which they obtained their money ; but they (the debenture-holders) themselves are not altogether free from blame, because we must remember the price that they paid. As a matter of ordi- nary procedure, when people buy debentures they must know from the prices at which they obtained them whether they can be looked upon as secure or not, and they obtained these deben- tures at a very low price. The honourable gentleman condemned the Government in respect to reserves of auriferous land along the line, as if it was a serious interference with the company in the carrying-on of its operations. Mr. T. MACKENZIE .- I did not condemn the Government. Mr. McGOWAN .- The honourable gentleman should know that the provision for reserves came within the terms of the contract. How- ever, I do not wish to take up any further time at this stage of the session. I know it is the desire of many members to grant a reasonable consideration ; but I cannot help contrasting the action of those honourable members who now wish that large sums of money should be granted in favour of this company, or the de- benture-holders, and the action these same gentlemen took when the San Francisco mail- service proposals came before the House, where & comparatively small sum of money was in- volved, and valuable services rendered to the colony ; while in this case, though there is no liability, legal or moral, yet we are prepared to treat the petitioners better than they deserve. I only wish to say that the report of this Com- mittee, and the proceedings that have been taken from time to time, bear out the fact that the Government has dealt kindly and leniently in every instance with the company; and even now, I believe, the general feeling of the coun- try is that, though the company may have no legal right, it may not be imprudent to grant some consideration to these debenture-holders. Mr. T. MACKENZIE (Waihemo) .- Sir, by way of personal explanation, I wish to say the honourable gentleman who has just sat down, in stating that I maintained the Govern- ment had done an illegal act to the company, unconsciously misrepresented my argument. What I said was that, owing to these extensive continuous reserves being made along the line of route, the financial operations of the company had been materially interfered with, inasmuch as they had not the power to deal with a large extent of the lands which were included within their rights, and to that extent I say it was a serious impediment. I do not say the Govern- ment acted illegally, because the Government had a right to do it, yet they stretched their VOL. CXIX .- 71. <!-- PageHeader=". ......." --> Mr. McGOWAN .- I accept the honourable gentleman's apology for the position he has receded from. Mr. R. MCKENZIE (Motueka). - There is no ...... . necessity to reply to the remarks of the honour- able member for Waihemo, because, to any- body who knows anything about the subject he showed himself wholly innocent of any know- ledge of it. The honourable gentleman says the reservations were along the line. Sir, some of the reserves made for mining purposes are over a hundred miles distant from the line. I am surprised also at the statement made by the Hon. the Minister of Justice, because he, at all events, should take a liberal and im- partial view of this question. The honourable : gentleman says in this case we are proposing to give away £130,000 for which the colony is receiving nothing at all. Now, as a matter of fact, the colony is receiving a most valuable asset for this £130,000, and I, personally, am bound to say that the Public Accounts Com- mittee is not giving the petitioners anything like liberal treatment in the resolution they have come to. The Hon. Mr. McGOWAN .-- That is in your own report, and you were Chairman. Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- I will deal with the Commissioners' report. We were asked to re- port under certain conditions and in compli- ance with certain existing legal restrictions, and we did report under these conditions, with the fullest impartiality ; but at the same time I do not stand up here and say that, while £192,000 might be the value to any one buying in the open market, and having the restric- tions imposed by the Railways Construction and Land Act of 1881, that that is the value to the colony at all. It is worth a great deal more than £192,000 to this colony at any time. The Hon. Mr. McGOWAN .- You signed the report. Mr. R. MCKENZIE .- The report was strictly in accordance with the Commission issued by the Government ; but this is the position : If the colony had constructed that line it would have cost at least £600,000-every shilling spent on the Midland Railway. There are other public works of a similar nature brought into the evi- dence taken by the Commissioners, to allow a comparison of the cost of this work with similar work in the colony. I undertake to say that if the colony had made that line it would have cost $600,000 to $650,000. Now, I take it that one question for the House to consider is whether the Crown should appear as a partner in the Midland Railway contract ; whether when the company was induced to go into that con- tract the inducement offered by the colony did not to some extent lead them to think that the colony was a partner in the concern, because the colony offered and gave land-grants equal to about half the value of the cost of construction. Well, out of those land-grants, and in works and money handed over to them by the Government, the company realised $350,000. I should say the colony, if it wishes to be just and equitable in 