Government before acceptance of any contract, and that the Government should have power to discontinue the work. All these matters were provided for in the Harbours Act, which governed all the harbours in the colony. If it had suited the Premier to look at clause 156 of that Act the honourable gentleman could have seen, in subsection (1), that, - "(1.) Before commencing the making or construction of the work such Board shall deposit at the office of the Marine De- partment a plan in duplicate of the whole work, showing all the details of the proposed work and the mode in which it is proposed the same shall be carried out. "(2.) If it appears to the Governor in Council that the proposed work will not be or tend to the injury of navigation, the Governor in Coun- cil may approve the deposited plan, with or without modification or addition, and subject or not to any restriction or condition necessary for the preservation of any public right. "(3.) The work shall not be made, con. structed, altered, or extended without the like approval; but any such approval shall not confer on such Board, body, or person any right to construct, alter, or extend any work which independently thereof it would not have had. "(4.) If any Board, body, or person acts in any respect in contravention of any provisions of this section in relation to any work, the Minister may, at the expense of such Board . take all necessary steps and proceed- ings and employ persons to abate and remove the work, and restore the site thereof to its former condition." The Premier ought to have known the Governor in Council not only had to approve of the plans, but had power to modify or add to them. He also pointed out that the Nelson Harbour Board Act of last year was a local Bill, and was duly advertised ; but the Premier said it was not advertised in the localities re- ferred to. The Standing Orders on local Bills provided what was required in reference to the advertising. It was provided that, in the case of there being more than one Magistrate's Court in a district affected by a local Bill, the Bill should be deposited at the Court in the most populous part of the district, and that the advertisement should be in a newspaper circulating in the district. Throughout the Waimea district there was no newspaper at all. The Bill was duly advertised in the city news- papers, and those newspapers were daily dis- tributed to all parts of the county, and the Bill was therefore properly advertised. He did not know why the Premier brought that matter up, but he did so. The Premier also brought up a letter, but did not state whom it was from, to the effect that the Nelson Harbour Board agreed to the provisions of the Bill. The Board had done nothing of the kind. They did not know the provisions, and that was why he (Mr. Graham) brought up the question of the Bill being a local Bill. It was true that certain matters in the Bill of last year were considered were desirous of being eliminated from the Nelson Harbour District. The fact was they had been brought under it owing to a misappre- hension on the part of the member for Mo- tueka, and when it was known that they desired to be excluded the Board were willing that they should be, and the Premier was written to to that effect. The Motueka people also sent in a petition on the matter. The Premier did not state, however, that the Bill contained a great · deal more. What the Motueka people asked for was to have their wharf relieved from the Nelson Harbour Board, and also to have the fore- shore in front of it, which was reasonable. The Bill provided not only to give the Motueka people what they wanted, but it also provided to take away from Nelson the foreshore that was given to it, from the Borough of Motueka to the entrance of the Waimea River. It took away from the Nelson Harbour Board a great portion of the endowment given to it last year. That was a proposal that ought not to have been made without letting the Board know that such was the proposal. However, the Committee met, and the Premier, instead of confining himself, as any other witness would have had to do, to the point before the Com- mittee, made a number of statements that were not at all pertinent to the question to be de- cided. The Chairman of the Committee, the Hon. Colonel Pitt, immediately on the Premier concluding, laid it down that the Bill was a public Bill, which was at once effectively com- bated by Mr. McNab, one of the most reliable and trusted lawyers in the House; and on a division being taken it was decided by five votes to four that the Bill was a public Bill. The voting was as follows: Ayes - Mr. Guinness, Hon. Mr. Kelly, Hon. Mr. Pitt, Hon. Mr. Walker, Hon. Mr. Williams. Noes - Mr. Fraser, Mr. Graham, Mr. McGuire, Mr. McNab. He wanted now to point out the strange posi- tion in which the House would be placed by the ruling of the Joint Committee on Bills by the majority of one vote-five votes to four. There were a large number of harbours in the colony, and a still larger number of Harbour Board Acts on the statute-book. Well, it had been decided that a Harbour Board Bill was a public Bill. Now, in "Curnin's Index " he found, under the heading " Local Laws in force in New Zealand," that there were in Auckland twelve local Bills applicable to that district ; in Gisborne there were nine ; in Greymouth, three ; in Hokitika, four ; in Lyttelton, six ; the Bluff, five ; Mangawai, one ; Napier, eight ; Oamaru, seven ; Otago, eleven ; Patea, five ; Riverton, two; Timaru, eight; Waimakariri, two; Wairoa, two; Waitara, three ; Westport, three ; Wanganui, four ; Wellington, six ; and two private Acts : a total of 101 local Harbour Board Bills on the statute-book. The position then, was this : that under this ruling, if main- tained, an Act might be brought in by the Go- vernment, as had been done on this occasion, in the dying hours of the session, which would deprive any of these Harbour Boards of any or all of their rights. He could not believe that 