and when we come to subsection (4) we find | have not seen that this clause is one that it exempts- " Any person bona fide carrying on the busi- ness of banking or insurance, or any business in the course of which and for the purposes whereof he lends money at a rate of interest not exceeding ten per centum per annum." It does not include these people. Very well ; now, it appears to me there is a limitation in that clause which there should not be. " Any person carrying on any business in the course of which and for the purposes whereof he lends money ": that is to say, by the rendering of this clause, any person who is not absolutely a money-lender, but a private person who lends money of his own in a legitimate way upon security, whatever it may be, would not come within the exemption of the word " money-lender," and therefore if honourable members will turn over the page they will sce by section 3 of the Bill, under which there are certain pains and penalties, that there is great risk of inflicting much hardship upon a great many innocent people. Then, under sub. section (4) of clause 2 it is provided that bankers and insurance people who lend money do not come under the Act if they lend at a rate of interest not exceeding 10 per cent. Now, I can conceive, and no doubt the business intelligence of a great many honourable gentlemen will enable them to conceive, many cases where a loan at 8 or 9 or 10 per cent. can be effected by these people which might be much more usurious or extortionate, and might result in much more injury or loss to the person borrow- ing than if 12 per cent. were charged in other cases. Let me give an instance. A person may be a speculative money-lender, and some one riay come to him wanting facilities for carrying out a risky undertaking. I cannot give the Council a better illustration than the applica- tion of my argument to the late boom in river- dredging for gold. Many honourable members will know that some companies have borrowed money to complete their dredges when they got partially through the building of them. Now, what is the security of a dredge? A man may say, " It cost me £7,000 ; lend me £5,000 on it." Well, it has been found by experience that a great many of these dredges sold after the claim has been found to be unprofitable have not brought as many hundred pounds as they cost thousands probably only six months before ; and therefore to limit these people to 10 per cent. upon a transaction which may only last from three to six months is not what is required to give support and encouragement to people to lend money upon many legitimate transactions which are in themselves specula- tive both from the borrower's and lender's point of view. Who would lend £4,000 upon a dredge which would be likely to last only six months unless he got a good bonus ? And by clause 4 it will be found there is a strict provision made for cancelling all these bonuses, and everything that may come into the net of the money- lender outside the actual rate of interest. I am surprised that the other place, including as it does many experienced business- men, which ought to have had revision for the inclusion of the people to whom I have referred. Then, there is no provision whatever in the Bill for an extensive class of business which is done, whereby enormous profits are made on financial transactions which are alto- gether ignored here. I allude to those people who carry on the very lucrative business of indorsing bills for others. I dare say honour- able gentlemen have often heard of the recently deceased Isaac Gordon, and also of that very well-known West End money-lender Sam Lewis. Those people, besides being direct money- lenders, were what are called indorsers of bills for a consideration, so that in some cases of a promissory note at six months, at a rate of 6 or 8 per cent. interest, the holder of the bill may have to get an indorsement to enable him to discount it. The indorser, who is often a friend of the lender, charges in this case as much as he can ; and he may even be an ally or a partner of the lender, but who, by the nature of this Bill, would not be included in its pains and penalties. That gentleman might ask 10 or 15 per cent. for three months only- at the rate of 40 or 60 per cent. per annum- for signing his name to the paper, and then divide the profit with the person who sent the borrower to him. This thing is altogether kept out of sight in the Bill, and I am surprised that members of the other House have not seen this very flagrant flaw. Now, in clause 3 there are eight subsections, and subsection (8) reads :- "For the purposes of this section (but for no other purpose) the expression ' money- lender ' includes any person who lends money for interest." This goes altogether outside the people who are included in the definition contained in clause 2. Now, what is the nature of clause 3? An Hon. MEMBER. - Does not "money- lender " include "indorser " ? The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- No; an in- dorser does not lend money. He merely signs his name and gets his consideration. At any rate, I think not. The Hon. Mr. W. C. WALKER .- The Court would include him, you would find. The Hon. Mr. A. LEE SMITH .- No. He does not lend the money. The Court would have nothing to do with the indorser. However, I have done with that. Now, clause 3 refers to reopening transactions, and, without going through it verbatim, I may say the effect of it is this: that the party who has borrowed the money can reopen the question as to the terms under which he borrowed that money, and get relief from the Court. But, then, subsection (2) of clause 3 is worse still. It reads as follows :- "(2.) The Court may, notwithstanding any statement or settlement of account or any agreement purporting to close previous deal- ings and create a new obligation, reopen any account already taken between the money- lender and the person sued, and relieve the per- son sued from payment of any sum in excess of the sum adjudged by the Court to be fairly due in respect of such principal, interest, and 