alienated by way of lease either to the Crown or to any other person except with the consent of the Council first obtained, and in accordance with the provisions of this Act."" Then it goes on to deal with alienation by way of sale. Now, I say, the Premier-and I am going to prove it afterwards-misread or misunderstood his reading of the clause. My impression is that he read the clause that Maori land should not be alienated except by way of lease, and the proof of it is in the fol- lowing, which continues the quotation from Hansard. Mr. Atkinson, when speaking on the motion, said : "The effect of the clause as it now stood was, first, that land should not be alienated at all except by way of lease," et cetera. So the member for Wellington City had the impression that the Premier had read the clause to say that it should not be alienated except by way of lease. Then I will quote Mr. Seddon :- "Mr. SEDDON (Premier) said the remarks of the member for Palmerston were unkind to the member for Wellington City (Mr. Atkin- son). The member for Palmerston said credit should be given to the member for Wellington City for certain suggestions he had made. Well, he (Mr. Seddon) had adopted those amend- ments; and now the member for Wellington City said the clause was a bigger muddle than ever. The words 'by way of lease' were put after the word 'except,' which was just what the honourable member had suggested." Well, the Premier must have been either wrong in this, or he must have read the clause https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 wrongly, because the words " by way of lease " were not put in after the word " except," as the Premier said they were. I believe, myself, the Premier misread the clause, and gave the House the impression that the clause was very dif- ferent from what it is now in order to get it through. I had that impression, and until I saw the Bill printed again I thought no Maori land could be alienated except by way of lease. In Committee, he took advantage of honour- able members in a way that he should not have taken. There is another clause which this Bill proposes to strike out, over which we had a mild stonewall from the mem- bers for Auckland City (Messrs. Fowlds and Napier). The proposal is to amend section 26 by repealing subclause (2), which reads,- " On receipt of such declaration the Council, if satisfied thereon, shall issue to the declarant a license permitting him to acquire such Maori lands." Now, we have had no explanation why this should be struck out. The original clause in the Act of last session read,- " On receipt of such declaration the Council, if satisfied thereon, may, if it thinks fit so to do, issue to the declarant a license permitting him to acquire such Maori land." The words "may, if it thinks fit so to do," were struck out in the Upper House, and the word "shall" inserted, in accord- ance with a promise given by the Native Minister to Messrs. Fowlds and Napier. Why is it now proposed to strike out this subclause ? No explanation has been offered by the honourable gentleman as to why that subclause should be struck out, and I hope when we go into Committee honourable mem- bers will not agree to have that subclause struck out. It leaves too much in the hands of the Maori Council if, after allowing the man to go through all the forms of applying and pro- ducing his declaration, they may afterwards say " We will not issue the license which he requires." Well, Sir, I would like now to say a few words with regard to the general policy of this new departure in Maori legislation. In the first place, I object very strongly to any new departure in Maori legislation which is not complete. I say it is an improper thing to bring forward Maori legislation making a new departure unless you first wipe out all the old Maori legislation. It is a ridiculous thing that we should have an Act dealing with Native lands in 1894, another in 1895, and further Acts in 1896, 1897, 1898, and 1900, to all of which any one having anything to do with Maori legislation has to refer. And now we are adding to the list by bringing in a fresh Bill for 1901. The consequence is that the Native land-law gets more confused and more intricate and more of a stumbling-block to any one who has anything to do with it. A statesmanlike course should have been pursued ; and I had hopes last session when Maori legislation was before the House, and when the Premier was Native Minister, he would have tackled the question in a proper way, and brought down a new measure, and sweep out all the old Acts, which are only misleading. That is what we expected from the Premier. In other matters, such as the land-laws, he has entirely swept out the old Acts and brought in the new. Now, there is an attempt to engraft the new ideas on to the old stock, and as a result we find it does not work. We find we have to bring down amending Bills ; and any one who knows anything about the matter will be able to prophesy, with a perfect certainty of the prophesy being realised. that we shall have another amending Bill next year. We have a Maori Council under the Act, and in the Act the Council has certain jurisdiction over lands. We have the Native Land Court that has con- current jurisdiction over lands, and the con- sequence is that between the two there will be confusion and misleading, and, of course, expense to the Maoris. My idea of solving the Maori legislation is that there are only two methods. One is to take all the Maori land and put it into a trust under some suitable officers, and lease it to Europeans or Maoris, and apply the money gained in rents for the benefit of the owners of the land. The other way, and the way to which I am more inclined, is to individualise all the titles. I admit the survey, in order to individualise the titles, will cost money. Well, let the State pay for it, even if it cost a million. It would pay the State well to get the titles individualised. After you have individualised the titles, hand them over to the Maori owners and say " You can do what you like with them." Of course, 