number of officers in the pubic service whom they were told were being oppressed by extra duties being thrust upon them. If that was the case, and they were to be paid an extra sum for those duties, he thought it was a matter for consideration whether it would not be better to get other officers or other persons to do that extra work. They had no right to call upon one man to do the work of half a dozen men, when there were numbers of men who wanted work. Mr. ALLEN (Bruce) desired to point out that the officers of the Government Life In- surance Department were doing work for the Accident Insurance Department. He under- stood that a great many of these officers were working the same hours as they did formerly. He understood it had been laid down by a Commission that there should be equal pay for equal work. If the Premier said he would bring down an additional sum on the supple- mentary estimates, that, of course, might settle the matter. Mr. PALMER (Ohinemuri) said these officers had to have special training for their work. There was no doubt the Government did the best they could under the circumstances when they selected the Deputy Registrars of the Supreme Court for these duties, because the labour people were not acquainted with the in- tricacies of the law, and it was hardly fair to expect the Deputy Registrars to do all the work or appoint a novice to do it. He knew . that the Deputy Registrars had sometimes to work till twelve or one o'clock in the morning in order to overtake the extra work thus thrown upon them. He thought therefore they should get extra pay. Mr. ARNOLD (Dunedin City) said that out- side the ordinary work, the amount of assist- ance they gave those who were filing these disputes was invaluable, and it saved a large amount of time both to the Board of Con- ciliation and the Court of Arbitration. There was a large amount of work in connection with these cases. In some cases there were a hundred people who were made parties to a dispute. The Deputy Registrar had to assist in getting the summonses ready which had to be delivered to these people. Whilst the Board was sitting, the Deputy Registrar was continually with them. He might mention that in Dunedin they were fortunate in always having had a solicitor as Chairman of the Board ; but in the other centres they were not so fortunate, and the Deputy Registrar had to give the members of the Board advice from time to time, and he had to do his ordinary work in the evenings. The extra work which they did should be recognised. Mr. NAPIER (Auckland City) quite agreed with what had fallen from other members with regard to making some recognition of the extra labour thrown on these officers, but he thought $10 a year was not adequate. He knew that at one sitting of the Arbitration Court at Auck- land the Deputy Registrar was continually at work to a very late hour in endeavouring to sarily retarded by the sitting of the Arbitration Court. He thought there should be some recognition by the Labour Department of the extra work thrown on these officers. He might also remark that, in his opinion, the salaries of the Registrars of the Supreme Court were too small. These gentleman were practically as- sistant Judges. They had, in the absence of the Judge, judicial functions to some extent. Masters in Chancery and other Masters in England were paid $1,200 a year, and they did not, in many cases, do more work than our Registrars of Courts here at £400. The Regis- trars were professional men, and they had to be experienced men. He thought the Govern- ment should consider whether $400 a year was an adequate salary for an assistant Judge of the Supreme Court. Mr. HOGG (Masterton) did not think large increases should be given to the Court officers in the way suggested by certain city members. The colony could not afford to give them. If the principle of paying for every extra piece of work allotted to an officer was to be recognised, then every Magistrate in New Zealand at the present time was labouring under a huge in- justice because he was not paid extra for old- age pensions work, licensing work, and other duties. If money was to be spent in that way, where was the money to come from for the country settlers, many of whom were much in need of road and bridges ? He had noticed that it was chiefly city members who were advocating increases of salaries. If the work referred to demanded extra pay, instead of adding to the work and increasing the salaries of officers sufficiently employed and fully paid, the proper course was to employ men within or without the public service for whom work of the kind was urgently required. Mr. FISHER (Wellington City) pointed out that the Deputy Registrars at three of the cities received increases, while at Dunedin the salary was decreased ? He would like to know the reason. Mr. McGOWAN said the officer at Dunedin had been transferred to that city from another quarter. Mr. MILLAR (Dunedin City) said the city members had simply been drawing attention to the cases of certain increases which they thought were warranted. The total sum in- volved was only £100, and if members were to take the advice of the honourable member for Masterton and refuse to consider these neces- sary increases, city members might do well to consider Class XI., Department of Agriculture, in which a vote of $91,000 was proposed to be given to the country, and from which the city members derived no benefit at all. If opposi- tion was shown, such as was suggested by the honourable member, he for one would be pre- pared to sit there till Christmas before he allowed some of the votes to go through. He did not want to give salaries that were too large, but where extra work was put on a man he was entitled to be paid for it. Then, it would not be possible to appoint an extra officer, as 