as the honourable member made a statement \--- regarding myself, about having abolished the service in 1888 and inconsistently supporting it since, that if he will look up the records he will find that by a majority of eighteen my resolu- tion was carried ; but the San Francisco service has continued ever since, and if the decision which was carried by a majority of eighteen in the House had been to abolish it entirely, then it would not have been continued. What I was then opposed to, and would be still, was the fixed-subsidy system. In my opinion, they were excessive in their amount. I have never opposed the San Francisco service merely be- cause it was the San Francisco service. I con- sider such a course would be a narrow and short-sighted policy. The honourable member's statement shows he has not a proper conception of what took place then, or he is trying to put me in an improper position now. Motion agreed to. The House adjourned at twenty-five minutes to two o'clock a.m. (Saturday). HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. Monday, 21st October, 1901. Maori Lands Administration Bill-Pariroa Native Reserve Bill -Inspection of Machinery Bill - Fisheries Encouragement Bidl - Education Boards Election Bill-Hospitals and Charitable Aid Boards Election Bill - Trustee Bill-Public Trust Office Bill- Chatham Islands County Bill-New Zealand Ensign Bill. https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER took the chair at half- past seven o'clock. PRAYERS. MAORI LANDS ADMINISTRATION BILL. On the question, That this Bill be read a second time, Mr. G. W. RUSSELL, said, I raise the point of order, that this Bill has not been introduced by message from His Excellency the Governor. Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- I have not had time to go through the Bill in order to see whether it requires to be introduced by mes- sage from His Excellency the Governor or not ; but, being in charge of a Minister, if it is neces- sary that it should be introduced by message from the Governor, that message can be brought down at any time before the Bill goes through its final stages. Therefore I rule that the Minister is quite in order in moving the second reading now. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) .- Sir, I do not think that there are any appropriating clauses in the Bill within the meaning of those terms, and that it need not be brought down by message from His Excellency the Governor. I wish to consult the feelings of members gene- rally in the House who are particularly in- terested in this Bill, and who have very good grounds for concernment in the questions in- volved. Many, I know, though presumably - opposed to this measure, will give valuable as- VOL. CXIX .- 37. sistance in the later stages with a view to im- proving it if effect is given to the motion which I will announce presently. It is my intention to move the second reading of the Bill pro forma, in order to have it referred at once to the Native Affairs Committee for consideration. From that Committee I expect its speedy re- turn, and any differences of opinion in respect to its merits, et cetera, will then, I trust, be removed. With these few remarks, I move the second reading of the Bill as suggested. Mr. R. THOMPSON (Marsden). - I would like to suggest to the honourable gentleman that, as section 9 is a repealing clause, and repeals a number of the clauses in the Act of last year, perhaps it might be advisable if, when this Bill comes before the Native Affairs Committee, the clauses which are to be re- pealed were set out in the margin, so that we may know exactly what we are doing. Mr. CARROLL .- I shall be only too glad to insert marginal notes to the clauses in the Bill, so as to give every available information to honourable members. Mr. HOUSTON (Bay of Islands) .- I should like the Minister to state when he wishes this to be referred to the Native Affairs Committee. The Committee meets to-morrow morning. Mr. CARROLL .- I propose, That this Bill be referred forthwith to the Native Affairs Committee, and that the Committee deliberate thereupon to-morrow. Bill read a second time. PARIROA NATIVE RESERVE BILL. Mr. CARROLL (Native Minister) said this was a small Bill affecting a piece of land which was situate in the district of Patea, and at the present time occupied by the Natives. It was the subject of a promise made in 1873 by the then Native Minister, Sir Donald McLean. The promise was that this land should be reserved for the use, occupation, and education of the members of two tribes, called the Ngati- tupito and Ngatiringi. Somehow or another the promise seemed to have been lost sight of for many years, and the land was treated as Crown land-which it was, technically -- and leased to Europeans for a time. Consequently, it came under the administration of the Public Trus- tee, and rents accruing therefrom have been received by him and paid into the Public Ac- count. It was now thought advisable that the promise made by Sir Donald McLean in years gone by should be fully given effect to, and for that purpose the Bill was necessary. The measure proposed to vest the land in the Public Trustee, who would hold it on behalf of the proper owners. The Native Land Court was directed to ascertain the owners of the land who were the beneficiaries, so as to secure to them for all time the benefits of the said land. In clause 2 the Public Trustee was given power to issue occupation licenses to each owner who might be adjudged by the Native Land Court to be so. The amount of money from rents which had already accrued and been paid into the public fund was somewhere about £600. It was only right that that amount should be 