see that the State can consume one tenth of the total output of the coal of the colony, and that should mean & customer to a State coal- mine which, supposing the selection to be judi- ciously and wisely made and the working to be economically carried on, would assure it being a success from the start. Now, the question has been raised as to whether the State coal-mine is to come into competition I think it is quite with private owners. likely that for a considerable time to come the State will find its hands fully occupied in providing for its own requirements ; but I do think that even that will have a very happy result in reducing the price to the consumer generally. It must have. But I should say that the Government should not confine itself to supplying its own orders. As has been pointed out by the member for Dunedin City (Mr. Millar), the Government can scarcely supply itself with coal at a cheaper rate than it is at present being supplied-at least, it will be very little cheaper ; and, that being so, it should rather be the object of the Government to supply the private consumer than itself. I am quite willing to admit that by supplying itself it will have the effect of materially reducing the price of coal to the consumers generally. But I do not think the Govern- ment should rest content with simply sup- lying its own requirements, but should aim at supplying coal generally throughout the colony at a reasonable rate. There is another matter I wish to draw attention to: I should have referred to it when speaking of the fact that I would not care to see the Government become the sole proprietor of the coal-mines of the colony. I should regard that as a most dan- http://www.hathitrust.org/access\_use#cc-zero gerous experiment; but scientific discoveries, which take place from time to time, and which take place yearly with ever-increasing rapidity, render it highly improbable that coal will continue to occupy the position it now does for many years to come. That fact has to be considered ; and the particular point to which I wish to draw attention is that in this colony we have sources of latent power which ought to become factors of active power, and that very shortly. I suppose the gas companies of the colony will be amongst the largest consumers of coal; and I think it is highly probable that, before many years are over our heads, we shall be using the potential powers that now run in the rivers and streams of the colony-a power that will be used in manufactures, in the lighting of towns, and for purposes of locomotion. That will mean a lesser consumption of coal. I simply instance this as suggesting that, as time rolls on and as these improvements are made, there will be a lessened demand on the con- sumption of coal in the colony. For these reasons I should not like to see the State become the sole owner of the coal-mines. Not but that I hope to see these improvements made. I should like to see them, and I can see what a vast improvement it would make to our cities so far as lighting, manufactures, and these purposes were obtained from rivers and streams, instead of, as at present, depending for these purposes upon the colony's coal sup- ply. Sir, I do not wish to detain the House in discussing the details of the Bill. With other members who have spoken, I congratulate the Government on having brought the Bill down. I would express the same opinion as 11.30. others have expressed - that the matter is one which will require the very greatest care and foresight in carrying out the working de- tails ; and I sincerely hope when the Bill is passed, as I have no doubt it will be, and when a mine has been obtained, all that wisdom can suggest will be exercised in bringing the matter to a successful issue. Mr. ELL (Christchurch City) .- Sir, I cannot refrain from congratulating the Premier on the introduction of this Bill. As he is well aware, it contains an answer to a demand that has been made by the public of New Zealand for a good many years past. The principle of the State establishing a coal-mine for the supply of coal to the community for domestic and for manufacturing purposes is, it seems to me, a very proper function of the State. If we supply cheap firing to our industries, that is tanta- mount to granting them bonuses or mone- tary assistance; and, with regard to the masses of the people, the cheaper you can supply coal to them the better it is for them. It practically increases their earning power, and it adds to the wages of the poor practically. In the Old Country, for some time now, several large local authorities-Manchester is one-have been negotiating for the purchase of coal-mines, to be worked by the municipal authorities, and they were induced to take this into consideration on account of the coal-owners or the dealers in coal raising the price of coal upon the domestic consumer and the consumer of coal for manufacturing purposes. We had an instance of the futility of the State endea- vouring to help the public only last session, when I brought the matter under the notice of the House by placing a question on the Order Paper, that there was a famine in the City of Christ- church, and that coal was reported to be selling at from £2 8s. to £2 10s. and Westport slack at 1s. 3d. a hundredweight, which is a very high price. And on that occasion the local agent for the Westport Company stated there was a dis- tinct shortage, and that they had no coal to spare for domestic purposes, and hence the prices were increased-that they had to fulfil their contract to the shipping companies, and that was why there was very little left for domestic purposes in the city. This was stated by Mr. Brown, the agent for the Westport Company, on being interviewed by a representa- tive of one of the local papers. Then, it was suggested to me by one of the coal-dealers that the Kaitangata coal might be supplied-that it was very favourably received, and that the public liked it. I mentioned the matter to the Minister for Railways, and he made arrange- ments with the railway authorities to carry coal down to Christchurch at a reduction of 5s. a -- 