instance, the amendment moved by the honour- able member for the Taieri does not tally with the rest of the clause - namely, 86 .- to which it is added ; and there may be other misfits. At the beginning of the proceedings I intended to move an instruction to the Committee to the effect that the Bill should apply to all workers The Premier was employed by the Crown. frightened to go to a division, and objected to my instruction, and you, Sir, I presume quite rightly, ruled it out of order. The Premier, when any one moves that the Crown should be put into the Bill, rises, or gets some one to rise, to a point of order to prevent the House discuss- ing the question. It always seems to me- Mr. SEDDON. - I ask your ruling, Sir, as to whether a question which has been ruled out of order can be referred to again ? Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER .- The honourable member is not in order in referring to a motion that has been ruled out of order. Mr. HERRIES. - The Premier also objects to anything about the Crown being put into the Bill, and, after the way he has allowed his Bill to be pulled to pieces this evening I do not wonder at his not allowing any discussion on that subject. I think, if I had been allowed to move it, it would have been carried by an over whelming majority. As I was not allowed to proceed further at the time, I would like now to say something about the Crown being put in . the Act as an employer. I never can see any reason why the Act should not apply to workers under the Crown. We have had it extolled all https://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.32106019788261 over the civilised world that this Act prevents strikes, and that it is one of the greatest suc- cesses of the labour legislation that this Govern- ment has introduced. Only the other day, when a cable was sent Home by some correspondents here with regard to the bad working of the Act, the Agent-General was immediately set to work to contradict this, and to point out that the Act was the greatest success possible. If it is the greatest success possible, why not apply it to the largest employers of labour in the colony -- namely, the Government ? If it is such a success as the Government organs lead us to believe, why should the Government hesitate to apply it to their own case? I may say here that I believe in the Act ; I believe in the prin- ciple of it, and I believe it has done good work, only the administration in some cases has been a failure, although not quite so great a failure as some of the Government supporters seem to think. But I have no objection to the principle of the Act, and that is why I want to apply it to all the workers in the colony. If it is a good thing for certain workers, why is it not a good thing for all workers, and why should not every one come in for the benefits of it? We admit it gives a benefit, and we pose to all the world as having given this benefit ; but to our own men we will not allow that benefit that every private individual is obliged to allow to his employés. I say the position of the Go- vernment is absolutely untenable. Sir J. G. WARD. - The Government em- ployés are provided for by statute. Mr. Herries Government departments - the Railways and Post Office - are controlled by Classification Acts, but would they not be better controlled by the Conciliation and Arbitration Act ? Much, no doubt, will be said about the recent poll of the railway officials. Suppose the Union Shipping Company, for instance, had taken a poll of their employes, whether they would come under the Arbitration Act or not, and the men had voted in the negative, would there not have been a storm of objection from some of the democrats at one time in this House, and would they not have at once said that the masters had put coercion on the men, who dared not express their own opinions? And here is the Government, as an employer of labour, calling for a vote on that question, and I do not believe that half the men voted. Sir J. G. WARD. - Yes, they did Mr. HERRIES .- There was only a small proportion of the railway servants who voted on that occasion. Of course, if it had been a private employer the Government would have said they had had an intimation as to how to vote. This vote was taken of a portion of one department ; but what about the other Go- vernment workers in the colony ? What about the Printing Office? What about the thousand- and-one labourers who are drawing wages from the Government ? And, Sir, we have strikes in this colony. Strikes are not dead. And where, Sir, do the strikes occur ? They occur among the Government labourers. We had a 3.0. strike of our own among the co-opera- tive labourers when building the parliamentary library, and at Karangahake, and when the Government ship "Countess of Ranfurly " arrived at the Cook Islands the other day the seamen all went on strike and a fresh crew had to be got. An Hon. MEMBER .-- Not Government em- ployés. Mr. HERRIES .- Well, then, they ought to have been under the Conciliation and Arbitra- tion Act. The Cook Islands are part of the colony, for that is one of our glorious annexa- tions, and the benefits of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act extend to the Cook Islands as well as to other parts of this colony. There is another point I wish to draw honourable mem- bers' attention to, and that is, by the Speech from the Throne the Government are about to enter into competition with private individuals. They are to own coal-mines and to own ships, and they are going to trade with other parts of the world. Are not the labourers in those coal- mines and the seamen in those ships to be subject to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act ? I ask, Is that right? Is it right for the Government to compete with private indi- viduals, and yet not to be subject to the same laws and regulations as those private indi- viduals ? And, again, I ask this : Taking the aims of the unions, I do not think it will be dis- puted that the effect of the unionist policy will always be to have the best men working for the employers. What is generally happening where awards are given and wages are fixed ? 